1 Go to http://www.thesquirrelboard.com for help with the baby squirrel until you find a rehabber. 2  It is a forum that you can join and ask questions that will help you raise the baby until a rehabber is found. 3  If a rehabber cannot be found, the squirrel board will help you raise the baby to release back into the wild.
Before feeding the baby anything, they should be rehydrated first. To feed the baby formula without rehydrating it first can kill the baby.Pour some Pedialyte into a small container (only what you will use for one feeding) and warm it in the microwave, but do not over heat it.
When you are feeding a baby squirrel, make sure you feed him in a natural position on his stomach with his head up. Baby squirrels may nurse on the males genitals when they are housed together. Watch to see that the genital area does not get swollen.
Get The Baby Warm Before trying to give the young squirrel anything to eat, you must first get him warm. Make sure that you warm him slowly and make sure you monitor his warming so as not to overheat him. The normal temperature for a squirrel is 99 degrees, which is close to that of our own temperature of 98.6 degrees.
Advertisement. ATTENTION The information contained on this web page is not designed to take the place of a wildlife rehabilitator or a veterinarian BUT is designed to give you some guidance in what you can do to help the baby squirrel(s) you have found until you can reach a rehabilitator.
Feeding Baby Squirrel With Eyes Open. ATTENTION The information contained on this web page is not designed to take the place of a wildlife rehabilitator or a veterinarian BUT is designed to give you some guidance in what you can do to help the squirrel(s) you have found until you can reach a rehabilitator.
I found a baby squirrel and I have been taking care of it for about 5 weeks. we found it when it was only 2 weeks old and it was so dehydrated when we found it. but now to is doing great! For the first few weeks (new born- 3 weeks old) you feed the squirrel kitten or puppy formula 7cc every2 hours. Then you feed (him/her) (3-6 weeks old) 7cc every 4 hours. Once the squirrel is about 6 weeks old it will be able to eat small slices of avocado and bits of fruit.
1 Baby squirrels need company. 2  Try to find a wildlife rehabilitator to take the squirrel so it can have friends. 3  They learn from each other, imprint on each other, and need company to thrive. 4  When you are beginning to offer your newfound friend dry nuts be sure to wash off any salt.
Get a small box. Once you get what you need to warm your baby squirrel, a small box, basket or a large Tupperware about a foot square (without the lid on) or another similar container is needed. Place your heating device to one side. This way if it gets too hot, the baby squirrel can simply crawl away from the pad.