The finger is placed in a splint to keep the bone properly aligned. The splint is usually worn for three weeks while the bone heals. Generally after three weeks, the bone is strong enough that the splint can be removed, but the bone does not fully heal to its original state for a few months. Evidence of the fracture may be noticeable on X-ray for a few years
To make a splint: 1  Take a long thin item, as long as your broken finger, such as a popsicle stick or a pen. 2  Place it next to your broken finger, or have a friend or family member help you hold it in place. 3  Use medical tape to wrap together the stick or pen and your finger. 1 Take a long thin item, as long as your broken finger, such as a popsicle stick or a pen. 2  Place it next to your broken finger, or have a friend or family member help you hold it in place. 3  Use medical tape to wrap together the stick or pen and your finger. 4  Wrap it loosely. 5  The tape should not squeeze or pinch
Answer by Mikereptile. Confidence votes 60. It takes about 6-8 weeks to heal, depending on the type of injury sustained. (Keep the finger as still as you can !!!!). When broken place the hand in ice cold water for about 5 min.s then take it and wrap the whole hand in a soft wrap (anything that is a soft colth) . Take the wraped hand and hold it above or upright to the head. The time changes for everyone, depending on age, health conditions before the break, and how bad the break is. On average, the break takes about 1-3 months to fully heal. If t … he hip has been operated on it usually takes longer to heal than one without operation.
Health related question in topics Conditions Illness .We found some answers as below for this question How long does a broken finger take to heal,you can compare them. It usually takes a broken finger 4-6 weeks but be careful and don't fracture the finger while healing. ChaCha 24/7! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-a-broken-finger-take-to-heal ]. More Answers to  How long does a broken finger take to heal . 
I'm not to sure exactly, but I broke my thumb 2 days ago and have been given a thumb splint to wear for the next 6 weeks. According to the doctors, if there are no complications it should be fixed by then. Fingers crossed though. I've just ad a broken tumb 6 1/2 weeks back... and im aloud to take it of tomorrow. so it would take 5 to 7 weeks to heal. iv'e just broken mine 4 hours ago, and have all this to look forward to!! Broke mine yesterday bummer. -I broke my thumb about 3 weeks ago and I can lift weights and all, the bad thing was that it was my dominate thumb. I had to learn to write with my left. About 2 months to fully heal. To heal enough to stop hurting about 2 weeks.   ANSWER   It depends on the degree of injury made. Strong injuries might heal totally after … few months, while simple one might heal in a month.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Broken Finger: For a broken finger to heal, it only takes 2-3 weeks compared to fracture of a big bone which is 6 weeks. 4-6 weeks: All things being equal, the bone shold heal in 4-6 weeks. If it is a complicated fracture, infected, or if other issues, it may take longer. Discuss with your orthopedist or hand surgeon
The length of time taken for healing depends on where the fracture is and how severe the break is. For example, a simple buckle fracture will need a plaster cast for 2 to 3 weeks and be almost completely healed in 4 weeks. Children heal in about half the time it takes an adult to heal from a similar injury. 
A useful rule of thumb is that the time taken for the bone to regain full strength is usually the same as the time it takes for the fracture to heal. That is, if you’ve been in plaster for six weeks, it will take six weeks to regain full strength. It's important not to get a plaster cast wet. The length of time it will take to heal will depend on the type of fracture, whether it's damaged the surrounding tissues, and the person's age. For example, a young child who's cracked their wrist will need to wear a cast or removable splint for just two to three weeks.