Adrian is a form of the Latin given name Adrianus or Hadrianus. Its ultimate origin is most likely via the former river Adria from the Venetic word adur for 'water'. The Adria was until the 8th century BC the main channel of the Po River into the Adriatic Sea but ceased to exist before the 1st century BC. 
Meaning & History. Form of Hadrianus (see HADRIAN). Several saints and six popes have borne this name, including the only English pope, Adrian IV, and the only Dutch pope, Adrian VI. As an English name, it has been in use since the Middle Ages, though it was not popular until modern times. 
Adrian Name Meaning. English, southern French, and German: from a vernacular form of the Latin personal name (H)adrianus, originally an ethnic name denoting someone from the coast of the Adriatic (Latin Adria). It was adopted as a cognomen by the emperor who ruled ad 117–138. 
Adrian. Adrian /adri-an/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Adrian) is pronounced AY-dree-an. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Adrian is from Hadria. Place name: Hadria was a town in northern Italy, which gave its name to the Adriatic Sea. The name was borne by the Roman emperor Publius Aelius Hadrianus (second century AD). Hadrian's Wall was built across northern England during his reign.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Adrian and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Adrian and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The name Adrian is in the following categories: English Names, German Names, Jamaican Names, Saints Names, Spanish Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).
Other origins for the name Adrian include-English, Latin-American, German.The name Adrian is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-From the Latin Hadrianus meaning of Adria or of the Adriatic sea region. Pope Adrian IV was a 12 century British Pope who became popular in the 1980s when Sue Townsend published The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Latin-American German
Adrian is used chiefly in the English, German, Polish, Romanian, and Russian languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. The name is of the meaning man from Hadria; dark one. The name is derived from Hadrian, itself from Hadrianus (Latin) meaning 'man from Hadria'. Hadria is a town in northern Italy named after the Adriatic Sea. The sea was probably named for the dark-colored sand on its beaches, from the Latin 'ater'. Today the city Atri is in the Italian province of Teramo. [ 3 syll. a-drian, ad-ri-an ] The baby boy name Adrian is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is EY-DRiy-ahN (English), AA-DRiy-aaN (German), AA D-RYaaN (Polish), or aa-DRiy-AA N (Russian) †.
The name Adrian is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Adrian is: Black; dark; of the Adriatic. American Meaning: The name Adrian is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Adrian is: Black; dark; of the Adriatic. English Meaning: The name Adrian is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Adrian is: From the Latin Hadrianus meaning of Adria or of the Adriatic sea region. Pope Adrian IV was a 12 century British Pope who became popular in the 1980s when Sue Townsend published 'The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole'.
English name. In English, the name Adrian means-From the Latin Hadrianus meaning of Adria or of the Adriatic sea region. Pope Adrian IV was a 12 century British Pope who became popular in the 1980s when Sue Townsend published The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole.. English Name Meaning