If you can help us with Jade City, please Contact Us. Time Zone: The area where we believe Jade City to have been located is in the Pacific Time Zone (PST/PDT) and observes daylight saving time. The time zone in French: PST-Heure Normale du Pacifique (HNP), PDT-Heure Avancee avancée Du (PACIFIQUE). hap 
Claudia Bunce (left) and her husband Robin Bunce stand in front of the Jade Store in Jade City, B.C. The Bunces star in the new Discovery Channel TV series 'Jade Fever.' (Discovery Channel). Claudia Bunce's jade fever 6:43. A lesser-known resource in B.C.'s economy is the star of a new Discovery Channel TV series, Jade Fever, which follows the Bunces — a family of miners in Jade City, B.C. It's a gorgeous green, natural stone — there's nothing more natural than that, matriarch Claudia Bunce told The Early Edition's Rick Cluff.
Jade City, British Columbia. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Jade City is a spot on the road in northwestern British Columbia, Canada, near the Yukon, located on Highway 37, west of Good Hope Lake and close to Cassiar, in the Cassiar Highlands. The region around Jade City is rich with serpentinite (a jade precursor), greenstone (jade look-a-likes), and jade. Jade City is by road about 24 hours north of Vancouver, and 1 hour south of the Yukon border. As of 2015, it has a population of about 30 people. Jade City is a very small town. There are two local seasonally-operated businesses offer highway services and sell jade products made from nearby formations of the ston
Bunce and her family live in Jade City, B.C. — a stop on the road along Highway 37 in northern B.C. founded by Bunce's father. As the name indicates, the economy is centred around jade. Everybody says it's really not a city, but it's a city! There's 35 of us and we sell Jade. A lesser-known resource in B.C.'s economy is the star of a new Discovery Channel TV series, Jade Fever, which follows the Bunces — a family of miners in Jade City, B.C. It's a gorgeous green, natural stone — there's nothing more natural than that, matriarch Claudia Bunce told The Early Edition's Rick Cluff.
Kirk Makepeace, owner of Jade West, created this Website to allow Jade collectors Worldwide to purchase Jewelry and Carvings from our Famous Mines.The World's greatest jade carvers make annual pilgrammages to the Jade West warehouses located near Vancouver, Canada. They prefer to buy their Jade directly from the miner. 
The whole area is rich in high quality minerals – gold, asbestos, jade and many more. Holloway Bar Placer Mine on McDame Creek is a working placer gold mine located in the beautiful Cassiar Mountains just off the Stewart-Cassiar Highway, 15 km north of Jade City. Church: Jade city has a non-denominational church that is open to the public for prayer and meditation.
About 90% of the Jade in the world is supplied from the Cassiar Mountain Range in BC. Our store is in Jade City, 72 miles from Dease Lake and online to best serve our clients around the world. We are the largest Jade retailer in Canada and have the largest selection of Jade designs in the world.
Situated in the Cassiar Mountains, halfway between Dease Lake, BC and Watson Lake, YT, the Jade City RV Park & Campground offers 40 sites. Enjoy tours of the jade-cutting area and free coffee. 
Jade City. Jade City Donald Lovegrove 2014-06-01T18:46:58+00:00. Named for the jade deposits found to the east of the high community, Jade city is located on the Stewart-Cassiar Highway 37 in northwest British Columbia. Church: Jade city has a non-denominational church that is open to the public for prayer and meditation.