Marketing is about communicating the value of a product, service or brand to customers or consumers for the purpose of promoting or selling that product, service, or brand. Guerrilla marketing is an advertising strategy in which low-cost unconventional means (graffiti or street art, sticker bombing, flash mobs) are used, often in a localized fashion or large network of individual cells, to convey or promote a product or an idea.
Advertising (or advertizing) is a form of marketing communication used to promote or sell something, usually a business's product or service. In Latin, ad vertere means to turn toward. 
The oldest – and perhaps simplest and most natural form of marketing – is 'word of mouth' (WOM) marketing, in which consumers convey their experiences of a product, service or brand in their day-to-day communications with others. Guerrilla marketing is an advertising strategy in which low-cost unconventional means (graffiti or street art, sticker bombing, flash mobs) are used, often in a localized fashion or large network of individual cells, to convey or promote a product or an idea.
One Definition of Advertising. Advertising is bringing a product (or service) to the attention of potential and current customers. Advertising is focused on one particular product or service. Thus, an advertising plan for one product might be very different than that for another product. Inbound marketing also includes analyzing the competition, positioning your new product or service (finding your market niche), and pricing your products and services. Outbound marketing includes promoting a product through continued advertising, promotions, public relations and sales.
Product marketing includes defining the scope of the product line, identifying potential markets for a product, determining optimal pricing for the market, encouraging potential customers to purchase the product, and finding the best distribution methods for delivering the product to customers or to sales locations. 
Marketing refers to the process of preparing your product for the marketplace. It involves understanding who your potential customers are and what they want to get from your product or service. Colors, logo and other design elements help to align the image of your product with the interests of your target audience. It is marketing that defines your brand and attracts the market share you want. At first glance, marketing and advertising seem to be different terms to describe the same thing -- getting a product or service sold. In actual fact, although they both contribute to the same end objective, they are distinct from each other and each has its own process.
DEFINITION of 'Marketing'. The activities of a company associated with buying and selling a product or service. It includes advertising, selling and delivering products to people. People who work in marketing departments of companies try to get the attention of target audiences by using slogans, packaging design, celebrity endorsements and general media exposure. The four 'Ps' of marketing are product, place, price and promotion
Definition of Product Advertising. Product advertising is any method of communication about the promotion of a product in an attempt to induce potential customers to purchase the product. Advertisement usually requires payment to a communication channel. Product advertising is more than just a commercial or an ad in a magazine. In this lesson, you'll learn about product advertising and the various methods used to advertise products through some examples.
Product advertising is the art of building and maintaining product awareness with potential buyers. A good advertising program educates potential customers on why they need the product, how it is used and the benefits derived from its use. A successful program also tells the consumer how the product is better than similar offerings by competitors.