A chronic, inflammatory, connective tissue disease that can affect the joints and many organs, including the skin, heart, lungs, kidneys, and nervous system. It can cause many different symptoms; however, not everyone with systemic lupus erythematosus has all of the symptoms.
Overview. Immune function is helped by two kinds of white blood cells. The “B cells” (so-called because they develop in bone marrow) produce antibodies. The “T cells” (so-called because they develop in a small organ called the thymus gland) are responsible for a variety of other immune responses. These responses include: 1  direct attacks on foreign substances such as bacteria, viruses, or foreign tissues; 2  augmenting the B cell response; and.
A hemangioma is a benign (noncancerous) tumor made up of blood vessels. There are many types of hemangiomas, and they can occur throughout the body, including in skin, muscle, bone, and internal organs. Most hemangiomas occur on the surface of the skin or just beneath it.
This can cause signs and symptoms. Signs and symptoms vary depending on which organs are affected. Many people who have sarcoidosis have no signs or symptoms or mild ones. Lofgren's syndrome is a classic set of signs and symptoms that is typical in some people who have sarcoidosis.
When a plasmacytoma starts in other tissues (such as the lungs or other organs), it is called an extramedullary plasmacytoma. Solitary plasmacytomas are most often treated with radiation therapy. Sometimes surgery may be used for a single
Developmental disorders of the female reproductive tract are problems in a baby girl's reproductive organs that occur while she is growing in her mother's body. Female reproductive organs include the vagina, ovaries, uterus, and cervix.
Cutaneous Lupus Erythematosus. Lupus is an autoimmune disease, which affects multiple organs and systems in the body. An individual's own immune system attacks various cells causing a wide variety of signs and symptoms. With regards to the skin, there are lupus-specific skin lesions and non-specific skin lesions.