Each of the 12 cranial nerves has a specific function that helps the brain control the actions of the body. 1  The olfactory nerve is involved in the sense of smell. 2  This nerve has access to the cerebral cortex, but does not pass through the thalamus like other cranial nerves.
Some of these nerves bringinformation from the sense organs to the brain; other cranial nerves control muscles; other cranial nerves are connected to glands or internal organs (for example, the heart and lung). Here is atable detailing some of the functions of each cranialnerve.
Functions. Each of the 12 cranial nerves has a specific function that helps the brain control the actions of the body. 1  The olfactory nerve is involved in the sense of smell. 2  This nerve has access to the cerebral cortex, but does not pass through the thalamus like other cranial nerves.
Cranial nerves: The nerves of the brain, which emerge from or enter the skull (the cranium), as opposed to the spinal nerves, which emerge from the vertebral column. There are 12 cranial nerves, each of which is accorded a Roman numeral and a name: 1  Cranial nerve I: the olfactory nerve.
The cranial nerves appear in pairs at the bottom surface of the brain. Their functions vary, but main functions include muscle control, helping the brain interpret the five senses, and controlling glands in the human body.
The 12 cranial nerves control some of the most important functions of the body. In addition, these nerves allow us to feel pain, indicating when there is a serious problem that requires medical intervention.
Cranial nerves I and II are the olfactory and optic nerves, respectively. These are the only two cranial nerves that do not originate in the brain stem. The olfactory nerve originates in the part of the brain called the olfactory bulb. It functions in controlling the sense of smell (olfaction).
There are total 12 pairs of cranial nerves that originate from our brain and brain stem. Each of them carries different functions related to different senses of body. Apart from sensory functions there are also some that work as motor nerves or mixed nerves.