Rotation. In this animated Math Shorts video from the Utah Education Network, learn about rotation, which describes how a geometric shape turns around a point, called the center of rotation. When a geometric shape rotates on a coordinate plane, it stays exactly the same distance from
More lessons on Rotation and other forms of Transformation. A rotation (or turn) is a transformation that turns a line or a shape around a fixed point. This point is called the center of rotation. We usually measure the number of degrees of rotation of a shape in a counterclockwise direction.
Rotation. The turning of an object or coordinate system by an angle about a fixed point. A rotation is an orientation-preserving orthogonal transformation. Euler's rotation theorem states that an arbitrary rotation can be parameterized using three parameters.
rotation is a transformation that turns a figure about a fixed point called the center of rotation. Rays drawn from the center of rotation to a point and its image form an angle called the angle of rotation. (notation Rdegrees).
Rotation notation is usually denoted R(center, degrees).  1  Center  is the 'center of rotation.' This is the point around which you are performing your mathematical rotation.  2  Degrees  stands for how many degrees you should rotate. 3  A positive number usually by convention means counter clockwise.
The rotation transformation is where you turn a figure about a given point (P in the diagram above). The point about which the object is rotated can be inside the figure or anywhere outside it. The amount of rotation is called the angle of rotation and is measured in degrees. By convention a rotation counter-clockwise is a positive angle, and clockwise is considered a negative angle. Rays from the point of rotation to any vertex all turn through the same angle as the image is rotated.
Rotations of points, shapes. In math, a rotation lives up to its name! To rotate an object you need a center of rotation and how much you want to rotate it. By convention, positive rotations go counter clockwise, and negative rotations go clockwise.