Milk is produced in the mammary glands, a … nd it is from here mammals have gotten their name. 2. The lower jaw in mammals is a single bone on either side. In all other vertebrates there are more than one bone on each side of the jaw 3.The mammal middle ear, and only the mammal middle ear, contains 3 bones. 1 Most mammals give live birth, but there is a sub-group known as monotremes, which are the egg-laying mammals. 2  This group includes just the platypus and the echidna. 3  They are still mammals because, like all mammals, they feed their young on mothers' milk.
Birds and mammals have the following characteristics in common: they are vertebrates, meaning they have an internal skeletonthey are warm-bloodedthey breathe using lungs, so … have full respiratory systems they have circulatory systems. 1 Most mammals give live birth, but there is a sub-group known as monotremes, which are the egg-laying mammals. 2  This group includes just the platypus and the echidna. 3  They are still mammals because, like all mammals, they feed their young on mothers' milk.
Hair. Hair is one of the characteristics of a mammal that is unique to mammals—no other animals have true hair and all mammals have hair covering at least part of their body at some time during their life. An individual hair consists of a rod of cells that are reinforced by a protein known as keratin
Characteristics of Mammals. Mammals have the following distinctive characteristics that put them in the class of mammals: Mammals have backbone and spines i.e. they are vertebrates. Mammals have hair or fur on their bodies. Mammals are warm blooded animals. 
Mammals differ from other vertebrates such as reptiles, birds and amphibians in that they have a single lower jaw bone that attaches directly to the skull. This bone is referred to as the dentary, due to the fact that it holds the teeth of the lower jaw. Hair is one of the characteristics of a mammal that is unique to mammals—no other animals have true hair and all mammals have hair covering at least part of their body at some time during their life. An individual hair consists of a rod of cells that are reinforced by a protein known as keratin
Mammals are all warm blooded vertebrates with a covering of fur, skin or hair. All mammals suckle their youngMost mammals give live birth, but there is a sub-group known as m … onotremes, which are the egg-laying mammals. This group includes just the platypus and the echidna. Mammals are a type of animals in the world. There are thousands of types of mammals. But certain characteristics are common in all the mammals. There are five things all mamm … als have in comman. These are the common characteristic
1 Mammals are all warm blooded vertebrates with a covering of fur, skin or hair. 2  All mammals suckle their young. 3  Most mammals give live birth, but there is a sub-group known as monotremes, which are the egg-laying mammals. 4  This group includes just the platypus and the echidna. 1 Most mammals give live birth, but there is a sub-group known as monotremes, which are the egg-laying mammals. 2  This group includes just the platypus and the echidna. 3  They are still mammals because, like all mammals, they feed their young on mothers' milk.
In birds it curves to the right and in all other vertebrates there are more than one main artery leaving the heart. 5.Mammals have a diaphragm. A sheet of muscle and tendon that separates the body cavity into two sections. Mammals are a type of animals in the world. There are thousands of types of mammals. But certain characteristics are common in all the mammals. There are five things all mamm … als have in comman. These are the common characteristic