Best Answer: Heterozygous is when you have 2 different alleles for a certain characteristic: e.g. You could have a gene for brown eye colour on one chromosome and a gene for blue eyes on the other. In this case the dominant gene of the 2 would be expressed in the individual. Homozygous dominant is when the 2 alleles are the same and they are the dominant form of the gene. e.g. 2 brown eye genes BB Homozygous recessive is when the 2 alleles are the same and are the recessive form of the gene bb. Source(s): Chelsey Kimble · 7 years ago.
Often, organisms will carry a dominant and a recessive allele of a gene. These organisms can be referred to as carriers of the recessive allele. For example, if a pea plant has a red flower-color allele and a white flower-color allele, then it is a carrier of the recessive white flower-color allele. Heterozygous means that an organism has two different alleles of a gene. For example, pea plants can have red flowers and either be homozygous dominant (red-red), or heterozygous (red-white). If they have white flowers, then they are homozygous recessive (white-white).
Heterozygous is a term that describes the genotype and just means that there are two alleles of different types. If you're heterozygous, you're Mm. You can't be heterozygous dominant or heterozygous recessive because by definition if you're heterozygous you have one of each allele. You only specify dominant or recessive when it's homozygous. So, in short, it's neither, it's just plain heterozygou
For example, if one parent is homozygous dominant (WW) and the other is homozygous recessive (ww), then all their offspring will be heterozygous (Ww) and possess a widow’s peak. If both parents are heterozygous (Ww), there is a 75% chance that any one of their offspring will have a widow’s peak (see figure). 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Heterozygous refers to having two different alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Homozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r). A heterozygous plant would contain the following alleles for seed shape: (Rr). Organisms have two alleles for each trait. When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one is dominant and the other is recessive. Using the previous example, round seed shape (R) is dominant and wrinkled seed shape (r) is recessive.
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics.
Heterozygous genotypes are represented by a capital letter (representing the dominant allele) and a lowercase letter (representing the recessive allele), such as Rr or Ss. Alternatively, a heterozygote for gene R is assumed to be Rr. The capital letter is usually written first. 
The genotype is considered homozygous when an individual has either two dominant alleles or two recessive alleles. The genotype is considered heterozygous when an individual has one dominant allele and one recessive allele. Other alleles are recessive and are much less likely to be expressed. When a dominant allele is paired with a recessive allele, the dominant allele determines the characteristic. When these traits or characteristics are visibly expressed, they are known as phenotypes.