Down syndrome (DS or DNS) or Down's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21. It is typically associated with physical growth delays, characteristic facial features, and mild to moderate intellectual disability. 
Mosaicism is a term used to describe a condition where people have different kinds of cells in the body. Mosaic Down syndrome can thus be understood as a condition where people have some cells with the Trisomy 21 arrangement, and some cells that only posses two #21 chromosomes. Mosaic Down Syndrome remains a rare variant of Trisomy 21, and it’s usually tested for in a blood sample. Doctors look for evidence of any cells with the normal arrangement to show whether this condition is present. Number of normal cells is expressed in a percentage value based on the Trisomy cells
Mosaic Down syndrome: This type affects about 2% of the people with Down syndrome. Mosaic means mixture or combination. For children with mosaic Down syndrome, some of their cells have 3 copies of chromosome 21, but other cells have the typical two copies of chromosome 21. Children with mosaic Down syndrome may have the same features as other children with Down syndrome.
A: Children with mosaic Down syndrome have two distinct cell groupings. In some cells there is a total of 46 chromosomes, which is the “typical” group. In other cells there is an extra copy of the chromosome #21, making 47 cells total for this group. When a person has more than one type of chromosomal makeup, that is called mosaicism, like the mosaic style of art in which a picture is made up of different colors of tiles. In Down syndrome, mosaicism means that some cells of the body have trisomy 21, and some have the typical number of chromosomes.
Non-mosaic Down Syndrome occurs when you have an extra copy of chromosome 21 in every cell of your body. At least 98 percent of people with Down Syndrome have this form (which includes either trisomy or translocation type chromosomal abnormalities). When this occurs, there is a mixture of two types of cells. Mosaic Down Syndrome occurs in only 1-2 percent of people with Down Syndrome, and there is a wide range in the level of severity of the impairment.
1 Mosaic Down syndrome. 2  In this rare form of Down syndrome, children have some cells with an extra copy of chromosome 21. 3  This mosaic of normal and abnormal cells is caused by abnormal cell division after fertilization. 4  Translocation Down syndrome. 
Mosaicism, used to describe the presence of more than one type of cell in a person, is usually described as a percentage. For example, when a baby is born with Down syndrome, the doctor will take a blood sample to perform a chromosome study. Typically, 20 different cells are analyzed. If five of the 20 are normal (46 chromosomes), while the other 15 have an extra #21 chromosome (47 chromosomes), the baby would be said to have mosaic Down syndrome. Since the percentage of cells with an extra chromosome is 15 out of 20, the baby would be said to have a level of mosaicism at 75 percent
Mosaic Down Syndrome occurs when you have some cells with the normal two copies of chromosome 21 and some cells with an extra copy of chromosome 21. When this occurs, there is a mixture of two types of cells. Mosaic Down Syndrome occurs in only 1-2 percent of people with Down Syndrome, and there is a wide range in the level of severity of the impairment.
If five of the 20 are normal (46 chromosomes), while the other 15 have an extra #21 chromosome (47 chromosomes), the baby would be said to have mosaic Down syndrome. Since the percentage of cells with an extra chromosome is 15 out of 20, the baby would be said to have a level of mosaicism at 75 percent. Mosaicism, used to describe the presence of more than one type of cell in a person, is usually described as a percentage. For example, when a baby is born with Down syndrome, the doctor will take a blood sample to perform a chromosome study. Typically, 20 different cells are analyzed