Onomatopoeia is a word that imitates the sound or suggests the source of the sound that it describes. It is commonly used in comic strips as action sounds and in nursery rhymes. 
This lesson plan uses excerpts from famous poems to demonstrate how onomatopoeia can be used in a poem. Students will closely read the poem excerpts to identify the onomatopoeia words. They will then choose three onomatopoeia words from a suggested list to use in a poem of their own. Onomatopoeia refers to words that sound exactly or almost exactly like the thing that they represent. Many words that we use for animal or machine noises are onomatopoeia words, such as “moo” for the sound a cow makes and “beep-beep” for the noise of a car horn.
Definition of Onomatopoeia. Onomatopoeia pronounced: \ˌae-ˌä-nə-ˌmae-ˌmä-tə, -ˈpē-\. ə ˌma onomatopoeia is the formation of a word from a sound associated with what. Is named, for example onomatopoeia is the hum of, the bees the pop of, a balloon or the tweet of. a bird Onomatopoeia pronounced: \ˌae-ˌä-nə-ˌmae-ˌmä-tə, -ˈpē-\. ə ˌma onomatopoeia is the formation of a word from a sound associated with what. is named
ONOMATOPOEIA POEMS. We all remember those darling little Onomatopoeia Poems from grade school. They’re the ones that use words that imitate or sound just like the source of the sound they describe. Examples of these words are tick tock, roar, boom and slurp
Onomatopoeia is the formation of a word from a sound associated with what is named. For example, onomatopoeia is the hum of the bees, the pop of a balloon, or the tweet of a bird. The word Onomatopoeia can also be used to describe the use of such words for rhetorical effect. Onomatopoeia pronounced: \ˌae-ˌä-nə-ˌmae-ˌmä-tə, -ˈpē-\. ə ˌma onomatopoeia is the formation of a word from a sound associated with what. is named
Poetry often uses onomatopoeia words because they are so descriptive. This type of word helps us to imagine the story or scene that is happening in the poem. Here are two examples that show how famous poets have used onomatopoeia in their poems. In these poem excerpts, the onomatopoeia words are underlined. Onomatopoeia refers to words that sound exactly or almost exactly like the thing that they represent. Many words that we use for animal or machine noises are onomatopoeia words, such as “moo” for the sound a cow makes and “beep-beep” for the noise of a car horn.
Onomatopoeia Definition. Onomatopoeia is defined as a word, which imitates the natural sounds of a thing. It creates a sound effect that mimics the thing described, making the description more expressive and interesting. Onomatopoeia is defined as a word, which imitates the natural sounds of a thing