The Qing dynasty 清 (1644-1911) was the last imperial dynasty in China. It was founded by the non-Chinese people of the Manchus who originally lived in the northeast, a region later called Manchuria. The Manchus used the disintegration of the central government of the Ming empire 明 (1368-1644) to conquer China.
The Qing Dynasty; Manchu: daicing gurun), sometimes known as the Manchu Dynasty, was a dynasty founded by the Manchu clan Aisin Gioro, in what is today northeast China, expanded into China and the surrounding territories, establishing the Empire of the Great Qing. The Qing Dynasty was the last Imperial dynasty of China. Declared as the Later Jin Dynasty in 1616, it changed its name in 1636 to Qing, and became the ruler of all of China in 1644, completing the Manchu conquest. The Qing Dynasty was founded not by the Han Chinese, who form the majority of the Chinese population, but the Manchus, today an ethnic minority in China. Nomadic babarians, the Manchus first rose to prominence in what is now northeastern China.
Although they are now thoroughly identified with China, the emperors of the Qing dynasty were not Chinese but descendants of the Jurchen, a group from the far north-east of China who had abandoned the term Jurchen, associated with historical submission to Chinese rule, and instead called themselves Manchu. Born in March 15, 1638 he was the second emperor of the Manchu Qing dynasty and the first Qing emperor to rule over China proper. Only six when he ascended the throne the Shunzhi reign lasted from 1644 to 1661. The eighteen years of his reign brought great changes to China and its history.
It was preceded by the Ming dynasty and succeeded by the Republic of China. The Qing multi-cultural empire lasted almost three centuries and formed the territorial base for the modern Chinese state. The dynasty was founded by the Jurchen Aisin Gioro clan in Manchuria. Banners , military-social units. Nurhaci formed these clans into a unified entity, the subjects of which became known collectively as the Manchu people. By 1636, his son Hong Taiji began driving Ming forces out of Liaodong and declared a new dynasty, the Qing.
Replaced by: Modern China. Qing Dynasty, with its captial Beijing, was the last ruling of China from 1644 to 1912. Although the Manchus were not Han Chinese and were strongly resisted, especially in the south, they had assimilated a great deal of Chinese culture before conquering China Proper. 
1. Qing dynasty-the last imperial dynasty of China (from 1644 to 1912) which was overthrown by revolutionaries; during the Qing dynasty China was ruled by the Manchu. Ch'ing, Ch'ing dynasty, Manchu dynasty, Qing, Manchu. dynasty-a sequence of powerful leaders in the same family. 1  Facebook
Like most Chinese dynasties, the Qing Dynasty had powerful and long-lived rulers at the beginning of the dynastic era, a period of prosperity in the beginning and middle of their dynastic era, and natural disasters, rebellions, invasions and inept ruling courts at the end. Protestant and evangelical religion was introduced at the end of the Qing Dynasty era. The biggest religious change during the Qing era was that thousands of Protestant and Evangelical missionaries came in the 1800s and before 1912, and tens of thousands of common people converted.
The Qing dynasty (1644–1912) was the last imperial dynasty of China. It was officially founded in 1636 in what is now Northeast China, but only succeeded the Ming dynasty in China proper in 1644. 