American Airlines, like any other airline, will charge you the applicable change fee (which can be as low as zero on unrestricted fares to as high as $250 for restricted international tickets), as well as the difference between the original ticket and the new ticket.hange fee is US150 for American Airlines. If you want to change the date of your flight, you might need to pay additional because the fare of your new flight most probably would be higher than your old one.
Types of refunds. Requests for ticket refunds are to be directed to the same location where the ticket purchase was made. Therefore, if you used a Travel Agent, the Call Centre, the Internet or a Caribbean Airlines Ticket Office then you should return to the respective point of purchase. They will prepare your request and then submit it to the Refunds Department.
Read on for a deeper dive. The cost to change a flight depends greatly on the airline that you have purchased your ticket from. Airlines have “penalty fees” that can range from $0 to $400.00 (yowza!) to make a change to your ticket. For domestic flights, most airlines charge around $200. But the penalty is not the whole story. 
Where multiple services are used, fees applicable are cumulative. * This charge will be applicable if you change/cancel your award flight less than 24 hours before departure, or if you fail to use your confirmed reservation (as printed on your ticket) for any reason. Ticketing charges apply on a per ticket basis. No refund and re-issuance of partially-used tickets.
Getty Images. United Airlines raised its ticket change fees by $50 on April 18 to $200 for domestic tickets and $300 for international itineraries. Other airlines haven’t yet raised their change fees. But like baggage fees, rivals may well jump at a chance to raise fees ever higher.
United Airlines provides multiple options for changing an existing air travel reservation, including requesting a refund, switching to a different United flight leaving in the next three hours on the same day as your original reservation or changing your reservation to an entirely different time or location.
The price of change just went up. United Airlines raised its ticket change fees by $50 on April 18 to $200 for domestic tickets and $300 for international itineraries. Other airlines haven’t yet raised their change fees. But like baggage fees, rivals may well jump at a chance to raise fees ever higher.etty Images
1 Check with your travel agent (or the airline, if you bought your tickets directly from the airline) for schedule options and the date change rules, fees (if any), and procedures for your specific tickets.ou might have to pay a change fee or an additional fare, or buy a new ticket to continue your journey, regardless of the reason you missed the connecting flight. (Yes, even if it was the airline's fault!) See this separate article from my blog on how to minimize the cost of missed connections.
To switch to that flight, United would charge a $200 change fee, plus another $200 for the fare difference ($500 minus $300). So the change would cost $400 overall—or more than the original ticket cost!And that’s on top of the $300 spent on the initial booking.
Change fee is US150 for American Airlines. If you want to change the date of your flight, you might need to pay additional because the fare of your new flight most probably would be higher than your old one.