The resveratrol in red wine comes from the skin of grapes used to make wine. Because red wine is fermented with grape skins longer than is white wine, red wine contains more resveratrol. Simply eating grapes, or drinking grape juice, has been suggested as one way to get resveratrol without drinking alcohol.
One reason why grapes are good for your health and should be a part of your daily diet is due to the various minerals your body can derive from these fruits. The most significant minerals present in grapes are Manganese and Potassium.
Grapes are rich in antioxidants due to the presence of phytonutrients called polyphenols. These antioxidants bind with the “free radicals” present in your body and reduce the risk of plague formation on the arteries, thus improving your heart’s health.
You may already intuitively sense that fresh grapes are good for you. After all, people have been cultivating and eating them for thousands of years. From ancient times onward, grapes have also delighted our senses with their beauty, delicate sweetness and luscious, thirst-quenching qualities.
Knowledge center. The ways to consume grapes are endless-from red, green and purple grapes to seedless grapes, grape jelly, grape jam and grape juice. And don't forget wine and raisins! This popular fruit's history goes back as far as 8,000 years, when grape vines were first cultivated in what is now the Middle East.
Grapes contain powerful antioxidants known as polyphenols, which may slow or prevent many types of cancer, including esophageal, lung, mouth, pharynx, endometrial, pancreatic, prostate and colon. 1. The resveratrol found in red wine famous for heart health is a type of polyphenol found in the skins of red grapes.
White grapes are actually pale green. A delicious lunchbox treat, grapes also contain health benefits for your heart, eyes, brain, blood, and joints (to name just a few areas of the body grapes are good for) with the seed and skin containing the richest concentration of antioxidants.
One cup of green grapes contains 104 calories and 1.4 grams of fiber. Fruit is an essential part of your daily diet because it supplies essential vitamins and minerals that contribute to good health. Green grapes are a healthy choice and are low in calories, contain zero grams of fat and pack a nutritional punch.