The planet Uranus has a tilt of 97°, hence it rotates on its side, its north pole being almost in the plane of its orbit. Over the course of an orbit, the obliquity does not change, and the orientation of the axis remains the same relative to the background stars. Earth 's orbital plane is known as the ecliptic plane, and Earth's tilt is known to astronomers as the obliquity of the ecliptic, being the angle between the ecliptic and the celestial equator on the celestial sphere. It is denoted by the Greek letter ε. Earth currently has an axial tilt of about 23.4°.
In astronomy, axial tilt, also known as obliquity, is the angle between an object's rotational axis and its orbital axis, or, equivalently, the angle between its equatorial plane and orbital plane. It differs from orbital inclination. Earth 's orbital plane is known as the ecliptic plane, and Earth's tilt is known to astronomers as the obliquity of the ecliptic, being the angle between the ecliptic and the celestial equator on the celestial sphere. It is denoted by the Greek letter ε. Earth currently has an axial tilt of about 23.4°.
Geologic Time Chart. The Earth's axis is tilted from perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic by 23.45°. This tilting is what gives us the four seasons of the year-spring, summer, autumn (fall) and winter. Since the axis is tilted, different parts of the globe are oriented towards the Sun at different times of the year. 
Axis Tilt is Critical for Life. The tilt of the Earth's spin axis with respect to the plane of its orbit about the sun (the ecliptic plane) is important for a habitable Earth. The Earth's spin axis is tilted 23.5° with respect to the ecliptic, giving moderate seasons and preventing temperature extremes anywhere on the planet. This illustration, patterned after Ward and Brownlee, summarizes the effects of different tilt angles with respect to the ecliptic plane. 
But Earth's axis tilt doesn't change either. What does change is Earth's orientation relative to the Sun. While Earth spins on its axis, it is also traveling around the Sun in orbital revolution. One full orbit around the sun is about 365 Earth days, or one year. Because of Earth's spherical shape and axis tilt, incoming radiation is not absorbed evenly across the planet, and this distribution changes with the seasons. Earth's rotation is the cause for the differences in daytime and nighttime as it spins on its axis.
Each planets revolve around a different axis of rotation. The axial tilt or obliquity is the angle between the axis of rotation of a planet and perpendicular to its orbital plane. The planets glide majestically on an orbit around the Sun, leaving perceive no trace of the gravitational constraints that lead. This rotation axis is never perpendicular to the orbital plane of the planet, but inclined at an angle varies according to the planets (see picture against). In the case of Earth, this angle was 1 January 2013 to 23 ° 26'15, 32 .
2.2.3: PRECESSION AND CLIMATIC CHANGE: Precession does not generate climatic change without a tilt in the axis of rotation. What it does is to change the orientation but not the angle of the earth s rotational axis. This causes the seasons to migrate very slowly in a 26,000-year cycle in relation to our solar calendar. 
At an obliquity of zero, these lines point in the same direction i.e. the rotational axis is perpendicular to the orbital plane. Axial tilt differs from inclination. Because the planet Venus has an axial tilt of 177° its rotation can be considered retrograde, opposite that of most of the other planets. Earth 's orbital plane is known as the ecliptic plane, and Earth's tilt is known to astronomers as the obliquity of the ecliptic, being the angle between the ecliptic and the celestial equator on the celestial sphere. It is denoted by the Greek letter ε. Earth currently has an axial tilt of about 23.4°.
Axial tilt is the angle between the plane of the planet's rotation about the sun, and its axis about which it rotates. The earth's axial tilt of 23.5 degrees accounts for our … seasonality. North pole points away from the sun in northern hemisphere winter, and toward the sun in northern hemisphere summer. 23 degrees 26 minutes. This is the angular difference between the Earth's axis of rotation and the plane of the ecliptic, which is the plane of the Earth's orbit around the Su … n. This tilt changes VERY slowly; fractions of a minute of arc each decade.