Vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) are a type of bacteria called enterococci that have developed resistance to many antibiotics, especially vancomycin. Enterococci bacteria live in our intestines and on our skin, usually without causing problems.
1 Enterococcus faecalis is a Gram-positive, commensal bacterium inhabiting the gastrointestinal tracts of humans and other mammals. 2  E. faecalis can cause life-threatening infections in humans, especially in the nosocomial (hospital) environment. 3  Urinary tract infections (UTI). 4  Bacteremia.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staph bacteria that is resistant to certain antibiotics called beta-lactams. These antibiotics include methicillin and other more common antibiotics such as oxacillin, penicillin, and amoxicillin. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections.
The new strains are called vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). One concern is that VRE strains appear able to transfer vancomycin resistance to unrelated bacteria such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) and these strains are renamed VRSA.
Enterococcus species are gram-positive, facultative anaerobic cocci that are morphologically similar to streptococci on Gram stain (181). The normal habitat of these microorganisms is the gastrointestinal tract of human and other mammals, although they can be isolated from the oropharynx, female genital tract, and skin.
Vancomycin resistant entrococci (VRE): A strain of Enterococci resistant to theantibiotic vancomycin DISCUSSION:Staphylococcus aureus is a type of bacteria (germ) that is commonly found on theskin and mucous membranes (such as inside the nose).
Clinical significance: 1  Enterococcus faecalis is a Gram-positive, commensal bacterium inhabiting the gastrointestinal tracts of humans and other mammals. 2  E. faecalis can cause life-threatening infections in humans, especially in the nosocomial (hospital) environment. 3  Urinary tract infections (UTI).