Sports drinks such as Gatorade promise better athletic performance, but in some cases they’re not really necessary. Water does the trick in many cases. In fact, there’s a reason Gatorade is called a sports drink;-it was developed to help athletes involved in a rigorous football training program. Everyday exercisers don’t necessarily work out with the intensity or duration needed for the carbohydrate and electrolyte benefits of Gatorade. Gatorade is more appealing than water to many people because it tastes good. People, especially children, are likely to drink more fluid during sports if the drink is flavored, according to a Texas Medical Association report.
Sports drinks with 4 percent to 8 percent carbohydrate and 0.5g sodium/L are more effective than water for the longer bouts of exercise, according to the University of North Carolina School of Medicine. Gatorade is a 6 percent carbohydrate beverage.atorade is more appealing than water to many people because it tastes good. People, especially children, are likely to drink more fluid during sports if the drink is flavored, according to a Texas Medical Association report.
Gatorade also gives you the opportunity to have it where ever you have water because they sell Gatorade powder in which you can make your own Gatorade just by mixing it with water. Gatorade is not the only sports drink out there that tastes good and is good for you Powerade is Gatorade’s prime competition. People may prefer Powerade because it has Vitamins in it (B-3, B-6, and B-12) and it tastes good.owerade and Gatorade are both great sports drinks but if you are doing marathon level distances or high level intensity activities than Gatorade is the better choice, Gatorade also has a lot more flavors than Powerade.
The American College of Sports Medicine suggests that you use the carbohydrate replacement in Gatorade an hour or more after you have completed a high intensity physical activity or a low intensity activity that lasts for more than an hour. The best thing to do is to use a combination of water and Gatorade.rinking water is sufficient to keep your body hydrated before, during and after a light or moderate exercise session. However, if you are taking part in a high-intensity sport session for an extended period of time or in a high-temperature environment, it is recommended that you drink Gatorade.
Use. Gatorade is more appealing than water to many people because it tastes good. People, especially children, are likely to drink more fluid during sports if the drink is flavored, according to a Texas Medical Association report.
If you are playing sports games regularly, you may want to know whether drinking Gatorade or water will be more beneficial for you. You will lose a lot of fluids and electrolytes through perspiration when you are playing sports, and you need to replace them by consuming water or other drinks.rinking water is sufficient to keep your body hydrated before, during and after a light or moderate exercise session. However, if you are taking part in a high-intensity sport session for an extended period of time or in a high-temperature environment, it is recommended that you drink Gatorade.
More: 15 Hydration Facts for Athletes. A third advantage of sports drinks over water with respect to hydration is that the sodium content of sports drinks stimulates thirst, so athletes usually drink more when they have a sports drink than when they have plain water.1  1. 2  2.ore: 15 Hydration Facts for Athletes. A third advantage of sports drinks over water with respect to hydration is that the sodium content of sports drinks stimulates thirst, so athletes usually drink more when they have a sports drink than when they have plain water. 1  1. 2  2. 3  NEXT.
This type of drink is also high in calories, and it can replace the energy that is lost while you are playing sports. If you are taking part in strenuous physical activities, water may not be sufficient to replenish lost fluids, and you may have to consume a sports drink like Gatorade.rinking water is sufficient to keep your body hydrated before, during and after a light or moderate exercise session. However, if you are taking part in a high-intensity sport session for an extended period of time or in a high-temperature environment, it is recommended that you drink Gatorade.
I would always say that gatorade is better because of the electrolytes and that seemed like a scientific enough answer for me. People would tell me reasons why water is better so I tried to mix it up and use both during and after my games.ot only does Gatorade taste better than it makes me feel better as well. Personally it's hard for me to drink water because it's tasteless but I can drink Gatorade all day. In addition I even drink Gatorade when I'm sick it helps make me feel better.
The granddaddy of sports drinks is Gatorade, a beverage created in the 1960s for the University of Florida Gators football team. The British Medical Journal says it “started life as a simple mixture of kitchen foodstuffs” like water, salt, sugar, and lemon flavoring. It’s more complicated than that today.