The RBC's here appear smaller than normal and have an increased zone of central pallor. This is indicative of a hypochromic (less hemoglobin in each RBC) and microcytic (smaller size of each RBC) anemia. There is also increased anisocytosis (variation in RBC size) and poikilocytosis (variation in RBC shape). 
Microcytic anemia is defined as the presence of small, often hypochromic, red blood cells in a peripheral blood smear and is usually characterized by a low MCV (less than 83 micron 3). Iron deficiency is the most common cause of microcytic anemia. The absence of iron stores in the bone marrow remains the most definitive test for differentiating iron deficiency from the other microcytic states, ie, anemia of chronic disease, thalassemia, and sideroblastic anemia.
Hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload is a condition that impairs the normal transport of iron in cells. Iron is an essential component of hemoglobin, which is the substance that red blood cells use to carry oxygen to cells and tissues throughout the body. In hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload, the iron that is not used by red blood cells accumulates in the liver, which can impair its function over time. The liver problems typically become apparent in adolescence or early adulthood
microcytic anemia anemia characterized by microcytes (erythrocytes smaller than normal); see also hypochromic microcytic anemia and microcythemia. myelopathic anemia (myelophthisic anemia) leukoerythroblastosis. normochromic anemia that in which the hemoglobin content of the red blood cells is in the normal range. hypochromic microcytic anemia any anemia with microcytes that are hypochromic (reduced in size and in hemoglobin content); the most common type is iron deficiency anemia. hypoplastic anemia anemia due to incapacity of blood-forming organs
Microcytic anemia is a term used to characterize any type of anemia caused due to small red blood cells in human blood. In Microcytic anemia the red blood cells are paler than usual. Microcytic anemia is the most common types of anemia which is found. Causes. In most of the cases Microcytic anemia is caused because of the deficiency of iron. Thus it is the most sought after thing when a person is contacted with Microcytic anemia.
Microcytic hypochromic anemia: Introduction. Microcytic hypochromic anemia: Microcytic anemia is a blood disorder characterized by small red blood cells (erythrocytes) which have insufficient haemoglobin and hence have a reduced ability to carry oxygen through the body. 1 Treatment of microcytic hypochromic anaemia is dependant upon the underlying cause for the iron deficiency. 2  Treatments include: 3  No treatment if the cause is a thalassemia trait. 4  Investigation and treatment of underlying conditions such as coeliac disease, menorrhagia, bowel cancer.
In hypochromic cells, this area of central pallor is increased. This decrease in redness is due to a disproportionate reduction of red cell hemoglobin (the pigment that imparts the red color) in proportion to the volume of the cell. In many cases, the red blood cells will also be small (microcytic), leading to substantial overlap with the category of microcytic anemia. The most common causes of this kind of anemia are iron deficiency and thalassemia
Hypochromic anemia is a generic term for any type of anemia in which the red blood cells (erythrocytes) are paler than normal. (Hypo-refers to less, and chromic means color .) A normal red blood cell will have an area of pallor in the center of it; it is biconcave disk shaped. This decrease in redness is due to a disproportionate reduction of red cell hemoglobin (the pigment that imparts the red color) in proportion to the volume of the cell. In many cases, the red blood cells will also be small (microcytic), leading to substantial overlap with the category of microcytic anemia.