Bed Bugs. The bed bug (Cimex lectulariu s) has been a parasite of humans throughout written history. Its adaptation to humans is so complete that its bite is not noticed until well after the bug leaves its victim, if it is noticed at all. During the three to five minutes it takes to complete feeding, the bug elongates and becomes more reddish. It then retreats to its hiding place to digest the meal, and will return to feed in three to 10 days. Reactions to bed bug bites vary among individuals. Many persons show no signs of bites.
Bed bugs have been found to be able to live for 12-18 months without a blood meal. Yes, baby bed bugs can live without adults. To develop they need at least 5 blood meals to reach adulthood where they can then begin to reproduce. There are 5 stages of develo … pment for bed bugs. 3 people found this useful.
Bed bugs are active at night and generally hide during the day. After mating, females lay white, oval eggs (1/16-inch long) into cracks and crevices. An individual bed bug can lay 200-250 eggs in her lifetime. The eggs hatch in about 6-10 days and the newly emerged bed bug nymphs seek a blood meal. Adult bed bugs are oval, flattened, brown, and wingless insects approximately 1/4 to 3/8 long (5-9 mm). They are similar in appearance to a wood tick. After the bug has taken a blood meal, its color will change from brown to purplish-red.
A bed bug can take in six times its weight in human blood during a typical nighttime meal, and feeding can take from 3 to 12 minutes. How long can bed bugs survive without a blood meal? Nymphs can survive without food for up to 90 days without feeding; adults can survive up to one year or longer without feeding. 
Newly hatched bedbugs are called nymphs and they need to have had five moults and five different meals of somebody's blood to become adults. If they do no … t get these within a week or two nymphs may well not survive. But adult bedbugs can survive for a year or more between feeds. Yes, baby bed bugs can live without adults. To develop they need at least 5 blood meals to reach adulthood where they can then begin to reproduce. There are 5 stages of develo … pment for bed bugs. 3 people found this useful.
There is a great debate as to how long bed bugs can live. Some scientists new to the study of bed bugs are challenging historic published research showing that bed bugs do not survive as long as previously published. Others believe that published data short changes the bed bugs ability to live a long life.
How long can bed bugs live? Adult bed bugs can survive a full year without feeding, going into a semi hibernation state until activated by the CO2 from a blood source. Normal life cycle for a bed bug is up to a year and a half, while younger bed bugs can go about a month or two without a blood source before dying. 
Later instars and adult bed bugs can survive for well over a year without feeding if conditions are favorable (Table. 1). After mating, females can begin laying eggs in 3 to 6 days, and can lay 200 to 500 eggs over a life span of 6 to 18 months. On average, bed bugs lay 5 eggs per week. In the absence of human hosts, bed bugs can survive on blood meals from household pets or rodent pests. Bed bugs prefer to feed on exposed bare skin (face, neck, shoulders, arms, hands, etc.). If left undisturbed, a bed bug can obtain a full blood meal in three to five minutes, but averages about 15 minutes.
Bed bugs can survive more than a year without feeding, but most adults and nymphs probably do not live more than six months without a meal. This ability lets them wait for transient hosts that periodically inhabit camp cabins, apartments and temporary housing. It also helps them survive transportation. During the three to five minutes it takes to complete feeding, the bug elongates and becomes more reddish. It then retreats to its hiding place to digest the meal, and will return to feed in three to 10 days. Reactions to bed bug bites vary among individuals. Many persons show no signs of bites.
All ages are found in a reproducing population. Immature bed bugs may live for several months without feeding while adults may survive as long as one year without a meal. Under normal circumstances, adult bed bugs will live for about ten to eleven months. Adult bed bugs are oval, flattened, brown, and wingless insects approximately 1/4 to 3/8 long (5-9 mm). They are similar in appearance to a wood tick. After the bug has taken a blood meal, its color will change from brown to purplish-red.