Model of the Atom (Niels Bohr). In 1913 one of Rutherford's students, Niels Bohr, proposed a model for the hydrogen atom that was consistent with Rutherford's model and yet also explained the spectrum of the hydrogen atom. The Bohr model was based on the following assumptions. 1.
The Bohr's Theory. The discoveries of the electron and radioactivity at the end of the 19th century led to different models for the structure of the atom. In 1913, Niels Bohr proposed a theory for the hydrogen atom based on quantum theory that energy is transferred only in certain well defined quantities. Electrons should move around the nucleus but only in prescribed orbits. When jumping from one orbit to another with lower energy, a light quantum is emitted
Rutherford and Bohr describe atomic structure1913. Photo: Niels Bohr's research notes for his new atomic theory. In 1911, Niels Bohr earned his PhD in Denmark with a dissertation on the electron theory of metals. Right afterwards, he went to England to study with J.J. Thomson, who had discovered the electron in 1897. 
The Bohr model shows the atom as a small, positively charged nucleus surrounded by orbiting electrons. A stylized representation of a lithium atom illustrates Niels Bohr's atomic model, that an atom is a small, positively charged nucleus surrounded by orbiting electrons. Under Rutherford's tutelage, Bohr began studying the properties of atoms. Combining Rutherford's description of the nucleus and Planck's theory about quanta, Bohr explained what happens inside an atom and developed a picture of atomic structure. This work earned him a Nobel Prize of his own in 1922.
Niels Bohr. Niels Bohr was a Danish physicist who made fundamental contributions to understanding the structure of atoms and to the early development of quantum mechanics. In particular, he developed the Bohr model of the atom (and later the liquid drop model) and the principles of correspondence and complementarity. 
Niels Bohr atomic theory can used to explain the structure of all atoms. Niels Bohr atomic theory was a combination of Rutherford’s model and an idea of atom, with quantum theory, which is introduced by Max Plank. He expanded the Rutherford model upon this theory by proposing that electron travel only certain successively large orbits. Niels Henrik David Bohr (1885-1962) was published his Niels Bohr atomic theory in 1913. He was a Danish physicist and he got Nobel Prize in 1922 in physics for atomic structure and quantum mechanics. He was one of the most influential scientists in 20th century.
Niels Bohr was one of the foremost scientists of modern physics, best known for his substantial contributions to quantum theory and his Nobel Prize-winning research on the structure of atoms. Born in Copenhagen in 1885 to well-educated parents, Bohr became interested in physics at a young age. Under Rutherford's tutelage, Bohr began studying the properties of atoms. Combining Rutherford's description of the nucleus and Planck's theory about quanta, Bohr explained what happens inside an atom and developed a picture of atomic structure. This work earned him a Nobel Prize of his own in 1922.
Bohr was also a philosopher and a promoter of scientific research. Bohr developed the Bohr model of the atom, in which he proposed that energy levels of electrons are discrete and that the electrons revolve in stable orbits around the atomic nucleus but can jump from one energy level (or orbit) to another. 