The word, glory, or some form of the word (like glorious or glorify) is found in the King James Bible 538 times. It is one of those important words that is hard to explain. However, I think we can get a good start in understanding this word if we think of it as being used in three different ways.
The word shekinah derives from the Hebrew verb root meaning to dwell, which is also at the base of the Hebrew word for tabernacle. Thus, this Shekinah glory refers to the manifest presence of God, particularly as it appears in the tabernacle and temple (1 Kings 8:11).
When used in reference to natural objects glory may refer to the brightness of heavenly bodies (Acts 22:11; 1 Col 15:41), the fruitfulness of a forest (Isa 35:2; 60:13), the awesomeness of a horse's snorting (Job 39:20), or the ornateness of expensive clothing (Luke 7:25). Human Beings.
A. It depends on how the word is used. For example, in Isaiah 28:5 the Hebrew word translated glory means beauty and refers to a decoration. In that day the LORD of hosts will be a crown of glory. Their relationship with God will make everyone appear to be more beautiful, as if they were wearing fine jewelry.
According to Vine's Expository Dictionary, the Greek word doxa, most commonly translated as glory, can mean GLORY, DIGNITY, HONOR, PRAISE, or WORSHIP. All the things you mentioned, with the possible exception of happiness, seem to be part of or representative of glory.
That’s what we see in phrases like in Hebrews 1:3 He is the radiance of His glory, the exact representation of His nature, and upholds all things by the word of His power. In the Old Testament glory comes from the Hebrew word kabod meaning weighty or heavy; points to how impressive and worthy God is of our praise. It is also related to a word meaning to beautify. The glory of humans is subjective; the glory of God is objective.
Answer: To glorify God means to give glory to Him. The word glory as related to God in the Old Testament bears with it the idea of greatness of splendor. In the New Testament, the word translated glory means dignity, honor, praise and worship..
God. The most significant use of the ideas of glory and majesty is their application to God. In this regard, it is sometimes stated that God's glory is the external manifestation of his being. God's glory is something that appears (Exod 16:10), is revealed (Isa 40:5), or can be seen (Num 14:22).