Green and yellow split peas are commonly used to make pea soup or split pea soup, and sometimes pease pudding, which was commonly prepared in Medieval Europe. In north India, they are generally known as matar ki daal, sometimes used as a cheaper variation for the very popular chhole on stalls offering it. Yellow split pea is the main ingredient of the Iranian food  khoresh gheymeh , which is served on the side of white rice in Iranian cuisine. It is also an important ingredient in the famous Tabriz koeftesii, köftesii a kofta speciality From Northern, Iran yellow split peas are used to make a sweet snack In beijing. cuisine
When the legume's skin is removed and the grain split in half, you get the variety of yellow split peas in India called chana dal. The green split peas (what you generally use for split pea soup with ham hock) are a perfect stand-in for the yellow variety should you wish to use them instead. Puree any leftover dal in a blender or a food processor to yield an almost pate-like spread. Try and drain off a bit of the excess liquid before you do that. 1 1 cup yellow split peas. 2  1 pound potatoes (Yukon gold or russet), peeled, and cut into 1/2-inch cubes (soak them in cold water to prevent browning; drain before use). 3  1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric. 4  2 to 4 dried red cayenne chiles (like chile de arbol), stems discarded.
Cooking & Recipes. Cooking With Legumes: Dried Peas. Dried peas come in both yellow and green varieties, the yellow having the milder, more neutral flavor, while the green offer an earthier, more vegetal taste (don't confuse yellow split peas with Indian toor dal, or split pigeon peas, as these are distinct species). 
In markets, both the green and the yellow varieties of split pea are found in their respective selections, bagged by color. These two colors reflect some of the work of Gregor Mendel, who studied the inheritance of seed color in peas. The green phenotype is recessive to the yellow one. Yellow split pea is the main ingredient of the Iranian food  khoresh gheymeh , which is served on the side of white rice in Iranian cuisine. It is also an important ingredient in the famous Tabriz koeftesii, köftesii a kofta speciality From Northern, Iran yellow split peas are used to make a sweet snack In beijing. cuisine
Yellow Split Peas are part of the legume family. Split Peas are husked (or dehulled) and split in half. The Yellow Split Pea is about 1/4 of an inch wide and pale yellow in color. Split Peas have a mild flavor and soft texture. The Split Pea has more of an earthy flavor than the whole dried pea. Whole Yellow Peas are part of the legume family. Whole Peas are about 1/4 of an inch wide and pale yellow in color. Whole Dried Peas have a history going back some 10,000 years.
Green Split Peas are part of the legume family. Split Peas are husked (or dehulled) and split in half. The Green Split Pea is about 1/4 of an inch wide and pale green in color. Split Peas have a mild flavor and soft texture. Whole Yellow Peas are part of the legume family. Whole Peas are about 1/4 of an inch wide and pale yellow in color. Whole Dried Peas have a history going back some 10,000 years.
Split peas are highly nutritious, with both yellow and green split peas providing a variety of micro and macronutrients. A one cup serving of cooked split peas contains 231 calories, with almost no fat content at 0.8 grams. Split peas are very high in protein, with one serving containing 16.4 grams. There are few differences between yellow and green split peas. Photo Credit janeff/iStock/Getty Images. Green and yellow split peas are different varieties of the seeds of the Pisum sativum L., or field pea, plant. Belonging to the legume family, this plant is found throughout the world, with the world's top producers being Russia, China, India, Canada and the United States. Due to the plant's versatility and near universality, split peas are found in the traditional dishes of a variety of cultures around the world
Split peas are field peas, which are a variety of yellow or green peas grown specifically for drying. When these peas are hulled and then split in half along the natural seam, they become split peas, which encourages faster cooking and eliminates the need to presoak. 
Yellow split peas may sometimes be confused with the Indian toor dal (split pigeon peas) or chana dal (split yellow gram, desi chickpeas); while all are commonly known as peas, the latter are from other legume species. In Cyprus, the green leaves are very popular in winter. Yellow split pea is the main ingredient of the Iranian food  khoresh gheymeh , which is served on the side of white rice in Iranian cuisine. It is also an important ingredient in the famous Tabriz koeftesii, köftesii a kofta speciality From Northern, Iran yellow split peas are used to make a sweet snack In beijing. cuisine