Within or immediately outside the jugular foramen are two ganglia (the superior and inferior ganglia), which contain the cell bodies of the sensory neurons in the glossopharyngeal nerve [IX]. The glossopharyngeal nerve [IX] leaves the cranial cavity through the jugular foramen. The maxillary nerve [V2] passes forward in the dura mater of the lateral wall of the cavernous sinus just inferior to the ophthalmic nerve [V1], leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen rotundum, and enters the pterygopalatine fossa.
Gross Anatomy. The vagus nerve is the longest cranial nerve. It contains motor and sensory fibers and, because it passes through the neck and thorax to the abdomen, has the widest distribution in the body. It contains somatic and visceral afferent fibers, as well as general and special visceral efferent fibers. (See Table 1, below.). Exit from the brain. The vagus nerve exits from the medulla oblongata in the groove between the olive and the inferior cerebellar peduncle. It leaves the skull through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, where it has upper and lower ganglionic swellings, which are the sensory ganglia of the nerve.
It is a unique cranial nerve because its roots arise from motor neurons in the upper five segments of the cervical spinal cord. These fibers leave the lateral surface of the spinal cord and, joining together as they ascend, enter the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum. The accessory nerve [XI] continues through the posterior cranial fossa and exits through the jugular foramen. The maxillary nerve [V2] passes forward in the dura mater of the lateral wall of the cavernous sinus just inferior to the ophthalmic nerve [V1], leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen rotundum, and enters the pterygopalatine fossa.
1 Any additional openings in bone that the nerve or its branches pass through. 2  Whether it is somatic or visceral, motor or sensory, general or special, and if it carries pre-or postganglionic parasympathetic fibers. 3  Several of the cranial nerves are quite simple in this regard. 4  Several are very complex (i.e., V, VII, IX). 1 Whether it is somatic or visceral, motor or sensory, general or special, and if it carries pre-or postganglionic parasympathetic fibers. 2  Several of the cranial nerves are quite simple in this regard. 3
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). Cranial nerves exchange information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck. Spinal nerves emerge sequentially from the spinal cord with the spinal nerve closest to the head (C1) emerging in the space above the first cervical vertebra. The cranial nerves emerge from the central nervous system above this level.
The vagus nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and accessory nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus
XI Cranial Nerve (Accessory) enters the skull through the foramen magnum and leaves through the jugular foramen. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The nerves which passes through the jugular foramen are: glossopharyngeal nerve(IX), vagus nerve(X) and accessory nerve(XI).
Review of Cranial Nerves. 1  The bony opening in the cranial cavity through which it exits. 2  Its general course and the branches that have been discussed in lecture. 3  Any additional openings in bone that the nerve or its branches pass through. 1 Whether it is somatic or visceral, motor or sensory, general or special, and if it carries pre-or postganglionic parasympathetic fibers. 2  Several of the cranial nerves are quite simple in this regard. 3  Several are very complex (i.e., V, VII, IX)
Accessory nerve (XI). The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group.