PETRIFIED WOOD. Petrified wood (from the Greek root petro meaning rock or stone; literally wood turned into stone) is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree having turned completely into stone by the process of permineralization
Petrified wood. Petrified wood is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree or tree-like plants having completely transitioned to stone by the process of permineralization. 
Petrified wood. Petrified wood is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree or tree-like plants having completely transitioned to stone by the process of permineralization. 
petrified wood is wood that has had all the bacteria killed out of it by mud, sand, volcanic ash or other matter. The matter then turns the wood into stone. Later the stone tu … rns into probably quarts or opal. Usally because its fossilized it keeps its same pattern and the quarts can turn it into different colors. 1. To convert (wood or other organic matter) into a stony replica by petrifaction. 2. To cause to become stiff or stonelike; deaden. 3. To stun or paralyze with terror; daze.
Petrified wood is trees or other woody material that is fossilized. The process of petrification, or fossilization, is where the minerals in the plant or animal are replaced b … y that of the minerals in the soil or rock. 1. To convert (wood or other organic matter) into a stony replica by petrifaction. 2. To cause to become stiff or stonelike; deaden. 3. To stun or paralyze with terror; daze.
Full Definition of PETRIFY. transitive verb. 1. : to convert (organic matter) into stone or a substance of stony hardness by the infiltration of water and the deposition of dissolved mineral matter. 2. : to make rigid or inert like stone: intransitive verb. : to become stone or of stony hardness or rigidity. 
Petrified Wood. Petrified wood is a stone that is good for grounding and stabilizing one's emotions. It is particularly useful in calming survival-based fears. It helps one be practical. It is a stone of business success. Petrified wood is a good stone for general protection. 
pet·ri·fy. tr.v. pet·ri·fied, pet·ri·fy·ing, pet·ri·fies. 1. To convert (wood or other organic matter) into a stony replica by petrifaction. 2. To cause to lose vitality or become impervious to change; deaden: a routine that petrified her thinking. 3. To stun or paralyze with terror; daze. 
Petrified wood (from the Greek root petro meaning rock or stone; literally wood turned into stone) is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree or tree-like plants having completely transitioned to stone by the process of permineralization. Elements such as manganese, iron, and copper in the water/mud during the petrification process give petrified wood a variety of color ranges. Pure quartz crystals are colorless, but when contaminants are added to the process the crystals take on a yellow, red, or other tint.