© 2013 msnbc.com Reprints. Willie Geist is co-host of NBC’s “Today” 9 a.m. hour and the co-host of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” He is also a contributor to NBC News programs and to the NBC Sports Group, where he reports for NBC Olympics and NBC Sports Network. In addition to his television duties, Geist hosts the video blog “Zeitgeist” on nbcnews.com. Geist was formerly the host of MSNBC’s “Way Too Early with Willie Geist,” a program he created in 2009. He’s been a co-host of “Morning Joe” since the show began in 2007.
Mini Bio (1). Willie Geist was born on May 3, 1975 in Evanston, Illinois, USA as William Russell Geist. He is an actor and producer, known for Today (1952), Macy's 4th of July Fireworks Spectacular (2015) and Morning Joe (2007). He has been married to Christina Elena Sharkey since May 24, 2003. They have two children. 
Actor | Producer | Soundtrack. Willie Geist was born on May 3, 1975 in Evanston, Illinois, USA as William Russell Geist. He is an actor and producer, known for Today (1952), Macy's 4th of July Fireworks Spectacular (2015) and Morning Joe (2007). He has been married to Christina Elena Sharkey since May 24, 2003. They have two children. See full bio »
Willie Geist. The very handsome Willie Geist, an American TV presenter recently working for MNSBC was born on May 3, 1975 and was named William Russell Geist at birth. He was raised by his proud parents in Evanston, Illinois, United States. He belongs to American nationality and is of Caucasian ethnicity
PHOTOS: Stars who have been fired. Co-hosts Willie Geist and Natalie Morales were recently told they were fired, an NBC source reveals exclusively in the new issue of Us Weekly. Morales, 42, is now in talks with ABC and Geist, 39, has lined up a gig at CBS, the insider tells Us
During his time on that show-Way Too Early with Willie Geist-Geist started filling in for Lauer on Today. He proved likeable on the popular morning program, as well, so NBC opted to keep him there. Way Too Early was cancelled and Geist became the permanent host of Today 's third hour. Fast Facts. 
email. It's Willie Geist's first official day of co-hosting the 9 o'clock hour of TODAY, and his fellow anchors welcomed him with a look back at his life. Willie with his now-wife Christina, who he met in the sixth grade. 