1 A commonly used over-the-counter human allergy medicine can reduce the symptoms of a dog’s allergic reaction to a bee or wasp sting and may even save the dog's life if he is having a severe reaction. 2  Pages 8-9 tell you what medicine to give your dog and how to figure the dose.
Depending on the location of the sting, and how many times the dog is stung, dog bee stings can be serious and may require prompt veterinary attention. For example, swelling of the neck may result in constriction of the airway, leading to breathing difficulties.
I bee/wasp sting can cause a severe allergic reaction, typically with an allergic reaction to such a sting you would see localised swelling around the area in which the animal was stung, this would be quite obvious swelling.
Bee stings in dogs are usually not life-threatening. However, some dogs will have a severe allergic reaction that requires immediate action or the dog may go into shock and die. Betty, our foster pit bull, has had an allergic reaction three times, developing hives all over her body, especially on her legs (see photo).
1 More venomous insect stings may cause profound swelling, pain, itching, and redness. 2  In the most extreme situation a dog may have anaphylactic shock (a life-threatening, severe, allergic reaction) as a result of exposure to the insect venom. 3  These signs can include difficulty breathing, collapse, and death.
1 Pages 7-8 and 10-11 tell you how to reduce your dog’s swelling and pain. 2  Some dogs will have an allergic reaction to a bee or wasp sting. 3  The reaction may be mild or it may be severe and life-threatening. 4  Pages 5-6 provide photos and a description of symptoms.
Dog Bee Stings. Bee stings can result in painful swelling and redness in dogs. In severe cases, the dog may suffer from an acute allergic reaction known as anaphylactic shock which can be life-threatening if untreated.
1 Most dogs will not have an allergic reaction to a bee sting but need to receive care for the sting wound and related pain. 2  Pages 7-8 and 10-11 tell you how to reduce your dog’s swelling and pain. 3  Some dogs will have an allergic reaction to a bee or wasp sting.