Include archived documents. Ethernet (the name commonly used for IEEE 802.3 CSMA/CD) is the dominant cabling and low level data delivery technology used in local area networks (LANs). Following are some Ethernet features: 1  Ethernet transmits data at up to ten million bits (i.e., 10 megabits) per second (10 Mbps). 
Ethernet /ˈiːθərnɛt/ is a family of computer networking technologies for local area networks (LANs) and metropolitan area networks (MANs). It was commercially introduced in 1980 and first standardized in 1983 as IEEE 802.3, and has since been refined to support higher bit rates and longer link distances. The original 10BASE5 Ethernet uses coaxial cable as a shared medium, while the newer Ethernet variants use twisted pair and fiber optic links in conjunction with hubs or switches.
Definition: Ethernet is a physical and data link layer technology for local area networks (LANs) . Ethernet was invented by engineer Robert Metcalfe. When first widely deployed in the 1980s, Ethernet supported a maximum theoretical data rate of 10 megabits per second (Mbps) . 
A NIC is installed in each computer and is assigned a unique address. An Ethernet cable runs from each NIC to the central switch or hub. The switch or hub will act as a relay (though they have significant differences in how they handle network traffic), receiving and directing packets of data across the LAN. 
The most widely used local area network (LAN) technology. Defined as the 802.3 standard by the IEEE, the Ethernet access method is used to connect computers in a company or home network as well as to connect a single computer to a modem for Internet access. 
Answer: An Ethernet cable is one of the most popular forms of network cable used on wired networks. Ethernet cables connect devices on local area networks such as PCs, routers and switches. A crossover cable is a special type of Ethernet cable specially designed for connecting two computers to each other. By contrast, most Ethenet cables are designed to connect one computer to a router or switch. Ethernet cables are physically manufactured in two basic forms called solid and stranded.
The Ethernet standards comprise several wiring and signaling variants of the OSI physical layer in use with Ethernet. The original 10BASE5 Ethernet uses coaxial cable as a shared medium, while the newer Ethernet variants use twisted pair and fiber optic links in conjunction with hubs or switches.
Definition: Ethernet is a protocol that controls the way data is transmitted over a local area network (LAN) . It uses wires (meaning it is not a wireless technology). The wires used for a LAN are mostly those headed by an RJ-45 jack, which is similar to the jack plugged into your telephone set, but twice as big. Ethernet is by far the most popular LAN protocol used today. It is so popular that if you buy a network card to install on your machine, you will get an Ethernet card, unless you ask for something different, if of course that different protocol is available.
Ethernet is the most widely installed local area network (LAN) technology. Ethernet is a link layer protocol in the TCP/IP stack, describing how networked devices can format data for transmission to other network devices on the same network segment, and how to put that data out on the network connection. Specified in the family of standards known as IEEE 802.3, Ethernet was originally developed by Xerox in the 1970s. Ethernet was initially designed to run over coaxial cables, but a typical Ethernet LAN now uses special grades of twisted pair cables, or fiber optical cabling.