Flora is a brand of margarine, sold in the United Kingdom, Czech Republic, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, Spain, Poland, Hungary, Portugal, South Africa, Hong Kong, Singapore, New Zealand and Australia. It is produced by Unilever and sold in other parts of the world under the brand name of Becel. Unilever market Flora as containing a blend of healthy fats  including omega-3, omega-6 oils and vitamin B6, B12 and folic acid .
Parking Details: There is a metered parking lot in the rear which can be accessed through Greenwood Avenue. There are also several metered spots in the nearby area. FYI, metered parking is $.25 an hour up to 8pm and Free on Wednesday evenings. Flora is an exceptional Vegan restaurant. All dishes are very flavorful, creative, expertly prepared, and artistically plated. The service is thoughtful and friendly. We have returned many times and the food and service have been consistent.
If it's lactate or lactic acid, it's not from dairy (exception-sterol lactate due to the stearic acid). Lac ingredients are usually produced by a fermentation process using cornstarch or beet sugar. Lactose is always from dairy. Most ingredients made with with calcium are vegan (i.e. calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate). The exceptions are calcium caseinate and calcium stearate.
Cafe Flora is available for gathering, business meetings, holiday parties, weddings, and events of any size. Our chefs can create the perfect vegetarian and vegan menu for your gathering, including vegan wedding cakes and desserts. Please contact alison@cafeflora.com for more details. Cafe Flora is proud to have been awarded the following accolades by our beloved community. Thank you for your continued support! 1  Daily Candy National: Best Vegetarian & Vegan Restaurants 2013. 2  KING5 Best of Western Washington: Best Vegetarian Restaurant 2013
This has been a quest of mine, for the last year or so, that has yielded very little success. However, I just heard back from now foods and their probiotic products that are labelled vegan actually are vegan. They are derived from human intestinal flora and grown on a vegan medium. Another product that looks promising, but not confirmed to be 100% vegan, is Dr. Ohhira's OM-X 100 Probiotic. This is made from vegetables that are fermented with lactic acid derived from tempeh and it looks to be of pretty good quality with 12 strains of bacteria. I don't know about the quantities though. This is interesting. It says 100% vegetarian everywhere, but whether that means vegan or not hmm.. The Ohhira stuff is not vegan. It has beeswax in the capsules, but online sellers are happy to write that it's vegan. When you are born, you are set forth to die. The fact that you live or don't live between these two dates depends solely upon your own will, opportunities and desires.
As an added bonus, it is also gluten-free, non-GMO, and, unlike most margarines, it has no hydrogenated oils. As a vegan product, Earth Balance is also naturally cholesterol-free. I also like margarines that are made from 100% soybean oil and nothing else. A pure soybean margarine works well in baking, but doesn't have quite the richness of flavor that Earth Balance does when eaten alone on bread, in my opinion. The confusion perhaps lies in the fact that while margarine is not dairy-based, like butter, it often does contain trace amounts of animal products, usually in the form of whey or lactose.
I chose Flora due to the vegan menu options. I made the reservations on a Thursday evening for a Saturday night meal. Surprisingly no issue getting a table. The food was nothing short of amazing. I would not consider myself a vegan by any stretch, but I occasionally want a break from eating meat. Flora is an exceptional Vegan restaurant. All dishes are very flavorful, creative, expertly prepared, and artistically plated. The service is thoughtful and friendly. We have returned many times and the food and service have been consistent.
About Us. Flora is a cozy 16-seat BYOB restaurant serving seasonal vegetable cuisine. To make a reservation call 215-779-7945 or use our OpenTable widget below. Reservations are recommended. Flora is a cozy 16-seat BYOB restaurant serving seasonal vegetable cuisine. To make a reservation call 215-779-7945 or use our OpenTable widget below