Origin of the name Keegan: Transferred use of the Anglicized surname, which is from MacAodhagáin (macaodhagáin son Of). Aodhagan aodhagán The name aodhagan aodhagán is a Diminutive (form); of, aodh fire.. Hence Little Fire from A World of Baby Names. by teresa norman I never heard of the name before choosing it for our son in 2006. We found it in a baby name book. I loved the meaning, plus it wasn't common. Now that I've named my son Keegan, though, and he's had the name for 5 years I come across other people who know other boys with that name-but I haven't met one personally.
Keegan /kee-gan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KEE-gan. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Keegan is small flame; ardent . Historian John Keegan. Kreatif forms: Kaigan, Keigan, Kigan. Keegan is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#3388 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Keegan for boys
This interesting surname is of Irish origin, and is an Anglicized form of the Old Gaelic MacAodhagain. The Gaelic prefix mac denotes son of, and the personal name Aodhagain is a diminutive of Aodh, fire, originally the name of a pagan god. 
Keegan is the transferred use of an anglicized Irish surname, from the Old Gaelic MacAodhagáin macaodhagáin which was developed from the personal Name (aodhagan Aodhagán). From aodh ‘aodh’ means fire and was the name Of a celtic/pagan fire. sun god Keegan is the transferred use of an anglicized Irish surname, from the Old Gaelic MacAodhagáin macaodhagáin which was developed from the personal Name (aodhagan Aodhagán). from aodh
Irish Meaning: The name Keagan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Keagan is: A thinker; fiery. Form of Hugh. American Meaning: The name Keagan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Keagan is: A thinker; fiery. Form of Hugh.
Irish Meaning: The name Keegan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Keegan is: A thinker; fiery. Form of Hugh. American Meaning: The name Keegan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Keegan is: A thinker; fiery. Form of Hugh. Celtic Meaning: The name Keegan is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Keegan is: Son of Egan. Gaelic Meaning: The name Keegan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Keegan is: Small and fiery
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Keegan is a surname of Irish origin and derives from Mac Aodhagain aodhagáin meaning (son or) descendant Of (aodhagan aodhagán a diminutive Of the Irish). Name aodh in the late 20th and early 21st centuries keegan is more commonly being used as a. first name From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Keegan is a surname of Irish origin and derives from Mac Aodhagain aodhagáin meaning (son or) descendant Of (aodhagan aodhagán a diminutive Of the Irish). name aodh