When Pugs Stop Growing. As toy canines, pugs generally get to their mature basic weights and heights when they're approximately a year old. This is similar to dogs of many other small breeds. Bigger pooches, on the other hand, usually get to physical maturity later than pugs.
Sexual maturity usually comes before these dogs stop growing, whether in weight or height. Female pugs typically go into their initial estrous cycles -- and therefore attain reproductive capabilities -- when they're 6 to 9 months old. As toy canines, pugs generally get to their mature basic weights and heights when they're approximately a year old. This is similar to dogs of many other small breeds. Bigger pooches, on the other hand, usually get to physical maturity later than pugs.
9 months-Growth slows. Some Pug puppies will stop growing by the age of 9 months. For others, just a few pounds will be gained from now until the 12 month mark. 1 Year-At the age of 1-year-old, a Pug is deemed an adult, although he or she may still display puppy-like tendencies. During these first 12 months, a Pug will have reached 90% of his or her height and 80% of his or her weight. 1 Year to 18 Months-A Pug dog becomes an adult at the age of 1 year old. By the time, full height is usually reached. The adult Pug will fill out in width, most noticeable in the chest area. The dog is muscular and will not grow any larger
Report Abuse. Most dogs stop growing height wise somewhere between 9 months and a year. They continue to 'fill out' for another 6 months to 2 years depending on size. A small dog like a Pom should be at his full height and weight by a year and a half to two years of age. fluffy_aliens · 8 years ago. For smaller dogs like yours they will usually be at full size at 1.5 to 2 years. Check their paws. A puppy's paws will grow a little ahead of their bodies, so if they still look larger than shey should, then your dog is probably not done growing.
What age do pups stop growing   Depends a lot on breed....most pups get their growth spurt by 9 months, then finish at 18 months. Large breeds continue growing until abou … t 2 years. Mastiff breeds, Old English Mastiff, Bull Mastiff, Tibetan, Nebolish, Saint Bernard, Fila, etc... grow until they are 3 years old. 
Mature pugs of both sexes usually are close in height and weight. They generally grow to between 10 and 11 inches at the shoulder. Although these pooches are on the small side, they have extremely dense and thick physiques, usually weighing between 14 and 18 pounds. As toy canines, pugs generally get to their mature basic weights and heights when they're approximately a year old. This is similar to dogs of many other small breeds. Bigger pooches, on the other hand, usually get to physical maturity later than pugs.
It really depends on the breed of dog you have and the actual dog himself. I have always wondered when do dog’s stop growing because I feel like Bunk is still a puppy. Some people tell me pugs stop growing at the age of two and they should be fully mature and at their full body size. I then look at other black pugs, and my Bunk who is turning two in a little less than 2 months, and I think about how that just does not seem to be true! 
Large Dogs. Large breeds take the longest of all to reach their full size. Their frames typically keep growing until they are between 18 months and 24 months of age, while they may be anywhere from 24 to 36 months old before they reach their full adult body weight. It used to be considered common wisdom that dogs stop growing once they reach one year of age. While that may be a fairly accurate statement in some cases, it does not hold true in others.
Medium Dogs. In general, most medium size breeds will reach their full adult frame size between 12 and 15 months old. Breeds with stockier bodies may take as long as 18 months of age for their weight to catch up to their frame size. Compare the frame size of a Whippet to a Clumber Spaniel. It used to be considered common wisdom that dogs stop growing once they reach one year of age. While that may be a fairly accurate statement in some cases, it does not hold true in others.
Medium breeds weighing up to 80 pounds as adults, will typically reach their full size between 12 and 16 months of age, while large and giant breeds weighing over 80 pounds, may reach their adult size between 18 months and 2 years old. 