If you already have wireless service with AT&T and you have the SIM card from your previous phone, all you need to do is insert the SIM card into your new phone and you are all set. You do not need to activate your new handset. To activate your new GoPhone service, enter your AT&T SIM card number and select Continue. SIM Card Number. The SIM card number begins with the numbers 89 and consists of 20 total numbers. An example of a SIM card number is '89012345678987654321'.
1. Purchase a SIM card if your carrier requires one. In order to activate your used phone, you will need to insert a SIM card for your plan. 1  Unless the device has been unlocked, it can generally only be activated on the same carrier it was originally activated on. 4. Insert your new SIM card in your new phone (if necessary). Your new phone will come with a SIM card if your carrier requires one. The SIM card may already be inserted in your phone. 1  If you're upgrading from an older device on the same plan, you can most likely use your old SIM card unless it physically doesn't fit.
1 If you are activating a phone that is not specified for your specific provider, call your provider to ensure that you can activate the phone on their system. 2  If your phone requires a SIM card, it should come with the phone. 4. Insert your new SIM card in your new phone (if necessary). Your new phone will come with a SIM card if your carrier requires one. The SIM card may already be inserted in your phone. 1  If you're upgrading from an older device on the same plan, you can most likely use your old SIM card unless it physically doesn't fit.
Please sign in to vote on this Guide. Below is a Guide on how to activate a cell phone on U.S. Cellular that you purchased on eBay from the comfort of your home and without the need to go to a U.S. Cellular Store. Its easy, simple and fast. The first section explains the steps to switch your contract service to the phone you just purchased
While this is the most inconvenient way to activate your phone, it is also the most sure-fire way to activate without any problems. If you aren't able to activate online or over the phone, or didn't get a SIM card with your new phone, visiting the store will get your problem quickly solved. 4. Insert your new SIM card in your new phone (if necessary). Your new phone will come with a SIM card if your carrier requires one. The SIM card may already be inserted in your phone. 1  If you're upgrading from an older device on the same plan, you can most likely use your old SIM card unless it physically doesn't fit.
Learn more about carrier options based on where you buy. If your iPad doesn't come with an Apple SIM, you can buy an Apple SIM kit at an Apple Retail Store in the US, UK, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey. Apple SIM part number: MJVV2LL/A, MJVV2B/A, or MJVV2TU/A. If you have an iPad Air 2 or iPad mini 3 or later with an Apple SIM, you can sign up for a cellular data plan on your device. Then you can connect to cellular data in countries around the world.
If the phone is carrier locked, it can ONLY be activated (and used) with a SIM from the carrier it's locked to. Level 1 (0 points). in Europe you can buy an unlocked retail iphone. The apple shop can activate the phone for you. Then you can setup and use the phone. For example, you may need to order a nano sim card from your carrier or have a sim card with a pin code, things that keep you from activating the phone.
Charge the phone so it's ready to use once activated. Your phone. You can retrieve your activation code in the activation booklet that came with your phone. Your activation code. If you can’t find your code, or if you need a new one, you can retrieve it by dialing 1-844-730-5912 from your phone. The SIM number is located on the SIM card. SIM card number. You can get your phone’s serial (IMEI) number by dialing *#06# on the phone you want to activate. Your IMEI number. You can also locate the IMEI number on the box your phone came in, or inside the phone under the battery