Etymology. Etymology is the study of the history of words, their origins, and how their form and meaning have changed over time. By an extension, the term the etymology of [a word] means the origin of the particular word. Etymology (noun). that branch of philological science which treats of the history of words, tracing out their origin, primitive significance, and changes of form and meaning. Etymology (noun). that part of grammar which relates to the changes in the form of the words in a language; inflection.
The word etymology is derived from the Greek etumos which means real or true. The ending ology suggests the study/science of something, as in biology or geology. And that is the etymology of etymology. It is the study of the origins of words; how they evolved. Of course not all words are derived from Ancient Greek. The English language is a rich mixture of many languages, and that is what makes its etymology so interesting. In the Interesting Etymology section you can learn how many words came about, particularly those with amusing origins.
etymology-the study of the sources and development of words. linguistics-the scientific study of language. lexicostatistics-a statistical technique used in glottochronology; used to estimate how long ago different languages evolved from a common source language. etymology. noun derivation, word history, development of words, history of words, origin of words The etymology of the word 'neon' is the Greek for 'new'.
The etymology of a word refers to its origin and historical development: that is, its earliest known use, its transmission from one language to another, and its changes in form and meaning. Etymology is also the term for the branch of linguistics that studies word histories. The word etymology is derived from the Greek word etymon, which means the true sense of a word.. But in fact the original meaning of a word is often different from its contemporary definition.
Etymology is the study of words and their origins and development. The study of the origin of words. apex. The official definition of the word etymology is the study of the origin of words and the way in which their meanings have changed throughout history.. Chambers gives definition of etymology as: the science or investigation of the derivation and original signification of words. So etymologically is an adverb meaning … that word(s) are being used in their original sense, rather than what they may have come to mean in more recent times.
The word etymology is derived from the Greek word ἐτυμολογία, etymologia, itself from ἔτυμον, etymon, meaning true sense, and the suffix-logia, denoting the study of. In linguistics, the term etymon is used to refer to a word or morpheme from which a later word is derived. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2015). Etymology is the study of the history of words, their origins, and how their form and meaning have changed over time. By extension, the term the etymology of [a word] means the origin of the particular word.