Archimedes was also an accomplished engineer and an inventor. He was believed to have been obsessed with Geometry though. Archimedes was born in Syracuse, Greece in 287 BC and died 212 BC after being killed by a Roman soldier who did not know who Archimedes was. 
(287-212B.C.). by David Wehner. Archimedes is an interesting mathematician. He invented many different things during his lifetime. A lot of the things Archimedes invented are still used somewhat today. Archimedes was born in 287 B.C. in Syracuse, a Greek seaport. Syracuse is located in Sicily. Archimedes's father, Phidias, was an astronomer. A lot of Archimedes's works were lost or burnt so we do not know who Archimedes's mother was, the number of brothers and sisters he had, and if he was married or not
Archimedes was born in Syracuse in 290 B.C., and he lived up to 212 B.C. He was 75 years old when he died. In fact, he was murdered by a Roman soldier. 
Archimedes was born in the Greek city-state of Syracuse on the island of Sicily in approximately 287 BC. His father, Phidias, was an astronomer. 
Early life. Little is known about Archimedes's life. He probably was born in the seaport city of Syracuse, a Greek settlement on the island of Sicily in the Mediterranean Sea. He was the son of an astronomer (someone who studies outer space, such as the stars) named Phidias
Archimedes of Syracuse. Archimedes was born in the city of Syracuse on the island of Sicily in 287 BC. He was the son of an astronomer and mathematician named Phidias. Aside from that, very little is known about the early life of Archimedes or his family. Archimedes was born in the city of Syracuse on the island of Sicily in 287 BC
Archimedes was born in 287 B.C. in the port of Syracuse, Sicily in the colony of Magna Graecia. His father was Phidias, who was an astronomer about whom nothing is known. We derive this information about Archimedes from his work The Sand Reckoner. 
Archimedes was born in Syracuse, Sicily, about 287 BC, and died around 212 BC. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: . IncaBlue. 221,533 Contributions. Good with numbers and even better with a calculator. 