Certain dietary supplements are commonly used in treating musculoskeletal pain, including hip pain. In her book Prescription for Nutritional Healing, nutrition researcher Phyllis A. Balch notes that both herbal and non-herbal supplements may be used for musculoskeletal injuries and pain.
It's possible to take a natural approach to back pain by using supplements that can reduce inflammation and provide some pain relief. Supplements work best when used in combination with a healthy diet, regular exercise, and stress management, says Carrie Bowler, DO, a physician with One Medical Group in New York.
Damage to any structure that helps compose your hip joint may cause hip pain, or hip pain may be caused by referred pain from elsewhere in your body. Many dietary supplements may help treat your hip pain. Before using supplements, however, discuss their safety and efficacy with your physician.
Once you know what the cause is, you can look into all things that would help, which may include physical therapy, exercise, and diet changes, as well as supplements. Check which supplements are good for which types of pain. Ask your doctor what’s OK for you to try.
Hip pain is a common musculoskeletal health complaint that may affect people of all ages. Hip pain, states FamilyDoctor.org, may be caused by numerous problems, including bruised hips, a hip fracture, arthritis, bursitis or a slipped capital femoral epiphysis.
Joint pain is a problem that affects as many as 1 in 5 adults, and can be caused by numerous factors. Arthritis, gout, lupus, injuries, and the simple aging process can all contribute to stiff, achy joints. When you are experiencing pain, you will want to look at the best joint pain supplements for relief. There are a number of supplements on the market today, many of which are created from all natural ingredients and help to address joint pain at the source of the problem.
Another ingredient found in the best joint pain supplements that acts on cartilage is chondroitin, for example. Chondroitin is part of the best joint paint supplements because it also helps to repair cartilage. It helps form cartilage in the body, and can also ease joint pain and improve flexibility.
One of the most commonly seen ingredients in the best joint pain supplements is best glucosamine. This is a natural amino acid that is derived from shellfish in supplement form.