The eukaryotic chromosome is made up of chromatids containing DNA and its function is to make available the genetic information to that organism.
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival.
Chromatin, or the epigenome, as it is sometimes called, is the complex of DNA, histone proteins and associated macromolecules that package and organize eukaryotic genomes within the confines of the cell nucleus and facilitate cell-and tissue-specific programs of gene expression.
Nucleosome-simplest packaging structure of DNA that is found in all eukaryotic chromosomes; DNA is wrapped around an octamer of small basic proteins called histones; 146 bp is wrapped around the core and the remaining bases link to the next nucleosome; this structure causes negative supercoiling.
Chromosomes contain the long strands of DNA that carry genetic information. They are the unit of DNA replication in living cells. Typical prokaryotic cells contain a single circular chromosome. Eukaryotic cells, with their much larger genomes, have multiple, linear chromosomes.
As in eukaryotic cells, the prokaryotic chromosome is intimately associated with special proteins involved in maintaining the chromosomal structure and regulating gene expression. In addition to a single large piece of chromosomal DNA, many prokaryotic cells also contain small pieces of DNA called plasmids.
Whereas bacteria only have a single chromosome, eukaryotic species have at least one pair of chromosomes. Most have more than one pair. Another relevant point is that eukaryotic chromosomes are detected only occur during cell division and not during all stages of the cell cycle.
A chromosome is an organized structure of DNA and protein that is found in nucleus of the cell. It is a single piece of coiled DNA containing many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. Chromosomes also contain DNA-bound proteins, which serve to package the DNA and control its functions.
Despite these differences, the function of the prokaryotic ribosome is virtually identical to the eukaryotic version. Just like in eukaryotic cells, prokaryotic ribosomes build proteins by translating messages sent from DNA. All prokaryotic cells contain large quantities of genetic material in the form of DNA and RNA.
Chromosomes are also located in the nucleus and are basically organized structures of DNA and proteins. In eukaryotes, the chromosomal DNA is packaged and organized into a condensed structure called chromatin.