The Kyzyl Kum (Uzbek: Qizilqum, Kazakh: қызылқұм), also called Qyzylqum, is the 16th largest desert in the world. Its name means Red Sand in Turkic languages. It is located in Central Asia in the doab between the rivers Amu Darya and Syr Darya, and is divided between Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and (partly) Turkmenistan. Geography [edit]. The territory consists mainly of an extensive plain at an altitude up to 300 m (980 ft) above sea level, with a number of depressions and highlands (Sultanuizdag, Bukantau).
The Chihuahuan Desert is the largest desert in the North American continent. It has a land area of over 390,000 square miles (1,010,095 square km) across the southern United States (30%) and Northern Mexico (70%). The Simpson Desert is yet another sparsely populated area in central Australia in the eastern half of the continent. It happens to be one of the driest deserts in Australia. It receives just 5 inches (125 mm) of rain annually. Even so, the area benefits from its geography when it comes to water.
The continents all have some type of desert. Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also … classified as a desert because it receives less  than 250mm of precipitation per year, and deserts can be cold areas  as well as hot.    Europe used to be the only continent without a desert.
The continents all have some type of desert. Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also classified as a desert … because it receives less  than 500mm of precipitation per year, and deserts can be cold areas  as well as hot.    Europe used to be the only continent without a desert. Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also … classified as a desert because it receives less  than 25
Share to: north America The North American continent. The Sonoran Desert is located in the United States, specifically the southwestern portion of Arizona and southeastern portion of Ca … lifornia, as well as, Mexico, covering most of Baja California and the western half of the state of Sonora, Mexico. All of them.    The continents all have some type of desert. Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also … classified as a desert because it receives less  than 250mm of precipitation per year, and deserts can be cold areas  as well as hot.    Europe used to be the only continent without a desert
Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also classified as a desert … because it receives less  than 500mm of precipitation per year, and deserts can be cold areas  as well as hot.    Europe used to be the only continent without a desert. This is no  longer the case. All of them.    The continents all have some type of desert. Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also … classified as a desert because it receives less  than 250mm of precipitation per year, and deserts can be cold areas  as well as hot.    Europe used to be the only continent without a desert
Sahara Desert. Of the deserts of the world, the Sahara Desert is the largest desert that falls into a sub-tropical climate. The Sahara covers most of northeastern Africa which is about 10% of the continent. It is nearly as large as the United States in terms of land area. The Simpson Desert is yet another sparsely populated area in central Australia in the eastern half of the continent. It happens to be one of the driest deserts in Australia. It receives just 5 inches (125 mm) of rain annually. Even so, the area benefits from its geography when it comes to water.
East of the Caspian Sea Lies The Karakum Desert with the Aral Sea to the north and the Kyzyl Kum desert to the northeast. Aral Karakum has an estimated area of 15,440 sqmi/40,000 km&sup2. The largest hot desert of the world is located in Africa. The desert covers a major 10% of the total area. It is surrounded by the red sea in the east and the Atlantic Ocean in the west.
The Karakum desert is in the continent of Asia, in the country of Turkmenistan. Due to increased  desertification, every continent can now be said to have a desert.  Antarctica is also … classified as a desert because it receives less  than 250mm of precipitation per year, and deserts can be cold areas  as well as hot.    Europe used to be the only continent without a desert.