Jarcho-Levin Syndrome. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Jarcho-Levin Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this repor
Affected Populations. Jarcho-Levin Syndrome is a very rare disorder that affects males and females in equal numbers. There seems to be a higher incidence of this disorder in people with Spanish heritage. There are apparently two forms of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome that are inherited as autosomal recessive genetic traits and termed spondylocostal dysostosis type 1 (SCDO1) and spondylocostal dyostosis type 2 (SCDO2).
Jarcho-Levin Syndrome is characterized by multiple skeletal deformities caused by fused and/or malformed vertebrae, small, malformed or missing ribs, and a chest cavity that is to small for the infant’s lungs especially as the lungs grow. There are apparently two forms of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome that are inherited as autosomal recessive genetic traits and termed spondylocostal dysostosis type 1 (SCDO1) and spondylocostal dyostosis type 2 (SCDO2).
Roberto Lugo-United States. Living with Jarcho-Levin syndrome. This is the story of Roberto Papo Lugo born August 21,1992. My son Roberto just celebrated his 1 9th birthday this August 2011.We thank our mighty and awesome God everyday that we still have him in our lives.Roberto was born with Jarcho-Levin Syndrome.
Definitions of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome: Jarcho-Levin Syndrome is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Jarcho-Levin Syndrome, or a subtype of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Jarcho-Levin Syndrome: Introduction. Jarcho-Levin Syndrome: A rare genetic disorder characterized by spinal column abnormalities, dwarfism and a swollen abdomen as well as other anomalies. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome is available below
Jarcho-Levin syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by distinctive malformations of bones of the spinal column (vertebrae) and the ribs, respiratory insufficiency, and/or other abnormalities. There are apparently two forms of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome that are inherited as autosomal recessive genetic traits and termed spondylocostal dysostosis type 1 (SCDO1) and spondylocostal dyostosis type 2 (SCDO2).
Related Disorders. Some of the symptoms of the following disorder may be similar to those of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome: Thanatophoric Dysplasia is a progressive genetic disorder that is characterized by severe growth deficiencies, a large head (hydrocephalus), a low nasal bridge, and small face. There are apparently two forms of Jarcho-Levin Syndrome that are inherited as autosomal recessive genetic traits and termed spondylocostal dysostosis type 1 (SCDO1) and spondylocostal dyostosis type 2 (SCDO2).
General Discussion. Jarcho-Levin syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by distinctive malformations of bones of the spinal column (vertebrae) and the ribs, respiratory insufficiency, and/or other abnormalities. It is possible that the main title of the report Jarcho-Levin Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report