Soil pH. Soil pH is the measurement of how acidic or alkaline your soil is. pH stands for potential of H+ ions in a solution and is a way to measure the available hydrogen ions; the more hydrogen ions, the more acidic. The more hydroxyl (OH-) ions, the more alkaline. Their composition depends on such factors as whether they are composed primarily of sand, clay or loam, on how much of the three main plant nutrients -- nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium -- they contain, and on whether their soil is acid or alkaline. Lime is used to affect this last factor by raising soil pH.
The effects of agricultural lime on soil are: 1  it increases the pH of acidic soil (the higher the pH the less acidic the soil); in other words, soil acidity is reduced and alkalinity increased. 2  it provides a source of calcium and magnesium for plants. 3  it permits improved water penetration for acidic soils. 
Raising pH. If the soil is too acid, then agricultural lime (calcium carbonate) should be applied. The amount needed will vary depending on the pH and the soil type. As a rough guide apply 120 g/m 2 to a clay soil and 30 g/m 2 to a sandy soil. Test again in a few months and apply more if necessary. 
Raising pH The ideal pH range for soil is from 6.0 to 6.5 because most plant nutrients are in their most available state. Ifa soil test indicates a pH below 6.5, the usual recommendation is for the application of ground limestone. Inaddition to having the ability to raise pH, limestone contains calcium. 2 Lowering pH Some soils are alkaline and have a pH above 6.5. Some fertilizers (ammonium sulfate, urea, and ammoniumnitrate) create an acid reaction in the soil, so they aid in lowering or maintaining a specific pH.
Maximum contact of lime with the soil is essential. Most liming materials are only slightly soluble in water, so incorporation in the soil is a must for lime reaction. Even when properly mixed with the soil, lime will have little effect on pH if the soil is dry. Moisture is essential for the lime-soil reaction to occur. In the case of lawns, it can only be surface applied and watered into the soil. Wood Ashes: Wood ashes can be used to raise the soil pH. 
Lime. Lime is an alkaline substance that raises the pH of the soil. Many soils have naturally occurring lime -- especially if they are highly alkaline -- but those that don’t benefit from adding lime. Most lime is calcium carbonate (CaCO3), and is often called agricultural lime or ground limestone.. Their composition depends on such factors as whether they are composed primarily of sand, clay or loam, on how much of the three main plant nutrients -- nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium -- they contain, and on whether their soil is acid or alkaline. Lime is used to affect this last factor by raising soil pH.
Pros. Although both agricultural lime and dolomitic lime are able to successfully raise the pH levels of acidic soil, dolomitic lime is generally chosen for pastures that have a history of grass tetany to raise forage magnesium levels or in fields, gardens and lawns where the soil is particularly magnesium deficient. 
Gypsum has little or no effect on soil pH. On soils that are both acid and sodic, lime should be used, or a combination of lime and gypsum. The gypsum will work quicker in improving soil structure than lime, but lime is necessary to increase the soil pH. Lime is of no use on alkaline sodic soils. 
Soil pH. Soil acidity is measured in pH units. Soil pH is a measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions in the soil solution. The lower the pH of soil, the greater the acidity. pH is measured on a logarithmic scale from 1 to 14, with 7 being neutral. 1 Soil pH is a measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions in the soil solution. 2  The lower the pH of soil, the greater the acidity. 3  pH should be maintained at above 5.5 in the topsoil and 4.8 in the subsurface.
1 Therefore, the use of dolomitic lime to increase soil magnesium levels is not important. 2  Dolomitic lime may be recommended in pastures that have a history of grass tetany to raise forage magnesium levels. 3  Both calcitic and dolomitic lime sources work well in raising soil pH. 1 Since water is required for lime to react with the soil, effects of a lime application will be slower in a dry soil. 2  It often takes a year or more before a response can be measured even under perfect conditions. 3  However, a response may be observed within weeks of the application when soil pH is extremely low.