BRAND NAME: Cyanobacteria, Spirulina. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Blue-green algae is a natural herbal supplement. Blue-green algae has high amounts of protein, iron, and other minerals and claims have been made that it has beneficial effects on the immune system, inflammation, and against viral infections.
Oscillatoria rhamphoidea Anagnostidis 2001. Oscillatoria rupicola Hansgirg 1890. Oscillatoria salina Biswas 1926. Oscillatoria sancta Kuetzing kützing Ex gomont. 1892. Ann. Sci. Nat., bot. ser, 7: 16. 209 oscillatoria Serpentina richer Ex kuntze. 1898 oscillatoria Simplicissima gomont Ex gomont. 1892 Oscillatoria sp. sensu Mehrotra et Singh 1977. Phormidium breve sensu Komarek komárek. 1975: Excudenda oscillatoria Acuminata gomont Ex gomont. 1892. Ann. Sci. Nat., bot. ser, 7: 16 = 227 phormidium. Acuminatum oscillatoria Agardhii gomont Ex, gomont, 1892. Ann. sci
The adaptation to the light of the sea. The water, sea water in particular, is the realm of the algae. Algae represent the generic name for several groups of inferior aquatic plants that make photosynthesis. Thus, they require light in order to live. Part of the sunlight is reflected on the surface of the water. 
A clear example is the change in ratio of phycocyanin to phycoerithrin in Synechoccus in chemostats, both in uniculture and mixed culture, when confronted with either green or red light. the red strain (rich in phycoerithrin) outcompeted the green strain in green light, and vice versa (Stomp et al. 2004). Old names retire slowly. Bacteria: Because most cyanobacteria are photosynthetic and often share the same habitat as eucaryotic photosynthetic protists (algae), they were originally classed as cyanophyceae, where “‑phyceae” in botanical nomenclature signifies eukaryotic “algae”.
Majority of species is known from wet or dry, periodically moisted stony and rocky walls and from rocks with streaming water, distributed allover the world. The taxonomy of populations from different areas is not quite clear, but most species are considered as world-wide distributed. The various status (st. familiaris, simplex, lamellosus, coloratus, perdurans, etc.) were described in numerous species. The knowledge of seasonal variability of the whole population is therefore necessary to the correct identification.
Brightfield Digital Image Gallery Filamentous Algae (Spirogyra) What appears to some as mere green pond scum masks the intricate and beautiful world of filamentous algae, which is clearly visible to the microscopist and botanist. When the algae occur in highly fertile waters in thick mats, wide fluctuations in the dissolved carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations of the water column can result in rapid changes in the water's pH, causing stress or even death to obligate aquatic organisms such as fish.
PRESCRIBED FOR: Blue-green algae are used as a source of protein, iron, vitamins, and minerals. It is used for leukoplakia, blepharospasms, attention deficithyperactivity disorder (ADHD), diabetes, premenstrual symptoms (PMS), allergies, stress, fatigue, digestion aid, wound healing, and to improve the immune system. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Blue-green algae is a natural herbal supplement. Blue-green algae has high amounts of protein, iron, and other minerals and claims have been made that it has beneficial effects on the immune system, inflammation, and against viral infections.
Oscillatoria splendida Greville ex Gomont 1892. Ann. Sci. Nat. Bot., ser. 7, 16: 224 = Geitlerinema splendidum Oscillatoria subuliformis Kuetzing kützing Ex gomont. 1892. ann Oscillatoria sp. sensu Mehrotra et Singh 1977. Phormidium breve sensu Komarek komárek. 1975: Excudenda oscillatoria Acuminata gomont Ex gomont. 1892. Ann. Sci. Nat., bot. ser, 7: 16 = 227 phormidium. Acuminatum oscillatoria Agardhii gomont Ex, gomont, 1892. Ann. sci
Phytoplankton, including the green algae Botryococcus braunii, as well as three different cyanobacteria (Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii, Microcystis aeruginosa and Oscillatoria sp.) are capable of producing BHT. 
Pediastrum boryanum is one of many species of tiny plants that are called green algae.. Actually, any species in the Chlorophyta Division (phylum) is called green algae. Green Algae come in many different shapes and sizes. Pediastrum boryanum is the scientific name of one green algae species. To see one Pediastrum boryanum you will need a microscope. 