Phishing is a scam typically carried out through unsolicited email and/or websites that pose as legitimate sites and lure unsuspecting victims to provide personal and financial information. Report all unsolicited email claiming to be from the IRS or an IRS-related function to phishing@irs.gov. 
Fraudsters send fake emails or set up fake web sites that mimic Yahoo!'s sign-in pages (or the sign-in pages of other trusted companies, such as eBay or PayPal) to trick you into disclosing your user name and password. A phishing website (sometimes called a spoofed site) tries to steal your account password or other confidential information by tricking you into believing you're on a legitimate website. You could even land on a phishing site by mistyping a URL (web address).
Learn how to identify fraudulent phishing email. Phishing (also known as carding or spoofing) refers to email that attempts to fraudulently acquire personal information from you, such as your account password or credit card information. On the surface, the email may appear to be from a legitimate company or individual, but it's not. 
Phishing is an e-mail fraud method in which the perpetrator sends out legitimate-looking email in an attempt to gather personal and financial information from recipients. Typically, the messages appear to come from well known and trustworthy Web sites. 
Phishing is the attempt to acquire sensitive information such as usernames, passwords, and credit card details (and sometimes, indirectly, money), often for malicious reasons, by masquerading as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication. An attempt to acquire information such as usernames, passwords, and credit card details by masquerading as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication. In October 2013, emails purporting to be from American Express were sent to an unknown number of recipients.
Phishing is a term given to a new crime that is rapidly growing on the Internet. Phishing is the use of forged (fake) email messages that claim to be from a company that you may trust, usually a bank or other financial organisation (E.g. PayPal, Ebay, Natwest, Bank of America etc.).
The perpetrators then use this private information to commit identity theft. One type of phishing attempt is an email message stating that you are receiving it due to fraudulent activity on your account, and asking you to click here to verify your information. See an example below. Phishing scams are crude social engineering tools designed to induce panic in the reader. When you recognize a phishing message, delete the email message from your Inbox, and then empty it from the deleted items folder to avoid accidentally accessing the websites it points to. Always read your email as plain text. For help, see Microsoft Support.
An example of a phishing email, disguised as an official email from a (fictional) bank. The sender is attempting to trick the recipient into revealing confidential information by confirming it at the phisher' s website. Note the misspelling of the words received and discrepancy. An attempt to acquire information such as usernames, passwords, and credit card details by masquerading as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication. In October 2013, emails purporting to be from American Express were sent to an unknown number of recipients.
1 Requests personal information. 2  The point of sending phishing email is to trick you into providing your personal information. 3  If you receive an email requesting your personal information, it is probably a phishing attempt. 4  Sense of urgency. 5  Internet criminals want you to provide your personal information now. What to look for in a phishing email. 1  Generic greeting. 2  Phishing emails are usually sent in large batches. 3  To save time, Internet criminals use generic names like First Generic Bank Customer so they don't have to type all recipients' names out and send emails one-by-one. 4  If you don't see your name, be suspicious