Problems with these senses have a big impact on our lives. Smell and taste contribute to our enjoyment of life by stimulating a desire to eat  which not only nourishes our bodies, but also enhances our social activities. When smell and taste become impaired, we eat poorly, socialize less, and feel worse. Smell and taste belong to our chemical sensing system (chemosensation). The complicated process of smelling and tasting begins when molecules released by the substances around us stimulate special nerve cells in the nose, mouth, or throat.
O. Introduction. 1  Taste and smell are chemical senses. 2  They give us information about the chemical composition of our surroundings. 3  Taste is an immediate sense-a final checkpoint for the acceptability of food before it enters the body. 1 For many animals, smell is the most important sense. 2  Although for humans smell is not as important as say vision or hearing, we do use smell more than we think to guide behavior. 3  Smell is an important part of taste. 4  Many qualities of foods that we think we taste, are actually a function of smell.
1 Taste and smell only separated when animals moved to land. 2  Since in the sea, all chemicals are dissolved in the same medium (water) there is no need for two separate senses. 3  Fish and other sea creatures have one general chemical sense. 4  Taste is not just in the mouth. 1 For many animals, smell is the most important sense. 2  Although for humans smell is not as important as say vision or hearing, we do use smell more than we think to guide behavior. 3  Smell is an important part of taste. 4  Many qualities of foods that we think we taste, are actually a function of smell.
If his semen leaves a bad taste in your mouth, but you'd like to go back for seconds sometime, Alice's archived answers Do diet and exercise affect the taste of semen? and Girlfriend won't perform oral sex serves up some taste-enhancing tips. Beyond that, your very own taste buds and his one-of-a-kind cocktail will combine to create a sensation uniquely yours. Quantity varies from guy to guy, and can be affected by how recently your boyfriend last came. If your chef has never sampled his own semen, ask him to pull up a chair and dig in.
Taste buds contain the receptors for taste. They are located around the small structures on the upper surface of the tongue, soft palate, upper esophagus, the cheek, epiglottis, which are called papillae. These are located on top of the taste receptor cells that constitute the taste buds. The taste receptor cells send information detected by clusters of various receptors and ion channels to the gustatory areas of the brain via the seventh, ninth and tenth cranial nerves.
Humans detect taste with taste receptor cells. These are clustered in taste buds and scattered in other areas of the body. Each taste bud has a pore that opens out to the surface of the tongue enabling molecules and ions taken into the mouth to reach the receptor cells inside. 1  salty. 2  sour. 3  sweet. 
These cells transmit messages to the brain, where specific smells or tastes are identified. 1  Olfactory (smell nerve) cells are stimulated by the odors around usthe fragrance from a rose, the smell of bread baking. 2  Gustatory (taste nerve) cells are clustered in the taste buds of the mouth and throat. Smell and taste belong to our chemical sensing system (chemosensation). The complicated process of smelling and tasting begins when molecules released by the substances around us stimulate special nerve cells in the nose, mouth, or throat.
You'd look funny tasting your food by touching it with your elbow!!! Really-over 10,000 taste buds reside on your tongue to let your brain know what your mouth is doing. This along with smell (The Limbic area of your brain) can then say Hey Dude---don't eat that...It's a cat, or whatever. For example, if we didn't have taste buds, then there would apear to be no difference in drinking water or isopropyl alcohol (rubbing alcohol). Of course we know that drinking the alcohol is very toxic, so you want to mistakingly drink it. That is why we have taste buds on our tongue. Source(s): Biology.
1 Gustatory (taste nerve) cells are clustered in the taste buds of the mouth and throat. 2  They react to food or drink mixed with saliva. 3  Many of the small bumps that can be seen on the tongue contain taste buds. Smell and taste belong to our chemical sensing system (chemosensation). The complicated process of smelling and tasting begins when molecules released by the substances around us stimulate special nerve cells in the nose, mouth, or throat.
1 Taste and smell are chemical senses. 2  They give us information about the chemical composition of our surroundings. 3  Taste is an immediate sense-a final checkpoint for the acceptability of food before it enters the body. 1 For many animals, smell is the most important sense. 2  Although for humans smell is not as important as say vision or hearing, we do use smell more than we think to guide behavior. 3  Smell is an important part of taste. 4  Many qualities of foods that we think we taste, are actually a function of smell.