Report Abuse. The base curve (BC) is a part of your contact lens prescription. It relates to the curvature of your eye and typically is a measurement in the range 8.0 to 9.5. Your doctor measures the curvature of your eye during your contact lens exam and chooses the base curve for your contacts appropriately. The base curve is the radius of the sphere that the back of the contact lens describes. Contact lenses must fit well to the wearer's cornea in order to be comfortable and to facilitate tear exchange and oxygen transmission.
Since most brands of contact lenses come in more than one size, your eye doctor measures the curvature of the surface of the eye with an instrument called a keratometer, also referred to as an ophthalmometer. Sonny Boyden/iStock/Getty Images. DIfferences. The BC value is not the same in all brands of contact lenses. When your eye doctor chooses the best type of lens to fit your needs, he must also determine if that brand of lens comes in your BC number.
This article will help to explain the confusing details of your contact lens prescription to you. Eye care professionals use standard terms, abbreviations, and measurements to write out prescriptions for patients needing contact lenses. This stands for base curve. It’s the back curvature of your contact lens, which is measured in millimeters. For best fit, comfort, and eye health it’s prescribed to match or complement the curvature of your cornea. The lower the number, the steeper
This is typically one to two years from the date that the contact lenses were fitted. BC values range from about 8.0 to 10.0. The doctor fits the lens with the curvature most appropriate for your eye. Most lenses come in several different BC values. If your prescription does not contain a BC value, this is likely because your brand of lens only comes in one base curve. BC values are a bit like clothes sizes-just because you are a BC 8.6 in one brand doesn't mean you will be the same in another brand. In addition to the lens power, your contact lens prescription contains several other pieces of information related to the size of the lens. Even the power of the lenses is generally not the same as in your eyeglass prescription.
Best Answer: BASE CURVE-Base curve radius, abbreviated BCR or BC, is a parameter of a contact lens. Typical values are from 8.0 to 10.0 mm. The base curve is the radius of the sphere that the back of the contact lens describes. Contact lenses must fit well to the wearer's cornea in order to be comfortable and to facilitate tear exchange and oxygen transmission. In the case of a rigid lens spherical equivalent may not be used
Understanding your contact lens prescription requires you to understand the terminology used to write it. Below are brief descriptions of the items that should be on the label of your contact lenses and what they mean to you and your eye care professional. This stands for base curve. It’s the back curvature of your contact lens, which is measured in millimeters. For best fit, comfort, and eye health it’s prescribed to match or complement the curvature of your cornea. The lower the number, the steeper
A contact lens prescription is not the same as an eyeglass prescription. In addition to the lens power, your contact lens prescription contains several other pieces of information related to the size of the lens. Even the power of the lenses is generally not the same as in your eyeglass prescription.
Best Answer: BC written on a contact lens prescription stands for base curve. This is a measurement of the curvature of the lens. The technical definition is: the curvature of the central part of the posterior surface of a contact lens. Base curve is expressed in millimeters of radius of curvature or in diopters. Everyone has different cornea curvatures and therefore contact lenses need to come in different sizes (base curves).
Base curve radius, or simply base curve, abbreviated BCR or BC, is the measure of one important parameter of a lens in optometry. On a spectacle lens, it is the flatter curvature of the front surface. 
The base curve (BC) is a part of your contact lens prescription. It relates to the curvature of your eye and typically is a measurement in the range 8.0 to 9.5. The base curve is the radius of the sphere that the back of the contact lens describes. Contact lenses must fit well to the wearer's cornea in order to be comfortable and to facilitate tear exchange and oxygen transmission.