1 A determinate tomato plant grows to a certain (determined), limited size and then stops or at least slows its growth greatly. 2  An indeterminate plant keeps growing and spreading out. 3  A cage should be at least 48 inches (1.2 m) tall, even taller if you grow the plant well. 4  Tying plants is unneeded.
Begin Flowering your Tomatoes. Flowering is one of the trickiest parts of how to grow tomatoes indoors. You will need to be familiar with how to force flowering in your plants. Some tomatoes produce fruit in 60 days and others take up to 80 days, beginning from the time you force flowering.
Next, plant your tomato plants. Plant them a good two feet away from each other, for tomato bushes grow big. While the plants are still small, put tomato cages around each one. Now you will have to wait for some time before anything seems to happen. Like every plant, tomatoes need water. It is good to check the soil around the plants everyday.
1 An indeterminate plant keeps growing and spreading out. 2  A cage should be at least 48 inches (1.2 m) tall, even taller if you grow the plant well. 3  Tying plants is unneeded. 4  Some tomato plants can be more than six feet (1.8 m) tall in cages (you may need to stake and tie the cage to the stakes).
Now that you know how often should you water tomato plants and how much water tomato plants need, you can water tomatoes in your garden with confidence and enjoy the fruits of your labor.
With adequate sunlight, water, and patience, you'll be greatly rewarded with a six foot tall tomato plant with big (or cherry size), red, or other heirloom colours, juicy tomatoes! Tomatoes take a long time to grow so you must have great patience. That's all you need to do to get your tomato plant growing.
In a warm climate (like Australia) they grow to fruiting stage from seed in about 3-4 months (av. of 100 days) and fruit for about 2 months. All this depends on variety, climate, amount of water & nutrition.
For home garden owners, the tomato plant is one of the most popular plants to maintain because it produces much fruit while requiring little attention. Cherry tomatoes are bite-sized tomatoes that grow quickly, ripen early, and tend to be a favorite snack.