. . . Common Italian foods and dishes include all types of pasta, risotto and pizza, some soups (minestroni and zuppe) and delicious meat and fish dishes. The neapolitan pizza is close to the type of pizza found in the US. Pizza. Italians also distinguish between red (with tomato sauce) and white pizza (also called foccacia, which has no tomato sauce, but can be topped with other ingredients).
There are many regional variations of cooking throughout Italy, but in general grain foods such as pasta, bread, rice, and polenta are mixed in a variety of interesting ways with vegetables, beans, fish, poultry, nuts, cheeses and meat. Legumes and nuts. Legumes (beans, peas and lentils) are a highly popular food throughout Italy. In the Tuscany region, for example, beans are so highly regarded that Tuscans are fondly known as the bean eaters.. Commonly eaten beans include chickpeas and cannellini beans.
This is a list of Italian dishes and foods. Italian cuisine has developed through centuries of social and political changes, with roots as far back as the 4th century BC. Italian cuisine has its origins in Etruscan, ancient Greek, and ancient Roman cuisines. 
See: types of pasta and 10 most famous pasta dishes of Italy. A variety of thick soups made with vegetables, beans and pasta, rice or potatoes. Common ingredients include beans, onions, celery, carrots, stock, and tomatoes. It is served as a primo as an alternative to a pasta or risotto plate. The neapolitan pizza is close to the type of pizza found in the US. Pizza. Italians also distinguish between red (with tomato sauce) and white pizza (also called foccacia, which has no tomato sauce, but can be topped with other ingredients).
Most people associate food from Italy with spaghetti or pizza, but there are many more foods that Italians prepare and eat. Sophie Braimbridge and Joanne Glynn, authors of Food of Italy, report that Italians take food seriously. The Italian diet is considered quite healthy because of the inclusion of nutrient-rich vegetables and calcium-rich cheeses. Learning more about the foods eaten in Italy may inspire you to try new dishes native to the land
Traditional Italian foods include: 1. Pasta, which can be prepared using different types of sauce. 2. Pizza, which can be prepared with fresh produce; herbs and vegetables; cheese and local meat such as Prosciutto which is thin uncooked ham. 3. A wide range of different types of meats such as chicken; veal, etc. 4. Seafood and fish are also very popular. 5. Bread without butter and salads are also very common. 6. Some typical foods eaten in Italy include Pesto, Pasta, Tomato sauces,white sauces, coffee, veal, beef, wine, fish, fresh vegetables, etc.
A very popular Italian dish is the minestrone soup. This soup makes excellent use of one of the most popular ingredients in Italian food – beans. Beans are widely used in Italian food and are the feature ingredient in many soups, not just the minestrone. Together with beans, nuts are another popular ingredient.
Small pasta shapes, such as orzo, are included in many soups native to Italy. Pasta is also used to make desserts. Flat squares of pasta dough are filled with sugar and spices and pressed together to make sweet versions of ravioli or canneloni. Sophie Braimbridge and Joanne Glynn, authors of Food of Italy, report that Italians take food seriously. The Italian diet is considered quite healthy because of the inclusion of nutrient-rich vegetables and calcium-rich cheeses.
Another popular Italian food ingredient is rice. By far the most popular use for this ingredient is in the signature Italian food dish of risotto. Here rice is mixed with broth, vegetables and spices to make a very creamy and flavorful dish. The broth may be meat-based, fish-based, or vegetable-based; many kinds include parmesan cheese, butter, and onion. This soup makes excellent use of one of the most popular ingredients in Italian food – beans. Beans are widely used in Italian food and are the feature ingredient in many soups, not just the minestrone. Together with beans, nuts are another popular ingredient.
Vegetables. Nutritious vegetables are the basis of many popular Italian dishes, notes Fabio Parasecoli, author of Food Culture in Italy.. Minestrone soup is one famous Italian dish that includes many different types of vegetables, such as carrots, celery, cabbage and beans. Sophie Braimbridge and Joanne Glynn, authors of Food of Italy, report that Italians take food seriously. The Italian diet is considered quite healthy because of the inclusion of nutrient-rich vegetables and calcium-rich cheeses.