Italy is a peninsula surrounded by Adriatic Sea in the east, Ionian Sea in the southeast, Tyrrhenian Sea in the southwest and its southern boundary extending into the Mediterranean Sea. It shares its northern land boundary with France, Slovenia, Switzerland and Austria. Italy possess many islands including Sicily and Sardinia within its territory. Italy is located at a meeting point of African and Eurasian plate, in fact, island of Sicily is located northeast of Tunisia in Africa.
Italy is a country located on the Italian Peninsula on in Southern Europe. Italy shares its northern, Alpine boundary with France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia. To the ea … st and the west, it is bordered by the Adriatic Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea respectively. 14 people found this useful. A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood, anyone for Tea :). Italy is the boot-shaped country in Western Europe which is bordered by France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia. Italy is located on the north central Mediterranean Sea, mostly between the Ligurian, Tyrrhenian, and Adriatic Seas. --- Italy is located in Southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula
France and Italy are two of the most popular countries to include in a Eurail trip. You can find many cultural highlights in these countries, as well as beautiful scenery and golden beaches. On this page, we show you the best and easiest ways to travel between France and Italy. 
The Alps is the mountain range that separates France from Italy. They stretch from the point where the French-Italian border meets the Mediterranean Sea, north, then east pa … ssing through Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, Austria to Slovenia. 6 people found this useful. France and Italy are alike because they both hold many famous museums and is the birthplace of many famous artists Italy and France are alike in a number of ways.
Report Abuse. Paris is in France. Also in Texas. There's also an Italy TX so Paris and Italy are both in Texas. haha BTW, Sweden and Switzerland are 2 separate countries. And New Mexico is part of the United States, not Mexico
The capital of Italy is Rome. Other cities in Italy are Milan, Turin, Florence, Genoa, Naples, Palermo and Venice. The country has a number of islands, the biggest of which are Sicily and Sardinia, which can be reached by ship or aircraft. The Po River is the longest river in Italy. It flows through 5 cities: Torino, Piacenza, Cremona Ferrara and Rovigo. The Tiber River runs through the city of Rome. Northern Italy has some of the biggest lakes in the country, such as Lake Garda, Lake Como, Lake Maggiore and Lake Iseo. Because it is surrounded by the sea, Italy has many kilometers of coast, which brings tourists from all over the world. Tourists also come to see Italy's many historical places
Europe is a continent comprised of several countries Italy and France are 2 of those countries. France is said to be a hexagonal shaped country across the english channel and the capital of France is Paris. Italy is south-east of France and is a boot-shaped country it's capital is rome. Paris is in France. Also in Texas. There's also an Italy TX so Paris and Italy are both in Texas. haha BTW, Sweden and Switzerland are 2 separate countries. And New Mexico is part of the United States, not Mexico
), officially the Italian Republic (Italian: Repubblica Italiana), is a unitary parliamentary republic in Europe. Italy covers an area of 301,338 km 2 (116,347 sq mi) and has a largely temperate climate; due to its shape, it is often referred to in Italy as lo Stivale (the Boot). With 61 million inhabitants, it is the 4th most populous EU member state. Located in the heart of the Mediterranean Sea, Italy shares open land borders with France, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, San Marino and Vatican City