A+ Core 220-801 Exam. The A+ Certification is a testing program sponsored by the Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) that certifies the competency of service technicians in the computer industry. The CompTIA A+ certification is the first step of your professional IT journey. 
The same principles apply to taking the A+ exam! Our 6 FREE online A+ practice tests will help you pass by familiarizing you with the material and the ensuring that you know the structure of the A+ test. Each practice test is timed to give you a feel of the pressures of the real exam.
How long will it take to prepare for A+ certification exams? If you are preparing for A+ exams yourself (self learning), it is likely to take about 2-3 months of preparation (Assuming 3-4 hours of study per day). However, please note that the preparation time greatly depends on the background. The A+ certification is composed of 2 individual exams. A+ Essentials exam, and A+ Practical Application exam. The exam code for the A+ Essentials exam is 220-701. The exam code for the A+ Practical Application exam is 220-702.
Prepare Using Actualtests If you want to prepare well for your A+ exam, my suggestion is to use Actualtests. The CompTIA study pack is more than enough. I only used that to study for the exam and passed my A+ exam recently with a pretty high score. Immediate access to all CompTIA A+ Certification Exams and 1800+ other exam PDFs. This is the BEST deal at only $149.00 for unlimited access. Pass FAST with actual answers to actual questions-We Guarantee You Pass! Both of our Exams Packages come with all of our CompTIA exams including all ActualTests A+ tests.
How to Prepare for Your CompTIA Exams. So now that you have an idea of what exam is right for you, you will need to properly prepare yourself to take the test. How you do this is going to depend again on your experience and your learning style. Whether you decide to take the A+ or Network+ test you can prepare through:
A+ Exam Practice Test. Our 6 FREE online A+ practice tests will help you pass by familiarizing you with the material and the ensuring that you know the structure of the A+ test. Each practice test is timed to give you a feel of the pressures of the real exam
If you earn the A+ certification with the 700 series exams, you have it for three years. You can renew it by earning the Network+ certification (or another approved certification) so it is entirely feasible that you’d never take the 800 series exams if you pass the 700 series exams. Careful though. CompTIA A+ 220-801 and 220-802 Study Resources. Many people use self-study materials to prepare for these exams. With the right materials almost anyone can master the objectives, take the exams, and become A+ certified. If this is the path you’re taking, these resources can help you.
For more about A+ Certification, visit CompTIA. You can take the A+ certification exam, as well as exams for many other certifications, at a number of testing centers around the world. To register for an exam via one of these centers, see the Prometric scheduling page. The A+ exam is open to anybody, although it is designed to be taken by those with at least six months of job experience as service technicians. Currently, A+ is the only major non-vendor-specific hardware certification available for IBM-compatible computer systems.
You need to pass the A+ Essentials exam and one more test to become certified. Our many FREE online A+ practice tests will help you pass by familiarizing you with the material and the ensuring that you know the structure of the A+ test. Each A+ practice test is timed to give you a feel of the pressures of the real exam. 
As the global IT industry association, CompTIA builds vendor-neutral certifications that measure foundational skills. They show employers you have the skills to do the job, regardless of the vendor of the hardware or software product. 