Generally speaking, the farther from land sediments fall, the less calcareous they are. Some areas can have interbedded calcareous sediments due to storms, or changes in ocean currents. Calcareous ooze is a form of calcium carbonate derived from planktonic organisms that accumulates on the sea floor. This can only occur if the ocean is shallower than the carbonate compensation depth (CCD). Calcareous grassland is a form of grassland characteristic of soils containing a lot of calcium carbonate from underlying chalk or limestone rock. Species of algae such as the green-segmented genus Halimeda are calcareous.
Calcareous Ooze: Fine-grained deep-ocean biogenous sediment containing at least 30% calcareous tests, or the remains of small marine organisms. Calcite: A common crystalline form of natural calcium carbonate, CaCO3, that is the basic constituent of limestone, marble, and chalk. Also called calcspar. Ooze: Fine-grained deep-ocean sediment composed of at least 30% calcareous or sililceous remains of small marine organisms, the remainder being clay minerals. pelagic deposit. Phosphate: A sedimentary rock composed largely of calcium phosphate and largely in the form of concretions and nodules.
As with calcareous ooze, siliceous ooze is formed from the tests of microorganisms; in the case of siliceous ooze, the organisms come in two varieties, diatoms and radiolarians. In both cases the silica forming the tests is in the amorphous form known technically as opal. Siliceous ooze [edit]. 
Ooze is pelagic sediment that consists of at least 30% of microscopic remains of either calcareous or siliceous planktonic debris organisms. The remainder typically consists almost entirely of clay minerals. This type of ooze accumulates on the ocean floor at depths above the carbonate compensation depth. It accumulates more rapidly than any other pelagic sediment type, with a rate that varies from 0.3–5 cm/1000 yr.
Calcareous ooze is the general term for layers of muddy, calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) bearing soft rock sediment on the seafloor. Of all the distinct types of veneers covering the Earth 's crust — be it soil, sediment, snow, or ice — none are more widespread than red-clay and calcareous ooze. Due to a complex carbonate chemistry, calcareous ooze begins to dissolve below the calcium carbonate lysocline in the water column. Below the calcium carbonate compensation depth (CCD) calcareous ooze is completely dissolved.
Biogenous sediments can consist of waste products or remains of organisms, including those of microscopic phytoplankton and zooplankton. When skeletal remains of microscopic organisms make up more than 30% of the sediment, it is called ooze.. There are two types of oozes, calcareous ooze and siliceous ooze. Introduction Just as ocean beaches display a variety of sediment types, the ocean floor may be made of sand, rock, remains of living organisms, or other material. The grains and particles that make up the seafloor sediments are classified by their size and their point of origin.
Introduction. Just as ocean beaches display a variety of sediment types, the ocean floor may be made of sand, rock, remains of living organisms, or other material. The grains and particles that make up the seafloor sediments are classified by their size and their point of origin. 
These particles consist primarily of either the microscopic, calcareous or siliceous shells of phytoplankton or zooplankton; clay-size siliciclastic sediment; or some mixture of these. Trace amounts of meteoric dust and variable amounts of volcanic ash also occur within pelagic sediments. This type of ooze accumulates on the ocean floor at depths above the carbonate compensation depth. It accumulates more rapidly than any other pelagic sediment type, with a rate that varies from 0.3–5 cm/1000 yr.
Since calcareous ooze is formed from the hard parts of the bodies of free-floating organisms, this means that unlike ooids, which are nearshore sediments, and unlike reefs, which require shallow water, calcareous ooze can be deposited over vast swathes of the deep ocean floor. However, calcareous ooze will not accumulate in the very deepest parts of the ocean, even if the surface is teeming with the right sort of organism. The reason for this will be discussed in the next section of this article.
Calcareous ooze is a calcium carbonate mud formed from the hard parts (tests) of the bodies of free-floating organisms. Once this mud has been deposited, it can be converted into stone by processes of compaction, cementation, and recrystallization. However, calcareous ooze will not accumulate in the very deepest parts of the ocean, even if the surface is teeming with the right sort of organism. The reason for this will be discussed in the next section of this article.