Cellulitis is an infection of the skin and is most often caused by the bacteria Streptococcus or Staphylococcus. These bacteria are able to enter the skin through small cracks (fissures), causing the sudden appearance of redness, swelling, and warmth in the skin. 
Cellulitis is an infection of the deeper layers of skin causing infected areas to look red and swollen and to feel painful and hot. Causes of cellulitis include streptococcus bacteria. Cellulitis can be caused by many types of bacteria. The most common is staph (Staphylococcus aureus), followed by strep (Group A Streptococcus). A form of cellulitis caused by strep is called erysipelas; it is characterised by a spreading hot, bright red circumscribed area on the skin with a sharp raised border.
Cellulitis Overview. Cellulitis is a common infection of the skin and the soft tissues underneath. It happens when bacteria enter a break in the skin and spread. The result is infection, which may cause swelling, redness, pain, or warmth. You’re at risk if you have:
Cellulitis is a commoninfection of the lowerlayers of skin (dermis) andthe subcutaneous tissues(areas underneath theskin) caused by a bacterialinfection. While cellulitis sometimes developsaround wounds in the skin or surgicalincisions, in other cases it arises without anobvious source for the bacterial infection. Staphylococci are the bacteria that mostcommonly cause cellulitis, followed by Streptococci. Less commonly, other types ofbacteria may cause cellulitis.
Cellulitis is not contagious because it is an infection of the skin's deeper layers, the dermis and subcutaneous tissue. The skin's top layer (the epidermis) provides a cover over the infection. In this regard, cellulitis is different from impetigo, which is a superficial infection and is contagious. Cellulitis can be caused by many types of bacteria. The most common is staph (Staphylococcus aureus), followed by strep (Group A Streptococcus). A form of cellulitis caused by strep is called erysipelas; it is characterised by a spreading hot, bright red circumscribed area on the skin with a sharp raised border.
Cellulitis usually affects the surface of your skin, but it may also affect the underlying tissues of your skin. Cellulitis can also spread to your lymph nodes and bloodstream. If cellulitis is not treated, the infection might spread and become life-threatening. If you experience symptoms of cellulitis, it’s important to seek medical attention right away. Cellulitis symptoms may include: 1  pain and tenderness in the affected area. 2  redness or inflammation on your skin. 3  skin sore or rash that appears and grows quickly. 4  tight, glossy, swollen appearance of the skin. 5  a feeling of warmth in the affected area. 6  fever.
Cellulitis facts. 1  Cellulitis is a spreading bacterial infection of the skin and tissues beneath the skin. 2  Staphylococcus and Streptococcus are the types of bacteria that are usually responsible for cellulitis, although many types of bacteria can cause the condition. 1 Sometimes cellulitis appears in areas where the skin has broken open, such as the skin near ulcers or surgical wounds. 2  Symptoms and signs include redness, tenderness, swelling, and warmth of the affected area. 3  Cellulitis is not contagious. 4  Cellulitis is treated with oral or intravenous antibiotics.
1 Cellulitis is a spreading bacterial infection of the skin and tissues beneath the skin. 2  Staphylococcus and Streptococcus are the types of bacteria that are usually responsible for cellulitis, although many types of bacteria can cause the condition. 1 Sometimes cellulitis appears in areas where the skin has broken open, such as the skin near ulcers or surgical wounds. 2  Symptoms and signs include redness, tenderness, swelling, and warmth of the affected area. 3  Cellulitis is not contagious. 4  Cellulitis is treated with oral or intravenous antibiotics.
Cellulitis is a bacterial infection of the skin and the tissues beneath it. The bacteria usually penetrate the skin's protective outer layer at an area of trauma or injury, such as a cut or an animal bite. Once past this outer layer, invading bacteria are often killed by the immune system. 