Report Abuse. If you are sure the mole is safe to remove it can be removed for less than £50. There is a herbal paste that you can buy, apply it to the mole and the mole will disappear within 20 minutes. Sounds a bit far fetched buy I have used it now and it removed my moles perfectly. For an estimate on how much mole removal may cost, we recommend that you call SurgiCare FREE on 0800 62 22 22 for our latest mole removal prices. For specific information based on your individual needs, we will be happy to arrange a FREE, no obligation consultation. devil_queen_biatch14 · 8 years ago.
The less expensive treatment options will cost anywhere from about $50 to $200, while freezing and laser mole removal can cost upwards of $600 or more. However, there are other reasons for removing a mole other than cosmetic. Many moles are removed in order to perform a biopsy on the area of the skin where it is found. The dermatologist will remove the mole and then send it to the lab for tests to determine if the mole is benign or malignant.
Discounts: 1  If your doctor wants to have the mole checked for malignant cells by a laboratory, which may cost a few hundred dollars extra. 2  And, if the shaving technique was used, there is a chance the mole could grow back and need to be removed again. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Depending on the type of mole, the surgeon will use one of two techniques. 2  In the first, the surgeon uses a scalpel to shave the mole off at the level of the skin, then cauterizes the wound or applies a liquid to prevent bleeding.
The price of a mole-removal procedure is usually based on the size, shape and location of the mole and the complexity of the procedure. For example, having a large mole removed from your cheek will typically cost more than having a small one taken off your arm. First of all, the size of the moles is different -- it takes more time to remove a larger mole and therefore it costs more. Typically, cosmetic removal of moles isn't covered by insurance, but the removal of a potentially cancerous mole is covered. However, insurance policies differ, so it's best to check with your provider to determine whether the cost of mole removal is covered [source: Hacker ].
Blaire 0 I recently had 6 moles shaved off and removed by a dermotologist. I did not have any insurance and my dermotologist only charged $400 in total for the moles to be removed. The mole biopsy is expected to cost around $115 per mole though. 0. tibbetts. my 19 year old daughter who has no insurance just had 3 moles remove 2 are precancerous and it cost her 1,700.00 no she has several more to have remove and doesnt know how to handle it cuz she can not afford to have it done......what a future she has to look forward to .....
Report Abuse. The cost of getting a mole removed depends on who you see and where you have it done. Yep. Sounds wierd. Family doctors, dermatologists and plastic surgeons will all remove moles for you, but the plastic surgeon will usually cost the most. 
Moles can be unsightly, and some can even lead to cancer, so many dermatologists recommend removing them. As with any medical procedure, removing a mole will cost money. The price of mole removal can range from about $100 to $600 per mole. The cheapest reported price we found for removing a mole was $50, but the average price will depend on a variety of factors. However, there are other reasons for removing a mole other than cosmetic. Many moles are removed in order to perform a biopsy on the area of the skin where it is found. The dermatologist will remove the mole and then send it to the lab for tests to determine if the mole is benign or malignant.
1 Tip: Mole removal is a very common procedure, and you might be able to get it done fairly inexpensively by a physician-in-training, under the supervision of a licensed surgeon; contact the department of dermatology at your local medical school to see if this is an option. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Depending on the type of mole, the surgeon will use one of two techniques. 2  In the first, the surgeon uses a scalpel to shave the mole off at the level of the skin, then cauterizes the wound or applies a liquid to prevent bleeding.
Of course, getting a mole removed is a little more complicated than the first two options -- and it's more expensive. There isn't a set cost for mole removal because all moles are different and prices vary by doctor, but plan to spend between $100 and $500 [source: Hacker ]. Typically, cosmetic removal of moles isn't covered by insurance, but the removal of a potentially cancerous mole is covered. However, insurance policies differ, so it's best to check with your provider to determine whether the cost of mole removal is covered
1 Removal of a mole typically costs about $150 to $400. 2  It varies from doctor to doctor and by which technique is used. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Depending on the type of mole, the surgeon will use one of two techniques. 2  In the first, the surgeon uses a scalpel to shave the mole off at the level of the skin, then cauterizes the wound or applies a liquid to prevent bleeding.