Dog Allergy to Human Dander. We just had our 5 year old yellow lab allergy tested and the thing she's most allergic to is human dander. The vet said the allergy shots have a 25-50% chance of working and is suggesting Atopica. So, the allergy testing shows a total of 7 allergens to which she responded with an allergic reaction (the human dander being the highest). I believe that if there are more than 3 or 4 allergens contributing to the allergy, it is very unlikely that desensitization will be effective.
Helping a Pet with a Human Dander Allergy If your dog or cat has a confirmed allergy, the usual advice is to remove the allergen (in this case, you and all other human members of the household) from your pet's environment, which obviously isn't a workable solution. 1 The recent story of a dog named Adam who is allergic to humans raised widespread awareness of human dander allergies in pets. 2  Adam’s skin was such a mess he didn’t even look like the black Labrador Retriever he was.
Pet Dander. Pet dander is composed of tiny, even microscopic, flecks of skin shed by cats, dogs, rodents, birds and other animals with fur or feathers. These bits of skin can cause reactions in people who are specifically allergic to these triggers. 
Animal dander is not the hair or fur of the animal, but is old skin scales which are constantly shed. Older animals produce more dander than young ones because their skin is drier. 
Hi,Veterinary dermatologists test dogs for a variety of allergens, including cat and human dander, trees, molds, house dust, dust mites, fleas, grasses and household synthetics. So, the allergy testing shows a total of 7 allergens to which she responded with an allergic reaction (the human dander being the highest). I believe that if there are more than 3 or 4 allergens contributing to the allergy, it is very unlikely that desensitization will be effective.
Dander is an informal term for a material shed from the body of various animals, similar to dandruff. It is composed of skin cells, and can be a cause of allergies in humans. Older etymology has it that dander is a dialect synonym of dandruff, possibly from Yorkshire in England. Dander is microscopic, and can be transported through the air. Through the air, dander can enter the mucous membranes in the lungs, causing allergies to some individuals. Skin flakes that come off the main body of an animal are dander while the flakes of skin called dandruff come from the scalp
1 Pet Dander: If you have pet allergies, you’re not actually allergic to cat or dog hair. 2  Instead, the allergic reaction is caused by a tiny protein in an animal’s saliva. 3  Even homes without pets may contain dander. 4  That’s because pet dander is sticky and light. 5  It clings to clothes, shoes, and hair. 
Question: What is cat dander and why is it a threat to humans with allergies? Cat dander remains a mystery to some people and poses a threat to those of us who suffer from allergies. Here are the details on what cat dander is, the mystery of Fel D1, and how and why it affects allergy victims. Answer: For years, it was thought by many people that cat hair was the source of allergens. Later, it was recognized that cat dander was the cause, but many cat lovers confused the term with dandruff, which is visible to the eye. Cat dander consists of microscopic pieces of dry cat skin which becomes airborne, landing on bedding, curtains, carpeting, and other surfaces, including humans' skin and clothing.
1. dander-small scales from animal skins or hair or bird feathers that can cause allergic reactions in some people. exfoliation, scurf, scale-a thin flake of dead epidermis shed from the surface of the skin. 
Dander: Tiny scales shed from human or animal skin or hair. Dander floats in the air, settles on surfaces, and makes up a good portion of household dust. 