It all depends on the track and the purse. Usually, a Nascar driver can finish last and still earn between $50,000 to $70,000. The winners could make over $300,000, it changes each week. Sometimes more and sometimes less. The Daytona 500 is the highest paying race, where the winner and the second place driver earn over $1 million each.
How much does a Nascar driver make from different series like Sprint Cup, Xfinity Series, and Truck Racing. All three were different and there is quite massive difference in the payouts of these racing series drivers.
Best Answer: The drivers pay varies drastically. Just about all drivers are under some sort of contract which entitles them to a certain amount of pay, which varies by team. Generally, the contract is written so that the better a driver does in the race, the more money he/she will make.
Golf and tennis players can routinely earn more than $1 million for finishing first in their tournament, but drivers finishing first in NASCAR races routinely make less than $1 million for that race, unless the race is a major event such as the Daytona 500.
Royalties earned from sales of merchandise and personal endorsement sponsorships greatly supplement a driver's salary. In 2013, Dale Earnhardt, Jr. made over $12 million in endorsements compared to less than half that in salary and winnings. He has made even more in previous years, as much as $28 million.
I remember reading somewhere between $8,500-$15,000 a race in the sprint cup series depending on drivers....and sponsors. Start and park sell sponsorship cheap to get on their … car. Usually sponsorship on a start & park car is usually 10,000-20,000 a race. And a driver gets a good part of that too.
As a whole, most drivers don’t make anything. Cup Series drivers are paid well, but they represent the smallest percentage of the NASCAR community. This piece addresses Cup Series drivers – the guys at the top. Each driver’s contract is different, but there are a lot of industry standards and similarities.