Dolomite differs from Lime sand and Limestone in that it contains magnesium as well as calcium. It is used to supply both of these elements and is a very effective neutralizing agent. It is a carbonate limestone type product that should contain between 8-12% Magnesium as Mg and 18-22% Calcium as Ca. 
1 Natural limestone is primarily made of calcite and aragonite, but dolomite will form in the stone when the calcium ions are replaced by magnesium ions. Dolomitic limestone is occurs naturally and is mined in the same areas as dolomite and limestone individually. The stones that are not used for agricultural purposes are often crushed down and used as filler in the manufacturing of pavement and concrete.
Dolomitic Limestone Characteristics. Dolomitic lime is a soil amendment made by grinding dolomite down so that it can be used in gardens and lawns. Although it is not technically limestone, dolomite is very similar to limestone in its high calcium content. 
Dolomite, also known as dolostone and dolomite rock, is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of the mineral dolomite, CaMg(CO 3) 2. Dolomite is found in sedimentary basins worldwide. It is thought to form by the postdepositional alteration of lime mud and limestone by magnesium-rich groundwater. Dolomite is thought to form when the calcite (CaCO 3) in carbonate mud or limestone is modified by magnesium-rich groundwater. The available magnesium facilitates the conversion of calcite into dolomite (CaMg(CO 3) 2). This chemical change is known as dolomitization.
Dolomitic limestone is a type of rock that includes up to 50% dolomite. Normal limestone is primarily made up of calcite and aragonite, but dolomite forms in the stone when the calcium ions in the calcite part are replaced by magnesium ions — this process is called dolomitization. Dolomitic limestone is occurs naturally and is mined in the same areas as dolomite and limestone individually. The stones that are not used for agricultural purposes are often crushed down and used as filler in the manufacturing of pavement and concrete.
Dolomite /ˈdɒləmaɪt/ is an anhydrous carbonate mineral composed of calcium magnesium carbonate, ideally CaMg(CO 3) 2. The word dolomite is also used to describe the sedimentary carbonate rock, which is composed predominantly of the mineral dolomite (also known as dolostone). In horticulture, dolomite and dolomitic limestone are added to soils and soilless potting mixes as a pH buffer and as a magnesium source. Home and container gardening are common examples of this use. Dolomite is also used as the substrate in marine (saltwater) aquariums to help buffer changes in pH of the water
Commodity: Limestone, a sedimentary rock that is dominantly composed of the calcium-bearing carbonate minerals calcite and dolomite. Calcite is chemically calcium carbonate (formula CaCO3). Dolomite is chemically calcium-magnesium carbonate (formula CaMg(CO3)2). 
Dolomitic lime is made from dolomite, a type of rock very similar to limestone except it also contains magnesium. In North Carolina, dolomite is found only in the mountains. Both types of lime provide calcium for plants, but dolomitic lime also supplies magnesium, a nutrient often low in soils in our area. Lime is a soil amendment made by grinding limestone, a naturally occurring type of rock that is very high in calcium. Two types of lime are commonly used in lawns and gardens, agricultural lime and dolomitic lime. Agricultural lime, also sold as garden lime, is made from calcium carbonate.