When American Pharoah cruised to a victory on the muddy track Saturday at Pimlico, he became the 14th horse to win both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes since Affirmed won the Triple Crown in 1978. Despite the rarity of a Triple Crown victory -- only 11 horses have ever accomplished the feat -- his odds improved after coming in first at Pimlico. American Pharoah was also favored in both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness.
With two hours before the start of the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs it's now American Pharoah sitting as the 3/1 favorite on the odds to win the race at online sportsbook Bovada, with Dortmund set at 17/4 odds and Carpe Diem third at 7/1 odds. American Pharoah remains the favorite on the odds to win the 2015 Kentucky Derby this week, with his price dropping to 4/1 at Bovada. The Bob Baffert trainee makes his final prep in the $1 million Arkansas Derby (G1) on April 11.
Odds Shark. At 10-13 (-130), American Pharoah is the favourite to win the Preakness at the Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, and with good reason after such a strong ride in the Derby. Rob Carr/Getty Images. Bob Baffert confirmed that American Pharoah is set to run in the Preakness Stakes. After American Pharoah triumphed in the Kentucky Derby, the attention now turns to the Preakness Stakes and the Triple Crown.
With wins in the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes under their belts American Pharoah, jockey Victor Espinoza, and trainer Bob Baffert will now get their shot at horse racing's Triple Crown on Saturday in the Belmont Stakes at Belmont Park. As well, 5Dimes has American Pharoah listed at -125 against the field in odds to win the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course on May 16, and the horse is also listed at +220 odds to win the Preakness Stakes but not the Belmont Stakes.
Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner American Pharoah wins the 147th running of the Belmont Stakes in New York on Saturday, June 6, to become the first horse to win the Triple Crown since Affirmed did so in 1978. Hide Caption. It was thundering.. American Pharoah is the first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed won the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes in 1978. Owner Ahmed Zayat, when handed the Triple Crown trophy, said: I am so thrilled, honored, privileged, humbled, excited..
7 photos: American Pharoah wins the Triple Crown. 7 photos: American Pharoah wins the Triple Crown. Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner American Pharoah wins the 147th running of the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, June 6, in New York to become the first horse to win the Triple Crown since Affirmed did so in 1978. It was thundering.. American Pharoah is the first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed won the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes in 1978. Owner Ahmed Zayat, when handed the Triple Crown trophy, said: I am so thrilled, honored, privileged, humbled, excited..
American Pharoah is listed at -110 to win at Belmont, according to OddsShark. Despite the rarity of a Triple Crown victory -- only 11 horses have ever accomplished the feat -- his odds improved after coming in first at Pimlico. American Pharoah was also favored in both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness.
Once back at 10/1 to win horse racing’s Triple Crown, online sportsbooks lowered American Pharoah's odds after his impressive Kentucky Derby win at Churchill Downs. As well, 5Dimes has American Pharoah listed at -125 against the field in odds to win the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course on May 16, and the horse is also listed at +220 odds to win the Preakness Stakes but not the Belmont Stakes.
American Pharoah won Saturday's Kentucky Derby beating Firing Line and Dortmund. The Preakness Stakes on May 16 will be next for the winner who is trying to become the 12th horse to win the Triple Crown. 
American Pharoah is a 9-4 favorite as the 2015 Kentucky Derby approaches, according to Bovada's latest odds. The 141st Kentucky Derby will be run on Saturday at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky. Post positions will be announced on Wednesday. 