Definition. Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that cause progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass. In muscular dystrophy, abnormal genes (mutations) interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. There are many different kinds of muscular dystrophy.
Schabbing said. There are many types of peripheral neuropathies that can be secondary to other medical conditions, such as diabetes, or due to a variety of other causes, including toxins, inflammation and hereditary causes, he said. Motor neuron disorders affect the nerve cells that supply muscles, 
1 Muscle shortening (contractures) occurs early in the disease. 2  Weakness can spread to chest and pelvic muscles. 3  The disease progresses slowly and causes less severe muscle weakness than some other forms of muscular dystrophy.
A Muscle Disease is defined by some typical set of symptoms that are found across most types of muscular diseases. These include progressive weakness of the muscles, pain in the limbs, undue lethargy or exhaustion, cramping or stiffness of certain muscle groups, stiff joints and uncoordinated body movements.
Muscular dystrophy is actually known to be a group of diseases of the muscles that are inherited. The voluntary muscles tend to be the most vulnerable type to get affected by this condition. Some types of this group also affect the heart muscles, and other involuntary muscles.
Overview. Degenerative muscle diseases cause progressive damage and loss of muscle cells with associated weakness. There are many types of degenerative muscle diseases, and they act in different ways to cause loss of functional muscle mass.
There are nine types of muscular dystrophy, with each type involving an eventual loss of strength, increasing disability, and possible deformity. The most well known of the muscular dystrophies is Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) , followed by Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) .
1 Distal. 2  This group of rare diseases affects adult men and women. 3  It causes weakness and wasting of the distal muscles (those farthest from the center) of the forearms, hands, lower legs, and feet. 4  It is generally less severe, progresses more slowly, and affects fewer muscles than other forms of muscular dystrophy.