Halobacterium species are rod shaped and enveloped by a single lipid bilayer membrane surrounded by an S-layer made from the cell-surface glycoprotein. Halobacteria grow on amino acids in aerobic conditions. Although Halobacterium NRC-1 contains genes for glucose degradation as well as genes for enzymes of a fatty acid oxidation pathway, it does not seem able to use these as energy sources. Halobacterium in the salt ponds at the south end of San Francisco Bay. Courtesy of the University of California Museum of Paleontology. Halobacteria can be found in highly saline lakes such as the Great Salt Lake, the Dead Sea, and Lake Magadi.
Halobacterium salinarum is a model organism for the halophilic branch of the archaea. It is rod-shaped, motile, lives in highly saline environments (4M salt and higher), and is one of the few species known that can live in saturated salt solutions. 
(Click image to enlarge). As we shall see, Halobacterium is a very unusual organism which thrives in very harsh conditions and is able to endure tremendous hardship.Halobacterium is a member of the Archaea or Archaebacteria. (Sea water is 3.5% salts). Halobacterium thrives in a variety of natural hypersaline waters and also in solar salterns-vast artificial pools of water which are slowly evaporated by the Sun to precipitate salt which is harvested.
In taxonomy, Halobacterium is a genus of the Halobacteriaceae. The genus Halobacterium (salt or ocean bacterium) consists of several species of archaea with an aerobic metabolism which require an environment with a high concentration of salt; many of their proteins will not function in low-salt environments. They grow on amino acids in their aerobic conditions. Halobacterium species can be found in the Great Salt Lake, the Dead Sea, Lake Magadi, and any other waters with high salt concentration.
Halobacterium sp. NRC-1 is a non-pathogenic, halophilic archaea that thrives all over the world in high salt environments, including salt production facilities, brine inclusions in salt crystals, natural lakes and ponds, and salt marshes. 
Halobacteria (plural form of the word halobacterium) redirects here. For the genus, see halobacterium. In taxonomy, the Halobacteria (also Halomebacteria) are a class of the Euryarchaeota, found in water saturated or nearly saturated with salt. Halobacteria are now recognized as archaea, rather than bacteria. The name 'halobacteria' was assigned to this group of organisms before the existence of the domain Archaea was realized, and remains valid according to taxonomic rules.
Definition of HALOBACTERIUM. 1. capitalized: a genus of halophilic rod or disk-shaped gram-negative aerobic primitive bacteria (family Halobacteriaceae) that live in strongly saline pools in red to orange colonies and that at low oxygen levels synthesize the purple-pigmented protein bacteriorhodopsin. 2. : a bacterium of the genus Halobacterium. 
Purple Halobacterium species owe their color to bacteriorhodopsin, a light-sensitive protein which provides chemical energy for the cell by using sunlight to pump protons out of the cell. The resulting proton gradient across the cell membrane is used to drive the synthesis of the energy carrier ATP. Halobacterium species can be found in the Great Salt Lake, the Dead Sea, Lake Magadi, and any other waters with high salt concentration.
In taxonomy, Halobacterium is a genus of the Halobacteriaceae. The genus Halobacterium (salt or ocean bacterium) consists of several species of archaea with an aerobic metabolism which require an environment with a high concentration of salt; many of their proteins will not function in low-salt environments. They grow on amino acids in their aerobic conditions. Halobacterium species are rod shaped and enveloped by a single lipid bilayer membrane surrounded by an S-layer made from the cell-surface glycoprotein. Halobacteria grow on amino acids in