An important and common application of hierarchies is to illustrate a classification of items, also known as a taxonomy. One form of a classification hierarchy is known as an inheritance hierarchy. 
Taxonomic Hierarchy Categories were also introduced by Linnaeus. They are also known as Linnaean hierarchy. It is defined as sequence of categories in a decreasing or increasing order from kingdom to species and vice versa. Kingdom is the highest rank followed by division, class, order, family, genus and species. Species is the lowest rank in the Hierarchy. The hierarchy has two categories which are obligate and intermediate. Obligate means they are followed strictly and range from kingdom to species as said above.
Taxonomic hierarchy. Since Linnaeus, the father of taxonomy, species have been arranged in a taxonomic hierarchy. Linnaeus' hierarchy: • Species are grouped in genera. The gray wolf species Canis lupus and the golden jackal Canis aureus, for example, are grouped in the genus Canis. Each species, therefore, is a member of a genus, a family, an order, and so on. The problem is how to group species into higher categories. This is an important theoretical issue with conflicting taxonomic schools of classification. Figure: the taxonomic classification of the gray wolf Canis lupus.
A taxon (plural taxa) is a taxonomic unit. It is a population or group of populations of organisms, usually inferred to be phylogenetically related. The individuals in a taxon share characteristics that differentiate them from individuals in other taxa. A taxon can be at any rank in the hierarchy. A taxon encompasses all included taxa of lower rank and the individuals in those taxa. Note that the taxon is the population of individuals. It exists or did exist in nature before humans gave it a name
In biological classification, rank is the relative level of a group of organisms (a taxon) in a taxonomic hierarchy. Examples of taxonomic ranks are species, genus, family, class, kingdom, etc. A given rank subsumes under it less general categories, that is, more specific descriptions of life forms. There are seven main taxonomic ranks: kingdom, phylum or division, class, order, family, genus, species. In addition, the domain (proposed by Carl Woese) is now widely used as one of the fundamental ranks, although it is not mentioned in any of the nomenclature codes.
The second feature of Linnaeus's taxonomy system that simplifies organism classification is the ordering of species into broad categories. The major categories include: Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, and Species. These categories have been updated to include Domain in the taxonomic hierarchy. Linnaeus's taxonomy system has two main features that contribute to its ease of use in naming and grouping organisms. The first is the use of binomial nomenclature. This means that an organism's scientific name is comprised of a combination of two terms. These terms are the genus name and the species or epithet.
Animal Taxonomy Hierarchy. Animal Taxonomy Hierarchy is a scientific procedure/ process used for the proper identification as well as for the classification of all animals on the earth. 1 Every organism’s name in according to Binomial Nomenclature in Animal Taxonomy Hierarchy consists of a unique combination of two different terms where the terms are the Genus name and the Epithet/ Species.
Taxonomy. The Healthcare Provider Taxonomy Code Set is a hierarchical code set that consists of codes, descriptions, and definitions. Healthcare Provider Taxonomy Codes are designed to categorize the type, classification, and/or specialization of health care providers.
The level, for nomenclatural purposes, of a taxon in a taxonomic hierarchy (e.g. all families are for nomenclatural purposes at the same rank, which lies between superfamily and subfamily). There are seven main taxonomic ranks: kingdom, phylum or division, class, order, family, genus, species. In addition, the domain (proposed by Carl Woese) is now widely used as one of the fundamental ranks, although it is not mentioned in any of the nomenclature codes.