Actors tagged as 'Funny' by the Listal community. Sort by: Tag popularity-Top Rated-Top Rated Popular-Recently rated-Date Added. 
Let's be clear: There is no such thing as a perfect list of the best monologues for actors. I know the audition monologues I personally love, such as Hamlet's advice to the players—beautiful poetry, a great character, and funny to boot—but not everyone can or should play Hamlet. 
Sometimes he's not for everyone, including people who like their comedy typical and easy, and occasionally the chances he takes are bad ones, but where other comedians are at the mercy of a bad script, Jim Carrey makes even his weakest movies more watchable. 14 Jason Segel. He is one of the funniest people alive, he looks like such fun to work with if you look at all of the behind the scenes and bloopers from 'How I Met Your Mother'! He is just a big kid, so awesome, I aspire to be like him when I'm older :D. 15 Martin Short. Martin Short at 45 is a sick joke.
Famous Male Voice Actors. List of famous male voice actings, listed by their level of prominence with photos when available. This greatest male voice actings list contains the most prominent and top males known for being voice actings. There are thousand of males working as voice actings in the world, but this list highlights only the most notable ones. Historic voice actings have worked hard to become the best that they can be, so if you're a male aspiring to be a voice acting then the people below should give you inspiration. List features people like Dave Madden, Ron Perlman and more!
Richard Pryor. One of the most iconic Black comedic actors, Richard Pryor turned heads and made fans and film cirtics pay attention when he starred opposite Diana Ross in Lady Sings the Blues. The comedian broadened his fan base co-starring with Gene Wilder in the film Silver Streak. He later went on to star in many more major films.
List of Famous Male Movie Actors. We all have favorite actor(s) who have made a strong impression in our lives. This list of famous male movie actors would brief you with many such names that have made their presence felt in the world of movies. Here's a look at some of the famous male movie actors who have delighted audiences with their power packed performances. * The information provided below is as of May, 2013.
I like funny people. I value funny people very highly. I also value young people very highly. I believe they are our future, and I don’t have to explain to them how to Google things. There’s nothing like finding out that one of your favorite comedians or funny actors hasn’t even reached his or her thirtieth birthday. Once you get over your painful jealousy about the fact that they’re more famous than you, it makes them so relatable. 
The funniest people ever include actors like Will Ferrell and John Belushi, comedians-turned-actors like Bill Cosby and Eddie Murphy, and general funny people like George Carlin and John Cleese. While ranking a funny person is completely subjective, the folks on this list of funny people are undeniably hilarious. The Funniest People of All Time. List Criteria: May include some comedic actors, but mainly people that make you laugh no matter what they do. The funniest people of all time are a mix of actors, comedians, and even a few people who probably didn't start off trying to be funny. Included in this list of people vying for the title of funniest person ever are the funniest stand-up comedians of all time and the funniest actors and actresses ever. One thing's for sure: these funny actors and comedians are at the top of their ha ha games and could make most people laugh 'til they pee
While Adam Sandler is just one of the better versions of the typical crude and juvenile comics, a character who acts like a jerk to screw with people and gets away with it safe and easy, Jim Carrey never stops finding innovative ways to go above and beyond. 14 Jason Segel. He is one of the funniest people alive, he looks like such fun to work with if you look at all of the behind the scenes and bloopers from 'How I Met Your Mother'! He is just a big kid, so awesome, I aspire to be like him when I'm older :D. 15 Martin Short. Martin Short at 45 is a sick joke.