The most common cause of stomach ulcers is the bacteria helicobacter pylori, or H. pylori. Ulcers may also be caused by overuse of painkillers, such as aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, such as ibuprofen or naproxen. Some foods can make ulcers worse, while some provide a preventive and healing effect. Greasy and acidic foods are most likely to irritate your stomach, as are spicy foods. To reduce ulcer pain, avoid: 1  coffee, including decaf.
According to MayoClinic.com, ulcers are caused by a bacterium called H. pylori, but non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, certain foods and stress can aggravate your ulcer. Common symptoms include indigestion, abdominal pain, vomiting, belching, weight loss and heartburn. 
Stomach ulcers are often treated with antibiotics or medications to reduce, block, or neutralize stomach acid. There are also natural home remedies you can use to help ease the symptoms of a stomach ulcer and help it heal. Some foods can make ulcers worse, while some provide a preventive and healing effect. Greasy and acidic foods are most likely to irritate your stomach, as are spicy foods. To reduce ulcer pain, avoid: 1  coffee, including decaf.
1 Most ulcers are caused by an infection, not spicy food, acid or stress. 2  The most common ulcer symptom is burning pain in the stomach. 3  Your doctor can test you for H. pylori infection. 4  Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers. 5  Eliminating H. pylori infections with antibiotics means that your ulcer can be cured for good. Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers; therapy is 1-2 weeks of one or two antibiotics and a medicine that will reduce the acid in the stomach. This treatment is a dramatic medical advance because eliminating H. pylori with antibiotics means that there is a greater than 90% chance that the
If you have an ulcer, you should be tested for H. pylori, and if found to be infected, you should be treated with antibiotics. Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers; therapy is 1-2 weeks of one or two antibiotics and a medicine that will reduce the acid in the stomach. This treatment is a dramatic medical advance because eliminating H. pylori with antibiotics means that there is a greater than 90% chance that the ulcer can be cured for good.
Avoid all alcohol until your ulcer is completely healed. Alcohol irritates the stomach lining, and it takes a while for the stomach to heal completely. If you're recovering from an ulcer, or any kind of stomach trouble, it's important to avoid alcohol while you're recovering. Even a beer or two can aggravate your ulcer. 
Inflammation in the lining of the stomach, gastritis is mainly caused by a Helicobacter bacterial infection. Gastritis may also be caused by non-steroidal noninflammatory drugs, alcohol abuse, food allergy, ingesting corrosive substances and autoimmune disorders. If untreated, gastritis leads to sores in the lining of the stomach known as peptic ulcers. Eating certain foods may aid the healing of gastritis and ulcers. These vitamins and minerals are important for the healing of gastritis and stomach ulcers. Dark green vegetables include broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbages, asparagus, kale, collard greens, spinach, green peas, mustard greens and green beans. Protein rich foods can help repair stomach inflammation and ulceration.
If it is caused by H.pylori bacteria, you may need to take antibiotics and acid-reducing medicines. If the ulcer is caused by a certain drug, you may need to stop taking that drug. Either way, you can reduce pain and heal faster by reducing the amount of stomach acid you have. Some ways to reduce stomach acid are to: 1  Quit smoking, or cut back. A healthy stomach has a balance of mucus and acid. But if you have too much harmful acid in your stomach and not enough mucus, you may develop an ulcer. Doctors used to think that ulcers were caused by spicy food, alcohol, cigarettes and stress.
Dark green vegetables such as spinach, collard greens, asparagus, lettuce, green peas and turnip greens are rich in folic acid. Also include beans, papaya, pineapple, banana and grapefruit in yor diet to cure mouth ulcers. Coconut water: This is not a food but has a great healing effect. Coconut water soothes stomatitis inflammation and also prevents the mouth ulcer from recurring. Fruits: Citrus fruits, pineapple and bananas are healthy foods to cure mouth ulcers. These fruits help as they improve digestion, are anti-inflammatory and rich in vitamin C. When you have mouth ulcers or stomatitis, have these foods to cure them. These foods have other health benefits so include them in your die