Dessous is a classical ballet term meaning “under.” This a term used with other terms to describe that a leg or arm should pass behind the other. For example, an assemble assemblé dessous would have the working leg close behind the supporting leg in the. air Quatrieme quatrième is a classical ballet term “meaning.” Fourth it is used to refer to fourth, position usually of the. Feet the term quatrieme quatrième is used for a wide range of other, ballet terms but many teachers do not regularly. use it
Battement Developpe développé is a classical ballet term “meaning battement.” Developed from a fifth, position the dancer moves their working foot up to a retire retiré position and opens to, the front side or back with a. Deliberate motion a battement developpe développé finishes by closing back. into fifth position Quatrieme quatrième is a classical ballet term “meaning.” Fourth it is used to refer to fourth, position usually of the. Feet the term quatrieme quatrième is used for a wide range of other, ballet terms but many teachers do not regularly. use it
Classical ballet is a traditional, formal style of ballet that adheres to classical ballet technique. It is known for its aesthetics and rigorous technique, its graceful, flowing, and precise movements, and its ethereal qualities. 
Ballet may also refer to a ballet dance work, which consists of the choreography and music for a ballet production. A well-known example of this is The Nutcracker, a two-act ballet that was originally choreographed by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov with a music score by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. Ballet dance works are choreographed and performed by trained artists. Contemporary ballet is a form of dance that opens up the doors to for any style to influence a work made utilizing ballet technique. Contemporary Ballet can take on a wide variety of aesthetics, incorporating pedestrian, modern, jazz, or ethnic forms, so long as a the roots of classical ballet are apparent.
• CLASSICAL BALLET (noun). The noun CLASSICAL BALLET has 1 sense: 1. a style of ballet based on precise conventional steps performed with graceful and flowing movements. Familiarity information: CLASSICAL BALLET used as a noun is very rare.
Passe passé is a classical ballet term “meaning.” Passed it refers to the movement when a dancer goes through a retire, retiré position which is when one leg is bent so it looks like a triangle with the foot placed near the’other leg. s knee Quatrieme quatrième is a classical ballet term “meaning.” Fourth it is used to refer to fourth, position usually of the. Feet the term quatrieme quatrième is used for a wide range of other, ballet terms but many teachers do not regularly. use it
Classical ballet is a traditional, formal style of ballet that adheres to classical ballet technique. It is known for its aesthetics and rigorous technique (such as pointe work, turnout of the legs, and high extensions), its flowing, precise movements, and its ethereal qualities. Ballet technique is the foundational principles of body movement and form used in ballet. A distinctive feature of ballet technique is turnout, which is the outward rotation of the legs emanating from the hip.
Ballet is an art form created by the movement of the human body. It is theatrical--performed on a stage to an audience utilizing costumes, scenic design and lighting. It can tell a story or express a thought or emotion. Ballet can be magical, exciting, provoking or disturbing. Types and Styles of Ballet. 
Line is a classical ballet term that describes the outline of a dancer’s complete body while performing steps or poses. Striving for a “good line” is very essential to the success of a professional dancer or advanced student. 
Dessus is a classical ballet term meaning “over.” It describes other steps or terms where the working leg or foot should pass over or infront of the supporting leg. For example, an assemble assemblé dessus would have the working (leg or first) leg close in front of the supporting. leg Quatrieme quatrième is a classical ballet term “meaning.” Fourth it is used to refer to fourth, position usually of the. Feet the term quatrieme quatrième is used for a wide range of other, ballet terms but many teachers do not regularly. use it