hey! i take this also, (tramadol)my OB said both were considered safe. the thing i wonder about is if it's okay to take every single day, like i do. i would never tell anyone that. but it has been making my pregnancy sooooo much easier and i feel so much better. i'm 33 weeks and have been taking it for a few months. My dr prescribed it and Tramadol for back pain, but I'm not sure if it's safe to take while pregnant, I'm in my 21st week.
Vicodin During Pregnancy. Pregnancy No comments. Vicodin is a commonly used pain reliever in the class of drugs known as narcotic analgesics. It is made up of two main components: Hydrocodone, which is related to codeine, and acetaminophen, which is a less potent pain reliever but increases the effects of hydrocodone.
He knows I&#39;m pregnant and gave me hydrocodone pain for my headaches. I looked them up on web Md and they are a class b drug and have not been found to harm a... Source(s): safe hydrocodone pain pills pregnancy: https://trimurl.im/a56/is-it-safe-to-tak... My family doctor consulted my OB/GYN before giving me any kind of medications just to be on the safe side because I was always worried about taking things when I was pregnant. Hydrocodone (vicodin) was ok to take... I took it and there is absolutely nothing wrong with my daughter.
Most medications are not safe during pregnancy. Drugs like vicodin and percocet were thought to be safe and are occasionally prescribed by doctors, but new studies are finding they may cause birth defects, specifically heart problems. 
Hydrocodone/APAP and Pregnancy Category C. The acetaminophen component of hydrocodone/APAP is usually considered safe for pregnant women (see Tylenol and Pregnancy) . However, the hydrocodone component may not be safe. When given to pregnant hamsters, a single dose of hydrocodone increased the risk of birth defects, including cranial defects. Limited human studies also indicate that hydrocodone may increase the risk of similar birth defects in humans. 
Question: My doctor is 3 1/2 months pregnant and takes hydrocodone. This is how she takes them: there are 10's and she will take 5 or more of a morning at the same time. This means that each dose taken by the mother also delivers a dose to the developing fetus. Normal use of opioids to treat pain associated with needed surgery or injury that occurs during pregnancy is relatively safe. Hydrocodone is listed in pregnancy category C for typical brief use for acute pain.
Norco ® (hydrocodone/APAP) is a prescription pain medication. Based on animal studies (and limited human studies), the drug may not be safe for use during pregnancy. In some situations, however, the benefits of Norco for pain relief may outweigh the risks to a fetus. Based on information obtained from clinical studies on Norco (hydrocodone/APAP) and pregnancy, the medication
1 Flares 1 Flares ×. When asking is Vicodin safe during pregnancy, you should know that it is a pain medication belonging to the narcotic analgesics. It comes with two main ingredients: acetaminophen that is a weaker pain reliever increasing the effects of hydrocodone that is a stronger painkiller. If you are taking Vicodin during pregnancy you should be aware of the possible side effects. One of them is constipation. This means that if you take the medication, you should increase your daily water intake.
RE: Is it safe to take hydrocodone pain pills during pregnancy? I have been getting really bad headachs and went to the doctor at the end of last week, it was my primary care doctor not my obgyn. My family doctor consulted my OB/GYN before giving me any kind of medications just to be on the safe side because I was always worried about taking things when I was pregnant. Hydrocodone (vicodin) was ok to take... I took it and there is absolutely nothing wrong with my daughter.