1 Jointing threads: These are pipe threads where pressure-tightness is made through the mating of two threads together. 2  They always use a taper male thread, but can have either parallel or taper female threads. ( 3 International standards require all female threads to be parallel.). 
BSP. .BSP is a map file extension used in games such as the Quake series, and games that use the Source engine, such as the Half-Life series and the Portal series. .BSP files can be produced by compiling .MAP files using tools such as Q3Map2. .MAP files can be generated using exporters for such modelling tools as 3D Studio Max or using game-specific tools, like GtkRadiant. A .BSP file includes everything necessary to display the map, except the textures. Games such as Quake III Arena, James Bond 007: Nightfire and the Call of Duty series store the textures in separate assets files, contained in archive files such as .PAK, .PK3, .007, .IWD, etc
While NPT threads are common in the United States, BSP threads are widely used in many other countries. I have found that my Japanese-built injection mold presses have predominantly BSP fittings. 1  BSPT-British Standard Pipe Taper. 2  BSPP-British Standard Pipe Parallel. WARNING: Never, never try to mate a BSP fitting with an NPT or NPS fitting if the pressure holding capability is at all critical. NPT/NPS and BSP threads are not compatible due to the differences in their thread forms, and not just the fact that most diametrical sizes have a different pitch.
IATA BSP – Billing & Settlement Plan. BSP is a system designed to simplify-airlines receive one settlement covering all agents-and assist the selling, reporting and remitting procedures and improve financial control and cash flow. IATA members and non-IATA members can join. 
Quake map file. BSP is a map file format used by Quake game engines. BSP files contain layout, object, and resource information for specific level maps. BSP files are used by many Quake video games, such as Half-Life, Quake 2 and Call of Duty. BSP stands for “ Binary Space Partitioning,” which is a technique that breaks up polygons into convex sets. This can be seen in the “lumps” of information found in .BSP files, which allows 3-D maps to be produced more quickly. These “lumps” are designated in the file header
Billing and Settlement Plan (BSP). BSP is a system designed to facilitate and simplify the selling, reporting and remitting procedures of IATA Accredited Passenger Sales Agents, as well as improve financial control and cash flow for BSP Airlines. A truly worldwide system: at the close of 2014, there were BSP operations in 181 countries and territories. 
The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) is the central bank of the Republic of the Philippines. It was established on 3 July 1993 pursuant to the provisions of the 1987 Philippine Constitution and the New Central Bank Act of 1993. 
: : lot. What exactly is a BSP and when do you need to work on it. : : : : : : : : I think you're refering to the 'Board Support Package'. This. : usually refers to the OS, and the board-specific drivers in the OS. : The BSP is the first thing that must be built in order for an. : embedded system to work. 
Balloon Sinuplasty (BSP) is a safe and effective in-office procedure for chronic sinusitis patients who are seeking relief from uncomfortable and painful sinusitis symptoms and may not be responding to medication. 