Several diseases and conditions can cause the lining of the rectum to become inflamed (proctitis). They include: 1  Inflammatory bowel disease. 2  About 30 percent of people with inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis) have inflammation of the rectum. 3  Infections. 
Ulcerative proctitis is characterized by inflammation, redness, and ulcerations of the lining of the rectum (the rectum is the last six inches of the large intestine). The word “ulcerative” is used because the disease actually causes the formation of sores/ulcers on the inner lining of the rectum. 
Proctitis Overview. Proctitis is defined as inflammation of the anus (the opening) and lining of the rectum (lower part of the intestine leading to the anus). Symptoms of proctitis can vary greatly. One may at first have only minor problems. Proctitis affects the last 6 inches of the rectum and can cause the following:
Definition. Proctitis is an inflammation of the lining of the rectum. The rectum is a muscular tube that's connected to the end of your colon. Stool passes through the rectum on its way out of the body. Proctitis can cause rectal pain and the continuous sensation that you need to have a bowel movement. Proctitis symptoms can be short-lived, or they can become chronic. Proctitis is common in people who have inflammatory bowel diseases.
Proctitis Symptoms. The most common symptom of proctitis is called tenesmus. Tenesmus is a frequent urge to have a bowel movement. Inflammation and irritation of the rectum and rectal lining create tenesmus. Other symptoms of proctitis include: 1  pain in the rectum, anus, and abdominal region. 2  bleeding from the rectum.
Introduction. Proctitis is an inflammation of the lining of the rectum, the end of the large intestine where stool passes through. It causes pain, soreness, bleeding, and a discharge of mucus or pus. It can also make you feel like you need to have a bowel movement all the time. 
A. Proctitis is defined as inflammation of the anus (the opening) and lining of the rectum (lower part of the intestine leading to the anus). Symptoms of proctitis can vary greatly. One may at first have only minor problems. Proctitis affects the last 6 inches of the rectum and can cause the following:
Proctitis Overview. Proctitis is defined as inflammation of your anus (the opening) and lining of your rectum (lower part of the intestine leading to the anus). Symptoms can vary greatly. You may at first have only minor problems. Proctitis affects the last 6 inches of the rectum and can cause the following: 1  Pain during a bowel movement.
Proctitis occurs when the rectum becomes inflamed. The rectum is part of your lower digestive system. It is located between your colon and anus. Stool passes through the rectum as it exits the body. Proctitis can be painful and uncomfortable. Tenesmus is a frequent urge to have a bowel movement. Inflammation and irritation of the rectum and rectal lining create tenesmus. Other symptoms of proctitis include: 1  pain in the rectum, anus, and abdominal region. 2  bleeding from the rectum.