Females and nymphs only make the disturbance hiss. Madagascar Hissing cockroaches are one of the largest types of cockroaches in the world. In their natural habitat on the island of Madagascar near Africa, Madagascar Hissing cockroaches like to live in rotting logs. 
Madagascar hissing cockroach. Learn more about this article. The Madagascar hissing cockroach (Gromphadorhina portentosa), also known as the hissing cockroach or simply hisser, is one of the largest species of cockroach, reaching 2 to 3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) at maturity. They are from the island of Madagascar off the African mainland, where they can be found in rotting logs. 
The Madagascar hissing cockroach (Gromphadorhina portentosa), also known as the hissing cockroach or simply hisser, is one of the largest species of cockroach, reaching 2 to 3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) at maturity. As the name suggests, the Madagascar hissing cockroach is characterized by their hissing sound, produced when they force air through their respiratory openings (spiracles) found on each segment of their abdomen.
It is one of some 20 known species of large hissing roaches from Madagascar, many of which are kept as pets, and often confused with one another by pet dealers; in particular, G. portentosa is commonly confused with G. oblongonota and G. picea. As the name suggests, the Madagascar hissing cockroach is characterized by their hissing sound, produced when they force air through their respiratory openings (spiracles) found on each segment of their abdomen.
These insects are native to Madagascar and live in forests and other moist, tropical regions. Growing up to 7.5 cm in length, Madagascar hissing cockroaches are one of the largest cockroach species. Madagascar hissing cockroaches are brown in color, wingless and have long antennae. Males have larger pronotal humps on the thorax and bushier antennae than females. 
Madagascar hissing cockroaches are one of many fascinating animal species to hail from the island of Madagascar. These cockroaches are shiny brown and oval-shaped, with no wings and a single pair of antennae. Males sport large horns, which give them an unusual and impressive appearance. Hissing is also part of the cockroach's mating ritual, and can be used as an effective alarm cry. Most insects that make noise do so by rubbing their body parts together or by employing vibrating membranes. Madagascar hissing cockroaches, however, exhale air through their breathing holes.
Gromphadorrhina portentosa. Madagascar hissing cockroaches live in forests on the island of Madagascar. They are herbivores. They live in hollow logs and scavenge amid the leaf litter and rotting wood of the forest floor for food like fallen fruit.
Movie Stars! Madagascar Hissing Cockroaches are often used in movies because they are large, handleable... and super creepy! Often they are shown living in garbage and filth, but that is not where Hissers really live. Their natural habitat is the forest floor in Madagascar. 
Madagascar Hissing Cockroaches:Information and Care L-278 The Madagascar hissing cockroach, Gromphadorhina portentosa (Schaum), is nativeonly to the island of Madagascar. Madagascar,the fourth largest island in the world, is locatedoff the east coast of Africa. 
Gromphadorhina portentosa is one of the largest species of the cockroaches in the world, adults are 5.1 to 10.2 cm long, with males growing larger than females. (Clark and Moore, 1995a; Copeland, 2003; Guthrie and Tindall, 1968; Milius, 2002; Miller, 1977). 1  Other Physical Features. 2  ectothermic. 