Natural Habitat of Rabbits. Rabbits are most commonly found in meadows and grasslands. In these areas, the ground is mostly soft, thereby making it easier for them to dig and excavate. Moreover, the chances of finding an old burrow of another animal is high, and rabbits are known to take over such places. Grasslands, thickets, forests, woods, and meadows are some of the areas where rabbits are most commonly found. They dig small burrows so that they can rest and hide from predators. They are known to create extensive burrow systems which are called warrens.
It is not a good idea to take in baby rabbits found outside, because their mother is most likely out and will be back shortly. Mother rabbits leave their young and forage for … food for short periods in the wild. 
Domesticated rabbits have mostly been bred to be much larger than wild rabbits, though selective breeding has produced a range sizes from dwarf to giant, which are kept as pets and food animals across the world. Rabbit habitats include meadows, woods, forests, grasslands, deserts and wetlands. Rabbits live in groups, and the best known species, the European rabbit, lives in underground burrows, or rabbit holes. A group of burrows is called a warren. More than half the world's rabbit population resides in North America.
28 to 54 oz (800 to 1533 g). Size relative to a tea cup: There are several species of cottontail rabbit, but the eastern cottontail is the most common. This ubiquitous animal can be found from Canada to South America and, in the United States, from the East Coast to the Great Plains. 
The bacteria are commonly found in rabbits, but can also be found in other small mammals such as muskrats, beavers, voles, some domesticated animals (dogs, cats, hamsters) and exotic animals (monkeys, prairie dogs). 
Dozens of different parasites can be found in the digestive tracts of rabbits, hares, and cottontails. Some are very rare, some are pathogenic only under exceptional circumstances; others have barely been studied. We will describe those most commonly found in house rabbits. Wild rabbits as well as healthy house/pet rabbits living in clean conditions can be infested by gastrointestinal parasites. With domestic rabbits, the life cycle of the parasites is often disrupted when the appropriate conditions for development of the larval stages (L1, L2 and sometimes L3) are not met indoors.
Oxyurids in Rabbits. Pinworms are small intestinal worms. Though commonly found in rabbits, Passalurus ambiguus, the rabbit-specific pinworm, generally does not result in significant health issues. They are mostly an incidental finding during examination after death, or when a feces sample is examined and pinworm eggs are found in the sample
Wild bunnies should be fed kitten KMR or KMR and regular Goats Milk. Do not use Esbilac for wild rabbits as we found they do not do well on that. It is okay for domestics. 1  Newborn to One Week: 2 - 2+1/2 cc/ml each feeding (two feedings). 2  1-2 weeks: 5-7 cc/ml each feeding (two feedings). Older baby bunnies who are found outside of the nest may not be orphaned or in need of assistance. Baby cottontails are born without fur but develop a full coat in a week. Their eyes open in 6-10 days, and in three weeks they are weaned.
Saving Wild Baby Rabbits The best chance for survival of a wild baby rabbit is to leave it in its nest, where the mother will return to take care of it. If you find a wild baby rabbit, let him be, and do not attempt to rescue him. 
Rabbits can be found everywhere, except of course the cold continent of Antarctica. These little creatures are mostly found in Asia, Europe, and North America. They usually live in groups under the ground in small burrows and are fast runners. Grasslands, thickets, forests, woods, and meadows are some of the areas where rabbits are most commonly found. They dig small burrows so that they can rest and hide from predators. They are known to create extensive burrow systems which are called warrens.