The orchid family (aka Orchidaceae) is the largest flowering plant family on earth with about 30,000 species. It is also one of the oldest plant families – developing about 84 million years ago. Being so old, orchids have had plenty of time to develop into very specialized organisms. Asters vs. Orchids…. Orchids are debatably the largest flowering plant family on Earth (30,000+ species). The only other contender for that title would be the aster family, Asteraceae, which is a much later development in terms of evolutionary history (42 MYA). This family includes asters, dandelions and daisies.
Orchids are classified in the family Orchidaceae which contains the largest group of plants on Earth. There are more than 25,000 known species of orchids and more are being discovered every day. The orchids are recognized as the most highly evolved plants with one of the widest distributions. The orchid flower is the main predicator of whether a plant is an orchid or not. The flower must have three petals and three sepals, with the third petal or lip modified and differentiated from the other two.
The majority of tropical orchids are epiphytes or lithophytes; temperate orchids are usually terrestrial. The orchid flower is the main predicator of whether a plant is an orchid or not. The flower must have three petals and three sepals, with the third petal or lip modified and differentiated from the other two.
Orchid is a bright rich purple color that is a representation of the color of the orchidaceae flower. Various tones of orchid may range from grayish purple to purplish-pink to strong reddish purple. The first recorded use of orchid as a color name in English was in 1915. In 1987, orchid was included as one of the X11 colors. After the invention of the world wide web in 1991, these became known as the X11 web colors.
Regardless, the number of orchid species nearly equals the number of bony fishes and more than twice the number of bird species, and about four times the number of mammal species. The family also encompasses about 6–11% of all seed plants. The leaves of most orchids are perennial, that is, they live for several years, while others, especially those with plicate leaves as in Catasetum, shed them annually and develop new leaves together with new pseudobulbs. The leaves of some orchids are considered ornamental.
Full Definition of ORCHID. 1. : any of a large family (Orchidaceae, the orchid family) of perennial epiphytic or terrestrial monocotyledonous plants that usually have showy 3-petaled flowers with the middle petal enlarged into a lip and differing from the others in shape and color. 2. Definition of ORCHID for Kids. : a plant with usually showy flowers with three petals of which the middle petal is enlarged and differs
10 most extreme places on Earth. An orchid is a member of the Orchidaceae family, the largest group of all living flowers. There are at least 25,000 different species of orchids, with probably thousands more that remain unknown or unclassified. An orchid can also grow in all kinds of soil, including rocky soil or anchored on trees. The color of an orchid depends mainly on where they grow. While Asian orchids are bright and multicolored, an African orchid is usually white. The same is true of their format and size, which varies greatly from species to species.
Video Transcript. What makes the orchid unique is the fact that when we look at the plant, the form of the plant always has one petal that is formed into a very unique structure, which we typically call the lip. It has additional features if we look where the seeds are produced, they'll be produced underneath the flower. 
Orchids with their delicate blossoms are simple elegance. Receiving an orchid bouquet or plant is a little like taking a trip to paradise. Despite being native to tropical regions, orchids actually don't need that much watering. For best results, water the plant every five to 12 days, depending on the type of orchid, the temperature it resides in and what time of year it is.