The airport is built as one large terminal (a single-terminal concept), split into three large departure halls. Schiphol is the hub for KLM and its regional affiliate KLM Cityhopper as well as for Corendon Dutch Airlines, Martinair Cargo, Transavia and TUI Airlines Netherlands. The airport also serves as a European hub for Delta Air Lines and as a base for EasyJet and Vueling. Schiphol opened on 16 September 1916 as a military airbase. The end of the First World War also saw the beginning of civilian use of Schiphol Airport and the airport eventually lost its military role completely. By 1940, Schiphol had four asphalt runways at 45-degree angle
[ˈlʏxtˌɦaːvə(n) ˈsxɪˌpɦɔɤˤ]) (IATA: AMS, ICAO: EHAM) is the main international airport of the Netherlands, located 4.9 nautical miles (9.1 km; 5.6 mi) southwest of Amsterdam, in the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, province of North Holland. The airport also serves as a European hub for Delta Air Lines and as a base for EasyJet and Vueling. Schiphol opened on 16 September 1916 as a military airbase. The end of the First World War also saw the beginning of civilian use of Schiphol Airport and the airport eventually lost its military role completely. By 1940, Schiphol had four asphalt runways at 45-degree angles
From Amsterdam Schiphol Airport there is a direct train (about 5 trains an hour) to Amsterdam Central Station which takes about 18 minutes. Buy the tickets from the ticket machines (yellow with blue writing) or at the ticket counter, which is slightly more expensive. The cruise terminal of Amsterdam port is about 10 min walking from the Central Station and the city center. Tip: Use the back exit of the station, from where you will see your ship, and walk along the waterfront. Taxis often refuse short trips.
It is an international airport found in the Netherlands and is located twenty minutes from Amsterdam city and approximately nine miles south-west of the center of Amsterdam in Haarlemmermeer municipality. This is an international airport connecting to many notable European airports. 
At Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, you can take care of your needs — whatever they may be — on any leg of your journey. There are nap stations all over the place, and you can easily walk to food, shopping or even the Holland Casino (if you're over 18, of course). 1  Distance from City Center: 9 miles (15km). 2  Ground Transportation Options: Metro/Train, Bus, Taxi, Car rental.
From Schiphol Airport to IJmuiden with light luggage: take the train from the airport to Amsterdam Sloterdijk Station (almost every 10 minutes) and take bus 82 (every half an hour) to the terminal. The cruise terminal of Amsterdam port is about 10 min walking from the Central Station and the city center. Tip: Use the back exit of the station, from where you will see your ship, and walk along the waterfront. Taxis often refuse short trips.
Amsterdam Airport facilities. Schiphol Airport has three terminals, all in a single passenger terminal building, making it very convenient for passengers to navigate. Efficient signposting in text and symbols guides passengers from the moment they enter the terminal, and ground staff are generally extremely courteous. The biggest and busiest airport in the Netherlands is Schiphol Airport just 14km outside Amsterdam.
On June 3, 2015 Schiphol switched to Centralized Security with 5 large central checkpoints for more passenger comfort - 3 for departing, & 2 for transfer passengers (eliminating the need of using the previous 130 security lanes at the gates). If departing from Schiphol to a non-Schengen country, including the U.S. & U.K. , passengers are being screened at the new central security check. (b) Transfer passenges will be directed by a separate route to the central security check at the new GH building for transfer passengers.
Passenger pickup by car, follow Arrivals Hall signs from the Schiphol exit on motorway A4. If you want to meet your passenger in the Arrivals Hall, park your car at Visitors Parking (follow 'Parking' signs). Departing non-Schengen passengers, including the U.S. & U.K, are screened at the new Central Security Check. If departing from Schiphol to a non-Schengen country, including the U.S. & U.K. , passengers are being screened at the new central security check. (b) Transfer passenges will be directed by a separate route to the central security check at the new GH building for transfer passengers.