Put clams in a colander and pour boiling water over them just until shells open. Rinse with cold water until cool. Gently pull clams from shells, slicing the muscle that attaches to the shell to free the meat. Around The Web. Learn how to clean razor clams with our step-by-step guide.
Step 3 - Butterfly your clam with your kitchen scissors. 1  Rinse each clam in very cold water to get off the worst of the sand. 2  We have a septic system so we do this step in a large bowl and then dump the water out into the flowerbed so we are not putting all that sand down into the system. 1 Rinse each clam in very cold water to get off the worst of the sand. 2  We have a septic system so we do this step in a large bowl and then dump the water out into the flowerbed so we are not putting all that sand down into the system. 3  It is now time to get the shells off.
Step By Step Cleaning Instructions for Razor Clams. A good pair of scissors with pointed blades, as well as a good paring knife is all you should need to actually clean the clam. STEP 1: The first step in cleaning is to remove the clam from the shell. There are two ways in which to do this. The first is shuck the meat from the shell by cutting the connecting muscle from the shell ... be sure to cut along the shell in order to remove the entire clam rather than pieces of meat. Unlike steamer clams, razors are not eaten whole. Instead, they are shelled and steaked out, providing a firm steak that has a mild clam flavor. The cleaning process is rather time consuming, for most people, you can usually count on a couple of hour's work to clean a full limit.
for fifty years and it is sad to see how much miss information is out on the web, especially YouTube videos. With that said, cleaning razor clams is easy as long as you have photos, or a video as a guide. Reading how to do this is lengthy (gives me a headache), so here you will see photos and a video. I admit there are a number of different ways to approach cleaning razor clams; however, there is only one end-product goal! Cleaning Razor Clams. 1  In one piece, the digger and/or neck are not separated. 2  The windows (side membrane when the clam is cut to lay flat) are intact, and have no holes. 3  The gills and palps are removed (some cultures like to leave them, but they should be removed).
Remove any sand or foreign matter that you may find in here. A good rule of thumb when cleaning is to remove anything that isn't white. STEP 4: Your next step is to cut out the gills and palps with a pair of scissors. These are the brown structures that you will find near the base of the foot or 'digger'. Unlike steamer clams, razors are not eaten whole. Instead, they are shelled and steaked out, providing a firm steak that has a mild clam flavor. The cleaning process is rather time consuming, for most people, you can usually count on a couple of hour's work to clean a full limit.
2. Soak your clams for 20 minutes in fresh water just before cooking. As the clams breathe they filter water. When the fresh water is filtered, the clam pushes salt water and sand out of their shells. After 20 minutes, the clams will have cleaned themselves of much of the salt and sand they have collected.
In addition, razor clams must be cleaned before cooking. Cleaning is a fairly simple process and you end up with using almost the entire clam ready to cook. The first step in cleaning is removing the shell. The easiest way to accomplish is to first rinse all sand from your clams. Place the clams in large pan or a sink with that has the stopper installed. Pour a large volume of boiling water (about 1 quart for 15 clams) over the clams. Wait about ten seconds and dump out the water, or drain the sink. IMMEDIATELY place clams in cold tap water and remove meat from shell.
World class clam digger, Dick Finzer, is affectionately known among Oregonians as Clam Dick. Rain or shine, you can find him out there on an Oregon beach expertly harvesting this delicious treasure. In this five minute video Clam Dick reveals the secrets of efficiently and perfectly cleaning a fresh Oregon Razor Clam. 