Thermal energy, also called heat, moves through liquids and gases in three ways: 1. Conduction (which can also occur in solids). Conduction is when heat directly travels throu … gh matter. As hot molecules move back and forth, they bump into cooler molecules, and transfer some of their heat energy to those molecules. 2. Convection (which can only happen in gases and liquids). Radiation is heat that travels in the form of infrared waves. One example of this is that heat energy comes from the sun, and that is what keeps Earth warm (note that the radiation does have to pass through the atmosphere; so heat can travel as radiation through a fluid).
Substances that allow thermal energy to move easily through them are called conductors. Metals are good conductors of thermal energy. Substances that do not allow thermal energy to move through them easily are called insulators. Air and plastics are insulators. Convection happens when particles with a lot of thermal energy in a liquid or gas move, and take the place of particles with less thermal energy. Thermal energy is transferred from hot places to cold places by convection. In order to see this content you need to have both Javascript enabled and Flash installed.
Heat energy can be transferred by three ways: convection, conduction, and radiation. Conductors, such as metals, are objects that allow thermal energy to move easily through them. Insulators, such as plastic, are objects that do not allow thermal energy to easily move through them. Thermal Energy Facts. Thermal energy is the energy that comes from heat. This heat is generated by the movement of tiny particles within an object. The faster these particles move, the more heat is generated. Stoves and matches are examples of objects that conduct thermal energy.
Conduction. 1  Conduction is the transfer of thermal energy through direct contact between particles of a substance, without moving the particles to a new location. 2  Usually occurs in solids. 3  When heat is supplied to one end, molecules at that end start to move more quickly. Convection. 1  Convection is the transfer of thermal energy through movement of particles from one location to another. 2  Usually occur in fluids (liquids and gases). 3  Example with boiling water: 4  Water at bottom of pan is heated first. 5  Heated water expands and density decreases.
The particles in liquids and gases can move from place to place. Convection happens when particles with a lot of thermal energy in a liquid or gas move, and take the place of particles with less thermal energy. Thermal energy is transferred from hot places to cold places by convection. In order to see this content you need to have both Javascript enabled and Flash installed.
Heat moves through a material at a specific rate. The rate it travels depends on the material itself: some materials allow heat to move quickly through them, some materials allow heat to move very slowly through them. When heat is applied to a portion of a material, that heat will move through the material. This movement of heat through a material is called the thermal current. Depending on the composition of the atoms of that material, the heat may move very slowly, or it may move very quickly.
Radiation happens when heat moves as energy waves, called infrared waves, directly from its source to something else. This is how the heat from the Sun gets to Earth. In fact, all hot things radiate heat to cooler things. When the heat waves hits the cooler thing, they make the molecules of the cooler object speed up. These, then bump into other molecules and make them move, too. In this way, the heat is transferred through matter. Conduction is what makes the handle of a pot hot when only the bottom of the pot is touching the stove. The heat from the burner starts the molecules in contact with the burner start to move.
A thermal insulator is something that prevents heat from moving from one place to another. There are 3 main ways that heat can travel: convection, conduction, and radiation. Typically the phrase 'thermal insulator' refers to a material that blocks conduction. Conduction is what happens when something hot physically touches something cold. Heat moves from the hot surface into the cold one, warming it up. To keep this from happening, you use a material that heat can't move through very easily (a thermal insulator). 
NOTE that the particles in metals are fixed, but are able to vibrate, but their electrons in can move about freely. These free electrons transfer the kinetic energy in the particles from the hot areas to the cold areas. Substances that allow thermal energy to move easily through them are called conductors. 
The light from them radiates to us. Conduction is another way that heat moves. Heat is a form of energy, and when it comes into contact with matter (Anything that you can touch physically) it makes the atoms and molecules move. Once atoms or molecules are moving, they collide with other atoms or molecules, making them move too. These, then bump into other molecules and make them move, too. In this way, the heat is transferred through matter. Conduction is what makes the handle of a pot hot when only the bottom of the pot is touching the stove. The heat from the burner starts the molecules in contact with the burner start to move.