Just as evaporation and precipitation are processes that move water through the water cycle, igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rock-forming processes move rocks through the rock cycle. In this investigation, you ll examine a detailed example of a rock traveling through the rock cycle. The three types of rocks igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic are all subject to processes that change one rock type into another. The images below show several types of rocks undergoing these processes
Sedimentary rocks are formed by the lithification of the sediments  which accumulate from the erosion of … preexisting rocks of all  types. They also included rocks form from animal and plant remains.   Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. 1  How Limestone Changes to Marble Marble is a type of metamorphic rock highly prized by builders for its outward beauty. 2  Relatively rare, it forms from limestone, a common type of sedimentary rock. 3  How limest….
Metamorphic Rock. Metamorphic rock, which comes from the Greek to change form, is formed by applying great pressure and temperature to existing rock converting it into a new distinct type of rock. Igneous rocks, sedimentary rocks, and even other metamorphic rocks and be modified into metamorphic rocks. Metamorphic rocks are usually created when they come under extreme pressure such as under many thousands of feet of bedrock or through being crushed at the junction of tectonic plates.
Lesson Summary. All three rock types-igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic-make up a portion of the rock cycle. Igneous rocks are rocks that formed directly from magma and can form either in the earth or on its surface. Igneous rocks can weather and be compressed to form sedimentary rocks, rock made up eroded material broken off of other rocks and cemented together, and both of these can be transformed into metamorphic rock. In certain conditions, igneous or sedimentary rocks can be changed into different rocks under intense heat and pressure. These rocks literally change into new substances very different from their old ones. This usually happens as rocks are buried deep within the crust. One of the most common metamorphic rocks is marble.
Marble is another example of a metamorphic rock. It is formed from limestone. Metamorphic rocks sometimes contain fossils if they were formed from a sedimentary rock, but the fossils are usually squashed out of shape. Metamorphic rocks can be formed from any other type of rock-sedimentary or igneous.
A diamond is a crystalline mineral form of the element carbon.  Igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary are descriptive terms used to  classify types of rocks, not minerals su … ch as diamond.     Diamond is accepted as a valid mineral by the International  Mineralogy Association. Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. 1  How Limestone Changes to Marble Marble is a type of metamorphic rock highly prized by builders for its outward beauty.
The color is a reflection of the minerals present in the rock. Metamorphic rocks are those formed by altering igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks by heat and/or pressure. The heat and pressure cause changes in the minerals present, as well as rearranging the minerals in the rocks. 
Like most Earth materials, rocks are created and destroyed in cycles. The rock cycle is a model that describes the formation, breakdown, and reformation of a rock as a result of sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic processes. All rocks are made up of minerals. 
Metamorphic rocks can form from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. The sedimentary particles from which a sedimentary rock is formed can be derived from a metamorphic, an igneous, or another sedimentary rock. All three rock types can be melted to form a magma. 