That fluorescent yellow dust caking your windshield is pine tree pollen, but in fact the culprit of your allergies may be invisible pollen from oak, hickory and other hardwood trees. The worst time for pollen is early morning on dry, windy days; cool, wet periods offer temporary respite. 1 That fluorescent yellow dust caking your windshield is pine tree pollen, but the culprit of your allergies may b
Oak trees produce both male and female flowers on the tips of their uppermost branches, which are relatively unnoticed. Pollen from the male flower fertilizes the female ovary, which develops into an acorn. The petals and sepals of the ovary fuse to form the acorn's top, or cap. 
Yellow Pollen. Yellow pollen is a highly visible tree pollen. It can easily be seen on trees, and often rises in a cloud when a tree is shaken. Yellow pollen is produced by evergreen trees, primarily pine trees, including spruce, true cedar trees, fir trees, larch and hemlock. Although yellow pollen looks like it could cause an allergic reaction, in reality it does not trigger allergy symptoms at all. It can stain the skin and clothing, however. Submit. Tree pollen is the first type of pollen released in the spring. In the south, tree pollen can be released as early as January. In the far northern states, it is not usually found in the air until June.
Bee on plum tree with pollen. The term pollen source is often used in the context of beekeeping and refers to flowering plants as a source of pollen for bees or other insects. Bees collect pollen as a protein source to raise their brood. Bees mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey to compact the pollen in the pollen basket. Dry pollen, is a food source for bees, which contains 16 - 30% protein, 1 - 10% fat, 1 - 7% starch, many vitamins, but little sugar.
Many people blame their allergy symptoms on the yellow pollen that you see in the spring. This is pine pollen but it is not very allergenic. Pine pollen is very heavy so it falls to the ground very quickly. However, when the pine is pollinating other trees such as oak, ash and elm are also pollinating. 
Comments. Submit. Pollen, a substance that is required for the fertilization of plants, is most often pictured as a yellowish dust. This is partly because many coniferous tree pollens (and those that most often cause allergies in humans) are a shade of yellow. 
The wind blows and carries the pollen for miles. Oaks are considered a primary tree for allergy sufferers. The trees produce pollen from February to late May. Oak pollen will leave a distinctive yellow smudge on cars parked near the trees during the pollen season. Although oak trees are not heavy pollen producers, they can cause real seasonal suffering for people allergic to oak pollen because the trees have such a long period of pollen production.
Plants that produce wind-blown pollen, many of which are trees, make life miserable for millions of human allergy sufferers each year. A large number of tree species produce extremely small pollen particles from their male sexual parts. The allergen that triggers your allergy is usually produced by the “male” part of a tree. Trees vary widely in their capacity to produce and disperse pollen which triggers allergies and asthma. Some tree species that bear separate male and female flowers on the same plant are called monecious .
Tree Pollen. All flowering plants, including trees, produce pollen, so that they can reproduce. The process of pollination develops new plant seeds. Pollen is dry and light, enabling it to float through the wind and travel several miles. Plants pollinated by insects don’t have to produce as much pollen because of the efficiency of the insects in distributing the pollen. Changes in the weather directly influence the amount of pollen and how it will affect allergy sufferers. Rain dampens pollen and reduces its ability to flow through the air.