Addisons disease occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. For this reason, the disease is sometimes called chronic adrenal insufficiency, or hypocortisolism. 
It's sometimes referred to as primary adrenal insufficiency. If you have Addison's disease, your adrenal glands don't make enough hormones. Unlike adrenal fatigue, this is an illness that doctors can test and recognize. In most cases of this disease, the adrenal glands have been damaged by the immune system. Other causes of Addison's disease include: 1  Tuberculosis (TB). 2  Cancer, such as lymphoma. 3  AIDS
Some other causes of primary adrenal insufficiency include bilateral adrenal hemorrhage, drugs (e.g., mitotane, etomidate, ketoconazole) and other infectious diseases (e.g., HIV infection, disseminated histoplasmosis, paracoccidiomycosis). 
Addison’s disease is a severe or total deficiency of the hormones made in the adrenal cortex, caused by its destruction. There are normally two adrenal glands, located one above each kidney. The adrenal glands are really two endocrine (ductless or hormone producing) glands in one. Cortisol production is regulated by another hormone, adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), made in the pituitary gland which is located just below the brain. Classical Addison’s disease results from a loss of both cortisol and aldosterone secretion due to the near total or total destruction of both adrenal glands.
As low as $47.99. In the ferret, adrenal disease-or hyperadrenocorticism-most commonly occurs when a tumor or lesion on the adrenal glands causes an overproduction of the hormones produced by the adrenal glands. Ferrets can live long and happy lives after they are treated for adrenal disease, and we all want that for our fuzzies! In the ferret, adrenal disease-or hyperadrenocorticism-most commonly occurs when a tumor or lesion on the adrenal glands causes an overproduction of the hormones produced by the adrenal glands.
Primary Adrenal Insufficiency: Addison’s Disease. The outer layer of the adrenal glands is called the adrenal cortex. If the cortex is damaged, it may not be able to produce enough cortisol. A common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency is an autoimmune disease that causes the immune system to attack healthy tissues. In the case of Addison’s disease, the immune system turns against the adrenal gland(s). Secondary adrenal insufficiency is caused by a lack of the adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). ACTH is made in the pituitary gland. It’s your brain’s signal to the adrenal glands, telling them to make cortisol. By far the most common cause of this type of adrenal insufficiency is chronic steroid use.
A disease that normally affects the lungs is tuberculosis (TB). This infection can also destroy the adrenal glands and cause Addison’s disease. When primary adrenal insufficiency was identified by Dr. Thomas Addison, TB was the most common culprit of the disease (in 1849). Addison’s Disease: Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis & Treatment. The adrenal glands are a part of the body’s endocrine system, an interconnected group of glands that work together to secrete hormones (chemical substances) that play an important role in all aspects of our body’s processes.
Adrenal gland disorders (or diseases) are conditions that interfere with the normal functioning of the adrenal glands. Adrenal disorders may cause hyperfunction or hypofunction, and may be congenital or acquired. The adrenal gland produces hormones that affects growth, development and stress, and also helps to regulate kidney function.