TPE or Trans-Pacific Express is a submarine telecommunications cable linking China, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and the USA. The line is a $500 million USD joint venture between 6 telecommunication companies China Telecom, China Netcom, China Unicom, Chunghwa Telecom, Korea Telecom, and Verizon Communications. 
Unlike the chemical cross-linking which occurs in thermoset rubbers, TPE involves purely physical cross-linking, which can be reversed via the further application of heat, this makes it possible to re-use all production waste and end of life products can be easily reprocessed. There are six generic classes of TPEs. 1  Styrenic block copolymers (TPE-s or TPS compounds based on SBS, SEBS). 2  Polyolefin blends (TPE-O or TPO). 3  Elastomeric alloys (TPE-V or TPV).
It is a range of polymers (plastics) that can be processed (moulded or extruded) like a plastic when over their melt temperature, but exhibit properties of thermoset rubber. the advantage to using TPE over thermoset rubber, is that it can be easily re-moulded and re-worked whereas rubber cannot. 
TPEs exhibit elasticity similar to that of a cross-linked rubber. Their softness or hardness value is measured on the Shore durometer scale. Our TPEs are available as ultra-soft gel like materials measuring 0 Shore A through to rigid materials measuring up to 65 Shore D, and just about every variation in-between. There are six generic classes of TPEs. 1  Styrenic block copolymers (TPE-s or TPS compounds based on SBS, SEBS). 2  Polyolefin blends (TPE-O or TPO). 3  Elastomeric alloys (TPE-V or TPV).
TPE. TPE or Trans-Pacific Express is a submarine telecommunications cable linking China, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and the USA. The line is a $500 million USD joint venture between 6 telecommunication companies China Telecom, China Netcom, China Unicom, Chunghwa Telecom, Korea Telecom, and Verizon Communications
It was not until the 1950s, when thermoplastic polyurethane polymers became available, that TPE became a commercial reality. During the 1960s styrene block copolymer became available, and in the 1970s a wide range of TPEs came on the scene. Thermoplastic elastomers show advantages typical of both rubbery materials and plastic materials. The principal difference between thermoset elastomers and thermoplastic elastomers is the type of cross-linking bond in their structures.
tpe. In BDSM, TPE refers to a type of relationship: total power exchange. The implication is that the dominant partner has complete control and authority over the submissive in all areas and at all times, even when they're not actively engaged in a scene. 
In short, TPEs are a family of rubber like materials that combine the characteristics of rubber with the recyclability and processing advantages of plastics. There are six generic classes of TPEs. 1  Styrenic block copolymers (TPE-s or TPS compounds based on SBS, SEBS). 2  Polyolefin blends (TPE-O or TPO). 3  Elastomeric alloys (TPE-V or TPV).
Total Power Exchange. (TPE). Many people in the lifestyle talk about Total Power Exchange, and the phrase seems fairly self explanatory. However it is not quite as simplistic as it sounds, and i believe that for many, there are varying degrees and ideas of what it actually is and how it actually works. Of course there can be occasions when a power exchange is not a TPE. A play session may take place, where one or other party holds back – this does not mean it isn’t real-it is a partial power exchange.
Thermoplastic elastomers (TPE), sometimes referred to as thermoplastic rubbers, are a class of copolymers or a physical mix of polymers (usually a plastic and a rubber) which consist of materials with both thermoplastic and elastomeric properties. Thermoplastic elastomers show advantages typical of both rubbery materials and plastic materials. The principal difference between thermoset elastomers and thermoplastic elastomers is the type of cross-linking bond in their structures.