The diagnosis of many autoimmune diseases is based upon the detection of specific antibodies with immunofluorescence (IF). However, the same autoantibody (eg, antinuclear antibody [ANA]) can be present in multiple diseases (eg, systemic lupus erythematosus [SLE] [shown], rheumatoid arthritis [RA]). There are more than 80 different types of autoimmune diseases; their onset is typically slow, sometimes occurring over the course of years, and the symptoms are often nonspecific (eg, fatigue, general malaise, fever). Image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Examples of non-organ-specific autoimmune disorders are rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, lupus and myasthenia gravis. Causes. Scientists believe multiple factors such as environmental toxins, heredity, viruses, and certain drugs may play a role in causing an autoimmune disease. 
Autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and multiple sclerosis. Nonspecific autoimmune disease symptoms often include an overall feeling of malaise or sickness, a low fever, and tiredness. The cause of autoimmune diseases isn't understood. Nonspecific autoimmune disease may be chronic -- which means it can't be cured -- but symptoms may be managed with medication and lifestyle changes.
Organs and tissues frequently affected include the endocrine gland, such as thyroid, pancreas, and adrenal glands; components of the blood, such as red blood cells; and the connective tissues, skin, muscles, and joints. In organ-specific disorders, the autoimmune process is directed mostly against one organ. Though each disease is different, immune-system malfunction is present in all of them. Disease symptoms vary depending on which tissue is targeted for destruction. Symptoms common to all autoimmune disorders include fatigue, dizziness, malaise, and low-grade fever.
Common Autoimmune Disease Symptoms in Women. An autoimmune disease occurs when the immune system of the body accidentally attacks one or several organ systems. Science has revealed that the autoimmune disease symptoms are experienced by millions of Americans and the number is on the rise. This is how the body staves off infection. These autoimmune disease symptoms are caused when the non adaptive immune system attacks its host. Continued fever at lower temperatures may accompany diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, although their existence is not recognized until measured with a thermometer.
Symptoms. Symptoms of autoimmune disease vary widely depending on the type of disease. A group of very non-specific symptoms often accompany autoimmune diseases especially of the collagen vascular type and include: 1  Tire easily. 2  fatigue. 3  dizziness. 4  malaise (nonspecific feeling of not being well). 5  fever, very low grade temperature elevations. 
About Non Specific Autoimmune Disease. A nonspecific autoimmune disease is an autoimmune disease that cannot be fully identified or diagnosed, and does not meet the criteria of known autoimmune diseases. Nonspecific autoimmune disease may be chronic -- which means it can't be cured -- but symptoms may be managed with medication and lifestyle changes.
The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs. Symptoms worsen during flare-ups and lessen during remission. Autoimmune diseases affect many parts of the body. The most common organs and tissue affected are: 1  joints. 2  muscles. 3  skin. 4  red blood cells. 5  blood vessels.
Inflammation is a common symptom among many of the different diseases. Dizziness, fatigue, joint and body pain, malaise and a low-grade fever are among non-specific symptoms associated with autoimmune diseases. When an individual has an autoimmune disease, their immune system mistakenly turns against itself, targeting the cells, tissues and organs of their own body. Many different autoimmune diseases exist, each affecting the body in different ways.