Coronary heart disease (CHD), also known as coronary artery disease is a narrowing of the blood vessels (coronary arteries) that supply oxygen and blood to the heart. Coronary heart disease is generally caused by atherosclerosis-when plaque (cholesterol substances) accumulates on the artery walls, causing them to narrow, resulting in less blood flow to the heart. Sometimes a clot may form which can obstruct the flow of blood to heart muscle.
Sarcoidosis & Your Organs. Beyond the lungs and lymph glands, the body organs or systems affected by sarcoidosis that are associated with the most noticeable symptoms are the skin, eyes, musculoskeletal system, nervous system, heart, liver, and kidneys, in this order. 
All of which affect the heart’s ability to work normally. Coronary heart disease. A disease where one or more of the arteries supplying blood to the heart muscle becomes blocked. Blockage of these arteries means that some of the heart muscle becomes deprived of oxygen, which results in angina or a heart attack. Brain-related cardiovascular disease. Cerebrovascular disease (stroke). A stroke is the brain equivalent of a heart attack and is where blood flow to the brain is blocked or interrupted. The affected part of the brain is then deprived of oxygen and nutrients leading to cell death.
Cardiovascular disease can affect the function of the heart and the blood vessels, leading to serious health problems. A breakdown or interruption in oxygen supply to your organs will cause damage and possibly death. If you suffer from CVD, life-sustaining organs like your heart and brain are at risk. When this happens, there is a risk for coronary artery disease. Diabetes and high blood pressure are the two leading causes of kidney disease. Here is how each can affect your heart and lead to cardiovascular disease: Diabetes: Diabetes is a condition where excess sugar remains in the bloodstream.
Heart disease is a general term to describe any cardiovascular disease that affects the heart and/or the blood vessels in the heart. The following conditions are considered heart disease: Coronary artery disease: This disease affects the arteries that supply the heart muscle with blood. If these arteries become blocked and the flow of blood is restricted to the heart, a heart attack may occur. Coronary artery disease can also lead to other problems such as chest pain (angina). When this happens, there is a risk for coronary artery disease. Diabetes and high blood pressure are the two leading causes of kidney disease. Here is how each can affect your heart and lead to cardiovascular disease: Diabetes: Diabetes is a condition where excess sugar remains in the bloodstream.
The image shows how smoking can affect arteries in the heart and legs. Figure A shows the location of coronary heart disease and peripheral arterial disease. Figure B shows a detailed view of a leg artery with atherosclerosis—plaque buildup that's partially blocking blood flow. They also can damage the function of your heart and the structure and function of your blood vessels. This damage increases your risk of atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis). Atherosclerosis is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up in the arteries.
Your heart pumps blood to your entire body. Uncontrolled high blood pressure can damage your heart in a number of ways, such as: 1  Coronary artery disease. 2  Coronary artery disease affects the arteries that supply blood to your heart muscle. 3  Arteries narrowed by coronary artery disease don't allow blood to flow freely through your arteries.
Type 1 diabetes can affect major organs in your body, including heart, blood vessels, nerves, eyes and kidneys. Keeping your blood sugar level close to normal most of the time can dramatically reduce the risk of many complications. Long-term complications of type 1 diabetes develop gradually, over decades. 1 Heart and blood vessel disease. 2  Diabetes dramatically increases your risk of various cardiovascular problems, including coronary artery disease with chest pain (angina), heart attack, stroke, narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis) and high blood pressure.
The heart and blood vessels (arteries, capillaries, and veins) are called the cardiovascular system. The cardiovascular system carries blood throughout the body. The heart pumps blood through blood vessels called arteries and then through smaller blood vessels called capillaries to each organ and tissue in the body. The blood feeds each organ and tissue.
1 Coronary artery disease affects the arteries that supply blood to your heart muscle. 2  Arteries narrowed by coronary artery disease don't allow blood to flow freely through your arteries. 3  When blood can't flow freely to your heart, you can experience chest pain, a heart attack or irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias). Uncontrolled high blood pressure can damage your heart in a number of ways, such as: 1  Coronary artery disease. 2  Coronary artery disease affects the arteries that supply blood to your heart muscle. 3