Straightening a curved guitar neck is a delicate procedure that can change how your guitar feels and how it sounds. To repair a slightly bowed neck, you make small adjustments to the truss rod built into the neck. This video shows you how. 1  Howto & Style. 
I will probably try to straighten the neck out myself. The guitar is a Garcia Grade I I paid $200 for on e-b a y, so I can take a small risk in trying to straighten it out. I should be able to get back to the shop today and try to look at the neck issue he was talking about.
cost to straighten Bowed neck. Post by jeff_hatcher » Friday 17 February 2012, 20:34 pm. I took a recent purchase in to a local guitar store to have a bowed neck straightened. They subcontract their work out to the owner's father, who is by reputation a skilled repairman that caters to professional musicians. The guitar is a Garcia Grade I I paid $200 for on e-b a y, so I can take a small risk in trying to straighten it out. I should be able to get back to the shop today and try to look at the neck issue he was talking about.
String gauge, playing style, neck and top stiffness can vary from one guitar to the next and as a result, so can ideal neck relief. Measurements. .004- .006 is probably best for light pickers, jazz musicians and instruments strung with medium gauge strings. Fret the string on the 1st and last fret of the neck. Measure the gap between the string and top of 7th fret. (14 fret neck). More commonly we use the string itself as a straightedge.
A neck fitting on an instrument with a glued in dovetail and the cost of the replacement neck can easily run up a bill of $500 to $800 or more depending on the manufacturers pricing of the neck itself. Bolt on necks which do not require as much labor are often less expensive to replace. Loose Necks. A set neck (glued on guitar neck) can come loose where it attaches to the body by impact, heat or failed glue joint. A loose neck can create high action and often leaves a visible gap between the heel of the neck and the sides.
And I wouldnt fix it myself. Classical guitars usually have no truss rod – if yours does, a guitar tech can adjust it for you. If you have a full setup done on the guitar it might cost as much as $50 – 75, but a quick rod adjustment should not cost anywhere near that. November 29, 2012 at 7:06 am. Classical guitars usually have no truss rod – if yours does, a guitar tech can adjust it for you. If you have a full setup done on the guitar it might cost as much as $50 – 75, but a quick rod adjustment should not cost anywhere near that.
Fret the string at the 1st and last fret. Measure the gap between the bottom of the string and the top of the 7th fret. A capo can be used on the first fret to free up one hand. A large gap will indicate the neck has too much relief and the rod may require tightening to straighten the neck. No gap may indicate the neck is dead flat of backbowed which may require loosening the truss rod to add relief. Fret the string on the 1st and last fret of the neck. Measure the gap between the string and top of 7th fret. (14 fret neck). More commonly we use the string itself as a straightedge.
Depending on the time to straiten the neck, which can take up to 5 times to bend, I charge about 45 to 60 Euros. Sometimes it goes on the first try, most of the time it takes 2 to 3 times to heat and bow the neck for the right amount of relief. The guitar is a Garcia Grade I I paid $200 for on e-b a y, so I can take a small risk in trying to straighten it out. I should be able to get back to the shop today and try to look at the neck issue he was talking about.
Since there was no way to adjust the neck with a truss rod, I opted to heat press the neck to straighten it. How I do this is clamp the neck into what is essentially metal sandwich, with a heating element in between two thick pieces of aluminum, and then cook the neck for about 45 minutes. The proper way to fix this is to take the neck off, reshape the neck/body joint, and put it all back together. I recently completed a neck reset on a 1974 Martin D-28: a fairly complex job made even more difficult by the fact that this Martin didn’t have a truss rod.