Manuela Testolini was born and raised in Toronto, Canada, so her nationality is Canadian. Her parents are Italian and Egyptian. Testolini recently married Halle Berry’s ex-husband, Eric Benet, in a private ceremony in California. The couple also announced that they are expecting a child together. Testolini herself was previously married to Prince and is the president of the “In A Perfect World Foundation.”.
Congratulations! Eric Benet benét and his Wife Manuela testolini are expecting their second child, together The&R b'singer s rep confirms To! E. News the rep added that the baby is due in the. summer Congratulations! Eric Benet benét and his Wife Manuela testolini are expecting their second child, together The&R b'singer s rep confirms To! E. news
Eric Benet (Halle Berry's ex) and his wife Manuela Testolini welcomed their second child, baby girl Amoura Luna, on Sunday, July 13, his rep confirms exclusively to Us Weekly Credit: Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic. It's another girl for Eric Benet ! The singer and his wife, Manuela Testolini, welcomed their second child on Sunday, July 13, his rep confirms exclusively to Us Weekly. PHOTOS: Famous celeb dads and daughters. The couple's daughter, Amoura Luna, arrived (with a full head of hair!) at 6 lbs. and 13 oz. Us broke news in March that Benet, 47, and Testolini, 37, were expecting their second child together. The couple welcomed daughter Lucia Bella in December 2011. Manuela is truly proving to be the world's best mother, Benet told Us at the time.
Prince's wife, Manuela Testolini Nelson, filed the petition to end their five-year union, PEOPLE has learned. Deciding to end the marriage was a very difficult decision for Ms. Nelson, says her attorney, Edward Winer. 
Singer Eric Benet and his wife Manuela Testolini are expecting their second child, the singer's rep confirms to Us Weekly exclusively; see an adorable photo of their daughter Lucia, 2, celebrating her sibling-to-be! Credit: Courtesy of Eric Benet. Lucia's going to be a big sister! Eric Benet and his wife Manuela Testolini are expecting their second child, the singer's rep confirms to Us Weekly exclusively. The couple are already parents to 2-year-old daughter Lucia Bella. PHOTOS: Guess the baby bump! She is due this summer, Benet's rep confirms.
Manuela Testolini was born September 19, 1976 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. She was born to an Italian father and Egyptian mother. She went to live in the US after completing a degree in Law and Sociology from York University in Toronto. 
Manuela Testolini is Eric Benet’s wife. The beautiful brunette is in the news as many are curious to see photos and find out more about the woman the R&B music star married after divorcing Halle Berry. Get the pictures and all the latest updates here. Photo: Manuela Testolini. Credit: PR Photos. The 37-year-old Manuela Testolini is pregnant and thus, is in the news for an exciting reason, not a scandalous one! She and her husband, the 47-year-old Eric Benet are expecting their second child. They have a two-year-old daughter, Lucia Bella. 