I've been using the generic brand of zoloft (sertraline) for about 6 months now. My doctor started me with the minimum dosage (25 mg) and I am currently up to 100 mg. I didn't have any troubles with 25, 50 or 75 mg. But I had a little bit of gitters and agitation for the first couple of days on 100. It's always best to just follow what you doctor is prescribing, BUT I will say that even for a med sensitive person 25Mgs per day of Zoloft is most often not a normal theraputic dosage. Theraputic dosgaes of Zoloft (sertraline) range from 50Mgs up to 200Mgs a day depending on many factors.
The recommended starting dose of Zoloft for people with panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or social anxiety disorder is Zoloft 25 mg once a day. After a week, your healthcare provider will likely increase the dose to 50 mg of Zoloft once a day. He or she may also choose to increase the Zoloft dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur.
Although the starting dose for people with panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, or social anxiety disorder is typically 25 mg daily, healthcare providers often increase that dose to 50 mg daily. After a week, your healthcare provider will likely increase the dose to 50 mg of Zoloft once a day. He or she may also choose to increase the Zoloft dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur.
While a relationship between dose and effect has not been established for major depressive disorder, OCD, panic disorder, PTSD or social anxiety disorder, patients were dosed in a range of 50-200 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of ZOLOFT for the treatment of these indications. Systematic evaluation of ZOLOFT has demonstrated that its efficacy in social anxiety disorder is maintained for periods of up to 24 weeks following 20 weeks of treatment at a dose of 50-200 mg/day (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
Here, the medication doses were high. In adults, the standard Zoloft dose for depression is 50 mg daily. A number of patients in my practice have done well on 25 mg. To treat anxiety, the starting doses tend to be low; at first, antidepressants can increase anxiety. But for unknown reasons, the final dose, to mitigate anxiety, can be substantial. Again, in my clinical experience, for the more routine forms of anxiety often modest doses suffice. But in the current study of anxiety in children, the average Zoloft dose was between 133 and 146 mg daily. The children started at 25 mg, with the dose raised weekly as needed up to the eighth week of the study.
The recommended starting dose of Zoloft for children ages 6 to 12 with OCD is Zoloft 25 mg once daily, while the starting dose for adolescents ages 13 to 17 is Zoloft 50 mg once daily. Your child's healthcare provider may choose to increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease it if Zoloft side effects occur. 
Maintenance doses for the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder with Zoloft range from 50 mg to 200 mg per day. Changes in dosage should not occur at intervals of less than one week because of the long elimination half-life of Zoloft of 24 hours. A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). It is commonly used to treat depression, social anxiety disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
If a 100 mg/day dose has been established with luteal phase dosing, a 50 mg/day titration step for three days should be utilized at the beginning of each luteal phase dosing period. ZOLOFT should be administered once daily, either in the morning or evening. Systematic evaluation of ZOLOFT has demonstrated that its efficacy in social anxiety disorder is maintained for periods of up to 24 weeks following 20 weeks of treatment at a dose of 50-200 mg/day (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
Patients not responding to a 50 mg dose may benefit from dose increases up to a maximum of 200 mg/day. Given the 24 hour elimination half-life of ZOLOFT, dose changes should not occur at intervals of less than 1 week. Systematic evaluation of ZOLOFT has demonstrated that its efficacy in social anxiety disorder is maintained for periods of up to 24 weeks following 20 weeks of treatment at a dose of 50-200 mg/day (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY).
Dosage of Zoloft for Depression or Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. The recommended starting Zoloft dose for people with depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is Zoloft 50 mg once a day. After a week, your healthcare provider will likely increase the dose to 50 mg of Zoloft once a day. He or she may also choose to increase the Zoloft dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur.