noun (plural matrices ˈmeɪtrɪsiːz or matrixes). 1 The cultural, social, or political environment in which something develops: Oxbridge was the matrix of the ideology. More example sentences. 1  In his individuated free-floating imagery that defines his iconography, he is rooted in the social and cultural matrix. 4.1 A grid-like arrangement of elements; a lattice: a sparse matrix is a data structure in which few of the potential elements are filled out. More example sentences. 1  For each story, in addition to writing the core narrative, we developed a large matrix containing descriptive information.
matrix. n, pl matrices (ˈmeɪtrɪˌsiːz; ˈmae-) ˈmæ or. matrixes. 1 a, substance, situation or environment in which something has its, origin takes, form or is. enclosed. (2) anatomy anatomy the thick tissue at the base of a nail from which a fingernail or toenail. develops 
Full Definition of MATRIX. 1. : something within or from which something else originates, develops, or takes form. 2. 1. b: the thickened epithelium at the base of a fingernail or toenail from which new nail substance develops—called also nail bed, nail matrix. 2. : something (as a surrounding or pervading substance or element) within which something else originates or takes form or develops. 3. 4.
The rule for matrix multiplication, however, is that two matrices can be multiplied only when the number of columns in the first equals the number of rows in the second. A major application of matrices is to represent linear transformations, that is, generalizations of linear functions such as f(x) = 4x. Matrices which have a single row are called row vectors, and those which have a single column are called column vectors. A matrix which has the same number of rows and columns is called a square matrix. A matrix with an infinite number of rows or columns (or both) is called an infinite matrix.
Look up matrix at dictionary.com. Both matrices and matrixes are acceptable plurals. Matrices is the Latin plural form. (Matrix is a Latin word.) Matrixes is the form of the word naturalized as English. The fact that matrices is listed first indicates that it is preferred. A search of American and British corpora shows that matrices is far more frequent in both varieties of English. 
In mathematics, a matrix (plural matrices) is a rectangular array —of numbers, symbols, or expressions, arranged in rows and columns —that is interpreted and manipulated in certain prescribed ways. Matrices which have a single row are called row vectors, and those which have a single column are called column vectors. A matrix which has the same number of rows and columns is called a square matrix. A matrix with an infinite number of rows or columns (or both) is called an infinite matrix.
A matrix is singular iff its determinant is 0. For example, there are 10 singular (0,1)-matrices : The following table gives the numbers of singular matrices for certain matrix classes. 
Medical Definition of MATRIX. 1. b: the thickened epithelium at the base of a fingernail or toenail from which new nail substance develops—called also nail bed, nail matrix. 2. : something (as a surrounding or pervading substance or element) within which something else originates or takes form or develops. 3. 4.
The plural forms for the noun matrix are matrices and matrixes, both are accepted. The plural forms for cactus are cacti or  cactuses, both are accepted.     Some words that come from Latin, such as cactus, stimulus, nucleus,  and radius, still a … ct as they did in Latin. That is, they form a  plural by replacing the-us with-i.