Can Cause Vision Loss, Blindness. Diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes and a leading cause of blindness. It occurs when diabetes damages the tiny blood vessels inside the retina in the back of the eye. A healthy retina is necessary for good vision. 
In this article. Diabetic retinopathy occurs as a result of high blood sugar and can cause blindness if left untreated. Diabetic retinopathy is an eye condition that affects people with diabetes who have high blood glucose, or sugar, over a prolonged period of time.
Diabetic retinopathy is a condition occurring in persons with diabetes, which causes progressive damage to the retina, the light sensitive lining at the back of the eye. It is a serious sight-threatening complication of diabetes. Blood vessels damaged from diabetic retinopathy can cause vision loss: 1  Fluid can leak into the macula, the area of the retina which is responsible for clear central vision. 2  In an attempt to improve blood circulation in the retina, new blood vessels may form on its surface.
Diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes and a leading cause of blindness. Diabetic retinopathy occurs when diabetes damages the tiny blood vessels inside the retina, the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye. A healthy retina is necessary for good vision. 
Knowledge center. Diabetic retinopathy is damage to the retina (retinopathy), specifically blood vessels in the retina, caused by complications of diabetes mellitus. Diabetic retinopathy can eventually lead to blindness if left untreated. 
In untreated diabetic retinopathy, scar tissue that forms on the back of the retina as a result of a contraction of the new blood vessels can cause the retina to pull away from the back of the eye. This is called a retinal detachment. Retinal detachment can cause permanent blindness if left untreated. Diabetic retinopathy occurs as a result of high blood sugar and can cause blindness if left untreated. Diabetic retinopathy is an eye condition that affects people with diabetes who have high blood glucose, or sugar, over a prolonged period of time.
Diabetic retinopathy is the result of damage caused by diabetes to the small blood vessels located in the retina. Blood vessels damaged from diabetic retinopathy can cause vision loss: 1  Fluid can leak into the macula, the area of the retina which is responsible for clear central vision. 2  In an attempt to improve blood circulation in the retina, new blood vessels may form on its surface.
Diabetic retinopathy ([ˌrɛtnˈɑpəθi]), also known as diabetic eye disease, is when damage occurs to the retina due to diabetes. It can eventually lead to blindness. 
Diabetic retinopathy: Disease of the retina caused by diabetes that involves damage to the tiny blood vessels in the back of the eye. Early disease may not cause symptoms. As the disease progresses, it enters its advanced, or proliferative, stage. 
Diabetic retinopathy is caused by changes in the blood vessels of the retina. When these blood vessels are damaged, they may leak blood and grow fragile new vessels. When the nerve cells are damaged, vision is impaired. 