SUB STYLED | The three main styles of IPA are American-style IPA, English-style IPA and Double or Imperial IPA. All of which are consistently produced and are official style category designations in the major beer competitions. Black IPA is an example of a sub style that has appeared on the market in limited quantities. The flavor of IPA beer highlights the complex and varied results that can be achieved through hops and other beer ingredient staples. The pronounced and unique flavor profile of IPA allows for a better understanding of brewing beer in general as hops and malts are often identified individually.
“IPA” is an initialism for India Pale Ale, a hoppy style of beer within the pale ale category. Photo Credit: Flickr/ edwin. This style did not originate in India but was first brewed in England in the nineteenth century. Depending on the brand and brewer, IPAs are made with varying amounts of hops, malt, and alcohol content. Iconic brads of IPAs include Samuel Adams IPA, Harpoon IPA, Brooklyn East India Pale Ale, Redhook IPA, and Goose Island IPA.
Among the first brewers known to export beer to India was the Bow Brewery, on the Middlesex-Essex border. Bow Brewery beers became popular among East India Company traders in the late 18th century because of the brewery's location and Hodgson's liberal credit line of 18 months. Demand for the export style of pale ale, which had become known as India pale ale, developed in England around 1840 and India pale ale became a popular product in England. Some brewers dropped the term India in the late 19th century, but records indicated that these pale ales retained the features of earlier IPAs.
American-style India pale ale is also now brewed in Belgium with Viven IPA from De Proefbrouwerij and Houblon Chouffe becoming available in the 2000s. It is also available in Argentina from Cerveceria Cervecería. antares Demand for the export style of pale ale, which had become known as India pale ale, developed in England around 1840 and India pale ale became a popular product in England. Some brewers dropped the term India in the late 19th century, but records indicated that these pale ales retained the features of earlier IPAs.
Founded in 2011 by craft beer enthusiasts Ashley Rouston and Ryan Ross, IPA day is a celebration of India Pale Ale, the bitter, hoppy, high-alcohol beer that is super popular in today’s craft beer culture. IPA Day is celebrated at bars, breweries, and beer retailers throughout the world, albeit unofficially. 
SAVOR THE FLAVOR | The IPA style of beer has a whole lot going for it. First and foremost is taste, which some could argue is an acquired one. The flavor of IPA beer highlights the complex and varied results that can be achieved through hops and other beer ingredient staples. The pronounced and unique flavor profile of IPA allows for a better understanding of brewing beer in general as hops and malts are often identified individually.
India pale ale (IPA) is a hoppy beer style within the broader category of pale ale. Demand for the export style of pale ale, which had become known as India pale ale, developed in England around 1840 and India pale ale became a popular product in England. Some brewers dropped the term India in the late 19th century, but records indicated that these pale ales retained the features of earlier IPAs.
The first known use of the term India pale ale is an advertisement in the Sydney Gazette and New South Wales Advertiser in 1829. Demand for the export style of pale ale, which had become known as India pale ale, developed in England around 1840 and India pale ale became a popular product in England. Some brewers dropped the term India in the late 19th century, but records indicated that these pale ales retained the features of earlier IPAs.
India Pale Ale. It is an ale that was originally made in England for the crews of the merchant ships sailing to India. They needed something that would keep for months on the sea so they invented IPA. It was a quite strong very bitter beer. Both the higher alcohol and the higher degree of hopping helped to preserve the beer. Now its a battle to see whom can make the hoppiest brew. Sometimes one producers pale ale is more hoppy than another's IPA but its usually vice versa. There are even double IPAs and UBER hoppy beers like Dogfish Head 120 (continuously hopped for 120 minutes).
India Pale Ale or IPA is a style of pale ale developed in England for export to India. The first known use of the expression India pale ale is in an advertisement in the 'Sydney Gazette and New South Wales Advertiser' on 27 August 1829. 