Continental drift was a theory that explained how continents shift position on Earth's surface. Set forth in 1912 by Alfred Wegener, a geophysicist and meteorologist, continental drift also explained why look-alike animal and plant fossils, and similar rock formations, are found on different continents. Evidence for continental drift. A map of the continents inspired Wegener's quest to explain Earth's geologic history. Trained as a meteorologist, he was intrigued by the interlocking fit of Africa's and South America's shorelines.
The idea that the continents were once one super-continent and subsequently moved apart is the basis of the theory of continental drift. Continental drift was first proposed … as a scientific hypothesis with evidences by Alfred Wegener early in the twentieth century. German scientist Alfred Wegener (1880-1930) first proposed the theory of continental drift in 1912, but it was not widely accepted until the 1950s.
Wegener came up with the theory of continental drift but his theory was not accepted....... 
Alfred Wegener (1880 - 1930). Alfred Wegener proposed the theory of continental drift at the beginning of the 20th century. His idea was that the Earth's continents were once joined together, but gradually moved apart over millions of years. This slideshow explains Wegener's theory. Earth around 200 million years ago, at the time of Pangaea. Wegener’s evidence for continental drift was that: 1  the same types of fossilised animals and plants are found in South America and Africa.
The continental drift theory is the theory that once all the continents were joined in a super-continent, which scientists call Pangaea. Over a vast period of time, the continents drifted apart to their current locations. Alfred Wegener first supported continental drift. Wegener’s explanation of continental drift in 1912 was that drifting occurred because of the earth’s rotation. This explanation and his theory were not widely accepted. Prior to Wegener, however, many had noted that the shapes of the continents seem to fit together, suggesting some schism in the past. Before the 1950s, the concept of the continental drift, for the most part, was not even entertained as plausible. 
Continental drift is the movement of the Earth's continents relative to each other, thus appearing to drift across the ocean bed. The speculation that continents might have 'drifted' was first put forward by Abraham Ortelius in 1596. A second problem was that Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250 cm/year, was implausibly high. (The currently accepted rate for the separation of the Americas from Europe and Africa is about 2.5 cm/year). And it did not help that Wegener was not a geologist.
THE THEORY OF CONTINENTAL DRIFT. The drifting of tectonic plates is an on-going process that has changed the configuration of the continents since their formation in Archean time. This hypothesis first proposed in 1912 by Alfred Wegener, a German Meteorologist, was not widely accepted until after 1960. Wegener's evidence for continental drift includes:
The theory of continental drift was not accepted for many years. One problem was that a plausible driving force was missing. A second problem was that Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250 cm/year, was implausibly high. (The currently accepted rate for the separation of the Americas from Europe and Africa is about 2.5 cm/year). And it did not help that Wegener was not a geologist.
Why was Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift not accepted by other prominent scientists?In Meteorology and continental drift, Alfred Wegener was the German meteorologist who proposed a... Posted on. (Answer #1). Alfred Wegener, a German born scientist, proposed the theory of continental drift. At the time his theory was presented, he was met with much opposition.
The reaction to Alfred Wegener's Continental Drift Theory demonstrates that new ideas threaten the establishment, regardless of the century. Alfred Wegener was the scientist who proposed the Continental Drift Theory in the early twentieth century. Simply put, his hypothesis proposed that the continents had once been joined, and over time had drifted apart. 