**Most Nut Butters Ship within a day or two of ordering .**. Roasted Almonds, All Natural Whey Protein, Coconut Palm Sugar, cinnamon, Coconut Oil, Chia Seed, Flax Seed.. 
Flavor. The sugar cookie may be a close cousin, but the snickerdoodle has a flavor all its own. This is due largely to the cream of tartar that is a staple of the standard snickerdoodle recipe. Features. What separates the snickerdoodle from the traditional sugar cookie or shortbread is the crispy coating of white sugar and cinnamon. This is achieved by forming the dough into 1-inch balls and rolling the balls in the sugar and cinnamon mixture before baking.
A smooth aromatic coffee made from a blend of cinnamon and hazelnut, which is reminiscent of homemade snickerdoodle cookies. This coffee has a perfect buttery, spicy finish that lingers on the palate. This is the Original Snickerdoodle Coffee, not one of the many knock-offs. We also offer Snicker Roo Coffee, which is similar but with a stronger cinnamon flavor. It is available in regular or decaf.
PREPARATION DIRECTIONS: 1. HEAT oven to 400°F. 2. COMBINE 1 1⁄2 cups sugar, shortening, eggs, milk and vanilla in large bowl. Beat with electric mixer at medium speed until well blended. 3. COMBINE flour, cream of tartar, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Add gradually to shortening mixture at low speed. 
A snickerdoodle is a type of cookie made with butter or oil, sugar, and flour, and rolled in cinnamon sugar. Eggs may also sometimes be used as an ingredient, with cream of tartar and baking soda added to leaven the dough. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A snickerdoodle is a type of soft sugar cookie dusted with cinnamon and sugar. Usually, the snickerdoodle has a slightly crackly or crinkly top, and snickerdoodle cookies are often served at Christmas. 
Sugar Cookies. Butter Cookies. Melting Moments. Snickerdoodles: In a large bowl whisk together the flour, salt, and baking powder. In the bowl of your electric mixer (or with a hand mixer), beat the butter and sugar until smooth (about 2 to 3 minutes). Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Scrape down the sides of the bowl
Instant Snickerdoodle. Make a dry mix for snickerdoodle coffee and keep it on hand to curb cravings. Stir together powdered instant coffee, powdered creamer or powdered milk, sugar or artificial sweetener, ground cinnamon and a touch of ground allspice. 
Directions. 1  1 Heat oven to 400ºF. 2  2 Mix 1 1/2 cups sugar, the butter, shortening and eggs in large bowl. 3  Stir in flour, cream of tartar, baking soda and salt. 4  3 Shape dough into 1 1/4-inch balls. 5  Mix 1/4 cup sugar and the cinnamon. 6  Roll balls in cinnamon-sugar mixture. 7  Place 2 inches apart on ungreased cookie sheet. 