CARNIVORES. Almost all sharks are carnivores or meat eaters. They live on a diet of fish and sea mammals (like dolphins and seals) and even such prey as turtles and seagulls. Sharks even eat other sharks. For example, a tiger shark might eat a bull shark, a bull shark might eat a blacktip shark and a blacktip shark might eat a dogfish shark! The teeth of the carnivores are sharp and pointy
Tiger shark Facts. Tiger shark is one of the largest species of sharks on the planet. This animal can be found in the warm, tropical and subtropical waters all over the world. Largest population of tiger sharks lives in Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia. Tiger sharks normally spends majority of their time in the deep water. Tiger sharks are the second most dangerous species of sharks for humans. Unlike great white sharks (which are the most dangerous), tiger sharks will often eat victim after attack. Luckily, encounters between tiger sharks and humans are rare.
Tiger sharks are common in tropical and sub-tropical waters throughout the world. Large specimens can grow to as much as 20 to 25 feet (6 to 7.5 meters) in length and weigh more than 1,900 pounds (900 kilograms). Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Tiger sharks are named for the dark, vertical stripes found mainly on juveniles. As these sharks mature, the lines begin to fade and almost disappear. These large, blunt-nosed predators have a duly earned reputation as man-eaters.
Tiger shark is known as voracious carnivore (meat-eater). Regular prey of tiger shark includes dolphins, fish, turtles, dugongs, sea birds, stingrays, sea snakes …. Tiger sharks are definitely not picky eaters. Tiger sharks are the second most dangerous species of sharks for humans. Unlike great white sharks (which are the most dangerous), tiger sharks will often eat victim after attack. Luckily, encounters between tiger sharks and humans are rare.
Geographic Range. Tiger sharks are found in many subtropical and tropical waters, primarily from 45°N to 32°S. Tiger sharks have been sighted from the eastern coast of North America to the eastern coast of Brazil. This includes the coasts of southern North America, Mexico, and Latin America along the Gulf of Mexico. Tiger sharks are some of the largest predators in the ocean and have few species feed on them. Some juvenile tiger sharks, however, fall prey to other sharks. Female tiger sharks gives birth in a nursery, which provides protection during the birthing process and to pups in the absence of parents.
Tiger sharks are all of the above, according to Dr. Erich K. Ritter. Tiger sharks are noted for having the widest food spectrum of all sharks. They can eat almost anything, from turtles to birds, as well as other sharks and fish. Besides normal prey they even eat garbage like tires, nails or car license plates, as sometimes documented by examinations of their stomach contents
Sometimes; all sharks are predators after all. Most shark species (about 80 percent) have never been known to attack humans. There are four shark species that have always been considered dangerous to humans: great white shark, tiger shark, bull shark and oceanic whitetip shark. 17 other species of sharks have also attacked humans. They are considered less dangerous, but can be aggressive if threatened or disturbed
Tiger sharks are one of the largest carnivores in the ocean. Juveniles have tiger-like stripes, which fade as they grow older. Tiger sharks are blue or green in color with a light yellow or white under-belly. This speices has a large blunt nose on the end of a wedge-shaped head. Tiger sharks are some of the largest predators in the ocean and have few species feed on them. Some juvenile tiger sharks, however, fall prey to other sharks. Female tiger sharks gives birth in a nursery, which provides protection during the birthing process and to pups in the absence of parents.
It hunts alone in the darkness of the night sea. Black-tipped sharks and white-tipped sharks are smaller and therefore take smaller prey than tiger sharks. The feed on small fishes at the edges of reef and in shallow waters. Not all sharks that inhabit the Great Barrier Reef are top carnivores. Whale sharks, the largest of all fish in the sea, reach 15 meters in length and grow to weights up to 15 metric tons. But their diet consists of plankton, crustaceans and small fish. Sharks are not the only predators of the reef though