Your question is a very sensitive one to most all real estate agents and brokers. I will give you the standard answer we give people who call our office near Seattle. Here are a couple options: 1. 
Patricia-Anne Tom. Buying and selling real estate is a complex process that should be entered with the help of a professional. A REALTOR® can tell you important details about the homes you’re considering, help you navigate the negotiation process, and help protect your financial interests. 
In real estate, as in any other industry, there are the good, the bad, and the ugly. The key is understanding what an agent does, knowing how to find a good agent, and doing your homework to make sure that agent is a good fit for you. 
Ray, You can always change agents! I would suggest you do it in writing, citing your reasons as you did here, copying the broker. You are the client and should find someone willing to take the time and effort to work with you. Regarding this particular proprty; you can still change agents. 1 if you signed a contract with an agent to buy a house and you did not get that house how long do you have to wait befor you can ch 2  ... 15 answers. 3  just began to look for houses. 4  Never signed a contract with this real estate agent.
If all else fails! When all else has failed with your estate agent, you can consider multi-agency agreements. Especially where one had a sole agent agreement, upon expiration of the notice, one can switch to a multi-agency agreement. This is when one instructs more than one agency to sell his or her home. Where the estate agent has been bringing viewers to view your home and they never came back, you can follow up on this through your agent, to find out what the viewers-rather your potential buyers bought. It is the duty of your estate agent to also keep a tab on what your viewers ended up deciding on.
If you are selling your home you will want a real estate agent that is a marketing powerhouse. Many real estate agents will take your listing, enter it into the multiple listing service and wait for it to sell. When you are buying or selling a home it’s very important that your real estate agent listen to you. They should seek to find your motivation for buying or selling. What is important to you and why.
You may want to make this explicit in your agreement with your new Estate Agent. It is also possible that the two Estate Agents can come to an agreement as to whether the commission should be split between them before the matter arises. You are quite right to be worried about paying two commissions. This is a really grey area in the real estate world and there is no definitive right or wrong answer but it’s good to be as well informed as possible. My advice to you is that you first and foremost check the small print of the contract with your Estate Agent – the devil is in the detail!
When you sign a listing agreement and agree to work with a real estate agent, you are committing to a professional relationship. Like any relationship, you can’t know in advance how things will turn out long term, so it’s important to have a backup plan and know what your options are should things turn sour. In this case, it is also better for a real estate agent to ‘fire’ his/her customer. The following are a few signs that you and your agent are not working well together: 1  You and your agent see a situation in two radically different ways, and don’t believe that you can rely on one another.
You are obviously disappointed with your Estate Agent’s service and therefore giving notice is the right thing to do. This is a really grey area in the real estate world and there is no definitive right or wrong answer but it’s good to be as well informed as possible. My advice to you is that you first and foremost check the small print of the contract with your Estate Agent – the devil is in the detail! Establish whether after the notice period has expired you will have any continuing liability to the agent