An assay is an investigative (analytic) procedure in laboratory medicine, pharmacology, environmental biology and molecular biology for qualitatively assessing or quantitatively measuring the presence or amount or the functional activity of a target entity (the analyte). 1 Enzyme activity assay: Enzymes may be tested by their highly repeating activity on a large number of substrates when loss of a substrate or the making of a product may have a measurable attribute like color or absorbance at a particular wavelength or light or chemiluminiscence or electrical/redox activity.
Assay. Assay. (Science: procedure) The determination of the amount of a particular constituent of a mixture or of the biological or pharmacological potency of a drug. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 26,306 times.
Assay: An assay is an analysis done to determine: 1  The presence of a substance and the amount of that substance. 2  Thus, an assay may be done for example to determine the level of thyroid hormones in the blood of a person suspected of being hypothyroid (or hyperthyroid). 3  The biological or pharmacological potency of a drug. Assay: An assay is an analysis done to determine: 1  The presence of a substance and the amount of that substance. 2  The biological or pharmacological potency of a drug.
A bioassay or biological assay is a biological testing procedure for estimating the concentration of a pharmaceutically active substance in a formulated product or bulk material. In contrast to common physical or chemical methods, a bioassay results in detailed information on the biological activity of a substance. 
bi·o·as·say. n. 1. Determination of the strength or biological activity of a substance, such as a drug, by comparing its effects with those of a standard preparation on a test organism. 2. A test used to determine such strength or activity. tr.v. bi·o·as·sayed, bi·o·as·say·ing, bi·o·as·says. To cause to undergo a bioassay. 1. (Biochemistry) a method of determining the concentration, activity, or effect of a change to substance by testing its effect on a living organism and comparing this with the activity of an agreed standard. vb. 2. (Biochemistry) (tr) to subject to a bioassay.
Definition of ASSAY. 1. archaic: trial, attempt. 2. : examination and determination as to characteristics (as weight, measure, or quality). 3. : analysis (as of an ore or drug) to determine the presence, absence, or quantity of one or more components; also: a test used in this analysis. 
Bioassay (commonly used shorthand for biological assay or assessment), or biological standardization is a type of scientific experiment. A bioassay involves the use of live animal or plant (in vivo) or tissue or cell (in vitro) to determine the biological activity of a substance, such as a hormone or drug. Bioassays are typically conducted to measure the effects of a substance on a living organism and are essential in the development of new drugs and in monitoring environmental pollutants. Both are procedures by which the potency or the nature of a substance is estimated by studying its effects on living matter.
1 The presence of a substance and the amount of that substance. 2  Thus, an assay may be done for example to determine the level of thyroid hormones in the blood of a person suspected of being hypothyroid (or hyperthyroid). 3  The biological or pharmacological potency of a drug. Assay: An assay is an analysis done to determine: 1  The presence of a substance and the amount of that substance. 2  The biological or pharmacological potency of a drug.