Integrated marketing communication refers to integrating all the methods of brand promotion to promote a particular product or service among target customers. In integrated marketing communication, all aspects of marketing communication work together for increased sales and maximum cost effectiveness. Let us go through various components of Integrated Marketing Communication: 1  The Foundation-As the name suggests, foundation stage involves detailed analysis of both the product as well as target market. 2  It is essential for marketers to understand the brand, its offerings and end-users.
The integrated marketing communications were vital to our success with regards to the business because we were able to maintain close contact throughout. 7 people found this helpful. The creative director asked his copy writers to create an integrated marketing campaign using integrated marketing communications. They would employ these strategies through multiple marketing communications. Definition. An approach to achieving the objectives of a marketing campaign, through a well coordinated use of different promotional methods that are intended to reinforce each other.
The American Marketing Association defines Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) as “a planning process designed to assure that all brand contacts received by a customer or prospect for a product, service, or organization are relevant to that person and consistent over time.”. 
integrated marketing communications (IMC). An approach to achieving the objectives of a marketing campaign, through a well coordinated use of different promotional methods that are intended to reinforce each other. Definition
Integrated Marketing Communications is a simple concept. It ensures that all forms of communications and messages are carefully linked together. At its most basic level, Integrated Marketing Communications, or IMC, as we’ll call it, means integrating all the promotional tools, so that they work together in harmony. Promotion is one of the Ps in the marketing mix. Promotions has its own mix of communications tools. Barriers to Integrated Marketing Communications. In addition to the usual resistance to change and the special problems of communicating with a wide variety of target audiences, there are many other obstacles which restrict IMC.
We’ve always considered our online marketing agency “search plus” and by that I mean search is central and important, but accomplishing client marketing objectives requires a broader view than just optimizing web pages and digital assets. Of course if you follow us here or you’ve read Optimize, you know that. This leading panel of experts will discuss the meaning of the term and the merits of a fully fledged integrated marketing strategy. From case studies of high-profile brands, you’ll learn how to plan, create, execute, and measure cross-channel tactics for advanced digital marketing initiatives.
Planning. An integrated marketing communications plan includes an assessment of the market as it is and what state is desired for the market, according to Maurice Parisien with Opus #1 LLC and as outlined at the website Doc Stoc. Components of the market assessment include an analysis of the competition. Components. One component of integrated marketing communications is a company's brand, which must be conveyed consistently. According to the Side Road website, a brand is a name, sign or symbol used to identify a company and/or its products and services.
Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) is the application of consistent brand messaging across both traditional and non-traditional marketing channels and using different promotional methods to reinforce each other. Level 1: Tactical Coordination and Marketing Communications Initial IMC focus is on the tactical coordination of diverse marketing such as advertising, promotion, direct response, public relations, and special events. This level focuses on delivering “one sight, one sound” via marketing communication.
SES (the conference) has realized this trend and is offering a keynote panel session at SES Chicago this week (Thurs 11/15 at 9:30am), called: “Integrated Marketing” What Does That Really Mean? , to bring some meaning to the madness. This leading panel of experts will discuss the meaning of the term and the merits of a fully fledged integrated marketing strategy. From case studies of high-profile brands, you’ll learn how to plan, create, execute, and measure cross-channel tactics for advanced digital marketing initiatives.