URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/8731/vertical_equity.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited. 
DEFINITION of 'Horizontal Equity'. An economic theory that states that individuals with similar income and assets should pay the same amount in taxes. Horizontal equity should apply to individuals considered equal regardless of the tax system in place. The more neutral a tax system is the more horizontally equitable it is considered to be.
3 thoughts on “ Horizontal and Vertical Equity Definition ”. Poll tax not horizontal equity, far more unfair than that-broadly people expected to pay same regardless of income. Very straight forward definations. Made it easier for me to grasp the concepts of equity in education. Horizontal equity is an important starting point for any tax system. Horizontal equity can be consistent with also achieving vertical equity. Horizontal equity is the equal treatment of equals and this is a means for achieving a distribution of tax burdens that is vertically equitable.
BREAKING DOWN 'Vertical Equity'. The two main types of vertical equity are proportional and progressive taxation. In proportional taxation, the amount of taxes paid increases directly with income. For example, a 5% increase in earnings will cause a 5% increase in taxes. A method of collecting income tax in which the taxes paid increase with the amount of earned income. The driving principle behind vertical equity is the notion that those who are more able to pay taxes should contribute more than those who are not.
Vertical equity in health care resource allocation. Mooney G(1). Author information: (1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, Australia. gavinm@pub.health.usyd.edu.au. Comment on Health Care Anal. 2000;8(3):217-33. 
Health equity refers to the study of differences in the quality of health and healthcare across different populations. Health equity falls into two major categories: horizontal equity, the equal treatment of individuals or groups in the same circumstances; and vertical equity, the principle that individuals who are unequal should be treated differently according to their level of need.
BREAKING DOWN 'Horizontal Equity'. Horizontal equity is hard to achieve in a tax system with loopholes, deductions and incentives, because the presence of any tax break means that similar individuals do not pay the same rate. An economic theory that states that individuals with similar income and assets should pay the same amount in taxes. Horizontal equity should apply to individuals considered equal regardless of the tax system in place. The more neutral a tax system is the more horizontally equitable it is considered to be.
notions of equity. Horizontal and Vertical Equity. Vertical equity is the unequal treatment of unequals. Horizontal equity is the equal treatment of equals. 
Examples of horizontal vs vertical equity. Labels: economics, tax. While the discussion between horizontal and vertical equity generally applies to tax policy, we can also look at the class economics definition for the two terms and go over a few examples. 
An explanation of the difference between horizontal and vertical equity. Horizontal equity implies that we give the same treatment to people in an identical situation. E.g. if two people earn £15,000 they should both pay the same amount of income tax. Horizontal equity is an important starting point for any tax system. Horizontal equity can be consistent with also achieving vertical equity. Horizontal equity is the equal treatment of equals and this is a means for achieving a distribution of tax burdens that is vertically equitable.