Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by exercise, with stretching a common exercise component to maintain or improve flexibility. Quality of life is enhanced by improving and maintaining a good range of motion in the joints. Overall flexibility should be developed with specific joint range of motion needs in mind as the individual joints vary from one to another. Loss of flexibility can be a predisposing factor for physical issues such as pain syndromes or balance disorders
Flexibility is needed to perform everyday activities with relative ease. To get out of bed, lift children, or sweep the floor, we need flexibility. Flexibility tends to deteriorate with age, often due to a sedentary lifestyle. Without adequate flexibility, daily activities become more difficult to perform. The length of the flexibility component depends on the needs and motivation of the client. In most cases, flexibility training should last at least 5 to 10 minutes. Stretching is one area of the workout that tends to get cut short when time is running out.
Flexibility is defined as the range of motion of your joints or the ability of your joints to move freely. It also refers to the mobility of your muscles, which allows for more movement around the joints. Flexibility is important in fitness because it allows for better performance when playing sports or exercising and in your day-to-day activities, such as bending, walking and lifting. In this lesson, you will learn how stretching and certain types of exercises can help improve flexibility.
While stretching exercises will often increase flexibility in a short time, dramatic improvements in flexibility can take more than a year to accomplish. Flexibility is the ability of a joint to move through its full range of motion. Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. The ability of a joint to move through its full range of motion is defined as flexibility. Because each joint has a different potential range of motion, it is joint specific. Sometimes, being flexible in a particular area of the body requires the interaction of a series of joints
Flexibility is one of the main fitness components, important for success in many sports. Certain sports, such as gymnastics, it is one of the most important physical attributes. In many other sports, including team field sports, good flexibility is an important part of the overall fitness profile.
Flexibility, mobility and suppleness all mean the range of limb movement around joints. In any movement there are two groups of muscles at work: 1  agonistic muscles which cause the movement to take place and. 2  opposing the movement and determining the amount of flexibility are the antagonistic muscles. 
Flexibility or limberness refers to the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints, and length in muscles that cross the joints to induce a bending movement or motion. Flexibility varies between individuals, particularly in terms of differences in muscle length of multi-joint muscles. Quality of life is enhanced by improving and maintaining a good range of motion in the joints. Overall flexibility should be developed with specific joint range of motion needs in mind as the individual joints vary from one to another.
Flexibility is defined by Gummerson as the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints that is attainable in a momentary effort with the help of a partner or a piece of equipment.. This definition tells us that flexibility is not something general but is specific to a particular joint or set of joints. 