The propofol dosage typically was an initial bolus of 20 to 40 mg, followed by 10 to 20 mg boluses to maintain sedation. Sipe reported that propofol achieved faster time to sedation, greater depth of sedation and faster recovery than midazolam/meperidine sedation. Complication rates were similar.
OBJECTIVES. The purpose of this study was to determine the total propofol dose (mg/kg) for non-emergent pediatric procedural sedation and evaluate dosing differences with regard to a patient's sex, age, and body mass index.
0 I have never read a standard regarding maximum dosage of propofol for moderate sedation. I've read mean dosages, and policies regarding such average dosages, specifically for endoscopic procedures, but I have never read anything regarding a max dose of propofol for endoscopic procedures requiring
Propofol is 98% plasma-protein bound, and is metabolized primarily in the liver. The drug is lipophilic and is prepared as an oil/water emulsion consisting of 1% propofol, 10% soybean oil, 2.25% glycerol, and 1.2% egg lecithin. Propofol is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to eggs or soybean.
Lorazepam (Ativan) is another benzodiazepine that may be used for mild-to-moderate sedation; however, unlike midazolam, its onset of action does not peak until 15-20 minutes after administration. The duration of action of lorazepam is longer (ie, 6-8 h) than that of midazolam (30-60 min).
Sedation Definitions. Understanding the various depths of sedation is essential to provide safe and effective procedural sedation and analgesia. The ASA has defined the various sedation depths. As defined below, minimal sedation or moderate sedation is used for PSA.
This study was a retrospective observational pilot study including patients 0 to 18 years of age admitted between January 2008 and November 2009 for non-emergent gastrointestinal endoscopic procedures or radiologic imaging, who received propofol for procedural sedation.
Another nurse who was trained in the use of moderate sedation, but not deep sedation or anesthesia, assisted the gastroenterologist. After questioning the physician about the dose (100 mg is a high dose), she began administering the propofol via an infusion pump. The patient suddenly experienced respiratory arrest.