A. Yes. Soy foods offer many health benefits. Soy is a good source of protein, but unlike many other protein-rich foods, it's low in saturated fats and contains no cholesterol. The fat in soy is predominantly unsaturated, which does not raise blood cholesterol. Most consumers are aware of soyfoods, and many Americans have tried them
Soy is a legume and can be found in multiple forms such as soybean, soy flour, soy oil, soy seasoning, and soy protein. Soy is a common “hidden” food additive. This allergy mostly occurs during infancy and is usually outgrown by age 5. Soy allergy is less severe than other allergies but in rare cases it can cause a severe reaction called anaphylaxis.
In foods, soy is used as a milk substitute in infant feeding formulas, and as an alternative to cow's milk. Soybeans are eaten boiled or roasted. Soy flour is used as an ingredient in foods, beverages, and condiments. Consuming foods containing soy protein or taking soy protein products is LIKELY SAFE. Taking dietary supplements with soy extracts is POSSIBLY SAFE when used short-term (up to 6 months). Soy can cause some mild side effects such as constipation, bloating, and nausea.
SOY Overview Information. Soy comes from soybeans. The beans can be processed into soy protein, which is a powder; soymilk, which is a beverage that may or may not be fortified with extra calcium from the soybeans; or soy fiber, which contains some of the fibrous parts of the bean. Consuming foods containing soy protein or taking soy protein products is LIKELY SAFE. Taking dietary supplements with soy extracts is POSSIBLY SAFE when used short-term (up to 6 months). Soy can cause some mild side effects such as constipation, bloating, and nausea.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Many health “experts” and the media tout unfermented soy products (tofu, soymilk, soy cheese, etc.) as being good for you, but in actuality, the risk of consuming them far outweighs the benefits. 2  Soy has many potent hormones that can wreak havoc with your health. Soybeans are processed (by acid washing) in aluminum tanks, which can leach high levels of aluminum into the final soy product. Soy formula has up to 80 times higher manganese than is found in human breast milk. 1  Soy infant formula puts your baby's health at risk.
Soy protein is a protein that is isolated from soybean. It is made from soybean meal that has been dehulled and defatted. Dehulled and defatted soybeans are processed into three kinds of high protein commercial products: soy flour, concentrates, and isolates. 
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin. Fermented foods include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others. The oil is used in many industrial applications. Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil.
1 Many health “experts” and the media tout unfermented soy products (tofu, soymilk, soy cheese, etc.) as being good for you, but in actuality, the risk of consuming them far outweighs the benefits. 2  Soy has many potent hormones that can wreak havoc with your health. Soybeans are processed (by acid washing) in aluminum tanks, which can leach high levels of aluminum into the final soy product. Soy formula has up to 80 times higher manganese than is found in human breast milk. 1  Soy infant formula puts your baby's health at risk.
Soy refers to products such as soy milk, cheese, yogurt, tofu, ice cream, nut butters, and other foods are all made from soybeans. Soy foods have recently become more popular in the United States, although people in Asia have eaten soybeans for hundreds of years. Soy flour. Soy flour is made from ground roasted soybeans. Soy flour can be added to baked goods to add protein. However, soy flour cannot be used in place of all of the flour in a recipe because it doesn’t have gluten, which is a protein needed to help dough rise.
Many foods containing soy — such as tofu, soy meat alternatives, soy sauce, soy flour and soybean oil — can be found in supermarkets as well as natural, health and Asian food stores. 