Learn how to stop your internet explorer browser from giving you script error messages. Script error messages are displayed by Internet Explorer when there is a problem with the JavaScript or VBScript code on the website you are viewing. Occasionally a script error can be caused by an error in downloading a webpage, but more often it is an error in the webpage itself
You can tell your Internet Explorer to ignore these errors when they occur and not show you an alert about them. Here is the procedure: 1  Open Internet Explorer. 2  In the top menu, Click on Tools and then Internet Options. 3  Click on the Advanced Tab. 4  Find where it says “ Disable Script Debugging ” and tick the box beside it. 5  Now, Find where it says “ Display a notification about every script error ” and untick the box beside it. 1
Script errors that occur because of server-side script failures do not produce error messages in Internet Explorer, but they may create a webpage that does not display or work correctly. The troubleshooting information in this article applies to client-side script errors. If you decide to ignore the errors, you can disable script debugging. Note If this problem occurs on more than one or two sites, do not disable script debugging. To narrow down the source of the problem, use another user account, another browser, or another computer to view the webpages that triggered the script error.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Script errors can cause Web pages to load incorrectly or not at all. When script errors occur in Yahoo Instant Messenger, the program fails to send messages and often informs the user: There is a problem with the script on this page.. Click to remove the check mark next to Display a notification about every script error if that box is checked. Click OK and reopen Yahoo Messenger to see if it runs correctly. Step 2. Check the security settings for Scripting, ActiveX and Java.. Open Internet Explorer.
Shares & Saves. Save. Sometimes Internet Explorer will give you script error messages when you are browsing the Web. You should not be alarmed. Script error messages normally occur when there is a problem with the programming on the Web page you are visiting and have nothing to do with Internet Explorer itself. In most cases, you will still be able to view the Web page in question, even with the script error. 
1 Start Internet Explorer. 2  On the Tools menu, click Internet Options. 3  If you can't see the Tools menu, press Alt to display the menus. 4  On the Advanced tab, click to select the Disable script debugging box, and then click OK. If you decide to ignore the errors, you can disable script debugging. Note If this problem occurs on more than one or two sites, do not disable script debugging. To narrow down the source of the problem, use another user account, another browser, or another computer to view the webpages that triggered the script error.
What to do when you get an Internet Explorer script error in Control Panel when opening User Accounts: You get a script error in Control Panel when clicking on User Account s and see: Internet Explorer Script Error An error has occurred in the script in this page. 1 Open Internet Explorer. 2  In the top menu, Click on Tools and then Internet Options. 3  Click on the Advanced Tab. 4  Find where it says “ Disable Script Debugging ” and tick the box beside it. 5  Now, Find where it says “ Display a notification about every script error ” and un
The methods that are listed in this article may help you to troubleshoot the script errors that are caused by files or settings on your computer. Additionally, to resolve script errors that occur when you try to print from Internet Explorer, click here. If you decide to ignore the errors, you can disable script debugging. Note If this problem occurs on more than one or two sites, do not disable script debugging. To narrow down the source of the problem, use another user account, another browser, or another computer to view the webpages that triggered the script error.
1 Start Internet Explorer. 2  On the Tools menu, click Internet Options. 3  If you can't see the Tools menu, press Alt to display the menus. 4  On the Advanced tab, click to clear the Display a notification about every script error box, and then click OK. If you decide to ignore the errors, you can disable script debugging. Note If this problem occurs on more than one or two sites, do not disable script debugging. To narrow down the source of the problem, use another user account, another browser, or another computer to view the webpages that triggered the script error.
You can probably ignore the error and disable script debugging as described in method 1. If the script error does not occur when you view the Web page from another user account, browser, or computer, the problem may be caused by files or by settings on your computer. Go to method 3 to continue to troubleshoot. If you decide to ignore the errors, you can disable script debugging. Note If this problem occurs on more than one or two sites, do not disable script debugging. Go to method 2 now. To turn off the Scripting Debugger in Internet Explorer 6, follow these steps: On the Tools menu, click Internet Options.