The superior cerebellar peduncle (brachium conjunctivum) is one of the structures that connect the cerebellum to the midbrain. It consists mainly of efferent fibers from the cerebellum to the thalamus and red nucleus. It also contains fibers of the ventral spinocerebellar tract (afferent to the cerebellum). The superior peduncle emerges from the upper and medial part of the white matter of each hemisphere and is placed under cover of the upper part of the cerebellum.
A cerebellar peduncle is a nerve tract that permits communication between the cerebellum and the other parts of the central nervous system. Three pairs of cerebellar peduncles conduct this communication. The inferior peduncles bring sensory information about the actual position of body parts such as limbs and joints. 
A few enter via the superior cerebellar peduncle. Afferent fibers are far more numerous that efferent fibers by a ratio of 40:1 (3). The cortico-ponto-cerebellar pathway, composed of the corticopontine tract and the pontocerebellar tract, is major afferent fibers through the middle cerebellar peduncle. The inferior cerebellar peduncle is mainly supplied by the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). The middle cerebellar peduncle is supplied by the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) and partly by the superior cerebellar artery (SCA). The superior cerebellar peduncle is mainly supplied by the SCA.
The inferior cerebellar peduncle or the restiform bodies connects the cerebellum with the medulla, but also to the vestibular nuclei located in the lower pons and medulla and with cells of the reticular formation. The middle cerebellar peduncle or the middle brachium pontis is the largest of the peduncles and links the cerebellum with the pons. Via this connection, the cerebellum receives a copy of the information for muscle movement that the pyramidal tract is carrying down to lower motor neurons.
The inferior cerebellar peduncle carries many types of input and output fibers that are mainly concerned with integrating proprioceptive sensory input with motor vestibular functions such as balance and posture maintenance. It consists of the following fiber tracts entering cerebellum: Important fibers running through the inferior cerebellar peduncle include the dorsal spinocerebellar tract and axons from the inferior olivary nucleus, among others.
Each cerebellar inferior peduncle connects the spinal cord and medulla oblongata with the cerebellum, and comprises the juxtarestiform body and restiform body. Important fibers running through the inferior cerebellar peduncle include the dorsal spinocerebellar tract and axons from the inferior olivary nucleus, among others.
Figure 1A-F. ). The cerebellum is connected to the brainstem by three cerebellar peduncles: 1) the inferior cerebellar peduncle (restiform body and juxtrarestiform body) 2) the middle cerebellar peduncle (brachium pontis), and 3) the superior peduncle (brachium conjunctivum) (1). The inferior cerebellar peduncle is mainly supplied by the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). The middle cerebellar peduncle is supplied by the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) and partly by the superior cerebellar artery (SCA). The superior cerebellar peduncle is mainly supplied by the SCA.
Overview. Problems. Contents. Anatomy. Point: 18. Superior cerebellar peduncle. Function: Principle efferent (out of) pathway of the cerebellum. Plays a major role in the coordination of the IPSI. arm and leg. Lesion of the superior cerebellar peduncle CAUDAL to the decussation will result in motor incoordination on the IPSI. side of the body, whereas a lesion that occurs ROSTRAL to the decussation results in CONTRA. motor incoordination of the arm and leg. Other Note: REMEMBER THAT CEREBELLAR LESIONS RESULT IN IPSI.
Contents. Anatomy. REMEMBER 1  : The cells of origin of fibers of the superior cerebellar peduncle lie in the deep cerebellar nuclei. 2  These nuclei lie deep in the white matter of the cerebellum, under what is called the cortex of the cerebellum. 1 The superior cerebellar peduncle crosses at caudal midbrain (inferior colliculus) levels, after which most of the fibers ascend to the red nucleus (rostral midbrain) and dorsal thalamus (ventral lateral and ventral anterior nuclei).