They are carnivores and prone to obesity, therefore it is vital to monitor the weight of your savannah monitor to prevent excess weight gain. Feeding juveniles a few times a week is fine but adult savannahs may only need to eat once a week. Savannah monitors will grow to be about 3 to 4 feet long. Regular handling will make them more tame but like all monitors, if they are not a captive bred baby or are not handled often savannah monitors can become aggressive. 
An adult savannah monitor’s cage size should be AT LEAST 5-6 feet long x 4-6 feet deep and 3-4 feet high. Because of the large size requirements for savannah monitor enclosures, cages often need to be hand constructed of wood and plexiglass or glass. Savannah monitor cages MUST be made of glass or plexiglass. THEY ARE POISONOUS. Adult Savannah Monitors over three feet long should be fed two to three times weekly, juveniles more often. Savannahs will gorge themselves with whatever is placed in front of them, so be very careful not to overfeed.
Neonate Care. Once you have neonate savannah monitors, set them up in groups of two or three in terraria about 18 inches long, 12 inches wide and 13 inches tall. A standard 15-gallon tank will be fine. However, an ideal height is 3 feet, so the young monitors can climb. At the very least you need a large terrarium measuring at least 6 feet long, 6 feet wide and 6 feet tall with at least 3 feet of soil substrate. A mature pair of savannah monitors should be at least 1.5 years old or more. Sexing monitors can be tricky, even for experts.
The Savannah monitors in captivity tend to be larger than their wild counterparts, due to food being more regularly available: no forced fasting from lack of available prey during the prolonged dry periods, periods that can last from 3-6 months, depending on where the lizard is originally from. While 4 ft STL specimens are rare in the wild, some may reach this length in captivity. Bennett reports wild hatchlings to be around 5 inches (13 cm) STL and 0.25 oz (6-7 gm), with wild adults averaging 13 inches (33 cm) SVL, 25 inches (64 cm) STL.
Enclosures for adult savannah monitors can get quite expensive so you may want to look into making your own. Hatchlings only need a 20-gallon aquarium with a mesh lid until they are 10-12 inches long. Adults will need a floor space of 8 x3 as a minimum, and the more room for them to move around in, the better. They are on the smaller side of the monitor family, and are great pets to own if you are looking for something larger than a bearded dragon. Appearance. A savannah monitor has the potential to reach over three feet in length. It can take two or three years for a savannah monitor to reach its full size. These monitors are a dusty brown or grey, and do not have a lot of coloration. When properly cared for, savannah monitors can live for 10-15 years
That would be at least 6 feet for every cage dimension. Others, pointing out that young monitors are arboreal and spend much of their time in trees, recommend a terrarium 8 or 9 feet tall. I favor keeping young savannah monitors in terraria measuring about 36 inches long, 24 inches wide and 15 to 20 inches tall. This provides a confined space that allows you to closely examine the lizard, so you can make sure it is eating and look for early signs of ill health. For savannah monitors, the air temperature under the basking spot should be between 105 and 110 degrees Fahrenheit. The material under the hotspot, usually a rock, may reach a surface temperature of 135 to 145 degrees, and this is fine.
Report Abuse. Savannah Monitors typically 2.5 to 4 feet, although rare 5 foot specimens are known. Plan on 4 feet by 8 feet of floor space. Juveniles can start out in a large tank (e.g. 55 gallon) but will grow quickly so new owners might want to start with an adult sized custom enclosure. 