When you buy a health insurance plan through a public exchange, you may be eligible for a subsidy in the form of a tax credit if your employer offers coverage that does not meet affordability or minimum value requirements or if your employer doesn’t offer coverage at all.
Walgreen's announcement that it will send its workers to a private health insurance exchange to buy their own plans is a sign of the times that isn't going away. And that may be good news for consumers, though it's too soon to tell, experts say.
One thing is certain: Exchanges are changing the way millions of Americans view their health insurance – whether it’s how they shop for a plan, what plan they decide to buy or how they use their benefits.
Many individuals who shop on exchanges may be new to health insurance. To help make shopping easier, health plans on a public exchange are labeled platinum, gold, silver or bronze. The metallic level helps shoppers understand the level of coverage a plan offers – how much they will need to pay and what the plan pays.
A. A private exchange is simply an online resource set up by brokers, insurance carriers or benefit consultants, where individuals and employers can shop for health insurance, enroll in a plan, and receive customer support as needed.
Walgreen said its employees will be given the same amount of money to buy insurance on a private exchange run by benefits company Aon Hewitt as it contributes to their plans now.
When you visit a health insurance comparison site and submit an application, you’re using a private exchange. These are not new, and they’re not part of the ACA. Private exchanges can be used in the individual or group markets.
Employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange. There, they can shop for a health plan and other benefits, like dental, based on what the employer has selected as options.
So that’s the public exchange – offered by the government – either state or federal, or both. There are also private exchanges. Private exchanges are not part of the Affordable Care Act. They are created by private sector companies, for example, by a health insurance company or a brokerage or consulting firm.