A subdural haematoma occurs when a blood vessel in the space between the skull and the brain (the subdural space) is damaged. Blood escapes from the blood vessel, leading to the formation of a blood clot (haematoma) that places pressure on the brain and damages it. A subdural haematoma is a serious condition where blood collects between the skull and the surface of the brain.
They usually result from a head injury. There are two types of subdural hematoma—acute and chronic. Acute subdural hematomas commonly form because of a severe head injury. Chronic subdural hematomas develop due to a minor head injury. A blood clot on the surface of the brain is also called a subdural hematoma. According to the UCLA Neurosurgery department, approximately 20 to 30 percent of patients regain full or partial brain function after having a subdural hematoma (UCLA).
Overview. A chronic subdural hematoma (SDH) is a pool (or collection) of blood on the brain’s surface under the dura, which is the outer covering of the brain. It usually begins forming several days or weeks after bleeding initially starts. This bleeding is usually due to a head injury
Subdural haemorrhage (SDH) is a collection of blood accumulating in the potential space between the dura and arachnoid mater of the meninges around the brain. SDH can happen in any age-group, is mainly due to head trauma and CT scans are usually sufficient to make the diagnosis. 
In a subdural hematoma, bleeding occurs between the dura and the next layer, the arachnoid. The bleeding in a subdural hematoma is under the skull and outside the brain, not in the brain itself. As blood accumulates, however, pressure on the brain increases. The pressure on the brain causes a subdural hematoma's symptoms.
A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood outside the brain. Subdural hematomas are usually caused by severe head injuries. The bleeding and increased pressure on the brain from a subdural hematoma can be life-threatening. The bleeding in a subdural hematoma is under the skull and outside the brain, not in the brain itself. As blood accumulates, however, pressure on the brain increases. The pressure on the brain causes a subdural hematoma's symptoms.
Definition. A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood in the space between the outer layer (dura) and middle layers of the covering of the brain (the meninges). It is most often caused by torn, bleeding veins on the inside of the dura as a result of a blow to the head. The time between the injury and the appearance of symptoms can vary from less than 48 hours to several weeks, or more. Symptoms appearing in less than 48 hours are due to an acute subdural hematoma. This type of bleeding is often fatal, and results from tearing of the venous sinus.
Background. A subdural hematoma (SDH) is a collection of blood below the inner layer of the dura but external to the brain and arachnoid membrane (see the images below). Subdural hematoma is the most common type of traumatic intracranial mass lesion. Acute subdural hematoma. 
A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood underneath the dura mater, the tough outer layer of the meninges, the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord. The bleeding comes from small veins that cross over the brain, between it and the dura mater. 
Causes of Subdural Hematoma. Subdural hematoma is usually caused by a head injury, such as from a fall, motor vehicle collision, or an assault. The sudden blow to the head tears blood vessels that run along the surface of the brain. This is referred to as an acute subdural hematoma. The bleeding in a subdural hematoma is under the skull and outside the brain, not in the brain itself. As blood accumulates, however, pressure on the brain increases. The pressure on the brain causes a subdural hematoma's symptoms.