There are different forms of motor neuron disease. 1  ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) is the most common form and accounts for approximately 60% to 70% of all cases. 2  PBP (progressive bulbar palsy) accounts for about 20% of all cases. Motor neurons are found in the brain and spine. When motor neurons relay signals from the brain to the muscles and bones, the muscles move. Motor neurons are also involved in many of our automatic movements, such as swallowing and breathing.
A brief description of the symptoms of some of the more common MNDs follows. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also called Lou Gehrig's disease or classical motor neuron disease, is a progressive, ultimately fatal disorder that disrupts signals to all voluntary muscles. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary disease affecting the lower motor neurons. It is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the gene SMN1, which makes a protein that is important for the survival of motor neurons (SMN protein).
Get help from a doctor now ›. Motor neuron disease: Motor neuron disease is a group of poorly understood degenerative conditions of the nervous system. The one known most commonly is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, better known as lou gehrig's disease. Weakness: Motor neuron diseases affect the nerves that send the impulse to muscles to initiate movement. Examples of motor neuron diseases include lou gerig's disease(als) and spinal muscular atrophy. Symptoms may include limb weakness, difficulty swallowing, and difficulty breathing.
Terminology [edit]. In the United States the term motor neuron disease is often used interchangeably with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The other four motor neuron diseases are: primary lateral sclerosis, progressive muscular atrophy, progressive bulbar palsy and pseudobulbar palsy. In the United Kingdom motor neurone disease is used to differentiate this disorder from the other motor neuron diseases though it is also known as
About MND. Motor neurone disease (MND) is a progressive disease that attacks the motor neurones, or nerves, in the brain and spinal cord. This means messages gradually stop reaching muscles, which leads to weakness and wasting. MND can affect how you walk, talk, eat, drink and breathe. 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as Lou Gehrig's disease and Charcot disease, is a specific disorder that involves the death of neurons. 
In the United States the term motor neuron disease is often used interchangeably with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In the United Kingdom motor neurone disease is used to differentiate this disorder from the other motor neuron diseases though it is also known as
It is possible that the main title of the report Motor Neuron Disease is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. General Discussion. Motor neuron disease comprises a group of severe disorders of the nervous system characterized by progressive degeneration of motor neurons (neurons are the basic nerve cells that combine to form nerves).
Motor neuron disease (MND) is a serious and incurable form of progressive neurodegeneration-over time the nerves in the spine and brain progressively lose function. In the case of motor neuron disease, motor neurons-types of nerve cells-are affected. The renowned English physicist, Stephen Hawking, and guitar virtuoso Jason Becker are living with motor neuron disease. In all three MND forms symptoms are very similar. However, they progress at different speeds. Motor neurons are found in the brain and spine. When motor neurons relay signals from the brain to the muscles and bones, the muscles move. Motor neurons are also involved in many of our automatic movements, such as swallowing and breathing.
The motor neuron diseases (MNDs) are a group of progressive neurological disorders that destroy motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary disease affecting the lower motor neurons. It is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the gene SMN1, which makes a protein that is important for the survival of motor neurons (SMN protein).