RSVP Endurance jumbo potato ricer, $30 from ChefTools.com. This extrusion tool forces cooked potato through small holes, resulting in rice-like pieces of potato (hence the name). It’s constructed of a hopper into which you put a cooked potato (peeled or not) and a plunger that forces the potato through the holes. Because air is incorporated into the potato as it’s pressed, this tool gives you the lightest mashed potatoes possible. If fluffy and smooth is your idea of potato nirvana, go with a ricer. Either way, be sure to buy a durable model that feels good in your hand. When you have a pile of potatoes to work through, you don’t want a flimsy tool that’s going to cause a hand cramp.
Ever. I’ve mentioned the potato ricer before and how it’s one of the kitchen tools you should have, but I didn’t really explain why. The first reason is the fact that other than pressing them through a mesh screen, a potato ricer is the easiest way to get ultra smooth potatoes. It’s way faster and more effective than mashing with a potato masher or even using an electric mixer.
OXO Potato Ricer. Photo courtesy of Pricegrabber. A potato ricer is a kitchen tool used for pressing cooked potatoes or other soft foods through a bunch of little holes so that the result somewhat resembles grains of rice. A potato ricer (here's one) is shaped like a cup or cylinder with small rice-sized perforations at one end and some sort of handle or press for forcing the food through the perforations.
The benefit to using a potato ricer instead of mashing the potatoes by hand is that the potato ricer achieves a uniformly smooth consistency with no lumps. And an electric mixer or food processor can overwork the starches, producing a gluey product. A potato ricer (here's one) is shaped like a cup or cylinder with small rice-sized perforations at one end and some sort of handle or press for forcing the food through the perforations.
A Potato Ricer is a long handled device with a small can or cylinder at one end and a plunger attached to the other. The cylinder end has large holes through which cooked potatoes or other vegetables are pushed by the opposing plunger. They are sold as in 1 and 2 cup sizes. By design potato ricers create a smooth puree and keep skins from getting into the finished product. Potato ricers are best used for cooked tubers, squash and dense fruit like apples. They will not work well with tomatoes or other juicy fruits.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Collage showing a potato ricer from four angles. A potato ricer (also called a ricer) is a kitchen implement used to process potatoes or other food by forcing it through a sheet of small holes, which are typically about the diameter of a grain of rice. A ricer can be used to remove excess water from foods such as cooked greens that are to be added to quiche, and sliced or grated potatoes to improve the quality of potato chips or hash browns made from them. Potato ricers are used to make Mont Blanc, a dessert of chestnut puree.
less. For smooth and fluffy mashed potatoes, a potato ricer is the best tool. Potato ricers look and work just like giant garlic presses: You put the cooked potatoes in a hopper and squeeze the handles to force the spuds through a perforated disk. The best ricers produce a uniform texture that is not lumpy, overworked, or gummy.
Post 2. @Anon91339: A ricer is also a legitimate kitchen tool. You can find references to ricers online, or in any culinary dictionary. My mother used to use a ricer to squeeze pulp from seeds when making plum jam. There are photos online. Ricers as kitchen tools predate automobile Ricers and probably the automobile itself. 
(Ricer: from the latin word Ricarius meaning to suck at everything you attempt). A person who makes unecessary modifications to their most often import car (hence the term rice) to make it (mostly make it look) faster. The most common modifications are (but not limited to): 