Radiation emitted by the sun has a wide range of frequencies from infrared, to visible light, to ultra-violet. It even has small amounts of microwaves, X-rays, and gamma rays. … All this comes from the intense energy created in the sun's core. Radiation from the Earth is mostly (or maybe entirely) infrared radiation. the sun emits electromagnetic radition in a large range of the spectrum including x-rays, UV light and visible light. it also emits what is called solar wind which is large am … ounds of radiation and particles such as helium and hydrogen ions.... I'm no expert, but hopefully its somewhere for you to start googling.
Radiation emitted by the sun has a wide range of frequencies from infrared, to visible light, to ultra-violet. It even has small amounts of microwaves, X-rays, and gamma rays. … All this comes from the intense energy created in the sun's core. Radiation from the Earth is mostly (or maybe entirely) infrared radiation. emit means to give off, to expel, to send out, or discharge; as of light, heat, or radiation, vapor, etc.; The ozone layer blocks some harmful rays which the sun emits. Or s … our milk emits a bad odor.
Word Root of EMIT. The Latin word mittere, meaning “ to send, ” and its form missus give us the roots mit and miss. Words from the Latin mittere have something to do with sending. A miss ile is an object, such as a bullet, arrow, or rocket, that is sent through the air so as to hit a target. To e mit is to send forth or give out
2. give off, send forth, or discharge; as of light, heat, or radiation, vapor, etc. 3. express audibly; utter sounds (not necessarily words). Familiarity information: EMIT used as a verb is uncommon. 
Different fuels emit different amounts of carbon dioxide (CO2) in relation to the energy they produce when burned. To analyze emissions across fuels, compare the amount of CO2 emitted per unit of energy output or heat content. Pounds of CO2 emitted per million British thermal units (Btu) of energy for various fuels: 
emit. vb (tr) , emits, emitting or emitted. 1. to give or send forth; discharge: the pipe emitted a stream of water. 2. to give voice to; utter: she emitted a shrill scream. give out, give off. effuse-give out or emit (also metaphorically); The room effuses happiness. shine, reflect-be bright by reflecting or casting light; Drive carefully--the wet road reflects. spark, sparkle-emit or produce sparks; A high tension wire, brought down by a storm, can continue to spark.
This section describes common pollutants that vehicles emit. For information on the health impacts of these pollutants, see How Vehicle Emissions Affect Us, and to see how different transportation options compare, see Air Pollution and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Different Modes of Transportation. Gasoline engines emit a higher proportion of CO than diesel engines, due to the lower combustion temperature. Sulphur Dioxide (SO2). SO 2 is emitted from the combustion of sulphur contained in the fuel. Most SO 2 is from diesel engines as diesel has much more sulphur than gasoline.
the sun emits electromagnetic radition in a large range of the spectrum including x-rays, UV light and visible light. it also emits what is called solar wind which is large am … ounds of radiation and particles such as helium and hydrogen ions.... I'm no expert, but hopefully its somewhere for you to start googling. ;). emit means to give off, to expel, to send out, or discharge; as of light, heat, or radiation, vapor, etc.; The ozone layer blocks some harmful rays which the sun emits. Or s … our milk emits a bad odor.
Full Definition of EMIT. transitive verb. 1. a: to throw or give off or out (as light or heat) b: to send out: eject. 2. a: to issue with authority; especially: to put (as money) into circulation b obsolete: publish. 3. — emit·ter noun. See emit defined for English-language learners. See emit defined for kids. The Latin word mittere, meaning “ to send, ” and its form missus give us the roots mit and miss. Words from the Latin mittere have something to do with sending. A miss ile is an object, such as a bullet, arrow, or rocket, that is sent through the air so as to hit a target.