An annual membership to Sam's Club costs $35 for a business membership and $40 for a household. The deluxe membership program, which offers certain advantages, is $100. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I haven't had a Sam's Club membership in a long time... Sometimes if you let your membership lapse for about 6-9 months they will give you a renewal special 16 months for $40 or whatever.. We do this with our Bj's membership.... Which I like better than Sams. They accept manufacturer's coupons and print there own member coupons.. 
You may also renew by going into your local Sam's Club at the Membership Desk or while you check out at the Register. You can also call our Member Services line at 1-888-746-7726 to assist with your renewal. Please note: 1  The primary cardholder is responsible for renewing the Membership. 2  If you have a Sam's Savings or Plus, the Primary cardholder is the one that must renew the account. 3  If you have a Sam's Business or are a Plus who operates a business, the Primary cardholder must renew the Business account. 1 Sign in to your account. 2  From the My Account page, scroll down to the My Membership Summary heading on the left-hand side. 3  Click on the Renew My Membership tab. 4  Please note: When renewing your Membership online, the shipping address will change to the nearest Club address based on your originating Club number.
An annual membership to Sam's Club costs $35 for a business membership and $40 for a household. The deluxe membership program, which offers certain advantages, is $100. 17 people found this useful. 40 reg 35 for businesses There are different price structures for a Sam's Club membership. $40 is the basic membership. $100 is the Advantage Plus membership, which gets cus … tomers added deals and perks. There is also a business level for $35 if you are interested in getting your business a membership
1 A Sam’s Club membership will cost $45 a year for the basic membership. 2  For the business membership, the cost is also $45 a year, and the Sam’s Club Plus membership is $100 a year. 1
* Cash Rewards are only available for Sam’s Plus™ Members. Sam’s Plus Members earn $10 in Cash Rewards for every $500 in qualifying pre-tax purchases with a maximum reward of $500 per 12-month membership period. Cash Rewards are awarded annually and loaded onto the membership card for use in-club, on SamsClub.com or redeemable for cash. 
Join or Renew as a Sam’s Plus Member. As a Sam’s Club Plus Member you will receive the same first class benefits as an Advantage Member with the added benefits of Instant Savings Plus, an Extra Protection Service Plan, early shopping hours, up to 16 add-on memberships, and additional pharmacy and optical discounts! Posted by Lauren-Abenity Member Relations. Sam’s Club offers exclusive member only savings on all the things you need for your home and office, pantry, garden and yard, automotive, and so much more! Sign up through your Abenity discount program and receive a gift card of up to $25 to use on your next in-store purchase.
1 A Sam’s Club plus membership for $100 a year allows you to add up to 16 others to the membership and save up to 2% cash back on your Sam’s Club Membership Discovery card. 2  Members will also receive an extra year of protection on warranty and protection plans and receive discounts monthly on items throughout the store. 1 For the business membership, the cost is also $45 a year, and the Sam’s Club Plus membership is $100 a year.
View Offer. Join or Renew as a Sam’s Savings Member. As a Sam’s Club Savings Member you’ll enjoy exclusive member only pricing at Sam’s Club Stores and online at SamsClub.com, giving you great value on quality brands for your home, office, and more. Posted by Lauren-Abenity Member Relations. Sam’s Club offers exclusive member only savings on all the things you need for your home and office, pantry, garden and yard, automotive, and so much more! Sign up through your Abenity discount program and receive a gift card of up to $25 to use on your next in-store purchase.