If you type the term “project manager” into a job-listing database, you will get well over 1,000 hits. Project management is in high demand these days—both as a career and as a part of the work expectation in other careers. Despite the demand, many people are in the dark about this elusive job title.
Risk arises primarily from uncertainty and the successful project manager is the one who focuses upon this as the main concern. Most of the issues that impact a project arise in one way or another from risk. 1 Project Manager Careers: Job Expectations and Outlook Project managers oversee every aspect of a project from planning to completion and follow up. 2  To management and clients, the project manager is the face of the project. 3  To th….
A project manager is a professional in the field of project management. Project managers can have the responsibility of the planning, execution, and closing of any project, typically relating to construction industry, engineering, architecture, computing, and telecommunications. 
A project manager is a professional in the field of project management. Project managers can have the responsibility of the planning, execution and closing of any project, typically relating to construction industry, architecture, aerospace and defense, computer networking, telecommunications or software development.
You intuitively know the importance of a good project manager. Experience tells you that there is an incalculable value that a professional project manager will bring to any organization. What does a project manager duties include? Plenty. But, if you keep the four value-add activities as part of everything you do as a project manager you will find that others will have the answer to what you do as a
Confidence votes 40. A project manager is the person who has the overall responsibility for the successful planning and execution of a project. This title is used in the construction industry, architecture, information technology and many different occupations that are based on production of a product or service. 1 Project Manager Careers: Job Expectations and Outlook Project managers oversee every aspect of a project from planning to completion and follow up. 2  To management and clients, the project manager is the face of the project. 3  To th….
A project manager is the person who has the overall responsibility for the successful planning and execution of a project. 1 Project Manager Careers: Job Expectations and Outlook Project managers oversee every aspect of a project from planning to completion and follow up. 2  To management and clients, the project manager is the face of the project. 3  To th….
Project managers may routinely check-in with team members to see their progress. Project managers can be found in the engineering, construction and information technology industries. When a building is being designed, a project manager may devises a budget for constructing it. Project managers are often tasked with building an effective team who can work collaboratively to meet deadlines. One of the most important parts of a project manager’s job is personnel coordination. The manager must be able to create teams that will be effective and motivated to produce consistently good work.
Project managers work on specific projects that have definite outcomes, are time limited and have to stay within a budget. These roles typically include: 1  planning what work needs to be done, when and who’s going to do it. 2  looking at the risks involved in a particular project and managing these risks. 
Job Description. Job titles for construction project managers include construction manager, construction supervisor, and project engineer. As a construction project manager, you may be responsible for overseeing the building of commercial or residential structures, roads, or bridges. 