Argot is slang and jargon purposely used to obscure meaning to outsiders. Conversely, a lingua franca is used for the opposite effect, helping communicators to overcome unintelligibility, as are pidgins and creole languages. For example, the Chinook Jargon was a pidgin. Although technical jargon's primary purpose is to aid technical communication, not to exclude outsiders by serving as an argot, it can have both effects at once and can provide a technical ingroup with shibboleths.
Report Abuse. There is no one purpose for speaking in slang. Slang has many different reasons for its being. One possible reason is simple language evolution: words and their meanings change over time through context and history and so slang is a natural progression of language. Another possible reason for slang is to intentionally throw off other listeners that are outside a certain group of people. It is used to communicate particular messages. It can also be used to exclude people who don't know the slang and keep them from understanding. It is not different in essence from technical jargon.
Savignon describes a language function as “the use to which language is put, the purpose of an utterance rather than the particular grammatical form an utterance takes” (Savignon, 1983). By using this idea to structure teaching, the instructional focus becomes less about form and more about the meaning of an utterance. If we think about a function of language as one that serves a purpose we can see that much of what we see can be considered to be functional. Let's take the example of going to a dinner party. Arriving at the dinner party we may introduce ourselves, thank the host and ask where to put our coats.
Jargon is thus the technical terminology or characteristic idiom of a special activity or group. Most jargon is technical terminology, involving terms of art or industry terms, with particular meaning within a specific industry. For example, the Chinook Jargon was a pidgin. Although technical jargon's primary purpose is to aid technical communication, not to exclude outsiders by serving as an argot, it can have both effects at once and can provide a technical ingroup with shibboleths.
However,the purpose of jargon, slang, and colloquialisms could be to communicate with other people, especially close and friendly people easily and smoothly. In addition, by using these kind of languages, people can share and show their feelings only among them. 
A. Without a doubt, identifying just these three basic functions is an oversimplification, but an awareness of these functions is a good introduction to the complexity of language. B. The Functions of Language (i.e., its purpose; what it does; its uses). 1. Expressive language function: reports feelings or attitudes of the writer (or speaker), or of the subject, or evokes feelings in the reader (or listener). a. Poetry and literature are among the best examples, but much of, perhaps most of, ordinary language discourse is the expression of emotions, feelings or attitudes.
The purpose of the language ladder is to provide language learners with the tools needed to express different functions of language in multiple contexts and situations. If we think about a function of language as one that serves a purpose we can see that much of what we see can be considered to be functional. Let's take the example of going to a dinner party. Arriving at the dinner party we may introduce ourselves, thank the host and ask where to put our coats.
A lot of what we say is for a specific purpose. Whether we are apologizing, expressing a wish or asking permission, we use language in order to fulfill that purpose. Each purpose can be known as a language function. If we think about a function of language as one that serves a purpose we can see that much of what we see can be considered to be functional. Let's take the example of going to a dinner party. Arriving at the dinner party we may introduce ourselves, thank the host and ask where to put our coats.
For other uses, see Jargon (disambiguation) . Jargon is a type of language that is used in a particular context and may not be well understood outside of it. The context is usually a particular occupation (that is, a certain trade, profession, or academic field), but any ingroup can have jargon. For example, the Chinook Jargon was a pidgin. Although technical jargon's primary purpose is to aid technical communication, not to exclude outsiders by serving as an argot, it can have both effects at once and can provide a technical ingroup with shibboleths.
jar•gon. 1. the language, esp. the vocabulary, peculiar to a particular trade, profession, or group: medical jargon. 2. unintelligible talk or writing; gibberish; babble. 3. pidgin. 4. language that is characterized by uncommon or pretentious vocabulary and convoluted syntax and is often vague in meaning. 5. to jargonize. 