(October 2013). An oxygen concentrator is a device which concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply (typically ambient air) to supply an oxygen enriched gas mixture. An oxygen concentrator has an air compressor, two cylinders filled with zeolite pellets, a pressure equalizing reservoir, and some valves and tubes. In the first half-cycle the first cylinder receives air from the compressor, which lasts about 3 seconds.
Portable oxygen concentrator (or POC) is a portable device used to provide oxygen therapy to patients at substantially higher oxygen concentrations than the levels of ambient air. Most of the current portable oxygen concentrator systems provide oxygen on a pulse (on-demand) delivery in order to maximise the purity of the oxygen. The system supplies a high concentration of oxygen and is used with a nasal cannula to channel oxygen from the concentrator to the patient.
Non-medical oxygen concentrators can be used as a feed gas to a medical oxygen system, such as the oxygen system in a hospital, though governmental approval is required, such as by the FDA, and additional filtering is generally required. An oxygen concentrator has an air compressor, two cylinders filled with zeolite pellets, a pressure equalizing reservoir, and some valves and tubes. In the first half-cycle the first cylinder receives air from the compressor, which lasts about 3 seconds.
An Invacare Perfecto 2 oxygen concentrator. Portable oxygen concentrator (or POC) is a portable device used to provide oxygen therapy to patients at substantially higher oxygen concentrations than the levels of ambient air. It is very similar to a home oxygen concentrator, but is smaller in size and more mobile. The portable oxygen concentrator makes it easy for patients to travel freely; they are small enough to fit in a car and many concentrators are now FAA-approved. Most of the current portable oxygen concentrator systems provide oxygen on a pulse (on-demand) delivery in order to maximise the purity of the oxygen. The system supplies a high concentration of oxygen and is used with a nasal cannula to channel oxygen from the concentrator to the patient.
The Inogen One G3 Portable oxygen concentrator for people that only need pulse flow is one excellent machine. It is light weight and ultra small which makes it easy to carry either by the handle or with a shoulder strap for hands free. And Direct Home Medical is an excellent company to deal with. 
Oxygen ConcentratorsNew / Reconditioned / Refurbished / Used Buying reconditioned or used oxygen concentrators from OxygenPlus can give you a substantial savings over a new unit. 
An oxygen concentrator is a medical device used to deliver oxygen to those who require it. People may require it if they have a condition that causes or results in low levels of oxygen in their blood. An oxygen concentrator has a compressing element, but it should not be confused with compressed oxygen or an oxygen tank. Whereas a tank has a set amount of oxygen that it dispenses, a concentrator filters in air, compresses it, and delivers air continuously.
Home oxygen concentrators also often use what is called a continuous flow system, instead of the on-demand system that is used by most portable units. The on-demand system is one of the reasons that portable oxygen units can be designed as small as they are. Previous. As its name suggests, a portable oxygen concentrator is designed to be used both in the home and on the go. These types of units tend to be smaller and much more compact while still being great for people with breathing issues and various types of chronic lung conditions.
Oxygen concentrators typically use pressure swing adsorption technology and are used very widely for oxygen provision in healthcare applications, especially where liquid or pressurised oxygen is too dangerous or inconvenient, such as in homes or in portable clinics. An oxygen concentrator has an air compressor, two cylinders filled with zeolite pellets, a pressure equalizing reservoir, and some valves and tubes. In the first half-cycle the first cylinder receives air from the compressor, which lasts about 3 seconds.