The civil rights legislation of the mid-1960s set the stage for the real work of equality in jobs, education, politics, and the military. Looking back, it’s clear now that the real work of winning equal treatment began after the legislative victories once thought to signal the movement’s denouement. 
The results were actions by the federal government to outlaw discrimination and a change in public attitude toward discrimination. The movement united people from many different backgrounds to help a wide variety of groups gain civil rights. The aims of the civil rights movement expanded beyond legal rights to include human dignity, economic and political self-sufficiency, and freedom from oppression by prejudiced people.
The main aim of the successful African-American Civil Rights Movement and other movements for civil rights included ensuring that the rights of all people were and are equally protected by the law. These include but are not limited to the rights of minorities, women's rights, and LGBT rights. Movements for civil rights in the United States include noted legislation and organized efforts to abolish public and private acts of racial discrimination against African Americans and other disadvantaged groups between 1954 to 1968, particularly in the southern United States.
Martin Luther King and other African-American Civil Rights Movement leaders in front of the statue of Abraham Lincoln during the March on Washington, August 28, 1963. Civil rights movements are a worldwide series of political movements for equality before the law, that peaked in the 1960s. In many situations they have been characterized by nonviolent protests, or have taken the form of campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving change through nonviolent forms of resistance. Movements for civil rights in the United States include noted legislation and organized efforts to abolish public and private acts of racial discrimination against African Americans and other disadvantaged groups between 1954 to 1968, particularly in the southern United States.
The United States civil rights movement was a United States political movement for equality before the law. Most events were between 1865 and 1980. Many times, it used civil resistance and nonviolent forms of resistance. In some situations it was accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and armed rebellion. The aims of the civil rights movement expanded beyond legal rights to include human dignity, economic and political self-sufficiency, and freedom from oppression by prejudiced people.
By 1965, the Civil Rights Movement was growing fragmented, less interracial, and less committed to nonviolence. Only five days after LBJ signed the Voting Rights Act, looting and burning began in the black neighborhood of Los Angeles known as Watts. Other urban riots followed. 
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The civil rights movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality. The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination; equal opportunity in employment, education, and housing; the right to vote; and equal access to public facilities. By the mid-1960s, the nature of the civil rights movement began to change. African Americans, who had been united in their support of activities such as the Montgomery bus boycott, began to diverge in their views over what political action should be taken to improve their situation.
by AHMED SHAWKI This is a chapter from Ahmed Shawki's new book, Socialism and Black Liberation, available from Haymarket books. The roots of the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s lie in the transformed conditions and experience of Blacks during the Second World War. Large numbers of jobs previously closed to Black workers were suddenly available. Within a few years, however, the movement had begun to enter a new phase, beyond the control of the traditional organizations and even of King himself. After the civil rights movement’s initial successes in 1956 and 1957, Southern racists counter-attacked.
Thus the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s was not concerned exclusively with interracial cooperation or segregation and discrimination as a character issue. Rather, as in earlier decades, the prize was a redefinition of American society and a redistribution of social and economic power. When most Americans think of the Civil Rights Movement, they have in mind a span of time beginning with the 1954 Supreme Court’s decision in Brown v. Board of Education, which outlawed segregated education, or the Montgomery Bus Boycott and culminated in the late 1960s or early 1970s.