They can get depressed, but NOT lonely. Don't ever buy a 'friend' for your beta fish-they will fight until one dies! If your beta seems depressed, try putting something colorful near his tank, or get him a ping pong ball, etc. Male betas can do fine with other fish, however the other fish cannot have long fins (I have had mine live in a tank with a variety from fiddler crabs, glo-fish, tetras, ghost cat fish, all fish that did not have long fins).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: yes, fish can get depressed, especially social fish like goldfish. however, the reason he is laying on the bottom of the bowl is because it's a bowl. goldfish get huge (between 8 and 18 not including tail depending on the type) and produce a TON of waste. yes fish can get really depressed my fish died a little while ago and my fish go slower now i had 4 now i have only 3 it will take a little while for hem to come back around. Answering Girl · 8 years ago.
Report Abuse. Everyone is actually right about the reason why your betta is depressed. I have 2 bettas in the same tank with tons of plants, and the red betta seems to be more playful than the blue betta. The water condtion is excellent. ;) Sick, depressed, unhappy bettas don't make bubble nests. Give him something to flare at, such as a mirror, or get another betta and put the tanks close together every so often to give them something fun to do.
Scientific Research on fish oil and depression. A scientific light bulb went off in the late 1990s when a British medical journal reported that depression is virtually absent in places like Japan and Iceland, where people eat a lot of fish. Conversely, depression was high in countries where fish consumption was low. 
Big Red, one of my bettas has been acting very lethargic the last couple of days. He won't eat, and just lounges around the bottom of his tank or against his filter. (The lounging against his filter is normal behavior, but he used to kind of wrap himself around it. Now he is just laying against it vertically. I have pics) He's normally a pig when it comes to food, whether he is full or not.
It turns out humans aren't the only ones to have the blues. Fish can become depressed-like when experiencing chronic stress, according to a new study. This makes them a good model for understanding and treating psychiatric problems in humans. Depressed fish could help in the search for new drug treatments. Why fish could be the answer to depression | Mail Online-Daily Mail. Depressed fish could help in the search for new drug treatments ...
Can fish be depressed? i had two gold fish, one just died yesterday, and now the other fish will only sit at the bottom of the bowl and wont eat. yes fish can get really depressed my fish died a little while ago and my fish go slower now i had 4 now i have only 3 it will take a little while for hem to come back around. Answering Girl · 8 years ago.
Best Answer: yes, fish can get depressed, especially social fish like goldfish. however, the reason he is laying on the bottom of the bowl is because it's a bowl. yes fish can get really depressed my fish died a little while ago and my fish go slower now i had 4 now i have only 3 it will take a little while for hem to come back around. Answering Girl · 8 years ago.
Despite common mythology, Goldfish have a memory span in excess of 3 months and can distinguish between shapes an colour. Some goldfish are even able to learn tricks. As the fulfillment of a fish's dreams are not communicable to humans, there is no point questioning whether a fish is feeling depressed. 