Technically, diamond is neither an element, a compound, or a  mixture. Diamond is made up of pure carbon atoms, so it is not a  mixture, and a compound by definition require … s two or more  different elements. The best definition using the above terms is  that diamond is a mineral made up of the same element
Technically, diamond is neither an element, a compound, or a  mixture. Diamond is made up of pure carbon atoms, so it is not a  mixture, and a compound by definition require … s two or more  different elements. The carbon atoms form  layers and the graphite is soft and slippery; which makes it a nice  dry lubricant that is sometimes used in lock cylinders. It's also  opaque; unlike diamond.     Diamond is an element, an allotrope of carbon.
As a diamond micronizer and leader in precision diamond compound manufacturing since 1938, Engis is able to mill, shape and grade diamond particles with an expertise unmatched in the industry. 1 Our world-renowned Five-Star® Diamond Compound is both oil and water soluble. 2  It combines the excellent cutting characteristics of natural diamond with the durability of manufactured diamond for superior finishing capability. 3  Using Five-Star can eliminate steps in the polishing process.
Diamond is the only gemstone that is made of only one  element, Carbon.   Joseph R. Villarreal, Graduate Gemologist (GIA)   White Fire Diamonds, Inc.    The Correct View   Actually a diamond is an object not an element. The carbon atoms form  layers and the graphite is soft and slippery; which makes it a nice  dry lubricant that is sometimes used in lock cylinders. It's also  opaque; unlike diamond.     Diamond is an element, an allotrope of carbon.
A diamond is not a compound; it is formed from carbon. Even though there are trace amounts of other minerals in diamonds -- such as nitrogen, which gives diamonds a yellow cas … e -- diamond is not a compound, because the trace minerals cannot be separated out. The carbon atoms form  layers and the graphite is soft and slippery; which makes it a nice  dry lubricant that is sometimes used in lock cylinders. It's also  opaque; unlike diamond.     Diamond is an element, an allotrope of carbon.
A perfect/pure diamond is made exclusively of carbon (the element). The specific conditions (temperature, pressure, time) that are required for diamonds to form and the fact that a carbon atom has four free electrons allow it to settle in the form of a crystal; that crystal is what we call the diamond. Diamond is made up of pure carbon atoms, so it is not a  mixture, and a compound by definition require … s two or more  different elements.
Diamonds are carbon atoms, and carbon atoms are elements. So diamonds are not really compounds they are a form of the element carbon. Best Answer: Diamond is an element it is an isomer of carbon graphit is also another isomer it is matter of arrangment of atoms in the space.
Besides, the word molecule is used for chemical compounds, of which diamond is not. Diamond is a crystallized piece of one element, that being carbon. Natural diamonds are not usually 100% carbon but include impurities, such as in the recently-discovered almost 12-caret pink diamond. A pure diamond is composed of only one element, carbon. Diamond is an allotrope of carbon, graphite and buckminsterfullere being the others. Pure diamond is an element, not a compound.
Best Answer: Bits and pieces of the truth are in each answer except one (that one being the answer by disapointed). That being said, this is not correct either: Dimond is not an element it is a compound formed by only carbon atoms. A pure diamond is composed of only one element, carbon. Diamond is an allotrope of carbon, graphite and buckminsterfullere being the others. Pure diamond is an element, not a compound.
Diamond is not an element but it is a compound of carbon. It is fully made of carbon atoms. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms. The carbon atoms form  layers and the graphite is soft and slippery; which makes it a nice  dry lubricant that is sometimes used in lock cylinders. It's also  opaque; unlike diamond.     Diamond is an element, an allotrope