Vinca (/ˈvɪŋkə/ ; Latin: vincire to bind, fetter) is a genus of flowering plants in the family Apocynaceae, native to Europe, northwest Africa and southwest Asia. The English name periwinkle is shared with the related genus Catharanthus (and also with the common seashore mollusc, Littorina littorea). Two of the species, Vinca major and Vinca minor, are extensively cultivated as a flowering evergreen ornamental plant. Because the plants are low and spread quickly, they are often used as groundcover in garden landscapes and container gardens.
Step 4. Make sure the plant is getting some sunlight. The vinca vine grows wonderfully as a groundcover under the bases of trees, but still needs some sunlight to get through to it for part of the day to produce flowers. Thin out or cut back some of the overhead branches to allow some light to get through to your vinca plants. Step 1. Vinca vines can slow down in their growth if they have been growing in one spot for several years, forming a thick mat of stems and roots. Thin out the mass by pulling out about two thirds of the plants.
Overview. Vinca vines are also known by the names of Creeping Myrtle, Periwinkle, and Vinca minor. These vines will grow about six inches high and will send out vines about 18 inches long that will root and continue spreading, slowly forming a thick ground cover. Step 1. Vinca vines can slow down in their growth if they have been growing in one spot for several years, forming a thick mat of stems and roots. Thin out the mass by pulling out about two thirds of the plants.
5. Check the plant's leaves for aphids or mites when you water the plant. Wash off small insect populations with a steady stream of water in the morning. Spray heavily infested plants with insecticidal soap or horticultural oil to eradicate the pests. Make the cut 1/8 to 1/4 inch above the second set of leaves using a pair of pruning snips
Appearance. Vincas are mat flowers, which means they spread and grow into a mat or mound shape. Some are bred specifically to be used as annual bedding plants. These vincas grow to about 12 inches tall and form mats about 8 inches wide. Others are primarily used as ground covers. These average about 6 inches tall and spread to 24 inches wide.
Water the vinca only when the surrounding soil becomes completely dry. Apply water from a garden hose directly to the soil surrounding the plants. Do not splash the plants' foliage. Wet the soil to a depth of 6 inches. Make the cut 1/8 to 1/4 inch above the second set of leaves using a pair of pruning snips. Check the plant's leaves for aphids or mites when you water the plant. Wash off small insect populations with a steady stream of water in the morning.
Some varieties can also be propagated by rooting cuttings. How to Grow Vinca: Vinca or Periwinkle will grow in range of light conditions, from full sun to shade. They will do well in average soils. They are both heat and drought tolerant. This makes Vinca ideal in hot, dry parts of the country where other flowers will wither and wilt. Space Vinca plants 12-15 inches apart. 
Culture. Whether or not to pinch vinca is a moot point if the plant is not growing due to poor environmental conditions. Vincas need at least a half-day's worth of sun to bloom. They tolerate hot weather well and will perform best in full sun. Although they will grow even in poor, dry soil, they prefer moist, well-draining soil. Some are bred specifically to be used as annual bedding plants. These vincas grow to about 12 inches tall and form mats about 8 inches wide. Others are primarily used as ground covers. These average about 6 inches tall and spread to 24
1. Pull up any weeds growing around the vinca. Clear any debris, such as fallen leaves, twigs or rocks from the ground. Spread a 1- to 2-inch layer of mulch around the plants with a trowel or garden fork. Make the cut 1/8 to 1/4 inch above the second set of leaves using a pair of pruning snips. Check the plant's leaves for aphids or mites when you water the plant. Wash off small insect populations with a steady stream of water in the morning.
In this video we take a look at caring for annual vinca. There are two types of vinca, an annual and a perennial. Their planting requirements are very different though. To learn more about both types check out our blog post: http://www.bobsmarketblog.com/2013/05... Visit Us Online At: http://bobsmarket.com/. 