How to make The Whiskey Sour Cocktail. Add all the ingredients to a shaker and fill with ice. Shake, and strain into a rocks glass filled with fresh ice. Garnish with a cherry and/or lemon wedge if desired.
Another option for the sweet and sour elements of the Whiskey Sour is to use sour mix. While this is an easy shortcut and many of the sour recipes below opt for it over lemon juice and simple syrup individually, you lose a little bit of control. This Whiskey Sour recipe comes from a friend who adapted it from the original to contain less sugar and therefore, fewer calories. I, nor he, make no claims that this drink is healthier - it is merely made up of ingredients that are marketed that way.
Directions. Combine the whiskey and sour mix in a large old-fashioned glass with ice. Stir, garnish with cherry, and serve. 1-ounce lemon juice. 1-ounce sugar. 2 ounces water. Combine lemon juice and sugar, then dilute with water and stir to dissolve sugar. Yield: 4 ounce
Mixing instructions: Shake blended whiskey, juice of lemon, and powdered sugar with ice and strain into a whiskey sour glass. Decorate with the half-slice of lemon, top with the cherry, and serve. ------. As for the Whiskey it's a blend so you can go with Maker's Mark or one of the Canadian whiskeys. 
Shake blended whiskey, juice of lemon, and powdered sugar with ice and strain into a whiskey sour glass. Decorate with the half-slice of lemon, top with the cherry, and serve. More comments. 
The whiskey sour is a mixed drink containing whiskey (often Bourbon), lemon juice, sugar, and optionally, a dash of egg white. With the egg white, it is sometimes called a Boston Sour. The traditional garnish is half an orange slice and a maraschino cherry. A variant of the whiskey sour is the Ward 8, which often is based either in Bourbon or rye whiskey, with both lemon and orange juices, and grenadine syrup as the sweetener. The egg white sometimes employed in other whiskey sours is generally not included in this variation
A notable variant of the whiskey sour is the Ward 8, which often is based either in Bourbon or rye whiskey, with both lemon and orange juices, and grenadine syrup as the sweetener. The egg white sometimes employed in other whiskey sours is generally not included in this variation. The whiskey sour is a famous mixed drink containing Bourbon whiskey, lemon juice, sugar, and optionally a dash of egg white to make it a Boston Sour. It is shaken and served either straight or over ice