For example, the taiga of North America mostly consists of spruces; Scandinavian and Finnish taiga consists of a mix of spruce, pines and birch; Russian taiga has spruces, pines and larches depending on the region, while the Eastern Siberian taiga is a vast larch forest. The taiga is the terrestrial biome with the lowest annual average temperatures after the tundra and permanent ice caps. Extreme winter minimums in the northern taiga are typically lower than those of the tundra.
Definition of TAIGA. : a moist subarctic forest dominated by conifers (as spruce and fir) that begins where the tundra ends. See taiga defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Russian taĭga. 
coniferous forests of the northern temperate zone, consisting of boreal species of spruce, fir, larch, and pine, including nut pines, with some hardwood species. The transitional zone between the taiga and broad-leaved forests is called the subtaiga. Taiga is a Siberian word, equivalent to “boreal forest.” See Tundra. The northern and southern boundaries of the taiga are determined by climatic factors, of which temperature is most important. However, aridity controls the forest-steppe boundary in central Canada and western Siberia.
[tɐjˈɡa] ; from Turkic) also known as boreal forest or snow forest, is a biome characterized by coniferous forests consisting mostly of pines, spruces and larches. The taiga is the world's largest terrestrial biome. The taiga is the terrestrial biome with the lowest annual average temperatures after the tundra and permanent ice caps. Extreme winter minimums in the northern taiga are typically lower than those of the tundra.
Evergreen species in the taiga (spruce, fir, and pine) have a number of adaptations specifically for survival in harsh taiga winters, although larch, the most cold-tolerant of all trees, is deciduous. The taiga is the terrestrial biome with the lowest annual average temperatures after the tundra and permanent ice caps. Extreme winter minimums in the northern taiga are typically lower than those of the tundra.
Taiga. coniferous forests of the northern temperate zone, consisting of boreal species of spruce, fir, larch, and pine, including nut pines, with some hardwood species. The transitional zone between the taiga and broad-leaved forests is called the subtaiga. The taiga has an average July temperature of 10°C–18°C. Taiga. A zone of forest vegetation encircling the Northern Hemisphere between the arctic-subarctic tundras in the north and the steppes, hardwood forests, and prairies in the south. The chief characteristic of the taiga is the prevalence of forests dominated by conifers.
Ecol. a type of transitional plant community that is located between the arctic tundra and the boreal coniferous forests, having scattered trees: often it is considered to include the N regions of the boreal forests. Russian tajga. Origin of taiga. 
Taiga. Taiga, also known as boreal forest, is a biome characterized by coniferous forests consisting mostly of pines, spruces and larches. The taiga is the world's largest terrestrial biome. Wiktionary (1.50 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: taiga (Noun). A subarctic zone of evergreen coniferous forests situated south of the tundras and north of the steppes in the Northern Hemisphere.
A forest located in the Earth's far northern regions, consisting mainly of cone-bearing evergreens, such as firs, pines, and spruces, and some deciduous trees, such as larches, birches, and aspens. The taiga is found just south of the tundra. 
Taiga. coniferous forests of the northern temperate zone, consisting of boreal species of spruce, fir, larch, and pine, including nut pines, with some hardwood species. The transitional zone between the taiga and broad-leaved forests is called the subtaiga. The taiga has an average July temperature of 10°C–18°C. Taiga is a Siberian word, equivalent to “boreal forest.” See Tundra. The northern and southern boundaries of the taiga are determined by climatic factors, of which temperature is most important. However, aridity controls the forest-steppe boundary in central Canada and western Siberia.