Water Chemistry You probably know water's chemical description is H2O. A water molecule consists of one atom of oxygen bound to two atoms of hydrogen. The hydrogen atoms are attached to one side of the oxygen atom, resulting in a water molecule having a positive charge on the side where the hydrogen atoms are and a negative charge on the other side, where the oxygen atom is. 
Some substances when dissolvedin water to produce a solution will conduct an electrical current. Such substances produce ions when dissolved in water, and it is the ions which carry the current through the solution. The research aspect of this science fair project is to use a conductivity device to determine if various substance dissolved in water can or cannot conduct electricity. This science fair project focuses on the use a conductivity device that will enable the investigator to determine if a substance dissolved in water can or cannot conduct electricity and if it can, what type of conductor (electrolyte) it is.
Pure water is not a good conductor of electricity. Some substances when dissolvedin water to produce a solution will conduct an electrical current. Such substances produce ions (charged electrical particles) when dissolved in water and these ions carry the current through the solution. This science fair project focuses on the use a conductivity device that will enable the investigator to determine if a substance dissolved in water can or cannot conduct electricity and if it can, what type of conductor (electrolyte) it is.
As a chemical compound, a water molecule contains one oxygen and two hydrogen atoms that are connected by covalent bonds. Water is a liquid at standard ambient temperature and pressure, but it often co-exists on Earth with its solid state, ice; and gaseous state, steam (water vapor). 
there are many substances like: methanol, ethanol, sugar. There are two types of pure substances these are: Element and Compound   Elements: -no physical or chemical mea … ns can further change it to simpler form. Acid is a substance that, when added to water, dissociates (dissolves) to release H+ ions into the water. The higher percent of the acid that dissociates, the stronger the aci … d. 4 people found this useful.
Chemical substances are often called 'pure' to set them apart from mixtures. A common example of a chemical substance is pure water; it has the same properties and the same ratio of hydrogen to oxygen whether it is isolated from a river or made in a laboratory. A chemical substance is a form of matter that has constant chemical composition and characteristic properties. It cannot be separated into components by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds. Chemical substances can be chemical elements, chemical compounds, ions or alloys.
· just now. Report Abuse. Water is a mixture because it is made up of molecules that are composed of two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen. An atom is the smallest particle of a pure substance (element) that has all the properties of that substance. A molecule is made up of a number of atoms bonded together. Water is not an element but it is an organic chemical that is required for life as we know it to exist. H2O is pure water. Water can have a lot of other things in it to make it not a pure substance. Water is the standard of our scientific realm. It is the universal solvent (water dissolved the Grand Canyon, ya know).
Polarity determines if a substance is water-soluble. A polair substance is a substance that has two kinds of 'poles', as in a magnet. When another substance is also polair the poles of the substances attract each other and as a result the substances mix. A substance then dissolves in water. Substances that contain no 'poles' are called apolair substances. Oil for instance is an apolair substance, which is why oil does not dissolve in water. Inside the body of a human being there is a skeleton, which makes your body solid and makes sure you can stand up without falling apart. Water is also a kind of skeleton. It consists of tiny particles, the atoms, just like every other substance on earth.
Steam and liquid water are two different forms of the same chemical substance, water. A chemical substance is a form of matter that has constant chemical composition and characteristic properties. It cannot be separated into components by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds. Chemical substances can be chemical elements, chemical compounds, ions or alloys.