Infections. Untreated typhoid fever can cause inflammation of heart muscles, which may lead to heart problems in the long term, according to MayoClinic.com. Typhoid can also cause an infection in the membranes and fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord, leading to a fatal nervous system disease known as meningitis.
According to MayoClinic.com, gastrointestinal bleeding is a long-term effect of untreated typhoid. MedlinePlus reports that symptoms include severe abdominal pain, coffee grounds vomit, black tarry stool, weakness and dizziness when standing up. Prolonged bleeding can lead to loss of iron, which can cause anemia.
Typhoid is contracted through consumption of food and water that has been contaminated with Salmonella typhi. According to MedlinePlus, typhoid occurs less frequently in the U.S and is more common in developing countries such as Africa, Asia and Latin America. Untreated typhoid may lead to several long-term effects.
Typhoid fever is contracted by the ingestion of the bacteria in contaminated food or water, through poor personal hygiene, or close contact with someone who is infected. Patients with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria.
About 3%-5% of people become carriers of the bacteria after the acute illness. Others suffer a very mild illness that goes unrecognized. These people may become long-term carriers of the bacteria -- even though they have no symptoms -- and be the source of new outbreaks of typhoid fever for many years.
Typhoid fever is contracted by drinking or eating the bacteria in contaminated food or water. People with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria. Contamination of the water supply can, in turn, taint the food supply.
Typhoid fever, also known as enteric fever, is a potentially fatal multisystemic illness caused primarily by Salmonella enterica, subspecies enterica serovar typhi and, to a lesser extent, related serovars paratyphi A, B, and C. The protean manifestations of typhoid fever make this disease a true diagnostic challenge.