Only commercial washing machines are large enough to do a king size quilt. Any home machine will not allow the water to reach all areas of the quilt since it is too large. Much cheaper just to go to a commercial laundry once or twice a year. 
Washing your king-size comforter at home is a relatively easy process. Depending on the fabric and condition of the item, there's no need to spend a considerable amount of money on dry cleaning your comforter. There's a method for every condition. Save. 
Washing a King size comforter in a top load washer could damage the comforter and/or washer. I hope this is helpful. If I may be of further assistance as more details become available, please reply to this post. I do not know of any top loading washer that could handle a King size comforter safely. A front loading washer would be a more favorable washer to use for King size comforters. Even a front loading washer could become unbalanced due to a King size comforter and cause the washer to shake and vibrate violently.
Washing Machine Capacity. The general rule of thumb is that a front-loading washer with a tub that holds at least 3.7 cubic feet or greater can safely handle washing a king-size comforter. Do not put anything else in the washer when you wash the comforter, or it stands a chance of not coming clean. Before the newer models with upward of 3.7 cubic feet area were available, you had to take a king-size comforter to the local laundromat to wash it. To wash your comforter, you need a machine capable of fitting between 11 and 14 pounds of bedding inside easily.
Modern front-loading washers take the hassle out of washing a king-size comforter. Before the newer models with upward of 3.7 cubic feet area were available, you had to take a king-size comforter to the local laundromat to wash it. To wash your comforter, you need a machine capable of fitting between 11 and 14 pounds of bedding inside easily.
Thank you for your question and I understand your concern. The Kenmore washer model 110.26002* is rated at 3.6 cu. ft. I do not know of any top loading washer that could handle a King size comforter safely. A front loading washer would be a more favorable washer to use for King size comforters. Even a front loading washer could become unbalanced due to a King size comforter and cause the washer to shake and vibrate violently.
Report Abuse. I would not attempt to wash a king size comforter in my home washing machine. I would go to a laundromat and use one of their big machines designated for such items. Or better yet, have it dry cleaned. It will stay new looking longer. You'll want a very large washer and dryer to accommodate a king size comforter. Check local do-it-yourself laundries in your area. They usually have triple load washers, dryers. You should have no problem cleaning it there. Some laundries will clean it for you for a small fee.
Post # 2. I can wash my king-size comforter in mine, but not the mattress pad. Rule of thumb for front-loaders is that you should have enough room at the top to place your fist between the item(s) and the top of the drum. Depends on the size of the drum to hold enough room for the items you want to wash. I have a bigger size washer I just purchased then the one before. Both were front loaders. But this new one has more room then the old one. I can wash a queen/king comforter in mine.
If you have a king-size comforter and the instructions allow for a machine wash, you may need to take it to the laundromat. There, you'll be able to use a large-capacity washing machine to ensure an effective wash. If you think your machine at home is large enough, check in your owner's manual to be certain. 