Examples range from 640 to 850. The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs. The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position. 
Muscles of the human body. The body has three types of muscles: smooth, skeletal and cardiac. Skeletal muscles are directly connected to the bones and enable body movements. The smallest muscle in the human body is located deep in the ear. The human body is comprised of hundreds of muscles, about 640 in total. There is no exact count largely because expert opinions are conflicted regarding what constitutes a distinct muscle. Therefore, some experts will suggest 639 total while others may suggest there are more
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. 
(Answer #2). The number of muscles in the human body varies from about 656 to 850, depending on which expert you consult. No exact figure is available because there are a variety of opinions about what constitutes a distinct muscle (versus a part of a complex muscle). The number of muscles in our body varies from around 640 to 850. We have 3 types of muscles in our body: skeletal, visceral, and cardiac. The skeletal muscles are voluntary, while the visceral muscles are involuntary.
The number of muscles in the body depends on who you ask. The previous post is accurate. The reason there is some controversy over how many muscles there are in the human body is due to the fact that many experts argue about what constitutes a muscle. ako6777 | Middle School Teacher | (Level 1) Associate Educator. Posted on. (Answer #2). The adult human body contains 206 bones. 
(Answer #18). There is are actually many muscles in the human body, but if you are looking for a more clear answer based on skeletal muscles it would be 640, but there are in fact many muscles ranging from tiny to larger muscles that would not even be discussed day to day. The number of muscles in our body varies from around 640 to 850. We have 3 types of muscles in our body: skeletal, visceral, and cardiac. The skeletal muscles are voluntary, while the visceral muscles are involuntary.
THE MUSCULAR SYSTEMSkeletal, Smooth and Cardiac Muscles After reading one of the Body Systems-Go take a Quiz! There are more than 639 skeletal muscles in your body. Some sources will say 640 muscles in the human body. On average, your body weight is 40% muscle. Out of the 639/640 muscles, 30 of them are facial muscles, which help you create all those different faces of happiness, surprise, joy, sorrow, sadness, fright, etc.
Typically, there are 640 muscles in the human body, but it may differ between each person since everyone is different. Each muscle has a pair of equal bilateral muscles, which makes a total of 320 pairs. The range between how many possible muscles that are in a person is 640 to 850. The number of muscles in our body varies from around 640 to 850. We have 3 types of muscles in our body: skeletal, visceral, and cardiac. The skeletal muscles are voluntary, while the visceral muscles are involuntary.