Hertz is a unit of frequency (of change in state or cycle in a sound wave, alternating current, or other cyclical waveform) of one cycle per second. It replaces the earlier term of cycle per second (cps).. 
hertz. A unit used to measure the frequency of vibrations and waves. One hertz is equal to one cycle per second. Radio waves are usually measured in megahertz, or millions of hertz. hertz. n. pl. hertz Abbr. Hz. A unit of frequency equal to one cycle per second. See Table at measurement.
The hertz (symbol: Hz) is a unit of time which measures frequency. Frequency is how often something happens. A frequency of 1 hertz means that something happens once a second. The note Middle C (the C in the middle of the piano) is 262 Hz. This means there are 262 vibrations every second, which is heard as the note Middle C, when that piano key is played.
In English, hertz is also used as the plural form. As an SI unit, Hz can be prefixed; commonly used multiples are kHz (kilohertz, 10 3 Hz), MHz (megahertz, 10 6 Hz), GHz (gigahertz, 10 9 Hz) and THz (terahertz, 10 12 Hz). Top to bottom: Lights flashing at frequencies f = 0.5 Hz (hertz) , 1.0 Hz and 2.0 Hz, i.e. at 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 flashes per second, respectively. The time between each flash – the period T – is given by 1⁄f (the reciprocal of f ‍), i.e. 2, 1 and 0.5 seconds
Hertz. Hertz (abbreviated: Hz) is the standard unit of measurement used for measuring frequency. Since frequency is measured in cycles per second, one hertz equals one cycle per second. Hertz is used commonly used to measure wave frequencies, such as sound waves, light waves, and radio waves. For example, the average human ear can detect sound waves between 20 and 20,000 Hz. Sound waves close to 20 Hz have a low pitch and are called bass frequencies
Split and merge into it. Answer by Plucas. Confidence votes 31.4K. Hertz, named after the German Physicist Heinrich Hertz, are the measurement of frequency, current, and electricity, their uses are common in many fields, sound waves, radiation, hertz are even used to represent the speed of your computer. Hertz come in 21 tiers of measurement-listed from smallest to largest: Yoktohertz. 
The hertz (symbol Hz) is the unit of frequency in the International System of Units (SI) and is defined as one cycle per second. It is named for Heinrich Rudolf Hertz, the first person to provide conclusive proof of the existence of electromagnetic waves. Top to bottom: Lights flashing at frequencies f = 0.5 Hz (hertz) , 1.0 Hz and 2.0 Hz, i.e. at 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 flashes per second, respectively. The time between each flash – the period T – is given by 1⁄f (the reciprocal of f ‍), i.e. 2, 1 and 0.5 seconds
Hertz or Hz is a frequency measurement which gives the number of times a rhythmic cycle happens every second. In electricity, AC voltage is supplied to United States homes at 60Hz. 
Hertz. Named after Heinrich Hertz and abbreviated as Hz or illustrated as the f symbol, hertz equals one (0.00000000125) cycle per second, measuring the waves or frequencies of electric changes each second. Hertz is commonly used to measure a computer monitor's refresh rate and in computer processors. In the picture below of a wave, one oscillation is a representation of a cycle or hertz.