The primary somatosensory area in the human cortex (also called primary somatic sensory cortex or SI) is located in the postcentral gyrus of the parietal lobe and makes up four distinct fields or regions known as Brodmann areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2. Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex: information is sent from the receptors via sensory nerves, through tracts in the spinal cord and finally into the brain.
The somatosensory cortex is located within an area of the brain called the postcentral gyrus, a structure that forms a band around the middle of the cerebral cortex, encompassing both hemispheres. Neurons in the somatosensory cortex are organized according to the types of sensation to which they respond. Input from various systems of the body that are sensitive to touch is processed in the somatosensory cortex of the brain.
The somatosensory cortex is an area of the brain that processes input from the various systems in the body that are sensitive to touch. Neurons in the somatosensory cortex are organized according to the types of sensation to which they respond. Input from various systems of the body that are sensitive to touch is processed in the somatosensory cortex of the brain.
Brodmann areas 3, 1, and 2 make up the primary somatosensory cortex of the human brain (or S1). Because Brodmann sliced the brain somewhat obliquely, he encountered area 1 first; however, from anterior to posterior, the Brodmann designations are 3, 1, and 2, respectively. Lesions affecting the primary somatosensory cortex produce characteristic symptoms including: agraphesthesia, astereognosia, hemihypesthesia, and loss of vibration, proprioception and fine touch (because the third-order neuron of the medial-lemniscal pathway cannot synapse in the cortex).
Primary motor cortex (Brodmann area 4) of the left cerebral hemisphere shown in red. The primary motor cortex (Brodmann area 4) is a brain region that in humans is located in the dorsal portion of the frontal lobe. 
The Somatosensory Cortex is an area of the brain, located in the parietal lobe, that processes sensory input from the skin, muscles, and joints. 
The lateral postcentral gyrus is a prominent structure in the parietal lobe of the human brain. It is the location of the primary somatosensory cortex, the main sensory receptive area for the sense of touch. Like other sensory areas, there is a map of sensory space in this location, called the sensory homunculus. Lesions affecting the primary somatosensory cortex produce characteristic symptoms including: agraphesthesia, astereognosia, hemihypesthesia, and loss of vibration, proprioception and fine touch (because the third-order neuron of the medial-lemniscal pathway cannot synapse in the cortex).
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. The primary somatosensory cortex is a region of the brain where nerve signals from the sense of touch are normally received. It is generally located in a part of the brain called the parietal lobe, in a structure called the post central gyrus. If this area is damaged, a person can touch something, feel it, but not be able to figure out what it is. Scientists first mapped the primary somatosensory cortex in the 1950s. During brain surgery, surgeons could stimulate parts of the brain and see where a patient felt something.