The Australian National Insect Collection is recognised both nationally and internationally as a major research collection. It is the world's largest collection of Australian insects and related groups such as mites, spiders, nematodes and centipedes, housing over 12 million specimens. 1  About the Australian National Insect collection. The Australian National Insect Collection has a range of collection-based resources for researchers and visitors to use. It includes information about loans, protocols, and policies as well as access to information about our holdings.
Spiders of Southern Queensland-a site with lots of information and photos about spiders. Arachne.org.au-This site is a working draft for a field guide to Australian (and possibly New Zealand) spiders due to be published in 2024. An overview and description of each insect order are presented with photos. More in-depth information is included to identify insects to the family level. Discover Life -- Insect orders identification-Visual keys are used to help identify insects to order.
Overview. There are more than 300 000 named species of Coleoptera in the world. About 40% of all insects and 30% of all animals are beetles; the number of beetle species exceeds that of fungi or of vascular plants and is more than 6 times that of vertebrates. There have been about 20 000 species described from Australia, but several thousand more are known in collections and the true number may exceed 30 000. Curculionidae is the largest family, with more than 6000 Australian species. Scarabaeidae and Chrysomelidae each has about half that number, Carabidae about 2500, and Staphylinidae, Tenebrionidae and Cerambycidae each between 1200 and 1500 speci
Brisbane Insects and Spiders-a collection of insect information and photos from the Brisbane area presented by the enthusiastic Chew family. Insect Photos This page contains photographs of medically important arthropods. Close-up images of many insects including many species of ants, bees, beetles, and butterflies. An overview and description of each insect order are presented with photos. More in-depth information is included to identify insects to the family level. Discover Life -- Insect orders identification-Visual keys are used to help identify insects to order.
The Australian fauna has been treated by Britton (1970), and regional manuals on Australian beetles are being produced by Matthews (1980--87) for South Australia and Moore (1980--89) for south-eastern Australia. Hawkeswood (1987a) includes colour photographs and popular accounts of 176 species. There have been about 20 000 species described from Australia, but several thousand more are known in collections and the true number may exceed 30 000. Curculionidae is the largest family, with more than 6000 Australian species. Scarabaeidae and Chrysomelidae each has about half that number, Carabidae about 2500, and Staphylinidae, Tenebrionidae and Cerambycidae each between 1200 and 1500
Ibacus peronii, the Balmain bug or butterfly fan lobster, is a species of slipper lobster. It lives in shallow waters around Australia and is the subject of small-scale fishery. It is a flattened, reddish brown animal, up to 23 cm (9 in) long and 14 cm (6 in) wide, with flattened antennae and no claws. The species is sometimes confused with the Moreton Bay bug, Thenus orientalis, but they can be distinguished by the placement of the eyes: the eyes of I. peronii are near the midline, while those of T. orientalis are at the margin of the carapace.
Bugs for Bugs-primarily aimed at farmers and horticulturalists; provides information on integrated pest management and biological control. The Beat Sheet-The Beat Sheet blog is a website about insect pest management issues relevant to Australia’s northern grain region of Queensland and northern New South Wales. An overview and description of each insect order are presented with photos. More in-depth information is included to identify insects to the family level. Discover Life -- Insect orders identification-Visual keys are used to help identify insects to order.
The Guide to Australian Insect Families-A visual resource to help identify insects. An overview and description of each insect order are presented with photos. More in-depth information is included to identify insects to the family level. Discover Life -- Insect orders identification-Visual keys are used to help identify insects to order.
T. orientalis is known by a number of common names. The United Nations ' Food and Agriculture Organization prefers the name flathead lobster, while the official Australian name is Bay lobster. In Australia, it is more widely known as the Moreton Bay bug after Moreton Bay, near Brisbane, Queensland. Thenus orientalis is a species of slipper lobster from the Indian and Pacific oceans.