The name Maximus is of Latin origin, and it means Greatest . The highest recorded use of the name Maximus was in 2014 with a total of 2,118 babies. (That's a lot of baby Maximi). According to the 2014 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Maximus ranks #92 in popularity as a baby boy's name in North Dakota.
[ 3 syll. ma-xi-mus, max-im-us ] The baby boy name Maximus is pronounced Mah-KSiy-M AH S-or M AH KS-ihM-ahS- †. Maximus' origin is Latin, and its use, English. Maximus is an English form of the English, German, Russian, Czech, and French Maxim. Maximus is also a form of the English and German Maximilian. Maximus is popular as a baby boy name, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. At the modest height of its usage in 2012, 0.091% of baby boys were given the name Maximus. It had a ranking of #206 then. 
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
The name Maximus is formed from the Latin term for greatest or largest.. Therefore, it is both a proper noun and common noun, both in the ancient, medieval, and modern world. Jesikah Maximus is without question, the Gladiator of the modeling game. 
View the Maximus Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Maximus has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Maximus to other names. The names Maksym, Massimo, Maxentius, Maxim, Maxima, Maxime, Maximian, Maximilianus, Maximinus, Maximo, Maxine, Miksa are all forms of Maximus. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Roman family name which was derived from Latin maximus greatest. Saint Maximus was a monk and theologian from Constantinople in the 7th century. 
Latin Meaning: The name Maximus is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Maximus is: Greatest. American Meaning: The name Maximus is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Maximus is: Greatest. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities.
Report Abuse. It likely means Maximus the 10th from the tribe (or town) of Meridia. Meridia was a Roman Province, however it got its name from the tribe that lived there before the birth of the civilized world (in Roman times). It could also mean Maximus the 10th, the middle child since they really didn't have last names at all. 
Maximus /max-imus/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Maximus is greatest. Roman family name derived from maximus. The name of several saints, including the seventh-century monk, theologian and scholar known as Maximus the Confessor. Maximus is an uncommon first name for men. Maximus is an equally rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Maximus for boys. Maximus entered the list in 2000 and reached its apex rank of #192 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Maximus and corresponding names