This policy grew mainly out of the environmental movement in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s during which several environmental laws were passed, regulating air and water pollution and forming the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The goal of environmental policy is to protect the environment for future generations while interfering as little as possible with the efficiency of commerce or the liberty of the people and to limit inequity in who is burdened with environmental costs.
The Clean Air Act was the first major environmental law in the United States to include a provision for citizen suits. Numerous state and local governments have enacted similar legislation, either implementing federal programs or filling in locally important gaps in federal programs. Subchapter C, Parts 50-97. The 1955 Air Pollution Control Act was the first U.S federal legislation that pertained to air pollution; it also provided funds for federal government research of air pollution. The first federal legislation to actually pertain to  controlling  air pollution was the Clean Air Act of 1963. The 1963 act accomplished this by establishing a federal program within the U.S. Public Health Service and authorized research into techniques for monitoring and controlling air pollution
There are laws and regulations in place to cover literally every environmental issue of potential problem. Environmental law is a combination of three things: the first is the statute that is passed through Congress. The second is the list of regulations imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency in relation to that particular statute
The Clean Air Act is a United States federal law designed to control air pollution on a national level. It is one of the United States' first and most influential modern environmental laws, and one of the most comprehensive air quality laws in the world. Subchapter C, Parts 50-97. The 1955 Air Pollution Control Act was the first U.S federal legislation that pertained to air pollution; it also provided funds for federal government research of air pollution. The first federal legislation to actually pertain to  controlling  air pollution was the Clean Air Act of 1963. The 1963 act accomplished this by establishing a federal program within the U.S. Public Health Service and authorized research into techniques for monitoring and controlling air pollution
California's First Environmental Law. Malakoff Diggins, 1889. One of the first environmental laws in the United States was passed in 1884 after California gold seekers water-blasted entire mountains searching for the prized metal. 
Environmental law is a law that was passed in the 1970, and is known as the National Environmental Policy Act. This law was passed along with another environmental act known as the Environmental Quality Improvement Act. The purpose of these laws was to protect the environment from public or private actions that could cause damage. Environmental law is a combination of three things: the first is the statute that is passed through Congress.
Federal Law: The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) was passed in 1970 along with the Environmental Quality Improvement Act, the National Environmental Education Act, and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 