Near the eyes you may be able to see the brain, a large swelling of the forward nerve cord. The antennal glands, sometimes called green glands, are also in the head-they extract wastes from the blood, and form urine, which is stored in bladders and expelled from excretory pores in the face. 
The dorsal nerve cord is later modified in vertebrates into the central nervous system which is composed of the brain and spinal cord. Dorsal nerve cord is mainly found in subphylum Vertebrata. Dorsal means the back side, as opposed to Ventral which is the front side of an organism. In organisms with Bipedalism dorsal is the back and ventral is the front. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2013). The dorsal nerve cord is one of the embryonic features unique to chordates, along with a notochord, a post-anal tail, an endostyle, and pharyngeal slits. The dorsal nerve cord is a hollow cord dorsal to the notochord.
Flexor muscle: muscle that bends the tail of the crayfish. Digestive gland: glandular organ that produces digestive enzymes. Ganglion of ventral nerve cord: budge related to a collection of nerves of the abdomen of a crayfish. Ventral nerve cord: collection of nerves in the abdomen of a crayfish. Maxilliped: pair of appendages of a crayfish used for holding prey. Esophagus: part of the digestive tract between the mouth and the stomach. Mandible: lower jaw. Mouth: entrance to the digestive tract. Internal anatomy of a crayfish: edible freshwater crustacean, with pincers on the two forelegs. Encephalon: site of the mental functions of a crayfish. Stomach: part of the digestive tract between the esophagus and the intestine.
In vertebrates, it also includes a spinal cord. The primary cell type found in the nervous system is the neuron, which has a cell body, containing the nucleus, and long extensions to carry information from one part of the body to another. All vertebrates have a distinct central component that consists of a brain and spinal cord, as well as peripheral structures such as ganglia and nerves. The primary difference from invertebrates is in the number of neurons and the size of nervous system structures.
An earthworm also has the same type nervous system as a human, just like a pig. As for the circulatory system, a human’s pumps blood to and from the body and lungs with the help of the heart, blood vessels, and arteries. A pig, however, has a heart, blood, blood vessels, lungs, and a circulatory mechanism. Body Systems of Various Organisms. All organisms in the world have a range of systems and organs in their body. Some organisms may share similar body systems while others have absolutely nothing in common. Several of those organisms include humans, pigs, crayfish, and earthworms.
Compared to a human, pigs have the same type of nervous system with the same parts and the same functions. As for a crayfish’s nervous system, it is composed of a ventral nerve cord fused with segmental ganglia, sup esophageal, and sub esophageal ganglia. Body Systems of Various Organisms. All organisms in the world have a range of systems and organs in their body. Some organisms may share similar body systems while others have absolutely nothing in common. Several of those organisms include humans, pigs, crayfish, and earthworms.
This enlargement can be considered a primitive brain, and together with the nerve cord comprises the central nervous system. Without any type of brain, the coordination between different segments of the organism is limited at best, and the nervous system primarily produces simple reflexive movements. All vertebrates have a distinct central component that consists of a brain and spinal cord, as well as peripheral structures such as ganglia and nerves. The primary difference from invertebrates is in the number of neurons and the size of nervous system structures.
They are in the Subphylum Crustacea. This subphylum ranges in size from microscopic copepods to the king crab-with a leg span of over 12 feet. Crayfish and close relatives like lobsters are sometimes called decapods - meaning that they have ten feet, or five pairs of legs. Crayfish actually have four pairs of walking legs. The other pair of legs are the chelipeds-commonly refered to as pinchers. The body of the crayfish is covered by a two-part exoskeleton made of chitin. Chitin contains a high percentage of calcium, similar to your fingernails. 1  Cephalothorax-the head (5 segments) and thorax (8 segments). 2  Abdomen-composed of 7 segments.