The levels of hematocrit in professional sportsmen and athletes are measured as a part of the doping test. This is done because the increased hematocrit level may cause an increase risk of getting a stroke or attack due to the formation of blood clots. Tweet. advertisement. The hematocrit is a test which measures the percentage of blood that is made up of red blood cells. This test is often used to screen for anemia, or alternatively is measured on a person to determine the extent of anemia in a person.
Your hematocrit level is the amount of red blood cells present in your blood. For adult males, it should be around 45% of your blood; for adult females, around 40%. The hematocrit level is an important determining factor in diagnosing different illnesses. On the other hand, lower levels of hematocrit will mean that you may have anemia or a condition where there is insufficient amount of oxygen circulating in your blood. If your hematocrit level has spiked, start with Step 1 below to bring it back to a normal range.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Anemia: A low hemoglobin or hematocrit means you have anemia. They are different ways to measure the red blood cells in your bloodstream. There are many causes for anemia but they fall into 3 categoreis: increased destruction, decreased production and blood loss. Hematocrit (Definition). Of red blood cell number. Classically this was the packed cell volume. blood was placed in a microtube and spun in a centrifuge. The rbcs settle to the bottom and one measures the height in the tube and reported as a percentage. Now determined by an automated machine.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The hematocrit (Ht or HCT, British English spelling haematocrit), also known as packed cell volume (PCV) or erythrocyte volume fraction (EVF), is the volume percentage (%) of red blood cells in blood. It is normally 45% for men and 40% for women. 
Low levels of hemoglobin are most commonly caused by nutritional deficiencies. People who find out from blood tests that they have low hemoglobin levels often want to find out how to increase hemoglobin. Hemoglobin, abbreviated Hb or Hgb, is produced in developing red blood cells in the bone marrow. It is responsible for giving blood its red color. Vitamin and mineral supplementation. There are several minerals and vitamins that can increase hemoglobin levels. Most important of these are iron, vitamins B6, B9 (folic acid), and B12, and vitamin C, which is important for enhancing the absorption of iron.
1 Blood transfusions can replace any blood loss in the body and it can raise the body’s red blood cell count, elevating hematocrit levels. 2  Intravenous fluid therapy. 3  Replacing blood losses also indicated the need for fluid volume replacement with intravenous fluid therapy. 4  Iron supplementation. 1 Supplementing the body with iron can help increase the blood’s capacity to carry oxygen and supply the body with oxygen. 2  Address the cause of bleeding. 3  Any bleeding from the body, external or internal, has to be treated or addressed to avoid further decrease in the hematocrit levels.
The more red blood cells present in the body, the more oxygen and nutrients can be carried to various vital organs for proper functioning. A decrease in hematocrit indicates less delivery of oxygen and nutrients to the body’s vital organs. 1  Blood transfusions. 2  Hematocrit levels can increase when red blood cells increase. 3  Blood transfusions can replace any blood loss in the body and it can raise the body’s red blood cell count, elevating hematocrit levels. 1 Supplementing the body with iron can help increase the blood’s capacity to carry oxygen and supply the body with oxygen. 2  Address the cause of bleeding. 3  Any bleeding from the body, external or internal, has to be treated or addressed to avoid further decrease in the hematocrit levels.
A American Red Cross answered. If a donor’s low hemoglobin/hematocrit is due to low iron, he or she can replenish iron levels by eating more high-iron foods or taking supplements. Foods rich in iron include red meat, fish, poultry, and liver. Other good sources are iron fortified cereals, beans, raisins, and prunes. If a donor’s low hemoglobin/hematocrit is due to low iron, he or she can replenish iron levels by eating more high-iron foods or taking supplements. Foods rich in iron include red meat, fish, poultry, and liver