1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons. Altering nucleotide sequences most often results in nonfunctioning proteins. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation. Also called a base-pair substitution, this type of mutation changes a single nucleotide base pair
Somatic mutations that happen in a single cell early in embryonic development can lead to a situation called mosaicism. These genetic changes are not present in a parent’s egg or sperm cells, or in the fertilized egg, but happen a bit later when the embryo includes several cells. As all the cells divide during growth and development, cells that arise from the cell with the altered gene will have the mutation, while other cells will not. In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.
Types of single gene disorders. The occurrence of a disease caused by a single gene mutation may occur in several main patterns or modes. These are grouped according to whether the trait is sex specific (generally X-linked) or not (autosomal). As a rule, single gene disorders (also known as Mendelian traits or diseases) are relatively uncommon. 
A gene mutation is defined as an alteration in the sequence of nucleotides in DNA. This change can affect a single nucleotide pair or larger gene segments of a chromosome. DNA consists of a polymer of nucleotides joined together. Altering nucleotide sequences most often results in nonfunctioning proteins. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation. Also called a base-pair substitution, this type of mutation changes a single nucleotide base pai
Gene mutation is the change in the DNA sequence that is permanent  and leads to new genetic traits and even diseases. This type of  mutation is triggered through hereditary … process or through several  factors in the environment. A permanent change in the gene's DNA sequence. Gene mutations involving one or a few nuckeotides is called point mutation. If a nucleotide is added or deleted, the bases are s … till read in groups of three, but now those groupings are shifted for every codon that follows. This is called frameshif
Introduction. Quiz. If the changes in a genome are restricted to a single gene, a single-gene defect ensues. Usually this involves a point mutation and leads to an altered amino acid sequence in the proteins that are coded in this section of the DNA. 
But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutations in the structure of genes can be classified as: , 1  such as those affecting a small gene in one or a few nucleotides, including: 2  Point mutations, often caused by chemicals or malfunction of DNA replication, exchange a single nucleotide for another. 3  These changes are classified as transitions or transversions.