Hemp meal, which is defatted hemp seed, is one alternative that is similar to flaxseed meal in many ways. Both contain omega-3 fatty acids and a high percentage of vegetarian protein with hemp meal clocking in at 31 to 33 percent protein.
2. Substitute flaxseed flour for the oil, butter or margarine in a baked good recipe in a 3-to-1 ratio. For every 1/3 cup of fat called for, use 1 cup of flaxseed flour instead; for every 1 tablespoon of fat, substitute 3 tablespoons of flaxseed flour.
Flaxseed meal is rich in vitamins, minerals and healthy fats and can easily be added to soups or salads. Sometimes, a substitute for flaxseed meal is needed, whether this is due to allergy, lack of availability or taste preferences. Several ground foods have a similar consistency and nutritional makeup to flaxseed meal.
3 tbsp (45 mL) ground flax seed for each 1 tbsp (15 mL) of margarine, butter, or cooking oil (3 to 1) . This is especially for those who cook Gluten Free food! Substitute ground flax seed & water mixture for eggs in recipes such as pancakes, muffins, and cookies. Use 1 tbsp (15 mL) ground flax plus 3 tbsp (45 mL) water-left sitting for several minutes-for each egg. Note that this will result in a chewier version of the recipe with less volume.
Flaxseed meal can provide a nutritional punch to many baked goods. Add flaxseed meal to bread, pancakes, muffins, bars, cookies and other recipes for extra nutrition and a nutty flavor. Replace oil or shortening in a recipe with ground flaxseed. Substitute flaxseed at a 3:1 ratio for best results. Use flaxseed meal as an egg replacer in recipes for muffins, cakes, cookies, and pancakes. Use one tablespoon of flaxseed meal and 3 tablespoons of liquid to replace each egg called for in the recipe.
You can also use flaxseed meal to replace an egg. Use 1 tablespoon flaxseed meal and 3 tablespoons water. You can replace up to two eggs in a recipe in this manner, but do not use flaxseed meal as an egg replacement if you are already using it as an oil replacement. Flaxseed has many health benefits.
In some baked goods, particularly in vegan cuisine, ground flaxseed is used to replace eggs. In this case, try substituting each tablespoon of flaxseed in your recipe with 1/4 cup of blended silken tofu, half a blended banana, 1/3 cup of unsweetened applesauce or 3 tablespoons of pureed fruit.