Landforms are constantly being broken down and reformed by the processes of weathering, erosion, and deposition. In this lesson, we explore chemical and physical weathering and how the face of the earth gets changed.
The landforms created as a result of degradational action (erosion) or aggradation work (deposition) of running water is called fluvial landforms.
Landforms Created by Weathering, Erosion, & Deposition. The animation on the page shows how karst topography is formed by the chemical weathering process of carbonation. For a complete review of karst topography and the formation of caves & caverns, review the page titled EXPLORE: Karst Topography in Chapter 11.2.
By P Tiwari Geomorphology. The landforms created as a result of degradational action (erosion) or aggradation work (deposition) of running water is called fluvial landforms. These landforms result from the action of surface flow/run-off or stream flow (water flowing through a channel under the influence of gravity).
Weathering, erosion, and deposition by wind, water, and ice create unique landscapes and features on Earth's surface. Erosion by wind and water create desert arches & sand dunes, and is responsible for the formation of the Grand Canyon. Water also dissolves rocks to form karst topography, a landscape that is rife with caves, caverns, and sinkholes.
The 3 landforms created by wave erosion sometimes called coastal  erosion are headlands and bays, cliffs and wave cut platforms and  finally caves, arches, stacks and stumps … . Wave erosion is the  wearing away of land and the removal of beach by wave currents.
The agents of erosion are gravity, ice, water, and wind. Erosion is sometimes restricted to transportation, excluding weathering.So as rock is eroded away by one force or another, the landscape changes. If enough sediment is eroded away in one place, it can begin to form erosional landforms.
Three landforms created by wind are; sand dunes, yardangs (half-teardrop shaped formations hill sized, and deflation hollows (wind swept depressions. Good examples are in death valley, California, U.S.) Wind also contributes to significant sculpting of sandstone rock including arches.