You’ll also need to be able to relate to pupils and their parents, and have patience and a good sense of humour. One of the main routes into primary school teaching is to do Initial Teacher Education or Training (ITET) and get qualified teacher status. To do this you must have GCSEs in English, maths and a science subject. You will also need clearance by the Disclosure and Barring Service. 
Why this is important. The question of whether better subject qualifications lead to better teaching skills can be contentious – certainly every school leader can tell you about superbly qualified staff that are poor teachers, and vice-versa. 1 It is important to note that 11-16 schools may have different needs from 11-19 schools offering science and maths A levels; likewise, there may be different demands across Key Stages 2 and 3. Schools should look at how their science specialist teachers are deployed throughout the school.
To become a fully qualified teacher working in a state-maintained school in England or Wales, you re going to have to gain Qualified Teacher Status. However, to train as a teacher-via any course-you must have achieved a standard equivalent to a grade C in GCSE English language and mathematics. The Standards for QTS. The Standards for QTS apply to all trainee teachers. They are a rigorous set of statements that formally state what a trainee teacher is expected to know, understand and be able do in order to be awarded qualified teacher status and ultimately work as an effective teacher.
As a secondary school teacher you will help to prepare young people for a fulfilling life after school. You will also have plenty of opportunities to develop your career. To be a secondary school teacher you will need excellent communication skills and the ability to inspire and motivate your pupils to learn. You will also need to work well with people from a wide range of backgrounds, and have patience and a good sense of humour.
Requirements for Being Considered Highly Qualified. Pursuant to the federal No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), all teachers who are the teacher of record in core academic subjects are required to be highly qualified by the end of the 2005-2006 school year.
The law requires that all teachers of core academic subjects in the classroom be highly qualified. This is determined by three essential criteria: (1) attaining a bachelor's degree or better in the subject taught; (2) obtaining full state teacher certification; and (3) demonstrating knowledge in the subjects taught. 
11 3.1 Qualifications by age group (teachers of mathematics) Figure 2 shows how teachers’ subject qualifications vary with respect to age among mathematics teachers. The data show that younger teachers (34 and younger) are on average less qualified than older teachers. • Third, we provide an analysis of the link between teachers’ subject qualifications and the level of English and mathematics taught. • Fourth, we explore the reported confidence of teachers of mathematics and the relationship between confidence and teachers’ qualifications and experience.
The requirements that teachers be highly qualified do not apply to early childhood or pre-kindergarten teachers unless a State includes early childhood or pre-kindergarten as part of its elementary and secondary school system. A-25. The requirement that teachers be highly qualified applies to all public elementary or secondary school teachers employed by a local educational agency who teach a core academic subject (see question A-2, below). “Highly qualified” means that the teacher: 1  1. 2  Has obtained full State certification as a teacher or passed the State teacher licensing examination and holds a license to teach in the State, and does not have certification or licensure requirements waived on an emergency, temporary, or provisional basis. 3  2
Qualifications you will need for the Graduate Teacher Programme. For a place on the Graduate Teacher Programme (GTP), you will need qualifications at least equivalent to a UK undergraduate degree and a GCSE grade C or above in mathematics and in English. The Standards for QTS. The Standards for QTS apply to all trainee teachers. They are a rigorous set of statements that formally state what a trainee teacher is expected to know, understand and be able do in order to be awarded qualified teacher status and ultimately work as an effective teacher.