Organic compounds and inorganic compounds form the basis for chemistry. Here is a look at the difference between organic and inorganic compounds, plus examples of each type. Benzene is an example of an organic compound. Benzene is made of carbon atoms bonded to other carbon atoms and to hydrogen atoms. Chad Baker, Getty Images. Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
The major difference between the Organic and Inorganic compounds is the nature of bonding. Essentially the organic molecules are formed with covalent bonds while the inorganic compounds are bonded with ionic bonds. 1 Organic compounds have relatively low melting points and boiling points in comparison to the inorganic compounds of a similar molecular mass. 2  They are soft and have a flexible lattice structure to its crystalline compounds. 3  This is attributed to the non-ionic nature of the bond.
Four shared electrons are known as a double bond and six shared electrons are known as a triple bond. The oxygen we breathe consists of two oxygen atoms sharing four electrons in a double bond. Methane, or natural gas, is a covalent compound made of one carbon bonded to four hydrogens via single bonds. 
Naming Inorganic Compounds. Binary Molecular Compounds. When a pair of elements form more than one type of covalent compound, Greek prefixes are used to indicate how many of each element are in a compound. The more electronegative element is written last and its ending is changed to ide. Example
However one can always differentiate between organic compounds and inorganic compounds. Summary: 1. Organic compounds are the result of activities of living beings while inorganic compounds are created either due to natural processes unrelated to any life form or the result of human experimentation in the laboratory. 2. 3. Organic compounds contain carbon, while inorganic do not. 4. Organic compounds have carbon-hydrogen bonds, while inorganic do not. 5. Inorganic compounds contain metal atoms, whereas organic compounds do not.
A covalent bond affects only two atoms, but most atoms can form more than one covalent bond at a time. The compound hydrogen fluoride consists of molecules in which one atom of hydrogen and one atom of fluorine are held together by a covalent bond. Atoms of oxygen or sulfur, inorganic chemistry... (75 of 11184 words).
Some might say an ionic bond is the extreme of a polar covalent bond--the sharing is so uneven that an electron it is virtually transferred. Organic compounds are compounds while have C-H or C-C bonds, with the exception of carbonites, cyanides, and cyonates. Inorganic is everything else. Paul · 4 years ago. 
Yet another difference is the fact that inorganic compounds contain metal atoms, whereas organic compounds do not. This too is not one hundred percent true. Maybe one could just take the word of organic and inorganic chemist on what constitutes an organic or inorganic compound. 3. Organic compounds contain carbon, while inorganic do not. 4. Organic compounds have carbon-hydrogen bonds, while inorganic do not. 5. I
2. Inorganic compounds can make salt, while organic cannot. 3. Organic compounds contain carbon, while inorganic do not. 4. Organic compounds have carbon-hydrogen bonds, while inorganic do not. 5. Inorganic compounds contain metal atoms, whereas organic compounds do not. 6. Organic compounds are biological and inorganic are mineral in nature