Each factor plays a part in maintaining your body temperature. The first part is how much you sweat, which can vary from person to person. You will produce a greater amount of sweat the hotter your body temperature is which in turn helps maintain the core temperature at a lower level.
Therefore, in order to maintain normal body temperature even in the face of drastic changes in atmospheric temperature, the body performs certain functions that help it to regulate thermal stability and maintain the right amount of heat.
Questions. 2. Use regulation of body temperature to illustrate maintenance of homeostasis by a feedback mechanism. 3. Use regulation of normal blood pressure to illustrate how the nervous system and the endocrine systems are both involved in maintaining homeostasis.
Temperature sensitive receptors in the skin also feed back information to the hypothalamus about the temperature of the skin surface. Changes in core body temperature cause the hypothalamus to send nerve impulses to the sweat glands, muscles and blood vessels to raise or lower the temperature.
The brain regulates metabolism and manages other functions to keep your body temperature within a normal range. But the brain can only do so much, and a host of outside factors can affect your body temperature. Controlling and managing these outside factors is key to maintaining a normal
Your body will use more energy trying to maintain its core temperature in extremely hot or cold temperature. If you actively help maintain your bodies temperature, that energy can be then applied to the effort of the race, instead of using the energy to heat or cool your body.
Tips & Warnings. 1  Though the standard for normal body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, temperature varies by person, age, level of activity and time of day. 2  Any major variance in body temperature that lasts more than a few days, especially a fever, needs to be checked out by a doctor.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6째F (37째C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1째F (0.6째C) or more above or below