Schnauzers have a life span of about 12-16 years. But Miniature  Schnauzers can live to about 22 years of age if they are kept happy  and healthy.   Average lifespan for … mini schnauzers is 12-15 years.    My neighbor's and mine both passed this month, one from diabetes,  the other from cancer. They were 11 and 12 years old. 51 people found this useful. 
I know this is going to not be popular but miniature Pomeranians or so called “Teacup” Pomeranians are basically bred to be smaller than what is considered healthy and will generally live shorter lives than standard size Poms… which are usually 7-8lbs. I have one of the bigger breeds of a pom.. That only happens every 50 years it’s called a gladiator pom and I would love to know how long he will live he’s already 4 or 5.
This article is about the dog breed. For other uses, see Pomeranian. The Pomeranian (often known as a Pom or Pom Pom) is a breed of dog of the Spitz type, named for the Pomerania region in Central Europe (today part of northern Poland and eastern Germany). A tricolored Pomeranian. Pomeranians are small dogs weighing 1.9–3.5 kilograms (4.2–7.7 lb) and standing 5.0–11 inches (13–28 cm) high at the withers. They are compact but sturdy dogs with an abundant textured coat with a highly plumed tail set high and flat.
Average Life Span. The average Pomeranian lifespan is about 12 years, but it is not unusual for some Pomeranians to live a happy life well into their middle teens. Keeping your Pomeranian trim and active will help prevent many health problems and enable your Pomeranian to lead a happy life into the mid teens.
The average life span of dogs, in general, is 12.8 years. The Pomeranian will live between 12 and 16 years, though some will live even longer. As you read on, you will see that some elements that are fatal can be avoided with proper care. We will also go over life stages and then meet one of the oldest living Pomeranians. Leading Causes of Death for the Pomeranian Breed. 1 Female dogs are expected to live approximately 1.2 years longer more than males. 2  Genetics play a role. 3  If a Pomeranian is predisposed to certain disease, particularly a serious one, this will of course affect length of life. 4  This is one reason why strict health screens must be in place for any breeding program.
The Pomeranian has a lifespan of 12-16 years, though some live as long as 20 years. Common health problems are luxating patella (dislocated knee), patent ductus arteriosus (a heart defect), and collapsed trachea. 
* Interestingly, the Pomeranian breed has one of the lowest rates of death due to cancer (7.9%), even though this is a leading cause for many toy breeds. Other Factors that Affect Life Span. 1  Toy and small breed dogs live approximately 1.5 times longer than larger breed dogs. 1 Female dogs are expected to live approximately 1.2 years longer more than males. 2  Genetics play a role. 3  If a Pomeranian is predisposed to certain disease, particularly a serious one, this will of course affect length of life. 4  This is one reason why strict health screens must be in place for any breeding program.
Another variable to how long your Pomeranian will live is vaccines. If you keep up with the proper vaccines, don’t over vaccinate and don’t neglect or skip a vaccine your furry baby will live longer. How long do Pomeranians live. I have one of the bigger breeds of a pom.. That only happens every 50 years it’s called a gladiator pom and I would love to know how long he will live he’s already 4 or 5.
… or basically how long do Pomeranians live? I actually hate answering this question because there’s no “real” answer. Most experts say that Pomeranians live between 12 to 16 years… but then I personally know people who have Pomeranians that lived to be 20, 21, and 22 respectively. I have one of the bigger breeds of a pom.. That only happens every 50 years it’s called a gladiator pom and I would love to know how long he will live he’s already 4 or 5.