An ` acropolis ’ is any citadel or complex built on a high hill. The name derives from the Greek Akro, high or extreme/extremity or edge, and Polis, city, translated as 'High City’, 'City on the Edge’ or 'City in the Air’, the most famous being the Acropolis of Athens, Greece, built in the 5th century BCE. 
Acropolis in Greek means The Sacred Rock, the high city. All around the world the Acropolis of Athens is known as 'The Acropolis'. There are many Acropolises in Greece but the Acropolis of Athens is the best known. The Acropolis is primarily dedicated to the Goddess Athena. But humans from the prehistoric era have populated the Acropolis and the caves around it
The Parthenon is a temple located on the Acropolis, a hill overlooking the city of Athens, Greece. Acro means high and polis means city - so it is literally the high city. Many other places in Greece have an acropolis, such as Corinth in the Peloponnese, but The Acropolis usually refers to the site of the Parthenon in Athens.
The Acropolis is the hill in Athens on which the Parthenon stands. Acro means high and polis means city - so it is literally the high city. Many other places in Greece have an acropolis, such as Corinth in the Peloponnese, but The Acropolis usually refers to the site of the Parthenon in Athens.
The term acropolis means upper city and many of the city states of ancient Greece are built around an acropolis where the inhabitants can go as a place of refuge in times of invasion. It's for this reason that the most sacred buildings are usually on the acropolis. The Parthenon and other main buildings on the Acropolis were built by Pericles in the fifth century BC as a monument to the cultural and political achievements of the inhabitants of Athens.
Acropolis. Acropolis means 'high city' in Greek. Most city-states in ancient Greece had at their centre a rocky mound or hill where they built their important temples and where the people could retreat to if under attack. The most famous acropolis is the one in Athens. The Athenian Acropolis is home to one of the most famous buildings in the world: the Parthenon. This temple was built for the goddess Athena. It was decorated with beautiful sculptures which represent the greatest achievement of Greek artists.
The Acropolis of Athens Greece. The word Acropolis means city by the edge, and there are many acropolises all over Greece. They were always situated on a high spot, and were often used as a place for shelter and defence against various enemies
An acropolis (Greek: ἀκρόπολις; from akros or akron, highest, topmost, outermost and polis, city; plural in English: acropoles, acropoleis or acropolises) is a settlement, especially a citadel, built upon an area of elevated ground—frequently a hill with precipitous sides, chosen for purposes of defense. For the most famous example of an acropolis, see Acropolis of Athens. For the Greek newspaper, see Akropolis (newspaper) . For the Swedish football team, see Akropolis IF. For other uses, see Acropolis (disambiguation) .