1 Electrical current will not flow unless it has a complete path (circuit) that returns to its source (battery, transformer). 2  Current flows through you and other conductors, such as metals, earth and concrete. 3  Current can harm you when it flows through your body (electric shock). 4  Insulators resist the flow of electricity.
In an electrical circuit, for DC, current takes the path of least reisitance; For AC it takes the path of least inductance (impedance). So a pulse of voltage will cause the current distribution to be determined by path inductance and then finish with the distribution determined by resistance.
Electric current cannot exist without an unbroken path to and from the conductor. Electricity will form a path or loop. When you plug in a device (e.g., a power tool), the electricity takes the easiest path from the plug-in, to the tool, and back to the power source. This is also known as creating or completing an electrical circuit.
An electric circuit is a path in which electrons from a voltage or current source flow. Electric current flows in a closed path called an electric circuit. The point where those electrons enter an electrical circuit is called the source of electrons. The point where the electrons leave an electrical circuit is called the return or earth ground.
Contrary to popular belief, electricity takes all paths available in inverse proportion to the impedance of the paths. The magnitude of the current flowing in a path depends on the path's voltage and impedance. The lower the impedance (assuming voltage remains constant), the greater the current.
Basics of Electricity: Electrical current will not flow unless it has a complete path (circuit) that returns to its source (battery, transformer). Current flows through you and other conductors, such as metals, earth and concrete. Current can harm you when it flows through your body (electric shock).
As the responses indicate, current will flow through all paths, with more current flowing through the lower-resistance paths. But often when people say electricity takes the path of least resistance, they're discussing a circumstance where the paths differ dramatically in resistance, such as a wet hand vs. an air gap.