A dry, flaky scalp may result from dry skin, dandruff or a more serious autoimmune condition called psoriasis. Good habits, such as regularly moisturizing, shampooing, staying hydrated and getting enough essential fatty acids, can help keep your scalp from suffering from dryness. Consuming enough may help alleviate dandruff, psoriasis outbreaks and dry skin. A dry scalp may be a result of a fatty acid deficiency or of the inability of the body to process the fatty acids you do eat. Biotin, also known as B-7, helps with fatty acid metabolism.
Vitamin B-12, A and C. Your scalp dryness may be a symptom of overall skin dryness. Vitamin B-12, found primarily in animal foods such as a meat, poultry, fish and dairy, helps promote moister skin. It can help keep the scalp from becoming overly dry and resulting dull hair color. Consuming enough may help alleviate dandruff, psoriasis outbreaks and dry skin. A dry scalp may be a result of a fatty acid deficiency or of the inability of the body to process the fatty acids you do eat. Biotin, also known as B-7, helps with fatty acid metabolism.
Itchy scalp may cause mild, reversible hair loss. Causes may include seborrheic dermatitis (dandruff). Treatments may include medicated shampoos like ketoconazole (Nizoral), OTC dandruff shampoos, and topical steroid creams and lotions to help decrease itching. Specific vitamin and mineral deficiencies like iron or vitamin B12 may be diagnosed by blood tests and treated. Multiple vitamins, including biotin, have been promoted for hair growth, but solid scientific studies for many of these claims are lacking.
6. Poor Diet – Vitamins and minerals deficiency can cause all of the above, and your scalp and hair are usually the first to show the tell-tale signs of poor diet. If your diet lacks foods high in zinc, B vitamins or certain types of fats, you may be more likely to have dandruff. 7. Problems with fungi (and bacteria) are likely caused by your scalp being to alkali. This happens when you use hair products that remove the acidic sebum protecting your scalp against fungi and bacteria. 3. Scalp psoriasis – Psoriasis can cause dandruff-like itching and flaking.
6 Signs of Biotin Deficiency are: 1. Dermatitis. Skin inflammation is one of the common symptoms of biotin deficiency. The common form of dermatitis that is found in people who are suffering from biotin deficiency is seborrhoeic dermatitis. This disease causes flaking and itching on the scalp that may lead to balding. Children who are affected by this condition may suffer from muscle pain and hair problems. Symptoms such as thinning of hair, red-scaly skin and brittle nails are common signs of biotin deficiency. 6 Signs of Biotin Deficiency. Biotin is a form of Vitamin B complex, and it is a crucial vitamin required for synthesizing carbohydrates and fatty acids in the human body. This vitamin is manufactured from food by bacteria that is present in the intestinal track of the body.
1 Eczema, where the skin is dry, red and flaky. 2  Psoriasis, a skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales. 3  Lichen planus, a non-infectious, itchy rash that can affect many parts of the body. 4  The cause is unknown. Skin conditions. 1 
According to the Ronald Marks, author of Practical Problems in Dermatology, the most common cause of itchy scalp is simple dry skin, and poor dietary habits are a risk factor that can make you more susceptible to dry skin, itchy scalp and dandruff. Adding foods rich in vitamin A to your diet might help improve skin health, alleviating scalp itch. Foods that are good sources of vitamin A include eggs, butter, dairy products, sweet potatoes, squash, carrots, cantaloupe and papaya.
People on low-fat and non-fat diets are at risk for nutrition-related hair loss because hair needs essential fatty acids. Essential fatty acid deficiency causes a drying-up of the scalp and skin. These are vital nutrients that support follicular health. When the follicle is not healthy, hair loss or thinning occurs. Vitamin B6 helps prevent dandruff and can be found in cereals, egg yolk and liver. Vitamin B12 helps prevent the loss of hair and can be found in fish, eggs, chicken and milk. It is also important to include B6, biotin, inositol and folic acid in the supplemental program.
Foods for Dry & Itchy Scalp. One of the more obvious causes of chronic dandruff and/or dry scalp is vitamin and mineral deficiencies. Try to eat more of the following foods, to increase your intake of zinc, Vitamin A, B vitamins and Omega 3 Fatty Acids: 1  Eggs, sweet potatoes, carrots, papaya (Vitamin A). Problems with fungi (and bacteria) are likely caused by your scalp being to alkali. This happens when you use hair products that remove the acidic sebum protecting your scalp against fungi and bacteria. 3. Scalp psoriasis – Psoriasis can cause dandruff-like itching and flaking.
The essential omega-3 fatty acids, protein, vitamin B12, and iron, found in fish sources, prevent a dry scalp and dull hair color. Dark green vegetables contain high amounts of vitamins A and C, which help with production of sebum and provide a natural hair conditioner. Vitamin B6 helps prevent dandruff and can be found in cereals, egg yolk and liver. Vitamin B12 helps prevent the loss of hair and can be found in fish, eggs, chicken and milk. It is also important to include B6, biotin, inositol and folic acid in the supplemental program.