As long as the package of the chocolate bar is unopened, dark chocolate should be fine for at least two years, white and milk ones for a year. Once the package is opened, dark chocolate should be of great quality for a year, white and milk ones for maybe 8-10 months.
Most chocolates have a shelf life of eighteen months to two years unopened. Chocolate syrup might be kept for two years unopened and six months after opened and refrigerated. Pre-melted chocolate has an expiry date of one year in either the pantry or refrigerator.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It depends on how much milk is in the milk chocolate. If you are not talking about milk chocolate, then it will last a very long time if it stays wrapped. Most has too much milk and sugar to last long.
It does go bad. The shelf life of opened dark or bittersweet chocolate is one year. Milk chocolate lasts only about eight months, due to the presence of milk. The reason it has such a long shelf life, even opened, is due to the cocoa butter.
2-3 Years. Of course, the shelf life of chocolate is shorter if it is not stored properly. But remember that chocolate, like a lot of other sweets, usually has a best before date and not an expiration date. Because of this distinction, you may safely use it even after the best before date has lapsed.
For a long-term option, you can freeze your chocolate while preserving its taste if you use an air-tight freezer safe container. Although freezing is an indefinite storage spot, the quality of some foods decline after longer time periods in the freezer.
Most commercial chocolate does not have a shelf life. Batches are dated for processing and tracking purposes but there is really no inherent limit to how long it will remain shelf stable assuming it remains below about 30C / 85F and in a correctly controlled environment.
People often ask does cocoa powder go bad? or does hot chocolate expire? more often than how long does cocoa last? because it seems to look the same no matter how long it sits in your cupboard. The shelf life of cocoa is influenced mainly by the best before date and how it is stored.