For uses of Fowler other as a surname, see Fowler (disambiguation) . Fowler is an English and/or Scots surname with a linguistic origin in the Old English fugelere, indicative of a person occupied as a bird-catcher. Though his surname is not Fowler, Henry I is included here as an example of usage of the term in relation to a name prior to the broad introduction of surnames in Europe. 1  Henry the Fowler, or Henry I of Germany (861–936), Duke of Saxony and King of the Germans.
Fowler Name Meaning. English: occupational name for a bird-catcher (a common medieval occupation), Middle English fogelere, foulere (Old English fugelere, a derivative of fugol ‘bird’). Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. 
Last Name Meanings and Origins. Uncover the meaning and origin of your last name, then learn how to create and preserve your own family history for generations to come. Menu › Home | Obituaries | Newspapers. Please visit Ancestry.com for further information about the Fowler last name. Discover some interesting historical facts about the Fowler family: Creating a family history is a great way to preserve the history of your family for generations to come. 
Confidence votes 7. The surname Fowler has been traced back to English and Scottish origin, and is linguistically derived from fugelere, a classification of bird-catcher. 
Origins of the Fowler Surname. While some countries have limited historical records for last name assignments, you are most likely to only find general guidance on the origin and meaning of the Fowler surname.
The very first record of the family name FOWLER was found in Norfolk, which is located in England. The FOWLER family traces their ancestral roots back to Anglo Saxon origin before the year 1100. From here they branched and migrated, gaining prosperity as a notable family of England and later other countries. This name is of ancient Anglo-Norman origin, and comes from the Anglo-Saxon word Fugal, meaning fowl. However, most of the Fowlers in America are of English descent.
Learn what others know about your family tree. Fowler in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Fowler genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Fowler surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list. If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Fowler in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Fowler surname forum. Use these genealogy databases to fill in the blanks of your Fowler heritage. Fowler in Ancestry.com Records. Start your family tree and learn the story of your family in the world's largest online collection of genealogy records and family trees.
The name Fowler comes from the Anglo-Saxon 'Fugal, meaning fowl. It is of Anglo-Norman origin, however most of the Fowlers in America are of English descent. Henry the Fowler became King Henry I of Saxony in 919. He united the Saxons and the Franks into what is now Germany. Though his surname is not Fowler, Henry I is included here as an example of usage of the term in relation to a name prior to the broad introduction of surnames in Europe. 1  Henry the Fowler, or Henry I of Germany (861–936), Duke of Saxony and King of the Germans.
This interesting surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is from an occupational name for a bird-catcher or hunter of wild birds. In the medieval period a fowler would have been an important position, and all major houses would have employed one. The derivation is from the Olde English pre 7th Century fugelere, hunter of wild birds. Job-descriptive surnames originally denoted the actual occupation of the namebearer, and later became hereditary. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Richard Fugelere, which was dated 1218, witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Lancashire, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272.