A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) is the complete domain name for a specific computer, or host, on the Internet. The FQDN consists of two parts: the hostname and the domain name. For example, an FQDN for a hypothetical mail server might be mymail.somecollege.edu. The hostname is mymail, and the host is located within the domain somecollege.edu. In this case, www is the name of the host in the indiana.edu domain. When connecting to a host (using an SSH client, for example), you must specify the FQDN. The DNS server then resolves the hostname to its IP address by looking at its DNS table.
The FQDN (Fully-Qualified Domain Name) of the machine on which Internet Exchange will be installed is required in order to provide a working license. The FQDN is simply the combination of host name and domain name. For example,  ccgate.anon.com . 
To summarize, a hostname is a Fully Qualified Domain Name that uniquely and absolutely names a computer. It is composed of the host name and the domain name. The domain name in turn is one or more domain labels that place the computer in the DNS naming hierarchy. A complete domain name (that is, an FQDN) includes the name of the host concatenated with its domain name. This naming convention allows for a hierarchy of domain names with the host name being the most specific (and left-most) part.
A fully qualified domain name (FQDN), sometimes also referred to as an absolute domain name, is a domain name that specifies its exact location in the tree hierarchy of the Domain Name System (DNS). It specifies all domain levels, including the top-level domain and the root zone. A fully qualified domain name is distinguished by its lack of ambiguity: it can be interpreted only in one way.
In common usage today, hostname refers specifically to the FQDN that comprises the name of the host, a period, and the domain name. The domain name is composed of labels that begin with the top-level domain and are arranged right to left for the second and, possibly, third level labels. A complete domain name (that is, an FQDN) includes the name of the host concatenated with its domain name. This naming convention allows for a hierarchy of domain names with the host name being the most specific (and left-most) part.
up vote 6 down vote. The hostname is just the computer name and the fully qualified domain name is the hostname plus the domain name after it.... hostname: bigbox fqdn: bigbox.mynetwork.com. or commonly the fqdn ends in .local instead of .com but that is environment specific. Your fully qualified domain name is your hostname plus the domain your company uses often ending in .local. So if the name of your computer is bob, and your company's domain is contoso.local, your computer's fully qualified domain name is bob.contoso.local. Hostname: bob. Domain: contoso.com.
Your hostname is the name of your computer. Your fully qualified domain name is your hostname plus the domain your company uses often ending in .local. So if the name of your computer is bob, and your company's domain is contoso.local, your computer's fully qualified domain name is bob.contoso.local. Hostname: bob. Domain: contoso.com. FQDN: bob.contoso.com. In the case of a domain like contoso.local I did not use an external internet domain name
An FQDN, or Fully-Qualified Domain Name, is a domain name that specifies the exact location of a webpage. An example of an FQDN, would be “http://www.tech-faq.com/”, in which “com” is used to specify the root domain that Tech-FAQ is hosted on, “www” specifies the hostname, and “http” specifies the transfer protocol. For example, http://www.tech-faq.com/fqdn.html is used to describe the exact location of this webpage, in which this HTML document is located in the “www” folder of the Tech-FAQ server on the “.com” domain and your browser is using HTTP to access it. Applications.
For example, www.indiana.edu is the FQDN on the web for IU. In this case, www is the name of the host in the indiana.edu domain. When connecting to a host (using an SSH client, for example), you must specify the FQDN. The DNS server then resolves the hostname to its IP address by looking at its DNS table.