1. What is the purpose for a grounding transformer. Simply put, a grounding transformer is used to provide a ground path to either an ungrounded “Y” or a delta connected system and are used to…. 1  Provide a relatively low impedance path to ground, thereby maintaining the system neutral at or near ground potential. 
An earthing transformer is usually associated with three phase supply systems. Earthing of any electrical system at the source is considered by most countries to be the safer practice with regard to personnel and equipment safety. An earthing transformer provides an earth reference to the power system. This is sometimes done on systems that could become ungrounded under specific fault conditions. This p … revents the need to insulate the conductors to L-L voltage specifications, as well as providing a path for zero sequence current.
Earthing transformers. Earthing transformers are classified as standard reactors. An earthing transformer (neutral coupler) is a three-phase transformer connected to the power system to provide a neutral connection for earthing, either directly or via impedance. The earthing transformers may in addition supply a local auxiliary load. The earthing transformer creates a neutral point for a network
Simply put, a grounding transformer is used to provide a ground path to either an ungrounded wye or a delta-connected system. Grounding transformers are typically used to: 1  Provide a relatively low-impedance path to ground, thereby maintaining the system neutral at or near ground potential. 
An earthing transformer is usually associated with three-phase supply systems. On a three-phase system, the neutral would be earthed either directly or through some limiting impedance / resistance. This is the purpose of the earthing transformer, which could consist of a zig-zag winding, or a two-winding star delta transformer where the star winding of correct voltage supplies an accessible neutral point when connected to the supply system. Product scope.
Earthing transformers are used to create a neutral point in a three-phase system, which provides possibility for neutral earthing. The earthing can be through an arc-suppression reactor, a neutral earthing reactor or resistor or directly. The design can be a transformer with just one winding, which is zigzag connected. 
Earthing Transformers. Earthing up to 2 MVA  33 kV-Earthing transformers are used to create a neutral point in a three-phase system, which provides possibility for neutral earthing. The earthing can be through an arc-suppression reactor, a neutral earthing reactor or resistor are directly in these earth transformers. Neutral earthing transformers are normally provided in 3-phase system, which is without neutral and earth fault protection. Neutral earthing transformer is having zig-zag (interstar) winding to achieve the required zero phase impedance.
This is the purpose of the earthing transformer, which could consist of a zig-zag winding, or a two winding star delta transformer where the star winding of correct voltage supplies an accessible neutral point when connected to the supply system. An earthing transformer provides an earth reference to the power system. This is sometimes done on systems that could become ungrounded under specific fault conditions. This p … revents the need to insulate the conductors to L-L voltage specifications, as well as providing a path for zero sequence current.
This is the purpose of the earthing transformer, which could consist of a zig-zag winding, or a two winding star delta transformer where the star winding of correct voltage supplies an accessible neutral point when connected to the supply system. Power transformers are three-phase transformers used in the electricity supply system. If the secondary is star (wye) connected, it is necessary to earth (ground) the star poi … nt (neutral point) because an unearthed star point could result in a 'floating neutral', which could cause unbalanced phase voltages.
Description. Grounding transformers are used in utility distribution networks and in some power electronic converters in order to provide a neutral point in a three-wire system. This transformer is a three-phase two-winding transformer with winding 1 and winding 2 connected in zig zag as shown in the figure below.