Step 7: Immediately following the landline number now ringing to the cell phone, I went to my Google Voice account, to Settings, and started the process of porting my number from the cell phone to Google Voice. This took 24 hours and has a one-time cost of $20. Step 3: After receiving the phone, I activated it and called the AT&T porting center at (888) 898-7685 and arranged for my landline number to port to the GoPhone. Because this was coming from a landline, the process took about 3 business days to transfer. Step 4: I purchased $15 in usage for the GoPhone
Google Voice: A step-by-step primer on ditching your landline while keeping your number. Google doesn't normally allow you to port a landline phone number to Google Voice. This step-by-step primer shows you how you can do it. By David Gewirtz for ZDNet Government |. Ignore this. Tell Google Voice the number of the phone you want to port (your former land line number, now residing on the GoPhone), and the account number you extracted earlier from the AT&T rep (see Step 5).
If you transfer your landline telephone number to Straight Talk, your landline phone service will be disconnected and you will no longer receive calls on your landline phone. 
Best Answer: from your landline phone, dial *72 then dial the number to your mobile phone from your landline. answer the phone and you got it transferred. now all calls to your landline will ring to your mobile phone. to transfer them back, dial *73 from your landline and everything will be back to normal. Source(s): i do it all the time. pitmonster · 6 years ago. Thumbs up
If so, you can consider forwarding calls from your landline to your cell phone. It's really not that complicated. Just follow these steps, and your calls will be forwarded from your landline to your cell phone: 1  Dial star-seven-two (*72) from your landline phone, and wait for a dial tone [source: ATT ]. If you want to stop forwarding your calls, simply dial star-seven-three (*73) from your landline telephone [source: Vonage, ATT ]. There are companies that set up call forwarding from your existing landline or even from a brand new number to your cell phone or other existing phone line. Some companies even provide international call forwarding at no extra cost to the caller
1 Press the 10-digit number of the cell phone where you'd like your calls to be forwarded to [source: Vonage 2  ]. Press the pound button (#) or wait for a response indicating that call forwarding has been activated [source: Vonage, ATT 3  ]. Repeat steps 1 through 3 if you're not sure if the process worked [source: ATT ]. If you want to stop forwarding your calls, simply dial star-seven-three (*73) from your landline telephone [source: Vonage, ATT ]. There are companies that set up call forwarding from your existing landline or even from a brand new number to your cell phone or other existing phone line. Some companies even provide international call forwarding at no extra cost to the caller
With LNP, you will be able to keep the same phone number when switching between wireless carriers or between wireless and landline carriers. You will only be able to transfer your phone number to another carrier within your local market. The Federal Communications Commission has issued rules mandating that carriers are required to implement LNP starting November 24, 2003, in the top 100 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Yes. LNP allows you to transfer your wireless and landline telephone numbers when switching carriers. You will be able to transfer your numbers between wireless carriers and to and from
When people call my landline, I want it to ring on my cell phone, because my landline is going to be tied up by my pc. I know that it's * or # something. I just can't remember the number that follows. 1 following. 