The flu is contagious a day before and five days to a week after its onset. Young children, people over 65, those with compromised immune systems, and people with a terminal illness are at risk of death from the flu. Pregnant women are also at greater risk. The flu can also cause premature birth. Colds are contagious from about a week before you get them until all of your symptoms are gone, which is sometimes as long as two weeks. You might develop a secondary infection like an earache that lasts longer than contagious symptoms.
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 
This is the period when you are most contagious -- you can pass the cold to others -- so it's best to stay home and rest. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. A. Symptoms of a cold can be felt about 1-4 days after catching a cold virus. They start with a burning feeling in the nose or throat, followed by sneezing, a runny nose, and a feeling of being tired and unwell.
First, scientists involved with common cold research do not know exactly how long a person with a cold is contagious. Based on previous studies, their best guess is that a person becomes contagious about two to three days before developing the usual symptoms of a cold. Second, this contagious period can last until the person no longer shows any symptoms. So in theory, a person is contagious for about two weeks. (Click Cold Symptoms to read about the symptoms of the common cold or Cold and Flu Symptoms to learn the difference between a cold and the flu.). Let's assume you're the one with the cold. During the two-week period when you're contagious, research indicates that you'll be most likely to transmit the cold virus when you're experiencing cold symptoms. The period when you're most contagious is when your symptoms are at their worst -- day 2 to day 4 of the cold.
Most experts agree that adults with a cold or the flu start being contagious about a day before they start experiencing symptoms. For the flu, the contagious period then lasts five to seven days into the illness. For children, the contagious period for the flu can last up to two weeks after they start feeling sick, even if they start feeling better before that. The contagious period for a cold lasts about three to four days into the illness. As a general rule, people with a cold are most contagious about three days after their initial exposure to the virus. For more information on colds, influenza and related topics, check out the links on the next page. Print.
The common, contagious cold is a brief, mild illness. The early symptoms of headache, sneezing, chills, and sore throat start two to three days after you have been infected. The symptoms of nasal discharge and congestion increase quickly and then go away after about a week. You are most contagious during the period before the symptoms start and during the first two days you feel sick, says Cesar Arias, MD, associate professor of infectious diseases at the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. That means you can be contagious even before you realize you are sick.
The Flu Is Contagious. Most healthy adults may be able to infect other people beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. Some people can be infected with the flu virus but have no symptoms.
» The patient is the most contagious during the 2nd and 4th day of the cold. It is during this period that the symptoms are at their worst. » When a virus makes its way into the body, it starts to multiply and taking over healthy cells of the body. While this is going on, the body shows no symptoms. To sum up, common cold becomes contagious 2-3 days before the onset of the symptoms and lasts until the symptoms disappear. But as the infection is a self-limited one, simply follow the above remedies and manage the symptoms. Disclaimer: The information provided in this article is solely for educating the reader.