Confidence votes 1. aerobic bacteria i would know because that's what were learning right now in sixth grade. These aerobic bacteria include the bacteria that cause Pnemonia, which like to inhabit inside the lungs of Humans, where there is a rich supply of oxygen. i agree with this and this is a different person :). I = indifferent: Lactobaccilus, some Streptococcus, and most other milk organisms grow equally well on the surface and within the agar because they are indifferent to the oxygen level. Notice that the bacteria grow uniformly on the surface and to the bottom of tube provided the cells are distributed uniformly.
(Answer #1). Bacteria that do not need oxygen to survive are called anaerobic bacteria. They may also live in places that have very little oxygen. A couple examples of diseases that are caused by anaerobic bacteria are tetanus and botulism. These bacteria live in the mouth, gastrointestinal tract, and on the skin. Bacteria that do not need oxygen to survive are called anaerobic bacteria. They may also live in places that have very little oxygen. A couple examples of diseases that are caused by anaerobic bacteria are tetanus and botulism
Facultative anaerobic bacteria grow both in presence and absence of free oxygen. Some bacteria are microaerophilic which grow best in the presence of low concentration of molecular oxygen. However, not all bacteria require oxygen for growth. Strict or obligate anaerobic bacteria can grow only in the absence of oxygen. Oxygen Requirements of Different Bacteria. Article Summary: Oxygen is elemental constituent of water and organic compounds. Obligatory aerobic bacteria are dependent on aerobic respiration for fulfillment of their energetic needs; wherein molecular oxygen functions as terminal electron acceptor or oxidising agent.
Oxygen Requirements of Bacteria. An experiment to determine the oxygen needs of bacterium. Various genera of bacteria have differing needs for oxygen. Some, like Clostridium, find oxygen toxic and usually don't grow in air. Others can grow only when oxygen is present. 
Best Answer: There are many kinds of bacteria. There are Aerobic bacteria that needs oxygen for cellular metabolism. There are also Anaerobic bacteria that undergoes anaerobic metabolism to live. Example of one bacteria that doesn't need oxygen to live is Clostridium botulinum which can be found on unhygienic processed canned goods.
What kind of bacterium cannot tolerate oxygen? The bacterium that cannot tolerate oxygen is Anaerobes, but there  are different kinds and each has different tolerances when it comes  to oxygen. Obligate Anaerobes can get … killed by oxygen. Facultative  anaerobes those can grow without oxygen.
Aerobes are bacteria that require oxygen for survival. They cannot undergo metabolic processes without oxygen. Facultative anaerobes are well adapted and able to survive in a variety of environments whereas the obligate anaerobes and aerobic bacteria are limited in the types of environments that they can survive in. Bacteria that do not need oxygen to survive are called anaerobic bacteria. They may also live in places that have very little oxygen. A couple examples of diseases that are caused by anaerobic bacteria are tetanus and botulism
An anaerobic organism or anaerobe is any organism that does not require oxygen for growth. It may react negatively or even die if oxygen is present. An anaerobic organism may be unicellular (e.g. protozoans, bacteria) or multicellular. Obligate anaerobes may use fermentation or anaerobic respiration. Aerotolerant organisms are strictly fermentative. In the presence of oxygen, facultative anaerobes use aerobic respiration; without oxygen, some of them ferment; some use
Anaerobic bacteria do not obtain energy by using molecular oxygen.... Oxygen requirements of different bacteria Almost all plants and animals are dependent upon supply of atmospheric oxygen which is unlikely in bacteria. Oxygen Requirements of Different Bacteria. Article Summary: Oxygen is elemental constituent of water and organic compounds. Obligatory aerobic bacteria are dependent on aerobic respiration for fulfillment of their energetic needs; wherein molecular oxygen functions as terminal electron acceptor or oxidising agent.