DNA is replicated in the S-phase of interphase in the cell cycle. Replication means the chromatin that is present is duplicated so there will be two identical chromatids later in prophase. 1 person found this useful. No because the chromosomes are already duplicated No. DNA replication does not occur during interkinesis. Interkinesis is a breif rest period between meiosis I and meiosis II. … In some species, daughter cells do not form, and meiosis II follows right after meiosis I. No.
Replication is the process by which a double-stranded DNA molecule is copied to produce two identical DNA molecules. DNA replication is one of the most basic processes that occurs within a cell. Each time a cell divides, the two resulting daughter cells must contain exactly the same genetic information, or DNA, as the parent cell. To accomplish this, each strand of existing DNA acts as a template for replication. Replication occurs in three major steps: the opening of the double helix and separation of the DNA strands, the priming of the template strand, and the assembly of the new DNA segment
DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance. Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis.
This process involves replication of the cell's chromosomes, segregation of the copied DNA, and splitting of the parent cell's cytoplasm. The outcome of binary fission is two new cells that are identical to the original cell. Figure 1: During prophase, the chromosomes in a cell's nucleus condense to the point that they can be viewed using a light microscope. Prophase is the first phase of mitosis. During this phase, the chromosomes inside the cell's nucleus condense and form tight structures.
The mechanism of transcription has parallels in that of DNA replication. As with DNA replication, partial unwinding of the double helix must occur before transcription can take place, and it is the RNA polymerase enzymes that catalyze this process. 
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 1 The separation of the two single strands of DNA creates a ‘Y’ shape called a replication ‘fork’. 2  The two separated strands will act as templates for making the new strands of DNA. 3  One of the strands is oriented in the 3’ to 5’ direction (towards the replication fork), this is the leading strand.
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis.
1 A portion of the double helix is unwound by a helicase. 2  A molecule of a DNA polymerase binds to one strand of the DNA and begins moving along it in the 3' to 5' direction, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand of nucleotides and reforming a double helix. 1 A molecule of a DNA polymerase binds to one strand of the DNA and begins moving along it in the 3' to 5' direction, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand of nucleotides and reforming a double helix. 2  In eukaryotes, this molecule is called DNA polymerase epsilon (ε)