Mitosis is the process of cell division in somatic cells to make 2 identical diploid cells. ItMeiosis is a process of cell division that creates 4 haploid cells that are not c … ompletely identical. Meiosis creates sex cells or gametes. 
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct types of cell division: a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell (mitosis), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes (meiosis). 
Meiosis. Meiosis is the form of eukaryotic cell division that produces haploid sex cells or gametes (which contain a single copy of each chromosome) from diploid cells (which contain two copies of each chromosome). Mitosis. Mitosis is a form of eukaryotic cell division that produces two daughter cells with the same genetic component as the parent cell. Chromosomes replicated during the S phase are divided in such a way as to ensure that each daughter cell receives a copy of every chromosome.
In eukaryotes -- including humans -- almost all cell division includes mitosis. Certain specialized cells called germ cells can also divide replicated DNA through meiosis, which results in specialized cells containing only one copy of each chromosome. Most cells have two copies of each. Eukaryotes are organisms which have cells containing membrane-bound compartments called organelles, such as the nucleus and mitochondria. Prokaryotes, on the other hand, do not have such compartments. Therefore, cell division occurs somewhat differently in prokaryotes.
Only eukaryotic organisms, or those whose cells contain nuclei, undergo mitosis. Eukaryotic organisms include animals, plants, fungi, and others (traditionally called protista). Bacterial cells, which lack nuclei and are classified as prokaryotic, divide through a different process, called binary fission. During mitosis, a eukaryotic nucleus that has already replicated its chromosomes splits into two identical daughter nuclei. Importantly, mitosis does not include the splitting, or cytokinesis, of the parent cell into two daughter cells; muscle cells, for example, usually contain many nuclei.
Meiosis: Half the Chromosomes. Eukaryotic organisms that sexually reproduce have a specialized set of cells that undergo meiosis rather than mitosis. In meiosis, the parent cell splits into four daughter cells, or gametes, each of which has half as many chromosomes as the parent. During mitosis, a eukaryotic nucleus that has already replicated its chromosomes splits into two identical daughter nuclei. Importantly, mitosis does not include the splitting, or cytokinesis, of the parent cell into two daughter cells; muscle cells, for example, usually contain many nuclei.
Mitosis is the part of cell division in which replicated DNA is separated into the two halves of a dividing cell. Eukaryotes are organisms which have cells containing membrane-bound compartments called organelles, such as the nucleus and mitochondria. Prokaryotes, on the other hand, do not have such compartments. Therefore, cell division occurs somewhat differently in prokaryotes.
Like mitosis, meiosis is a form of eukaryotic cell division. However, these two processes distribute genetic material among the resulting daughter cells in very different ways. Mitosis creates two identical daughter cells that each contain the same number of chromosomes as their parent cell. 
Prokaryotes, such as bacteria, do not have a nuclear membrane surrounding their cellular DNA, so cell division is happens differently than in eukaryotes. Even though the cell does not undergo mitosis, the end result is the same. Eukaryotes are organisms which have cells containing membrane-bound compartments called organelles, such as the nucleus and mitochondria. Prokaryotes, on the other hand, do not have such compartments. Therefore, cell division occurs somewhat differently in prokaryotes.