Fungi Kingdom. Fungi are important organisms that belong to their own kingdom, completely separate from plants and animals. A hugely diverse group of great economic importance, fungi remain vastly under-studied compared to plants. Fungi are important organisms and so distinct from plants and animals that they have been allotted a 'kingdom' of their own in our classifications of life on earth.
Penicillium chrysogenum is a species of fungus in the family Trichocomaceae. It is common in temperate and subtropical regions and can be found on salted food products, but it is mostly found in indoor environments, especially in damp or water-damaged buildings. Penicillium chrysogenum has been used industrially to produce penicillin and xanthocillin X, to treat pulp mill waste, and to produce the enzymes polyamine oxidase, phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, and glucose oxidase.
Penicillium is classified as a genus of: domain eukaryota, kingdom Fungi, division Ascomycota (order Eurotiales, class Eurotiomycetes, family Trichocomaceae). Penicillium Spp. under bright field microscopy (10 x 100 magnification) with lactophenol cotton blue stain. The thallus (mycelium) typically consists of a highly branched network of multinucleate, septate, usually colorless hyphae.
Penicillium (/ˌpɛnɪˈsɪlɪəm/) is a genus of ascomycetous fungi of major importance in the natural environment as well as food and drug production. Some members of the genus produce penicillin, a molecule that is used as an antibiotic, which kills or stops the growth of certain kinds of bacteria inside the body. Penicillium Spp. under bright field microscopy (10 x 100 magnification) with lactophenol cotton blue stain. The thallus (mycelium) typically consists of a highly branched network of multinucleate, septate, usually colorless hyphae.
Penicillium is a member of the deuteromycetes, fungi with no known sexual state. Some species of Penicillium have an additional sexual state in the Ascomycota in the Eurotiales. This month's fungus page honors Veteran's Day, celebrated in November in the USA. 
Penicillium. PENICILLIUM IN CULTURE. A genus of molds belonging to the Ascomycetes (sac fungi). They form the blue molds that grow on fruits, bread, and cheese. A number of species (P. chrysogenum, P. notatum) are the source of penicillin. Penicillium. a genus of mold-forming fungi that grow on stored feed and in growing plants. Some produce antibiotics, some can be opportunistic pathogens and some produce mycotoxins, including patulin. Penicillium chrysogenum, Penicillium notatum. cultures of these fungi produce
Mealworms belong to the Animalia kingdom. They are part of the  Arthropoda phylum and belong to the insecta class. Their scientific  name is Tenebrio molitor. Blue Green algae belongs to Monera Unicellular algae: Protista Multicultural algae the most common suc … h as Red, Brown, and green algae belong to the Metaphyta (plantae) kingdom.
Aspergillus/Neosartorya and Penicillium molds belong to the Ascomycota, or sac fungi, phylum. Molds of the Mucor genus, known as slimy molds, belong to the Myxomycota phylum. Commonly found on breads, this diverse and adaptable mold species also appears on a number of fruit species, birds nests, decaying litter and even sand. Many other common bread molds belong to the Penicillium or Epenicillium genus. Species of this genus are among the most common molds on all manner of hosts, including bread, soil, decaying vegetation and building materials
Penicillium are comparable to Aspergillus. The genus Penicillium falls into the order Eurotiales. In this order, organisms produce asci within cleistothecia. Penicillium is often reffered to as Deuteromycetes, or Fungi imperfecti. The name Penicillium comes from the word brush; this refers to the appearance of spores in Penicillium. One species, Penicillium chrysogenum 9' , is classified as a psychrotrophic microorganism. Bancerz et. al.