If your father isn't eligible for a VA nursing home, or if there is no VA nursing home spot available for him, he can apply for Medicaid coverage of nursing home care. Whether he's eligible for Medicaid nursing home coverage depends on his income and assets. My 83 year old father is a veteran and will soon need nursing home care due to dementia. My mother is still healthy. They have little money and no savings. They live in a house that I own. My father gets a veterans pension check, social security check and a retirement pension check.
Joseph L. Matthews is a Caring.com Expert, an attorney, and the author of Long-Term Care: How to Plan & Pay for It and... See full bio. 29% helpful. Joseph L. Matthews answered... It is possible that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) may provide nursing home care for your father. My 83 year old father is a veteran and will soon need nursing home care due to dementia. My mother is still healthy. They have little money and no savings. They live in a house that I own. My father gets a veterans pension check, social security check and a retirement pension check.
The VA will provide Community Living Center (VA Nursing Home) or community nursing home care IF you meet certain eligibility criteria involving your service connected status, level of disability, and income. If the ONLY type of care you need is custodial, then Medicare will not pay for your care in a nursing home or in your own home. Medicare may cover medical and rehabilitation services provided in an Assisted Living Facility, but typically will not cover the costs of the facility – such as rent and meals.
The most VA will pay to offset the cost of a nursing home is $2,120 a month for a couple, $1,788 a month for a single veteran or $1,149 a month for the single surviving spouse of a veteran. 
Subscribe. Nursing home care can be provided in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Community Living Centers for Veterans who are in need of a skilled environment for short term and long term stays, but who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care. 
State Veterans Homes. State Veterans Homes are nursing homes run by the state and approved by the VA. Sometimes the VA will pay for part of the care a veteran gets at a state veterans’ home.
I can give you information to help you receive up to an additional $2,120 a month to pay for home care, assisted living, or nursing home care. I can also help with other Veterans long term care questions. I may even be able to tell you over the phone if you qualify. You can reach me at 901-757-9382. We provide information to help veterans, spouses and widows of veterans receive tax free income to help pay for home care, assisted living, or nursing home care. We also help with pre-planning to preserve, protect & shield your assets.
I can give you information to help you receive up to an additional $2,120 a month from the Department of Veterans Affairs to pay for home care, assisted living, or nursing home care. I can also help with questions about Veterans long term care. We provide information to help veterans, spouses and widows of veterans receive tax free income to help pay for home care, assisted living, or nursing home care. We also help with pre-planning to preserve, protect & shield your assets.
Over 1.5 million wartime service veterans and their surviving spouses are eligible for billions of dollars a year in VA pensions to help pay for long-term care such as assisted living, nursing home and home care. The pensions are called  Aid and Attendance  and  Housebound .. 
Kevin Mannor ~ Veterans Benefits. I can give you information to help you receive up to an additional $1,949 a month to pay for home care, assisted living, or nursing home care. I can also help with other Veterans long term care questions. We provide information to help veterans, spouses and widows of veterans receive tax free income to help pay for home care, assisted living, or nursing home care. We also help with pre-planning to preserve, protect & shield your assets.