The precentral gyrus is the location of the primary motor cortex, which controls voluntary muscle movement.
The precentral gyrus (PCG), also known as the motor strip or primary motor cortex, is the part of the brain’s neocortex responsible for executing voluntary movements.
The precentral gyrus of the frontal lobe is the amount of brain tissue that corresponds to a function of a particular body part.
precentral gyrus. [-sen′trəl]. Etymology: L, prae + Gk, kentron, center, gyros, turn. a convolution of the cerebral hemisphere immediately anterior to the central sulcus of the cerebrum in each hemisphere. It is the location of the motor strip that controls voluntary movements of the contralateral side of the body. Also called anterior 
Heschl's Gyrus, is the area in the temporal where sound first reaches the brain. It is is also known as the anterior transverse temporal gyrus ,and is the primary auditory area. There are two secondary auditory or auditory association areas which make important contributions to the comprehension of speech.
Precentral Gyrus Function: The brain of vertebrates is composed of different lobes which are the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes. Each lobe is responsible for a specific function.
precentral gyrus the convolution of the frontal lobe immediately in front of the central sulcus; the primary motor area of the cerebral cortex; called also anterior central gyrus.
Precentral sulcus is not a unique anatomical feature. It's a general term for a fissure or depression that lies anterior to another central fissure or depression. I' … m going to assume you're referring to the anatomy and physiology of the brain, though honestly you could be referring to several organ systems.
The precentral gyrus, which may also be called the primary motor area or, most commonly, the motor strip is immediately anterior to the central sulcus. It controls the voluntary movements of skeletal muscles; cell bodies of the pyramidal tract are found on this gyrus.