White rice is usually cooked at a ratio of 1 part dry rice by volume to 2 parts water or other cooking liquids such as broth or stock for 16-20 minutes at a low simmer tightly … covered. With brown rice, increase the liquid to 2 1/2 parts to 1 part rice and cook for 35-45 minutes until tender.
My video “Cooking White Rice” uses the 1-2-3 ratio for perfect white rice. (1 cup of rice, 2 cups of water, will make 3 cups of rice.). This formula does not work for brown rice. Check the back of the package of rice to determine how much water is needed for your particular brand of rice.
Best Answer: It really depends on the type of rice you're cooking, but for regular long grain white rice the ratio is 2:1....so double the amount of water to the amount of rice you're cooking. Keep the lid on, don't stir, and low heat for 20 minutes.
1 cup (240ml) of rice usually serves 2 people. Rice & Water Ratio. For cooking white rice using an electronic rice cooker, the rice-water ratio is usually 1 part of rice & 1 part of water. Rice:Water=1:1. The ratio may vary a little depending on the brand of rice and your personal preference. Some people like their rice more watery than others.
1 Measure the rice and water: For most rice, use a 1:2 ratio of one cup of rice to two cups of water. 2  Measure a half cup of uncooked rice per person and scale this ratio up or down depending on how much you're making.
I use a 1:1.5 ratio for boiling white rice, 1:2 for brown rice. The ratio depends on how processed the rice is and on cooking method used rather than rice type. My method is to add rice and water (salt) to pot, keep a lid on at all times, bring to a boil, leave on low heat and turn off heat 5-10 min before done.
1. To cook long-grained white rice, keep in mind a 2 to 1 ratio. Boil 2 cups of water in a small saucepan with a tight-fitting lid, add 1 cup of rice and reduce heat. 2. Reduce the heat to very low. The rice grains swell as they absorb the water.
To cook long-grained white rice, keep in mind a 2 to 1 ratio. Boil 2 cups of water in a small saucepan with a tight-fitting lid, add 1 cup of rice and reduce heat. 2. Reduce the heat to very low.