A meristem is the tissue in most plants containing undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells), found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. Meristematic cells give rise to various organs of the plant and keep the plant growing. The shoot apical meristem (SAM) gives rise to organs like the leaves and flowers, while the root apical meristem (RAM) provides the meristematic cells for the future root growth. In general, differentiated plant cells cannot divide or produce cells of a different type. Therefore, cell division in the meristem is required to provide new cells for expansion and differentiation of tissues and initiation of new organs, providing the basic structure of the plant body.
The growth tissues of the plants are meristems. Meristems are the tissues that produce plant growth, and are the origin of all other tissues. They are formed of undifferentiated cells with an intense cell division rate. 15. The vascular cambium is the secondary meristematic tissue that forms the vascular tissues (xylem and phloem) of the plant in roots and in the stem. Usually, the outer side of the vascular cambium produces a layer of phloem and the inner (more central) side of the tissue produces a layer of xylem.
6. Meristematic cells have very thin cell walls, small vacuoles, a well-centralized nucleus and they are constantly undergoing mitosis. Meristematic cells need a high mitotic rate because they are responsible for plant growth. 1  Plant Tissues Review-Image Diversity: meristematic cells. 15. The vascular cambium is the secondary meristematic tissue that forms the vascular tissues (xylem and phloem) of the plant in roots and in the stem. Usually, the outer side of the vascular cambium produces a layer of phloem and the inner (more central) side of the tissue produces a layer of xylem.
Meristematic tissue is located in. 1  the apical meristems at the growing points of roots and stems. 2  the secondary meristems (lateral buds) at the nodes of stems (where branching occurs) [ View ], and in some plants, 3  meristematic tissue, called the cambium, that is found within mature stems and roots. 
Cells in the meristem, however, divide and produce all of the new cells in a plant. While meristem tissue is the source of the regenerative potential of a plant, meristems also play a pivotal role in normal plant growth. Plants have the unique ability to continue to grow and develop new organs while functioning as a mature, reproducing organism. The secret to these abilities lies within a tissue type called meristem. Meristematic cells are fully developed and functional at maturity, but unlike other cells in the plant, they remain totipotent. This means that when induced, they can develop into any specific plant tissue at any point during the life of the plant.
A meristem is a tissue in all plants consisting of undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells) and found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. Report Abuse. A meristem is a tissue in all plants consisting of undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells) and found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. The term “meristem” was first used by Karl Wilhelm von Naegeli (nägeli-1817) 1891 from his “Book beitraege Beiträge Zur” wissenschaftlichen botanik. in 1858
Meristematic Tissues. Tissues where cells are constantly dividing are called meristems or meristematic tissues. These regions produce new cells. These new cells are generally small, six-sided boxlike structures with a number of tiny vacuoles and a large nucleus, by comparison. Sometimes there are no vacuoles at all. 
Plants have meristematic tissue in several locations. Both roots and shoots have meristematic tissue at their tips called apical meristems that are responsible for the lengthening of roots and shoots. The secret to these abilities lies within a tissue type called meristem. Meristematic cells are fully developed and functional at maturity, but unlike other cells in the plant, they remain totipotent. This means that when induced, they can develop into any specific plant tissue at any point during the life of the plant.
Let us recognize that there are 3 meristematic regions in the plant: I. Apical meristems are located at the apices or tips-at root and shoot tips and are directly involved in their elongation They create derivatives which form primary growth. 1  the protoderm which forms the outer dermal layer of tissues, 2  the ground meristem which forms the cortical cells and.
The apical meristem, or growing tip, is a completely undifferentiated meristematic tissue found in the buds and growing tips of roots in plants. Its main function is to begin growth of new cells in young seedlings at the tips of roots and shoots (forming buds, among other things). Report Abuse. A meristem is a tissue in all plants consisting of undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells) and found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. The term “meristem” was first used by Karl Wilhelm von Naegeli (nägeli-1817) 1891 from his “Book beitraege Beiträge Zur” wissenschaftlichen botanik. in 1858