Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cells. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues. Blood is pumped from the ventricles into large elastic arteries that branch repeatedly into smaller and smaller arteries until the branching results in microscopic arteries called arterioles.
A blood vessel's main function is to transport blood around the body. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Arteries carry blood away from the heart to other organs.
There are three basic types of blood vessels: the capillaries, which exchange water and chemicals between the blood and tissues; the arteries, which carry blood away from the beating heart and the veins, which transport blood from the capillaries to the heart, thus enabling the heart to continue beating. Blood vessels are an integral part of the circulatory system. These components assist in the transportation of blood within the body, often in and out of the heart.
In general the circulatory system of blood vessels may be broken down into those vessels that deliver oxygenated blood to tissues: the arteries, arterioles, and capillaries, and those vessels that return blood with carbon dioxide for gas exchange: the veins and venules. Again, the mechanical properties of blood vessels are a function of the underlying tissue structure. Since blood vessels are soft collagenous tissues (with a good deal of elastin, another biomolecule), their stress-strain behavior resembles that of other soft collagenous tissues like ligaments and tendons.
Features. Although blood vessels do not actively transport blood, the arteries and veins help to regulate blood by contracting the muscle layer of their inner diameter. This action is regulated by the autonomic nervous system and results in the flow of blood to downstream organs. Blood vessels are an integral part of the circulatory system. These components assist in the transportation of blood within the body, often in and out of the heart.
The primary components of blood vessels--arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins--serve a variety of functions in keeping the body alive and healthy. Blood vessels are an integral part of the circulatory system. These components assist in the transportation of blood within the body, often in and out of the heart.
The following diagram summarises the sequence of blood flow through the heart, arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, veins, then back to the heart: The following diagram summarises the structural differences between different types of blood vessels. More information about this also follows in the next section. Venules. Venules are minute vessels that drain blood from capillaries and into veins. Many venules unite to form a vein. 1  Drains blood from capillaries into veins, for return to the heart.
Arteries are blood vessels which carry blood from the heart to the body. There are also microscopic blood vessels which connect arteries and veins together called capillaries. There are a few main blood vessels which connect to different chambers of the heart. The aorta is the largest artery in our body.
Arterioles are the smallest arteries in the body. They deliver blood to capillaries. Arterioles are also capable of constricting or dilating and, by doing this, they control how much blood enters the capillaries. Capillaries are tiny vessels that connect arterioles to venules. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Arteries carry blood away from the heart to other organs.
One system, the pulmonary vessels, transports blood from the right ventricle to the lungs and back to the left atrium. The other system, the systemic vessels, carries blood from the left ventricle to the tissues in all parts of the body and then returns the blood to the right atrium. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues. Blood is pumped from the ventricles into large elastic arteries that branch repeatedly into smaller and smaller arteries until the branching results in microscopic arteries called arterioles.