The internal abdominal oblique muscle ends at the bottom edge of the rib cage, the rectus sheath (fibrous tissue that covers the abdominal muscles), and the pubic crest (an area in the lower-front of the pelvis). The internal abdominal oblique muscle is located closer to the skin than the transverse abdominal muscle. This muscle supports the abdominal wall, assists in forced respiration, aids in raising pressure in the abdominal area, and rotates and turns the trunk with help from other muscles. Internal abdominal oblique muscles are called “same side rotators.” The right internal oblique works with the left external oblique, and vice versa, when flexing and rotating the torso.
Acting alone, the external oblique can flex the trunk, side bend the torso toward the same side (i.e., the side of the contracting muscle), and rotate the trunk toward the opposite side. The internal oblique originates from the thoracolumbar fascia, the inguinal ligament, and the anterior iliac crest. The internal oblique also functions to provide spine stability, and it flexes and rotates the trunk toward the same side (table 2.4). The external oblique is the most superficial muscle of the three flat abdominal muscles (the external oblique, internal oblique, and transversus abdominis).
External oblique. The external oblique muscle is one of the largest parts of the trunk area. Each side of the body has an external oblique muscle. The external oblique muscle is one of the outermost abdominal muscles, extending from the lower half of the ribs around and down to the pelvis. Together, the external oblique muscles cover the sides of the abdominal area. The intercostal and subcostal nerves connect the external oblique muscles to the brain. The external obliques on either side not only help rotate the trunk, but they perform a few other vital functions.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The external oblique muscle (of the abdomen) (also external abdominal oblique muscle) is the largest and the most superficial (outermost) of the three flat muscles of the lateral anterior abdomen. Structure [edit]. The external oblique is situated on the lateral and anterior parts of the abdomen. It is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior wall
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from Internal oblique). The internal oblique muscle (of the abdomen) is the intermediate muscle of the abdomen, lying deep to (below) the external oblique and just superficial to (above) the transverse abdominal muscle. The muscle fibers run from these point superiomedially (up and towards midline) to the muscle's insertions on the inferior borders of the 10th through 12th ribs and the linea alba (abdominal midline seam).
Its fibers run perpendicular to the external oblique muscle, beginning in the thoracolumbar fascia of the lower back, the anterior 2/3 of the iliac crest (upper part of hip bone) and the lateral half of the inguinal ligament. The muscle fibers run from these point superiomedially (up and towards midline) to the muscle's insertions on the inferior borders of the 10th through 12th ribs and the linea alba (abdominal midline seam).
The external and internal oblique muscles rotate and side bend the trunk. These muscles also contribute to spinal stability. The external oblique is the most superficial muscle of the three flat abdominal muscles (the external oblique, internal oblique, and transversus abdominis).
1 Transversus abdominis muscle (right): runs from the inner surface of the lower costal cartilages, the thoracolumbar fascia and iliac crest horizontally to the linea alba. 2  Caudal fibers are involved in the formation of the cremaster muscle. 3  The innervation is analogous to that of the internal oblique. In detail, a bilateral contraction of the lateral abdominal muscles causes an abdominal press and ventral flexion (internal and external oblique).
The internal abdominal oblique muscle is an opposing force to the diaphragm, reducing upper chest cavity volume during exhalation. As the diaphragm contracts, the chest cavity is pulled down to increase lung size. Internal abdominal oblique muscles are called “same side rotators.” The right internal oblique works with the left external oblique, and vice versa, when flexing and rotating the torso.