Whether grown as an annual or perennial, container plant or garden staple, a dipladenia vine needs proper care to produce masses of blooms. Indoors, the vine thrives in bright but indirect sunlight, which can be achieved by filtering window sunlight through a sheer curtain.
Climate. Mandevillas are tropical natives that originated in Brazil. They grow as perennials in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11. In these areas, mandevilla vines can reach a height of 10 to 20 feet, with older stems becoming woody and thick.
Mandevilla is a genus of flowering perennial vines that were once known as Dipladenia. This name is now considered incorrect by botanists, but is still sometimes used as a synonym for mandevilla.
Now known commonly as mandevilla, the Brazilian plant is prized for its profusion of bright blooms, which appear in early summer and can last until fall. Dipladenia generally is perennial only where winters aren't very cold.
An outdoor dipladenia vine grows best in partial shade. The plant thrives in rich, well-draining soil and especially in sandy soil. Because it is a vine, support its climbing stems with a frame, or train the plant to grow along an existing support structure, such as a fence.
Indoor Vine. Whether grown as an annual or perennial, container plant or garden staple, a dipladenia vine needs proper care to produce masses of blooms. Indoors, the vine thrives in bright but indirect sunlight, which can be achieved by filtering window sunlight through a sheer curtain.
Medioimages/Photodisc/Valueline/Getty Images. Dipladenia is a perennial vine that also goes by the name “mandevilla.” Fast growers, the green leaves of the plant span 10 feet at maturity. This heat-loving plant prefers slightly acidic, well-drained soils and the balmy temperatures of U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 9 through 11.
Dipladenia Rio Deep Red, Dipladenia 'Rio™ Deep Red', is a compact plant with gorgeous 3 trumpet-shaped brillant red flowers. Mandevilla Rio™ Red flowers all summer long and is great in hot, humid areas of the country.