The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 was signed into law by President George W. Bush on May 21, 2008. GINA prohibits discrimination on the basis of genetic information with respect to health insurance and employment. 1 The protections of GINA do not include protections from genetic discrimination in life, disability, or long-term care insurance. 2  The health insurance provisions of GINA do not apply to members of the U.S. military, veterans obtaining healthcare through the Veteran’s Administration, or the Indian Health Service.
In particular, a federal law called the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) is designed to protect people from this form of discrimination. GINA has two parts: Title I, which prohibits genetic discrimination in health insurance, and Title II, which prohibits genetic discrimination in employment. Title II makes it illegal for employers to use a person’s genetic information when making decisions about hiring, promotion, and several other terms of employment. This part of the law went into effect on November 21, 2009. GINA and other laws do not protect people from genetic discrimination in every circumstance.
The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (Pub.L. 110–233, 122 Stat. 881, enacted May 21, 2008, GINA, pronounced Gee-na), is an Act of Congress in the United States designed to prohibit the use of genetic information in health insurance and employment.
Genetic discrimination occurs when people are treated differently by their employer or insurance company because they have a gene mutation that causes or increases the risk of an inherited disorder. Fear of discrimination is a common concern among people considering genetic testing. Title II makes it illegal for employers to use a person’s genetic information when making decisions about hiring, promotion, and several other terms of employment. This part of the law went into effect on November 21, 2009. GINA and other laws do not protect people from genetic discrimination in every circumstance.
Genetic discrimination occurs when people are treated differently, for example by their employer or insurance company, because they have or are perceived to have a gene mutation that causes or increases the risk of an inherited disorder. Genetic discrimination is illegal in the U.S. after passage of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of May 21, 2008. The legislation also bars employers from using individuals’ genetic information when making hiring, firing, job placement, or promotion decisions.
Genetic Information Discrimination. Title II of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA), which prohibits genetic information discrimination in employment, took effect on November 21, 2009. Under Title II of GINA, it is illegal to discriminate against employees or applicants because of genetic information. Genetic information includes information about an individual s genetic tests and the genetic tests of an individual s family members, as well as information about the manifestation of a disease or disorder in an individual s family members (i.e. family medical history).
Prior to GINA, there was some federal attention to the privacy of genetic information. In 1996, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) was passed to address concerns about discrimination based on a person’s health information. In this act, genetic information refers to information about a person’s genetic tests, the genetic tests of a person’s family members, and the incidence of diseases or disorders in a person’s family (“family history”).
In May 2008, then President George W. Bush signed the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, often known as GINA. GINA is a groundbreaking federal law that protects United States (US) citizens from health insurance and employment discrimination based on their genetic information. In this act, genetic information refers to information about a person’s genetic tests, the genetic tests of a person’s family members, and the incidence of diseases or disorders in a person’s family (“family history”).
The Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act (GINA) does not have a disparate impact theory provision although some legal experts have argued for the addition of such a provision. A Genetics Study Commission is scheduled to be called by Congress to determine whether such a provision is necessary. Genetic discrimination is illegal in the U.S. after passage of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of May 21, 2008. The legislation also bars employers from using individuals’ genetic information when making hiring, firing, job placement, or promotion decisions.
The EEOC enforces Title II of GINA (dealing with genetic discrimination in employment). The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and the Treasury have responsibility for issuing regulations for Title I of GINA, which addresses the use of genetic information in health insurance. Genetic information includes information about an individual s genetic tests and the genetic tests of an individual s family members, as well as information about the manifestation of a disease or disorder in an individual s family members (i.e. family medical history).