ACTH, in turn, stimulates the release of the glucocorticoids from the adrenal cortex. (See also adrenal gland .). The principal glucocorticoid hormone is cortisol, which regulates the metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. Specifically, it increases the catabolism or breakdown of protein in bone, skin, muscle, and connective tissue. 
Glucocorticoids. In contrast to loss of mineralocorticoids, failure to produce glucocorticoids is not acutely life-threatening. Nevertheless, loss or profound diminishment of glucocorticoid secretion leads to a state of deranged metabolism and an inability to deal with stressors which, if untreated, is fatal. Cortisol binds to the glucocorticoid receptor in the cytoplasm and the hormone-receptor complex is then translocated into the nucleus, where it binds to its DNA response element and modulates transcription from a battery of genes, leading to changes in the cell's phenotype.
Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIO) is a condition in which people who take medicines called glucocorticoids develop osteoporosis—weakening of the bones. Osteoporosis increases the risk of broken bones (fractures). Glucocorticoids are synthetic (manufactured) hormones also known as steroids. 
Glucocorticoids are defined as a class of steroid hormones that  bind to the glucocorticoid receptor, which is present in almost  every vertebrate animal cell. They enable t … he body to deal with  stress by increasing blood glucose, fatty acid, and amino acid  levels and enhancing blood pressure. Answered. Glucocorticoids are a class of steroids that includes prednisolone, hydrocortisone, methylpredisone, etc. They are often used to immunosuppress in cases of transplant medicine, autoimmune disease, asthma attacks etc.
Dexamethasone binds more powerfully to the glucocorticoid receptor than cortisol does. Dexamethasone is based on the cortisol structure but differs in three positions (extra double bond in the A-ring between carbons 1 and 2 and addition of a 9-α-fluoro group and a 16-α-methyl substituent). The name glucocorticoid (gluco se + cort ex + ster oid) derives from its role in the regulation of the metabolism of glucose, its synthesis in the adrenal cortex, and its steroidal structure (see structure to the right). A less common synonym is glucocorticosteroid
Natural glucocorticoids are steroid hormones with powerful anti-inflammatory effects produced by the human body. Glucocorticoid drugs are usually synthetic compounds that have anti-inflammatory effects similar to those of natural glucocorticoids. Natural glucocorticoids are produced by the cortex of the adrenal gland. The adrenal glands are organs located immediately above our kidneys (ad = top of, renal = kidney). They are divided into two distinct regions: 1  The adrenal medulla comprises the inner portion of the adrenal gland.
Cortisol (or hydrocortisone) is the most important human glucocorticoid. It is essential for life, and it regulates or supports a variety of important cardiovascular, metabolic, immunologic, and homeostatic functions. The name glucocorticoid (gluco se + cort ex + ster oid) derives from its role in the regulation of the metabolism of glucose, its synthesis in the adrenal cortex, and its steroidal structure (see structure to the right). A less common synonym is glucocorticosteroid
Drugs with glucocorticoid activity are compounds that have similar effects to the natural steroid hormones produced by the adrenal cortex. While glucocorticoid drugs are steroids, they are unlike the anabolic steroids that some athletes take to build up and increase their muscle mass. Natural glucocorticoids are produced by the cortex of the adrenal gland. The adrenal glands are organs located immediately above our kidneys (ad = top of, renal = kidney). They are divided into two distinct regions: 1  The adrenal medulla comprises the inner portion
Glucocorticoid: A hormone that predominantly affects the metabolism of carbohydrates and, to a lesser extent, fats and proteins (and has other effects). Glucocorticoids are made in the outside portion (the cortex) of the adrenal gland and chemically classed as steroids. Cortisol is the major natural glucocorticoid. The term glucocorticoid also applies to equivalent hormones synthesized in the laboratory.