Print Recipe. Turbot fish is a flat, bright white-fleshed fish that is well-known in both French and Asian cuisine. The flavor is quite delicate and is perfect if you're looking for a light meal. I dredged the fish in a little flour and pan-fried it until the surface is slightly crispy. Pan-Fried Turbot Fish Recipe Print Recipe Turbot fish is a flat, bright white-fleshed fish that is well-known in both French and Asian cuisine.
Turbot. Like Halibut, Turbot is a highly prized species (and often regarded as the best of the flat fish) with great flavour and firm, white flesh. It has an almost round shaped body, studded with bony tubercles on its dark side. Colour varies from light to dark brown, spotted with green or black and a white blind side. Turbot ranges in size from 400g to 10kg. The texture is similar to Halibut, but it has a slightly more pronounced ‘fishy’ taste, so requires very little to enhance the flavour. It’s also a chef’s dream, as it retains plenty of moisture during cooking, preventing it from drying out-making it ideal for functions.
A 2-String Kite is a second special form of Turbot Fish, that can be found in lots of sudokus. The description: Concentrate again on one digit. Find a row and a column that have only two candidates left (the strings). One candidate from the row and one candidate from the column have to be in the same block. A Turbot Fish is really a chain and not a fish. For a detailled description of the various techniques and terms regarding chains please see Chains: Introduction. A Turbot Fish is an X-Chain that is exactly four candidates long. Various shapes can be built with such a chain.
How to roast a whole turbot. Cooking turbot fillet…. You can buy fillets of turbot or if you want to practise your knife skills buy a whole fish and fillet it yourself. The most common way of cooking turbot fillets is to pan fry them, until golden brown and crispy, this can be done in a matter of minutes. 
Turbot is a princely fish that deserves to be cooked with care and attention. While pan-frying fish is seen as risky by many home cooks, it remains a great method for getting the most out of a quality piece of fish, and, when practised correctly, results in buttery, soft flesh and crispy skin. 2. Once the oil is hot, season the turbot fillets and add to the pan, skin-side down. Cook until golden and crisp on the underside, for approximately 3 minutes. 3. Turn the turbot over, remove the pan from the heat and leave the fillet in the pan to finish cooking through from the residual heat.
Full Definition of TURBOT. 1. : a large European flatfish (Psetta maxima) that is a popular food fish and has a brownish upper surface marked with scattered tubercles and a white undersurface. 2. : any of various flatfishes (as Scophthalmus maximus or Reinhardtius hippoglossoides) resembling the turbot
Turbot is highly prized as a food fish for its delicate flavour, and is also known as brat, breet, britt or butt. It is a valuable commercial species, acquired through aquaculture and trawling. Turbot are farmed in Bulgaria, France, Spain, Portugal, Romania, Turkey, Chile, Norway, and China. Turbot has a bright white flesh that retains this appearance when cooked. Like all flatfish, turbot yields four fillets with meatier topside portions that may be baked, poached, steamed or pan-fried. 