Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Lay the salmon, skin side up, on the baking sheet. Drizzle the steaks or fillets with olive oil, then sprinkle with Kosher salt and pepper. Flip the salmon over so the skin side is down. Drizzle the flesh side with olive oil and season with salt and pepper.
Directions. Preheat oven to 475 degrees. Place butter on a rimmed baking sheet and season with salt and pepper. Place sheet in oven until butter melts, about 1 minute. Carefully remove sheet from oven and place salmon on top of butter, skin side down; season with salt and pepper. Return sheet to oven. Roast until salmon is just cooked through, 8 to 12 minutes, checking frequently. It will flake easily when done.
1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes.
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum ba
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. Line a roasting pan or baking sheet with foil. Pat the salmon dry: Pat the salmon dry with a paper towel. Rub the salmon with oil, salt, and pepper: Drizzle some oil over the top of each salmon — just enough to coat the salmon — and rub it over the salmon with your fingers or a pastry brush.
Another thing that determines how long the salmon is baked is oven temperature. Typically, recipes for baking salmon call for an oven temperature of 350 to 450 degrees. The salmon should always be put into a pre-heated oven. Cooking in an oven that hasn't been pre-heated can cause drying of the fish. 
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
1 Place salmon skin-side down on foil. 2  Spread a thin layer of mustard on the top of each fillet, and season with salt and pepper. 3  Top with bread crumbs, then drizzle with melted butter. 4  Bake in a preheated oven for 15 minutes, or until salmon flakes easily with a fork. 1 Line a shallow baking pan with aluminum foil. 2  Place salmon skin-side down on foil. 3  Spread a thin layer of mustard on the top of each fillet, and season with salt and pepper. 4
1 Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 2  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 3  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 4  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 5  Season with salt and pepper. 6  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes.