For removing high amounts of crayon, or just a few spots where spot treatment makes more sense. 1  Turn the stain upside down on top of white paper towels. 2  Spray the back of the stain with WD-40 and allow it to sit for five or so minutes. 3  Next, use your liquid dish washing detergent. Removing crayon stains from any type of finished wood is easy with this quick method. 1  Apply WD – 40 to a hidden area of the wood to test for color fastness. 2  If it wipes clean, move on. 3  Apply WD 40 in a light spray over the stained area. 4  Use a clean and dry terry cloth to wipe the area clean.
Step 2: To remove the rest of the crayon wax remaining on the fabric place the stained area between clean paper towels and press the cloth with a warm iron. This will transfer the now warm crayon from the cloth to the paper towel. Hint: You need to switch out the paper towels quite often when doing this step. Step 4: Launder the clothing in the hottest water the fabric will allow to get out the stain, and either chlorine bleach if the fabric will allow it, or color bleach if not. Hint: Make sure the stain is gone after washing, but before you place in the dryer or you may set the stain. Repeat if necessary.
1 Next, use your liquid dish washing detergent. 2  Apply onto the back of the crayon stain and work into the stain. 3  Launder in hot water. 4  You can also add Color Safe Oxygen Bleach/Oxyclean to the washing if this is allowed according to the manufacturer’s directions. Removing crayon stains from any type of finished wood is easy with this quick method. 1  Apply WD – 40 to a hidden area of the wood to test for color fastness. 2  If it wipes clean, move on. 3  Apply WD 40 in a light spray over the stained area. 4  Use a clean and dry terry cloth to wipe the area clean.
1 Turn the stain upside down on top of white paper towels. 2  Spray the back of the stain with WD-40 and allow it to sit for five or so minutes. 3  Next, use your liquid dish washing detergent. 4  Apply onto the back of the crayon stain and work into the stain. Removing crayon stains from any type of finished wood is easy with this quick method. 1  Apply WD – 40 to a hidden area of the wood to test for color fastness. 2  If it wipes clean, move on. 3  Apply WD 40 in a light spray over the stained area. 4  Use a clean and dry terry cloth to wipe the area clean.
Washable Fibers. Follow these steps to remove crayon stains from Acrylic Fabric, Cotton, Linen, Modacrylic, Nylon, Olefin, Polyester, Spandex, Wool/washable: 1  Scrape to remove the excess. 2  Place the stain between two pieces of white blotting paper and press with a warm iron. 3  Change the papers as the stain is absorbed. 
How to Remove Crayon Stains from Fabric. To remove crayon stains from clothing, there are a couple of different methods you can try. The way I look at it, the garment is almost ready for the clothes I wear for painting or gardening, so I might as well do the best I can to remove the crayon stain completely. Removing crayon stains from any type of finished wood is easy with this quick method. 1  Apply WD – 40 to a hidden area of the wood to test for color fastness. 2  If it wipes clean, move on. 3  Apply WD 40 in a light spray over the stained area. 4  Use a clean and dry terry cloth to wipe the area clean.
2. Scrape any excess crayon wax off the couch with knife, and then spray WD-40 directly on the stain. Let it sit for up to 10 minutes, then scrub the spot with an old toothbrush, wiping the area intermittently with a clean cloth. 3. Apply a small bit of liquid soap to the stain and rinse it off with a damp, clean cloth to remove any excess solvent. Let the fabric air-dry, or dry it quickly with a hairdryer.
Step 3: Now that the crayon wax is removed, if you still have a stain pretreat the crayon stain with a laundry prewash stain remover. Step 4: Launder the clothing in the hottest water the fabric will allow to get out the stain, and either chlorine bleach if the fabric will allow it, or color bleach if not. Hint: Make sure the stain is gone after washing, but before you place in the dryer or you may set the stain. Repeat if necessary.
How to remove Regular Crayons from fabric-fresh, heat-set, or melted. Scrape off as much crayon as possible. Apply liquid dish soap and work into the stained area. Let stand a few minutes, rub fabric under warm water to remove the stain. Machine wash using the heavy soil setting and the hottest water the fabric will allow with OxiClean or Clorox 2. Allow to air dry. Repeat as needed.