1 Cool the burn to help soothe the pain. 2  Hold the burned area under cool (not cold) running water for 10 to 15 minutes or until the pain eases. 3  Or apply a clean towel dampened with cool tap water. 4  Remove rings or other tight items from the burned area. 5  Try to do this quickly and gently, before the area swells. 
Treat first-degree burns. If you determine that the burn is first-degree based on the way it looks and feels, quickly but calmly get to a sink. Put your hand or arm under the faucet and run cool water over it for 15-20 minutes. This will help pull heat away from the skin, which will help reduce inflammation. Treatment for second-degree burns is almost the same as first degree burns. When the burn occurs, quickly but calmly get to a sink and put your hand or arm under the cold water
Rinse the burn. Treatment for second-degree burns is almost the same as first degree burns. When the burn occurs, quickly but calmly get to a sink and put your hand or arm under the cold water for 15-20 minutes.
Second-degree burn. Soak the burn in cool water for 15 minutes. If the burned area is small, put cool, clean, wet cloths on the burn for a few minutes every day. Then put on an antibiotic cream, or other creams or ointments prescribed by your doctor. Soak the burn in cool water for at least 5 minutes. The cool water helps reduce swelling by pulling heat away from the burned skin. Treat the burn with a skin care product that protects and heals skin, such as aloe vera cream or an antibiotic ointment. You can wrap a dry gauze bandage loosely around the burn.
Usually, partial-thickness burns heal in 10 days to 2 weeks. Large burns may take 3 to 4 weeks to heal. There may be little or no scarring if the burn was not too extensive and if infection is prevented. Do remember that blistering sunburns can cause skin cancer (melanoma) later in life. 
To protect the burned area, you can put a dry gauze bandage over the burn. Take acetaminophen (trade name: Tylenol) to help with the pain. If a first-or second-degree burn covers a large area or is on your face, hands, feet or genitals, you should see a doctor right away. Superficial partial-thickness burns—usually less than 3 weeks. Deep partial-thickness burns—usually more than 3 weeks. Full-thickness burns—heal only at the edges by scarring without skin grafts. A skin graft is a very thin layer of skin that is cut from an unburned area and put on a badly burned area.
The deeper the burn and the larger the burned area, the more serious the burn is. First-degree burns are minor burns on the first layer of skin. See an illustration of a first-degree burn. There are two types of second-degree burns: Superficial partial-thickness burns injure the first and second layers of skin. When a first-degree burn or minor second-degree burn is 2 to 3 days old, using the juice from an aloe leaf can help the burn heal and feel better. Applying the aloe juice may sting at first contact. It is important to protect a burn while it is healing.
If a small burn has been surgically closed with skin grafts, it may heal quickly. But larger wounds or more serious burns take up to three months or longer to heal. Again, burns may have varying depths, depending on the cause of the burn or the damage. One part of the burn injury may be a first or second-degree burn. Length of healing time for burn wounds to heal depends on the depth and extent of the wound. First-degree burns heal quite quickly in usually less than 3 weeks.
The treatment depends on what kind of burn you have. See a doctor if: 1  A first-or second-degree burn covers an area larger than 2 to 3 inches in diameter. 2  The burn is on your face, over a major joint (such as the knee or shoulder), on the hands, feet or genitals. 3  The burn is a third-degree burn, which requires immediate medical attention. Soak the burn in cool water for at least 5 minutes. The cool water helps reduce swelling by pulling heat away from the burned skin. Treat the burn with a skin care product that protects and heals skin, such as aloe vera cream or an antibiotic ointment. You can wrap a dry gauze bandage loosely around the burn.
The length of time it takes a burn to heal depends on how deep it is. In this video, Alexander Majidian, MD, FACS of the Grossman Burn Center at West Hills Hospital, discusses how long each degree of burn will typically take to heal. Length of healing time for burn wounds to heal depends on the depth and extent of the wound. First-degree burns heal quite quickly in usually less than 3 weeks.