It depends on the usage. If you can lock your wrist in a stable position with something like a brace, the immobility will relieve tendons and ligaments of strain which will speed the healing process. Even then, it could take up to 6 weeks to fully recover. Light rehab can help depending on the severity of the sprain. 
In order to heal a sprained wrist quickly, you must follow the RICE principle for sprains -- rest, ice, compression and elevation -- to facilitate healing so you can get back in the game again. Visit your doctor so she can look at the sprain and analyze its severity. Rest and immobilize your wrist for faster healing. A sprained wrist is a common fall-related injury, since you instinctively extend your hand and often land with your weight on your wrist. If you're an athlete, a sprained wrist can put a major wrench in your plans when you're taken out of the game for a few weeks
Rest your wrist to give it time to heal. You may find that, depending on the severity of the sprain, immobilization through a soft cast is necessary. If your sprain is the result of a sports injury, you should stop playing the sport immediately, at least for a few weeks while your wrist heals. Rest and immobilize your wrist for faster healing. A sprained wrist is a common fall-related injury, since you instinctively extend your hand and often land with your weight on your wrist. If you're an athlete, a sprained wrist can put a major wrench in your plans when you're taken out of the game for a few week
To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can
1 Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 4  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5
Dealing with a sprained wrist is no cakewalk. A wrist sprain can make doing everyday activities taxing. This condition can cause pain, swelling, bruising, tenderness and tearing or popping in the wrist. Anyone can get a sprained wrist, but this injury is very common in athletes. This can place extreme pressure on the wrist or cause it to twist or stretch beyond its limits. The end result can be tears or breaks in the ligaments. Depending on how severe a wrist sprain is, it can take anywhere from two weeks to three months to heal. Minor sprains will heal quicker than more severe sprains. If the wrist sprain consists of snapped ligaments, a person will likely need surgery to repair it and healing time will be longer
Severe sprains take number of weeks to even months to get cured completely. Wrist sprains occur due to any injury to the ligaments present in the wrist. Wrist injuries are very common depending on our usage and function or wrists. When we begin to fall, we put our hands out to break our fall. This is a very natural instinct, which results in sudden twisting of the wrist forcib