Aching calves, burning legs, numbness in the feet — pain and discomfort in the lower extremities is a common complaint that sends many of us to our doctors seeking relief. But unless the cause is something obvious, like a fall, pinpointing the source may require some medical detective work. Rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune disease, attacks the lining of the joints, also causing inflammation and pain. Although arthritis is a joint disease, the pain it causes can be felt in the surrounding leg and foot muscles. “Any joint under stress can cause pain,” Wedro says. “The pain is within the joints.
Burning, aching, tenderness and stiffness are just some descriptors of the discomfort you may feel in the muscles you exercised one to two days ago. For the most part, these sensations you experience after exercise are collectively known as delayed onset muscle soreness. 
Various Injuries And Disorders-Injuries to muscles and joints can be another cause of burning pain. Injuries or overexertion in the shoulder blade and upper back can result in a burning sensation, although an aching pain is probably more common. Burning muscle pain is quite often a symptom of a rotator cuff injury. One of the strangest causes of a burning muscle pain in the shoulders is gall bladder disease, which would seem to have little to do with the shoulder. This type of a situation is medically known as a referred pai
And, when a nerve is involved, the burning pain usually goes directly down the back of the thigh (not the side) to the foot. It may also cross over to the side or top of the foot. But, a more common cause of burning pain is tight and sore muscles. These also can cause burning pain in the legs and back. Having burning in your muscles can actually be caused by a host of different things. Things like not drinking enough water, overuse syndromes, sedentary work and lifestyle habits, poor diet, etc. can all lead to or contribute to having burning muscles. So, to answer the question as to whether or not arthritis can cause burning pain in the leg and back, the answer in the majority of cases is “no”. This is because arthritis is actually a condition of the joints and usually only causes joint pain and stiffness.
In some instances a burning pain may be experienced all over. Medications may be taken to relieve or diminish the pain but are usually not successful in getting rid of the pain altogether. Uncommon Causes-There are several diseases that can cause burning muscle pain. Burning muscle pain is quite often a symptom of a rotator cuff injury. One of the strangest causes of a burning muscle pain in the shoulders is gall bladder disease, which would seem to have little to do with the shoulder. This type of a situation is medically known as a referred
Lifting weights and exercising exerts muscles causing them to burn. Drinking plenty of water and cooling down after exercising helps alleviate burning muscle. Fibromyalgia can cause muscle burning muscles and in this case, pain medication is often used. A physician may prescribe Lyrica® or other anticonvulsant to help alleviate the pain of burning muscles. A gel pack may be used to relieve the pain caused by a sore, burning muscle. A warm bath can help with muscle soreness. A burning muscle can be caused by any number of things, and it can be important to identify the cause before simply trying to make the burning go away. In some cases, while you can reduce the burning sensation, you won’t actually be fixing the underlying problem, and may be causing further damage.
A burning sensation is a particular type of pain distinct from dull, stabbing, or aching pains. A burning kind of pain is often related to nerves, but there are many other potential causes. Injuries, natural wear and tear, infections, and autoimmune disorders all have the potential to cause nerve damage and pain. Many causes of a burning sensation have no cure, but treatments are helpful in controlling the pain. 1 It causes burning pain in some cases, but not all. 2  Cervical spondylosis is also a result of aging. 3  Wear and tear on the neck bones and cartilage cause this condition and chronic neck pain. 4  Herniated disk occurs when a disk in the spine slips out of place.
Fibromyalgia-Burning muscle pain is not always a good thing as it can be the symptom of a disorder or of a disease. One of the more common disorders which can cause a burning sensation at various places in the body is fibromyalgia. Burning muscle pain is quite often a symptom of a rotator cuff injury. One of the strangest causes of a burning muscle pain in the shoulders is gall bladder disease, which would seem to have little to do with the shoulder. This type of a situation is medically known as a referred pain