Confidence votes 2.5K. Scandinavia (What we now call Denmark, Norway and Sweden.). The name Viking is a loanword from the native Scandinavian term for the Norse warriors who raided the coasts of Scandinavia, the British Isles, and other parts of Europe from the late 8th century to the 11th century. They were originally from Norway, Sweden and Denmark, but they later settled in Iceland, Greenland, Britain, Russia and even Newfoundland in Canada. They lived In Scandnavia (now sweden).
Where did the Vikings come from? The Vikings came from the countries which we know now as Denmark, Norway and Sweden. We refer to the area that these countries are located as Scandinavia. The Vikings lived mainly along the coastlines of these countries or along the rivers which ran into the seas. These are the Vikings that left their lands to explore, invade and settle in other lands, Some Vikings did live further inland but, like most settlements and villages, they were often located near to rivers.
Vikings come from Denmark, Sweden and Norway settling onto the other North Europe countries such as Iceland, Faroy, Finland and Greenland. The Vikings were originally from Scandinavia. There was no need to settle as they lived in the Scandinavian countries and would only travel for trade or raids. However, what … we now call Greenland, Iceland, as well as parts of Canada and the U.S. were eventually settled by Viking explorers.
The Norsemen came from Scandinavia. The vikings that went westwards to Iceland and Newfoundland came from what is now Norway. The vikings that went south to Normandy and the … British Isles came from what is now Denmark and south western Sweden. They were originally from Norway, Sweden and Denmark, but they later settled in Iceland, Greenland, Britain, Russia and even Newfoundland in Canada. They lived In Scandnavia (now sweden).
The period referred to as the Viking Age dates from around AD 800 to 1050. The homelands of the Vikings were in Scandinavia, but the countries of Scandinavia as we know them today did not exist until the end of the Viking Age. Wherever they lived, the Viking-age Scandinavians shared common features such as house forms, jewellery, tools and other everyday equipment. Trading Across the Globe. The Vikings created a trade network that spanned the globe as far east as the River Volga and Byzantium (Istanbul), west to Dublin and Newfoundland, and north to Greenland and the North Cape.
The Vikings came from three countries of Scandinavia: Denmark, Norway and Sweden. The name 'Viking' comes from a language called 'Old Norse' and means 'a pirate raid'. People who went off raiding in ships were said to be 'going Viking'. The parts of Britain where most Vikings settled were northern Scotland and eastern England. For 500 years, from about AD 900, Vikings ruled the north of Scotland, the Orkney and Shetland isles and the Hebrides islands off the west coast. In Ireland, Vikings founded the city of Dublin.
The English called the Viking invaders 'Danes' but they came from Norway as well as Denmark. Norwegian Vikings or 'Norse' sailed to Scotland, where they made settlements in the north and on the Orkney and Shetland islands. Vikings also settled on the Isle of Man. Vikings raided Wales, but few made homes there. The parts of Britain where most Vikings settled were northern Scotland and eastern England. For 500 years, from about AD 900, Vikings ruled the north of Scotland, the Orkney and Shetland isles and the Hebrides islands off the west coast. In Ireland, Vikings founded the city of Dublin.