1 Place in the oven and cover. 2  Cook until tender 3-4 hours. 3  Baste every 30 minutes to an hour. 4  If you run out of liquid add a bit more beef stock. 5  The brisket should be easy to cut and fall apart when you pull at it with a fork. 6  Take out of the oven and let rest for at least 30 minutes. 
Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour
Preparation. Preheat the oven to 350°. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Add beef stock and enough water to yield about 1/2 inch of liquid in the roasting pan. Lower oven to 300°, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain. Top with juice from the pan.
Oven-Braised Brisket. Cover the brisket with aluminum foil, sealing tightly around the edges of the roasting pan. Place the brisket in the oven and cook for approximately 3 hours or until it reaches an internal temperature ranging between 195 to 205 degrees Fahrenheit. Michele D. Lee/Demand Media. Oven-Braised Brisket. Let the brisket rest for approximately 20 minutes.
Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Cover the pan with foil. 3  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 1 Cover the pan with foil. 2  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 3  Discard the cooking liquid and, if desired, serve the sliced brisket with bottled barbecue sauce.
Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Pour the cooking liquid over the meat. 3  Cover the pan with foil. 4  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 1 Cover the pan with foil. 2  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 3  Discard the cooking liquid and, if desired, serve the sliced brisket with bottled barbecue sauce.
Allow the brisket to come to room temperature. 3. In a large roasting pan, add the slivered onions, soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, 1/4 cup of the liquid smoke, 1/4 cup black coffee, 1/4 cup apple cider vinegar and half the sliced jalapenos. 4. Place the brisket in the pan, fat side up, and sprinkle the remaining jalapenos on top of the brisket. 5. Cover the pan tightly with foil, and bake in the oven for four hours. At this point, if you want a more pronounced smoky taste, pour another 1/4 cup of the liquid smoke over the brisket. Otherwise, just continue cooking for another hour, or roughly 1 hour and 15 minutes per pound.
Meanwhile, season the veal brisket with salt and pepper on all sides. 2. Heat oil in a large Dutch oven. Add the oil to an oven-safe Dutch oven and heat over medium-high for a couple of minutes, letting it become thinner and easier to spread across the bottom of the Dutch oven. 1  Veal brisket is usually browned while beef brisket is often prepared without being browned. Let rest before serving. Remove the beef brisket from the oven and let it rest for 30 minutes before you carve and serve it. 1  Slice the brisket across the grain to produce more tender slices of beef. 2  You can also serve the brisket with its cooking juices for a more intense flavor.
1 Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Pour the cooking liquid over the meat. 3  Cover the pan with foil. 4  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 1 Cover the pan with foil. 2  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 3  Discard the cooking liquid and, if desired, serve the sliced brisket with bottled barbecue sauce.