Railroad retirement payments are subject to federal income taxes, which the RRB will withhold at the request of a recipient. However, railroad retirement and unemployment benefits are exempt from state income taxes, which benefits retirees who reside in states that levy an income tax. Identification. The Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, the federal laws that authorized and established the railroad retirement system, state that railroad retirement, illness and unemployment payments are exempt from state income taxes.
Connecticut ' s income tax excludes (1) 75% or 100% of federally taxable Social Security income, depending on the taxpayer ' s federal adjusted gross income (AGI); (2) 100% of railroad retirement benefits; and (3) 50% of federally taxable military retirement benefits. CONNECTICUT TAX ON PENSION INCOME. Except for Social Security, railroad retirement, and military retirement benefits, Connecticut ' s state income tax treats income from public and private pensions the same as any other income. The state has no other special exemptions for pension income.
Most Social Security and all railroad retirement benefits are exempt from the Connecticut income tax. (Federal law prohibits states from taxing railroad retirement benefits.) The Social Security exemption occurs in two ways. CONNECTICUT TAX ON PENSION INCOME. Except for Social Security, railroad retirement, and military retirement benefits, Connecticut ' s state income tax treats income from public and private pensions the same as any other income. The state has no other special exemptions for pension income.
Table 1 shows how states tax public and private pension and Social Security (SS) income, according to NCSL. Information applies to the 2009 tax year unless noted. Since no state taxes railroad retirement (RR) benefits, Column 5 shows only Social Security exemptions. CONNECTICUT TAX ON PENSION INCOME. Except for Social Security, railroad retirement, and military retirement benefits, Connecticut ' s state income tax treats income from public and private pensions the same as any other income. The state has no other special exemptions for pension income.
Railroad retirement benegits are subject to Federal Income tax. Tier 1 of Railroad retirement has the same treatment regarding income taxes as does Social Security benefits. Tier 2 of Railroad Retirement benefits are subject to Federal income tax just like other company pensions. Railroad Retirement Unemployment benefits receive the same tax requirements as do State unemployment benefits.
Railroad Retirement benefits are exempt from Indiana state income tax. They may be federally taxable, depending on your filing status and income. They follow the same rules … as Social Security benefits. Tier 2 of Railroad Retirement benefits are subject to Federal income tax just like other company pensions. Railroad Retirement Unemployment benefits receive the same tax requirements as do State unemployment benefits.
Social Security, most government pensions, military retirement pay, federal pensions, veterans' benefits, teachers' pensions, police pensions, railroad pensions, and firefighters' pensions are not subject to Alabama income tax. 
Retirement Income Taxes: Colorado has a pension/annuity subtraction where, depending on the age of the recipient, the first $20,000/$24,000 is not taxed. As a result, taxpayers 55-64 years old can exclude a total of $20,000 for Social Security and qualified retirement income. Iowa does not tax Social Security benefits in the same manner as the IRS. In calculating the taxable amount of Social Security, single persons can exclude $25,000, married filling jointly can exclude $32,000. The state is implementing a gradual phase-out of the tax on Social Security income.
Retirement Income Taxes: Social Security, first tier Railroad Retirement benefits, military, federal, state/local, and some private pensions are exempt. All out-of-state government pensions are exempt. Also, employer-funded pension plans are exempt. Iowa does not tax Social Security benefits in the same manner as the IRS. In calculating the taxable amount of Social Security, single persons can exclude $25,000, married filling jointly can exclude $32,000. The state is implementing a gradual phase-out of the tax on Social Security income.