Insight therapy or insight orientated psychotherapy are general terms used to describe a group of tharapies that assumes that a person's behavior, thoughts, and emotions become disordered because they do not understand what motivates them. The theory of insight therapy, therefore, is that a greater awareness of motivation will result in an increase in control and an improvement in thought, emotion, and behavior.
The theory of insight therapy, therefore, is that a greater awareness of motivation will result in an increase in control and an improvement in thought, emotion, and behavior. Humanistic and existential therapies are therapy techniques that also fall under the category of insight therapies. These therapies are insight-focused, that is, they are based on the assumption that disordered behavior can be overcome by increasing patients' own awareness of their motivations and needs.
As insight-oriented psychotherapy is a client-centered therapy, it is assumed that the client is healthy and their problem is a result of faulty-thinking. Insight-oriented psychotherapy is also used often and in conjunction with medication for treating depression. However, it is less suited for the afflicted individual who is especially emotional/sensitive, has little self-awareness, and is dealing with a major life problem.
Insight therapies or insight-oriented psychotherapy relies on conversation between the therapist and the client. It helps people through understanding and expressing feelings, motivations, beliefs, fears and desires. Insight-oriented psychotherapy is also used often and in conjunction with medication for treating depression. However, it is less suited for the afflicted individual who is especially emotional/sensitive, has little self-awareness, and is dealing with a major life problem.
insight therapy. (psychology). Treatment of a personality disorder by attempting to uncover the deep causes of the individual's problem and to help eliminate defense mechanisms. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Certain forms of insight-oriented psychotherapy are psychoanalysis and gestalt therapy. A downfall of insight-oriented psychotherapy would be the narrow range of people who could benefit from the therapy. Insight-oriented psychotherapy is also used often and in conjunction with medication for treating depression. However, it is less suited for the afflicted individual who is especially emotional/sensitive, has little self-awareness, and is dealing with a major life problem.
Psychodynamic therapy, also known as insight-oriented therapy, focuses on unconscious processes as they are manifested in a person’s present behavior. By Jim Haggerty, M.D. ~ 3 min read. Psychodynamic therapy, also known as insight-oriented therapy, focuses on unconscious processes as they are manifested in a person’s present behavior. The goals of psychodynamic therapy are a client’s self-awareness and understanding of the influence of the past on present behavior.
A Dr. Michael Mufson, MD, Psychiatry, answered. Insight-oriented psychotherapy is a traditional talk therapy that delves into how life events, desires, past and current relationships, and unconcscious conflicts affect your feelings and contribute to your anxiety. While the duration of insight-oriented therapy can be open-ended, a variation called brief dynamic therapy that is limited to a specific period (generally 12 to 20 weeks) is often used to target generalized anxiety.