Clearly, then, the monthly ownership costs of a swimming pool is $100 or more every month. Still, that's not for a backyard recreation facility available 365 days per year, 24/7. If you are building a new pool, or renovating an existing pool, you have an opportunity to minimize your costs substantially.
First, let’s look at the cost of actually building a pool. Obviously, the fancier the pool, the more expensive it will be. On average, an in-ground pool can cost anything from $12,000 to $50,000. An above-ground pool may be a bit cheaper. But, if you want to add more features such as waterfalls, lights, attached spa, upgraded filtration and sanitizing equipment, concrete, etc., it may cost a lot more!
In warm, dry parts of the United States, for example, a swimming pool is virtually a must for any home. Up north, it can actually make it harder to sell. Here’s a state-by-state look at pool ownership – including cost, climate, and other factors that might weigh on your decision to build an inground pool. While nothing substitutes for getting quotes from swimming pool contractors in your area, these articles will at least get you started.
There are many pro's and con's to owning a pool. Home owners ins increases with a pool as it's a liability. Pools are fun but it is a lot of work cleaning the pool, chemicals. There is also costs in pool liner that typically can last anywhere from 5 years and some may go up to 12 years.
Understanding that this is a very rough figure, you can expect to pay $25,000-50,000 for an inground pool. Of course, that’s assuming a pool of average size, in an average city with the average cost of living, average extras, and average materials. Of course, you probably aren’t average.
Our customers typically spend about twice the pool cost to complete their swimming pool project, says Tommy Johnson, owner of Johnson Pools and Spas in Huntsville, Ala. If you buy a $50,000 pool, be prepared to spend an additional $40,000 to $50,000 before all is said and done..
According to P.K. Data the average cost of a 19' diameter above ground swimming pool is $6,243; while the average cost of a 32'x16' inground swimming pool is $21,919.