Phobos (mythology). 36,234 pages on this wiki. Phobos Phobos (Ancient Greek: φόβος, pronounced [pʰobos], pʰóbos meaning fear or) terror is The greek god of horror and the personification of fear In greek. Mythology he is the offspring of both the love Goddess aphrodite and the warrior God. ares Phobos Phobos (Ancient Greek: φόβος, pronounced [pʰobos], pʰóbos meaning fear or) terror is The greek god of horror and the personification of fear In greek. mythology
Phobos. In Greek mythology, Phobos is described as the son of Aphrodite and Ares, and twin brother of Deimos (terror). Phobos was described as the personification of fear. In Greek mythology, Phobos is more of a personification of the fear brought by war and does not appear as a character in any myth. He was known for accompanying Ares into battle along with Enyo, Eris, and
Phobos was the god of fear in Greek mythology, son of the gods Ares and Aphrodite. He was the brother of Deimos (terror), Harmonia (harmony), Adrestia, Eros (love), Anteros, Himerus, and Pothos. He followed his father into battle, along with his companions, Enyo (the war goddess); Eris (the goddess of discord); and his brother, Deimos. The followers of his cult made bloody sacrifices.
Phobos and Ares in Ares's chariot-artist: Manner of the Lysippides Painter (source: Wikimedia Commons). Phobos (Ancient Greek: φόβος, [pʰobos] , pʰóbos meaning) fear is the personification of fear In greek. mythology Phobos is the son of Aphrodite and Ares. This may be seen in Hesiod’s Theogony, Also Kytherea Aphrodite bare to Ares the shield piercer Phobos… (Atsma). Ares was accompanied in battle by his sister Eris, Phobos, and Deimos. Phobos’s genealogy is shown:
Deimos and Phobos and Ares' chariot. Phobos was the son of Ares (Mars), and Aphrodite (Venus) in Greek mythology. He was associated with fear, dread, and panic, as his name directly translates. He is often depicted as a man with the head of a lion, holding a spear, commonly called Phobos' Spear of Panic.. He had a twin brother, Deimos
Phobos and Ares in Ares's chariot-artist: Manner of the Lysippides Painter (source: Wikimedia Commons). Phobos (Ancient Greek: φόβος, [pʰobos] , pʰóbos meaning) fear is the personification of fear In greek. Mythology he is the offspring Of aphrodite And. ares Phobos is the son of Aphrodite and Ares. This may be seen in Hesiod’s Theogony, Also Kytherea Aphrodite bare to Ares the shield piercer Phobos… (Atsma). Ares was accompanied in battle by his sister Eris, Phobos, and Deimos. Phobos’s genealogy is shown:
[pʰobos] , pʰóbos meaning) fear is the personification of fear In greek. Mythology he is the offspring Of aphrodite And. Ares he was known for Accompanying ares into battle along with the ancient war Goddess, enyo the goddess of Discord (eris both sisters Of), ares And' phobos twin Brother (deimos). terror Phobos is the son of Aphrodite and Ares. This may be seen in Hesiod’s Theogony, Also Kytherea Aphrodite bare to Ares the shield piercer Phobos… (Atsma). Ares was accompanied in battle by his sister Eris, Phobos, and Deimos. Phobos’s genealogy is shown:
Deimos was the son of Ares and Aphrodite. He is the twin brother of Phobos and nephew of the goddess Enyo who accompanied her brother Ares into battle, as well as his father's attendants, Trembling, Fear, Dread and Panic. 
Deimos was a god in Greek mythology, personification of terror (his name meant dread). He was the son of gods Ares and Aphrodite, and had a twin brother, Phobos (fear). He did not appear in any stories in Greek mythology, but he was a mere representation of the terror that is brought upon humans by war. More: Ares, Aphrodite. Deimos Is also called Formido, Metus. 