Time-Saver. Government institutions, universities and private companies allow their personnel to attain facsimile signatures. A company’s employee who works in the payroll department may sign many checks on a daily basis. Similarly, university professors go through many documents daily that need their signature
Mechanical or Electronic. Facsimile signatures are produced mechanically with rubber stamps, imprinting or engraving, and they also can be used electronically. For example, you may use the copy of your signature that you have saved electronically when signing letters or any documents that are on your computer. Government institutions, universities and private companies allow their personnel to attain facsimile signatures. A company’s employee who works in the payroll department may sign many checks on a daily basis. Similarly, university professors go through many documents daily that need their signature
There is a common misconception that once a facsimile signature certificate is filed, an officer's signature by stamp or other device will have legal authority on any document to which it is applied. The law has made specific provision for the use of stamped signatures in specific cases not governed by the Act. For example, the Legislature authorized ballot commissioners to stamp their signatures on absentee ballots, which in large counties are sent to voters by the hundreds.
Definition of FACSIMILE SIGNATURE. : a signature produced by mechanical means but recognized as valid by law for many banking, financial, and business transactions. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
Answers. Best Answer: When a print is signed with a facsimile signature, it means the print was made and signed by someone other than the artist-usually the artist's estate or a printing company that owns the copyright to said artist's work. Generally, these are produced after the artist's death. The signature is the artist's name, written in pencil beneath the image, by someone with nice handwriting. That's all. The term Limited Edition can be a bit of a scam under these conditions... Limited only refers to one particular size, paper type and press run.
The actual legal basis for using a signature stamp -- a facsimile of an official's actual signature -- is specifically authorized under the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act only for executing public securities and instruments of payment. The law has made specific provision for the use of stamped signatures in specific cases not governed by the Act. For example, the Legislature authorized ballot commissioners to stamp their signatures on absentee ballots, which in large counties are sent to voters by the hundreds.
Definition of facsimile signature. An exact copy of the way that someone signs their name which is put on a special rubber stamp so that it can be used on a large number of letters, cheques etc. Print