Manufacturer Certified Pre-Owned Used Cars: These are the gold standard of certified pre-owned used car programs. These are warranties that are backed by the original manufacturer. For example, only a Chevrolet dealer can sell you a certified pre-owned Chevrolet Malibu. At its most basic definition, here is what Certified Pre-Owned means: Previously owned vehicles that have been inspected and guaranteed to be better than other used cars. Typically, they are less than three years old with less than 50,000 miles and are the cream of the crop.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A certified pre-owned car or CPO is a type of used car. Most often late-model, they differ from other used cars by having been inspected, refurbished, and certified by a manufacturer or other certifying authority. They also typically include an extended warranty, special financing, and additional benefits. 
Before deciding on a certified pre-owned car, keep in mind the pros and cons of such a decision: Pro: Factory-certified pre-owned means peace of mind; with the inspection, repairs and warranty, you've saved the time and money it would have taken to find and make them yourself. Sometimes the only way to get a fancy luxury or high-performance sports car is to wait a few years until the price has fallen to a more realistic level, rather than pay the full sticker price plus a premium. The uncertain state of the economy also makes certified pre-owned cars attractive.
If you decide that a certified pre-owned car is right for you, there are even more things to consider. There are different types of certified cars: ones that are certified by the factory and ones that are certified by the dealer. Sometimes the only way to get a fancy luxury or high-performance sports car is to wait a few years until the price has fallen to a more realistic level, rather than pay the full sticker price plus a premium. The uncertain state of the economy also makes certified pre-owned cars attractive.
For many people, certified used cars have become affordable alternatives to new cars. By certified used or certified pre-owned, we mean used cars that are offered for sale by your local dealer and feature warranties that extend beyond the initial when new coverage. To qualify for our definition of a certified used vehicle, the warranty must be backed by the original vehicle manufacturer. Not all used cars can qualify for certified pre-owned programs, and terms vary from one brand to the next, but any true certified pre-owned program will include at least a 100-point inspection of the car. If problems are found, the factory-trained technicians will fix it or disqualify the car from the program
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Lots of wrong answers here. A certified pre-owned car is one that has been inspected, reconditioned and warrantied by the manufacturer. Is it worth the extra cost, probably not but if a warranty gives you peace of mind and you don't mind paying for that, that it is worth it to you
Certified Pre-Owned Cars. Make sure you get the best deal on your certified used vehicle. Certified pre-owned cars can offer the best of buying a new and used vehicle. They allow you to avoid the massive depreciation that affects new vehicles while still purchasing a relatively lightly-used car in good condition