Gastroparesis. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Gastroparesis is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
There are many causes for gastroparesis such as: surgery cancer treatments medications diabetes eating disorders hypothyroidism parkinson's disease metabolic disorders Regardless, since none of these disorders are catching or harmful to others, it really is not anyone's business why she has gastroparesis.
Passing on gastroparesis: At this stage, a genetic component to gastroparesis has not been found. Further research will be needed to shed light on whether gastroparesis is likely to run in families. However, it is possible to inherit a predisposition to diabetes, which is one of the causes of gastroparesis.
Gastroparesis also can result from damage to the vagus nerve, the nerve that controls the stomach's muscles, that occurs during surgery on the esophagus and stomach. Scleroderma is an example of a disease in which gastroparesis is due to damage to the stomach's muscles.
- Anonymous. *Gastroparesis is a condition characterized by impaired transit of food from the stomach. There may also be a total loss of nerve and muscle movement in the stomach and intestines; therefore gravity continues the path for the food through the gastrointestinal organs.
Answers. Best Answer: No, it is not genetic but that does not mean the girl lied to you. She truly may believe it is genetic if that is what her parents told her. Also, type 2 diabetes is thought to have a genetic risk so, if she has type 2 diabetes, her family may have told her that the gastroparesis is genetic.
A damaged vagus nerve prevents the muscles in the stomach and intestine from functioning, preventing food from moving through the digestive system properly. Often, the cause of gastroparesis is unknown. However, the causes of gastroparesis can include: 1  Uncontrolled diabetes. 2  Gastric surgery with injury to the vagus nerve.