Rub the chicken both inside and out with the garlic rosemary blend and place in the roasting pan. Place the pan in the oven and roast the chicken for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the juices run clear. To test this, insert a thermometer in the thickest part of a leg. It should register at 160 degrees internal temperature. Remove the chicken from the oven and allow to cool for 10 to 15 minutes before carving. 
Roasting a chicken does not take quite so long as roasting a turkey, however a large chicken could still take over 2 hours to roast. As a general rule, calculate a cooking time of 20 minutes per pound of meat plus an additional 10 - 20 minutes at a temperature of 375ºF (190ºC). Therefore, a 5 lb chicken will need to be roasting in the oven for at least 1h 50 mins. A 5 lb bird will serve between 4 - 5 people. Some people prefer to set the oven temperature to 450ºF (230ºC) and roast the bird at this high temperature for the first 10 - 15 minutes or the last 10 - 15 minutes. The rest of the time the chicken should be roasted at 375ºF (190ºC). 
Hi all, I used the Thomas Keller recipe last night to roast two whole chickens. I'm always a bit insecure about knowing when something is done...I tend to overcook! So I googled a bit and it seemed as though cooking until the breast reached 170 degrees was plenty cooked. 
If you handle chicken properly, but cook it to a lower temperature, you may be exposing yourself to a very slight risk of food poisoning, but eating consistently tasty chicken. We try never to roast a chicken beyond 160°F in the breast, but that s our choice. It is also virtually assured that no one would ever eat chicken again. If you cook a whole chicken until the thigh reaches 180 °F, the breast will be around 170°F, and the whole thing will have turned to rubber.
You’ve all seen those directions in your roast chicken recipes: “Roast until Done.” Gee, thanks for all the help. The same directions can be found in recipes for grilled chicken, sauteed, pan fried or any other way there is to cook this favorite bird. Set the oven to 350º F, but start checking the internal temperature at 35 minutes, realizing it could take well over an hour. Forget the notion that the time and temperature estimations for doneness is the holy grail. Sure it’s much easier to cook this way, but also a great way to get over or under cooked chicken.
Cooking to the proper temperature is the most critical step. Insert a thermometer into a meaty part of the leg (avoiding the bone). When the temperature reaches 165°, pull the bird from the oven. Let rest 10 minutes. View Recipe: Asian-Glazed Chicken Thighs. Kitchen Tip: Thigh meat is forgiving, even if overcooked. In fact, it becomes more tender when cooked to at least 160°. 
Lower the oven to 400°F and roast the chicken for 50 minutes: Put the chicken in the oven and immediately lower the oven temperature to 400°F. Set a timer for 50 minutes and let the chicken roast undisturbed. Check the chicken: The chicken is done when it registers 165°F in the thickest part of the thigh, when the wings and legs wiggle loosely, and when the juices run clear. Continue roasting the chicken and checking it every 10 minutes until it is done.
This goes to the very heart of the liberal/conservative debate  and, as you can imagine, it s not pretty. Our government says that you should cook a whole chicken until the temperature measured in the thigh is 180°F (82°C). If you cook chicken pieces, the government says, the thigh, wings, and drumsticks should be 180°F, while the breast should reach 170°F (77°C). It is also virtually assured that no one would ever eat chicken again. If you cook a whole chicken until the thigh reaches 180 °F, the breast will be around 170°F, and the whole thing will have turned to rubber.
1 Place the chicken in a saute sauté pan or roasting pan, and when the oven is up to, temperature put the chicken in the. 2  Oven i leave it—Alone i'don t baste, It i'don t add; butter you can if you, wish But i feel this creates, steam Which i'don t. 3  Want roast it until'it s, done 50 to 60.  minutes 
Similarly, when the thigh of a roast chicken reaches 180°, the breast is still around 165° to 170°, which is, in the opinion of many, a little overcooked for best flavor. If you cook the bird until the breast is 180°, the thigh will be around 190° and no part of the bird will be particularly appetizing. 