Fueled largely by the controversies surrounding their concerts, Gwar experienced brief mainstream notoriety during the first half of the 1990s, receiving regular airplay on MTV as well as frequent in-character guest appearances on daytime talk shows, satirizing the topics of censorship and media violence. Such stagecraft regularly leads Gwar to be labeled a  shock rock  band by the media. Since their formation, Gwar have released thirteen studio albums, two live albums, and numerous singles among other recordings, and have sold over 820,000 records in the United States.
Outside of music and video, Gwar have expanded their franchise into a now-discontinued line of comic books, trading cards, a cartoon, a board game, signature beers, barbecue sauces, and e-liquids. Such stagecraft regularly leads Gwar to be labeled a  shock rock  band by the media. Since their formation, Gwar have released thirteen studio albums, two live albums, and numerous singles among other recordings, and have sold over 820,000 records in the United States.
Dawn Names. These girl names were at the height of their popularity in the year 1990 (usage of 0.1649%) and are somewhat less popular today (usage 0.1123%, down 31.9%), with names such as Asia, Zora, Roxanne, Iola and Dawn falling out of style. Roxanne▼ 15 .. Root fr. Persian.  Dawn .. Roxana (top 29%) , Roxann (30%) , Roxanna (28%) , Roxanne (9%) and Roxie (19%) are familiar as given names.
Dawn▼ 8 .. The first appearance of light, daybreak.. Somewhat frequently used as birth names, Dawn, Dawnelle, etc. are pronounced like the conventional Deon. .. 1500 years, but Dawn first appeared .. [ Adawna, Dawna, Dawne, Dawnelle, Dawnette, Dawnita, Dawnysia, Duwan, Dwan, .. Roxanne▼ 15 .. Root fr. Persian.  Dawn .. Roxana (top 29%) , Roxann (30%) , Roxanna (28%) , Roxanne (9%) and Roxie (19%) are familiar as given names.
[ 2 syll. gwaw (r), gw-a- wr ] The baby girl name Gwawr is pronounced as Guwao-R †. Gwawr is used mostly in the Welsh language and it is also of Welsh origin. The name means dawn. Gwawr is an unusual baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Gwawr include Gari (Indian), Gauree, Gaurey, Gauri (Indian), Gaurie, Gaury, Geshuree, Geshurey, Geshury, Graeae, Graiae, Groa, Gróa, Gryer (Guro), Scandinavian, Gwennor, Gwennore, Gaurea (Gayora), Hebrew, geshurea And. geshur
This was not the end of Gwar's new focus on heavy sound, as was proven with the release of Violence Has Arrived by their most successful album in several years, War Party in 2004 on their new record label, DRT Entertainment. Such stagecraft regularly leads Gwar to be labeled a  shock rock  band by the media. Since their formation, Gwar have released thirteen studio albums, two live albums, and numerous singles among other recordings, and have sold over 820,000 records in the United States.
-- Reina Vered 1/5/2009. GWOWR. That's how it is pronounced, like the word 'WOW' with a G in the front and an R at the end. This is because the Welsh dipthong 'aw' as seen here in this name, is pronounced as ow roughly. Pretty name! -- Anonymous User 8/11/2011. 
Gwar, often styled as GWAR, is an American heavy metal band formed in Richmond, Virginia, United States, in 1984, composed of and operated by a frequently rotating line-up of musicians, artists and filmmakers collectively known as Slave Pit Inc. Such stagecraft regularly leads Gwar to be labeled a  shock rock  band by the media. Since their formation, Gwar have released thirteen studio albums, two live albums, and numerous singles among other recordings, and have sold over 820,000 records in the United States.