But, the pericardium is actually TRIPLE layered: the visceral layer, the parietal layer, and the fibrous layer (fibrosa). The visceral pericardium is the inner-most layer of the pericardium, and is also known as the Epicardium as it lays upon the heart. The Pericardial Cavity lies between the visceral pericardium and the parietal pericardium
When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium. The epicardium is the layer immediately outside of the heart muscle proper (the myocardium). The epicardium is largely made of connective tissue and functions as a protective layer. A transverse section of the thorax, showing the contents of the middle and the posterior mediastinum. The pleural cavity and the pericardial cavity are exaggerated since normally there is no space between the pleurae or between the pericardium and heart. Pericardium is also known as cardiac epidermis.
The visceral pericardium is the inner-most layer of the pericardium, and is also known as the Epicardium as it lays upon the heart. The Pericardial Cavity lies between the visceral pericardium and the parietal pericardium. 
the outermost of the three layers of tissue that form the heart wall. It is composed of a single sheet of squamous epithelial cells overlying delicate connective tissue. The epicardium is the visceral portion of the serous pericardium and folds back on itself to form the parietal portion of the serous pericardium. Compare myocardium. See also pericardium. epicardial, adj
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. A transverse section of the thorax, showing the contents of the middle and the posterior mediastinum. The pleural cavity and the pericardial cavity are exaggerated since normally there is no space between the pleurae or between the pericardium and heart. Pericardium is also known as cardiac epidermis.
the parietal layer of the serous pericardium, which is in contact with the fibrous pericardium. serous pericardium. the inner, serous portion of pericardium, consisting of two layers, visceral and parietal; the space between the layers is the pericardial cavity. visceral pericardium. the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is intimately attached to the heart and roots of the great vessels. Called also epicardium. visceral pericardium. Etymology: L, viscus + Gk, peri, around, kardia, heart. the surface of the pericardial membrane that is in direct contact with the heart. Also called
The mitral valve (also known as the bicuspid valve or left atrioventricular valve) is a dual-flap (bi-from the Latin, meaning double, and mitral-from the Latin, meaning shaped like a mitre) valve in the heart that lies between the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV). 
The serous pericardium (fig. 23-1) is a closed sac, the parietal layer of which lines the inner surface of the fibrous pericardium and is reflected onto the heart as the visceral layer, or epicardium. Figure 23-1 Schematic sagittal section through the heart and pericardium. Note how the serous layer of the pericardium is reflected onto the heart and forms a double layer. Figure 23-2 Mirror images of the pericardial reflections.
visceral pericardium the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is in contact with the heart and roots of the great vessels. Called also epicardium. visceral pericardium. Etymology: L, viscus + Gk, peri, around, kardia, heart. the surface of the pericardial membrane that is in direct contact with the heart. Also called