Report Abuse. Cypriots have three official languages: Greek, Turkish and English. The majority of Cypriots are of Greek origin, but there is a minority of Turks spread throughout the island in communities-they even their own governmental rights, which is why the second official language is Turkish. Best Answer: Cyprus is divided-in the western side they speak Greek and in the Eastern side they speak Turkish. The Greek side is larger and better developed than the Turkish. Source(s): Dalia M · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 1. 1 comment. Loading ..
The main languages in Cyprus are Greek, Turkish and English, although far fewer Turks in the North speak English than do Greeks in the South. The currency is now the Euro, whi … ch was adopted by Cyprus in c.2006, replacing the Cyprus Pound and the Cyprus Cent. 7 people found this useful. Half of them do because they are Greek but the other half of Cyprus are Turkish cipriots,sometimes the Greeks speak Turkish and sometimes the Turkish speak Greek, there is nev … er one language in Cyprus it will always be two, logically.
In the Republic of Cyprus, the official language is Greek and Cypriots write in Standard Modern Greek, which they’re taught at school. In the Republic of Cyprus, the official language is Greek and Cypriots write in Standard Modern Greek, which they’re taught at school. 1  Share on Facebook. 2  Share on Twitter. 3  Share on LinkedIn. 4  Send. 5  Print.
Language in North Cyprus. Turkish is the official language of Northern Cyprus, whilst English is widely spoken and is considered the country’s second language. But if you plan on staying and ultimately living in Northern Cyprus its well worth learning some Turkish. Also while most road signs in Northern Cyprus Kyrenia are in English other remote parts of TRNC may only be in Turkish. Most highways, however, have signs in both languages. Even though Turkish is the predominant language, Cypriots have their own version.
Cypriots Speak their own dialect of Greek, aswell as Standard Greek. Thyere are a few ways to say this.   I would use Ti kaneis may sound like Di Ganeis   Don't forg … et that many people in Cyprus are Turks, speaking Turkish...But I can't tell you how they would say how are you. Half of them do because they are Greek but the other half of Cyprus are Turkish cipriots,sometimes the Greeks speak Turkish and sometimes the Turkish speak Greek, there is nev … er one language in Cyprus it will always be two, logically.
(June 2013). The official language of Greece is Greek, spoken by 99% of the population. In addition, a number of non-official, minority languages and some Greek dialects are spoken as well. The most common foreign languages learned by Greeks are English, German, French, Spanish, and Italian. Modern Greek (νεοελληνική γλώσσα) is the only official language of the Hellenic Republic, and is spoken by some 99.5% of the population by approximately 11,100,000 people (though not necessarily as a first language).
The second language of Cyprus is English, as the country was a British colony from 1878 until 1960. Many Greek Cypriots have lived and worked or been educated in the UK, and, in some cases, the US. English is considered a symbol of sophistication and many Cypriots strive to perfect their English. In the Republic of Cyprus, the official language is Greek and Cypriots write in Standard Modern Greek, which they’re taught at school. 1  Share on Facebook. 2  Share on Twitter. 3  Share on LinkedIn. 4  Send. 5  Print.
Cyprus, an island nation off the coast of Turkey, has the official languages of Greek and Turkish. Because of the division, Greek is spoken largely in the southern part of th … e island and Turkish in the northern part. Half of them do because they are Greek but the other half of Cyprus are Turkish cipriots,sometimes the Greeks speak Turkish and sometimes the Turkish speak Greek, there is nev … er one language in Cyprus it will always be two, logically.