3 Answers 3. active oldest votes. up vote 5 down vote. The most common word is 'pantalones' (plural) and 'pantalon' (pantalón). Singular other types of pants are specified using: adjectives shorts will be pantalones cortos and jeans pantalones (vaqueros also valid in their singular). forms Other types of pants are specified using adjectives: shorts will be pantalones cortos and jeans pantalones vaqueros (also valid in their singular forms). As in English, you can use the plural form to refer to one item, and you can also use the singular form.
Singular and plural of pants, shorts, jeans, etc. up vote 1 down vote favorite. In English, words like pants, shorts, and jeans appear to be in the plural but really refer to one item of clothing (I don't know what the technical term for it is). Other types of pants are specified using adjectives: shorts will be pantalones cortos and jeans pantalones vaqueros (also valid in their singular forms). As in English, you can use the plural form to refer to one item, and you can also use the singular form.
Andrew Desiderio is a junior majoring in journalism and minoring in Italian language and literature at The George Washington University’s School of Media and Public Affairs. He is the station manager at GW-TV, and has also interned for Mediaite, and is a member of the university’s various instrumental ensembles. University’s new ‘vaqueros’ mascot decried as ‘racist, gender biased’. Andrew Desiderio-George Washington University •November 18, 2014. The University of Texas – Rio Grande Valley hasn’t even opened yet and already its mascot has been decried as racist and gender biased.
A note from Assistant Editor Dave Huber: As a Spanish teacher I must note that the claim of gender bias regarding the term “vaqueros” is silly on its face as, in the Spanish language, the masculine plural of a noun can encompass both genders. University’s new ‘vaqueros’ mascot decried as ‘racist, gender biased’. Andrew Desiderio-George Washington University •November 18, 2014. The University of Texas – Rio Grande Valley hasn’t even opened yet and already its mascot has been decried as racist and gender biased.
: a Texan of Hispanic descent. 2. [probably short for conjunto tejano, literally, Texan ensemble] : Tex-Mex popular music combining elements of traditional, rock, and country music and often featuring an accordion. See Tejano defined for English-language learners.