If your mother had breast cancer at 60, you would start having your annual mammogram at age 40. If you have a strong family history or other factors that put you at high risk for breast cancer, you should also be having a breast MRI every year once you start having mammograms. Talk to your doctor about this. If you or your mother or sister have been diagnosed with the breast cancer gene (BRCA1 or BRCA2) you should begin having annual mammograms at age 25, and annual breast MRI sometimes even younger than 25. Your breast doctor should advise you on this.
Women at higher risk of breast cancer should not wait until they are 50 to have regular mammograms. Please remember that the higher age– 50– is only a guideline (not a strict rule) and only for screening women with no symptoms and not at high risk of breast cancer. 1. Most women who have a mother, sister, or grandmother who had breast cancer at the age of 50 or older, or who are at high risk of breast cancer because of obesity or other reasons, should have regular mammograms (every one or two years) starting at age 40.
If you have a strong family history of breast cancer (mother or sister), start having your mammogram 10 years younger than the age that relative was diagnosed, OR at age 40, whichever is younger. For example, if your sister had breast cancer when she was 44, you should start having your mammogram at age 34. If you or your mother or sister have been diagnosed with the breast cancer gene (BRCA1 or BRCA2) you should begin having annual mammograms at age 25, and annual breast MRI sometimes even younger than 25. Your breast doctor should advise you on this.
It is generally advisable for women to get their first mammogram performed at age 35 and in the event that a woman has a family history of cancer, then that age should be earlier. After the first mammogram at age 35, the next one should be at age 40 when it should be performed every other year. After age 50, it should be undergone every year.
American Cancer Society recommendations for early breast cancer detection in women without breast symptoms. Women age 40 and older should have a mammogram every year and should continue to do so for as long as they are in good health. 1  Current evidence supporting mammograms is even stronger than in the past. 2  In particular, recent evidence has confirmed that mammograms offer substantial benefit for women in their 40s. 
For most women, who are not at especially high risk of breast cancer, regular mammograms can start at age 50. Or, to be cautious, a woman can get one mammogram earlier (around age 40 or 45) and then if it is normal, wait until she is 50 for her next mammogram. 1. Most women who have a mother, sister, or grandmother who had breast cancer at the age of 50 or older, or who are at high risk of breast cancer because of obesity or other reasons, should have regular mammograms (every one or two years) starting at age 40.
General Guidelines. For most women, age 40 should be when you start having yearly mammograms in order to minimize your likelihood of developing advanced breast cancer (“ Government Mammography Task Force vs. You ”). Some doctors send their patients for a baseline mammogram at age 35, and I wouldn’t argue with that. If you or your mother or sister have been diagnosed with the breast cancer gene (BRCA1 or BRCA2) you should begin having annual mammograms at age 25, and annual breast MRI sometimes even younger than 25. Your breast doctor should advise you on this.
Best Answer: Usually, it is recommended that you begin getting a yearly mammogram after age 40. If you have a family or person history of breast problems, you should begin earlier, but consult your doctor about when and how often. Source(s): Radiography student. « Kitty Kat » · 8 years ago. 
When should I get a mammogram? The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends that women should have mammograms every two years from age 50 to 74 years. Talk to your health professional if you have any symptoms or changes in your breast, or if breast cancer runs in your family. A mammogram is an X-ray picture of the breast. Doctors use a mammogram to look for early signs of breast cancer. Regular mammograms are the best tests doctors have to find breast cancer early, sometimes up to three years before it can be felt. When their breast cancer is found early, many women go on to live long and healthy lives