While Salmonella is most often associated with poultry products, outbreaks are linked to a wide variety of sources, including contaminated ground beef, fruits and vegetables, dog food, turtles and hedgehogs. Scientists first identified Salmonella as a human pathogen in the late 19th Century. 
CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Bredeney infections linked to Trader Joe's Valencia Peanut Butter, manufactured by Sunland, Inc. of Portales, New Mexico. A total of 38 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bredeney have been reported from 20 states. Three new cases have been reported from two states since the last update on October 5, 2012: California (2) and New Mexico (1).
Causes. Salmonella bacteria live in the intestines of people, animals and birds. Most people are infected with salmonella by eating foods that have been contaminated by feces. Commonly infected foods include: 1  Raw meat, poultry and seafood. 2  Feces may get onto raw meat and poultry during the butchering process. 3  Seafood may be contaminated if harvested from contaminated water. 4  Raw eggs. 
Salmonella is bacteria that can cause a gastrointestinal infection known as salmonellosis. Usually salmonellosis is referred to as salmonella.. This infection can occur in humans and animals. Most people infected with salmonella are ill for four to seven days. Symptoms of salmonella usually start from 12 to 72 hours after the bacteria has been swallowed. The symptoms include abdominal cramps, headache, fever, and severe watery diarrhea. Nausea and vomiting may also occur. People infected with salmonella can have milder or no symptom
Every year, salmonella causes about 1.2 million illnesses in the United States, accounting for about $365 in direct medical costs. Salmonellosis, the official name, is a type of food poisoning caused by the Salmonella enterica bacterium. There are of course many kinds of this bacteria, and they are most common in beef, poultry, milk and eggs. 1. Ground Beef. While beef is most commonly associated with e. coli, it’s certainly not immune to salmonella. Fears were raised during an outbreak in early 2013 that hospitalized many, causing a discussion about food safety practices in the meat industry. But food safety practices haven’t always come first.
Transmission. Salmonella bacteria can be found in food products such as raw poultry, eggs, and beef, and sometimes on unwashed fruit. Food prepared on surfaces that previously were in contact with raw meat or meat products can, in turn, become contaminated with the bacteria. This is called cross-contamination. Salmonellosis, or salmonella, is one of the most common foodborne diseases. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, salmonella causes approximately 1.2 million illnesses in the United States, with 19,000 hospitalizations and 380 deaths.
Salmonella organisms have been found in the stools of sick and apparently healthy people and animals. Most domestic animals, including ducks, cattle, swine, dogs, cats, pet turtles and chicks have been found to carry and transmit salmonella. The bacteria also has been found in a variety of wild animals. Symptoms of salmonella usually start from 12 to 72 hours after the bacteria has been swallowed. The symptoms include abdominal cramps, headache, fever, and severe watery diarrhea. Nausea and vomiting may also occur. People infected with salmonella can have milder or no symptom
Salmonella outbreaks are commonly associated with eggs, meat and poultry, but these bacteria can also contaminate other foods such as fruits and vegetables. Foods that are most likely to contain Salmonella include raw or undercooked eggs, raw milk, contaminated water, and raw or undercooked meats. The most common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and fever. Typical Symptoms of Salmonella infection: Appear 6 to 72 hours after eating contaminated food and last for 3 to 7 days without treatment. 1  Diarrhea. 2  Abdominal Cramps.
Salmonella is usually transmitted to humans by eating foods contaminated with animal feces. Salmonella present on raw meat and poultry could survive if the product is not cooked to a safe minimum internal temperature, as measured with a food thermometer. 