teak. n. 1. (Plants) a large verbenaceous tree, Tectona grandis, of the East Indies, having white flowers and yielding a valuable dense wood. 2. (Forestry) the hard resinous yellowish-brown wood of this tree, used for furniture making, etc. teak. 1. a large East Indian tree, Tectona grandis, of the verbena family, yielding a hard, medium brown wood. 2. the wood of this tree, used in shipbuilding, furniture-making, etc.
Teak is used for outdoor furniture because of its natural durability in extreme weather conditions and because of its relative rarity. Being more expensive than most other woods, teak furniture has become something of a status symbol. Teak is used to make outdoor furniture, boats, and other things which require resistance to the elements.
Many manufacturers of teak furniture advertise their products as Grade A teak. You may be wondering what the difference is between Grade A teak and other grades of teak wood, and how to tell them apart. Teak patio furniture is an investment, so you want to make sure you can recognize quality teak wood when you see it.
Grade A teak is what you want your furniture made from. When a teak tree is harvested, less than a quarter of the available wood will be Grade A. So this makes Grade A teak relatively expensive. When buying teak furniture, you are paying for quality. You may be wondering what the difference is between Grade A teak and other grades of teak wood, and how to tell them apart. Teak patio furniture is an investment, so you want to make sure you can recognize quality teak wood when you see it.
About Teak Wood. The Teak Tree, or Tectona, is one of the tropical hardwood birches, included in the family Verbenaceae. This tree is originally from the plantations of South East Asia, and can grow to a height of 30 - 40 m. As part of its life cycle, this tree sheds its leaves every year at dry season. 
teak. n. 1. a. A large deciduous tree (Tectona grandis) in the mint family, native to tropical South and Southeast Asia, having hard, heavy, durable yellowish-brown wood. teak. 1. a large East Indian tree, Tectona grandis, of the verbena family, yielding a hard, medium brown wood. 2. the wood of this tree, used in shipbuilding, furniture-making, etc.
Teak (/tik/) is a tropical hardwood species of tree known as Tectona grandis. The species is placed in the family Lamiaceae. Tectona grandis is a large, deciduous tree that is dominant in mixed hardwood forests. It has small, fragrant white flowers and papery leaves that are often hairy on the lower surface. Teak is also used extensively in boat decks, as it is extremely durable and requires very little maintenance. The teak tends to wear in to the softer 'summer' growth bands first, forming a natural 'non-slip' surface. Any sanding is therefore only damaging.
About Teak Oil Finish. WATCO® Teak Oil is specifically formulated for dense woods such as teak, rosewood or mahogany. WATCO® Teak Oil penetrates deep into wood pores to create the rich, warm glow of a hand-rubbed finish. It takes less than an hour to treat your wood with WATCO® Teak Oil-simply brush or wipe on and wipe off. 