1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes wrap their DNA around proteins called histones. Multiple proteins act together to fold and condense prokaryotic DNA. Folded DNA is then organized into a variety of conformations that are supercoiled and wound around tetramers of the HU protein.
Differences between Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic DNA Replication. Differences between prokaryotic and eukaryotic DNA replication are largely related to contrasts in size and complexity of the DNA and cells of these organisms. The average eukaryotic cell has 25 times more DNA than a prokaryotic cell. In prokaryotic cells, there is only one point of origin, replication occurs in two opposing directions at the same time, and takes place in the cell cytoplasm.
Eukaryotic DNA is organized in genes that each code for a single protein, although in some cases multiple genes might be transcribed at the same time. About 5 percent of eukaryotic DNA codes for proteins or RNA, but much of the remaining DNA helps identify gene and control gene expression. The types of proteins found in prokaryotic chromosomes, known as the nucleoid-associated proteins, differ from the histone proteins that appear in eukaryotic chromosomes and cause the prokaryotic chromosomes to form looped structures.
Bacteria is made of prokaryotic cells. Plants and animals are made of eukaryotic cells. In addition to not having a nucleus (the main difference), prokaryotes also have circular DNA while eukaryotes have linear DNA. As such, prokaryotes do not have okazaki fragments formed during DNA replication. DNA is a nucleic acid. It is not an organism or creature by itself. However, DNA is the carrier of genetic information contained within both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. … Therefore, DNA is found within cells.
by admin. Prokaryotic vs Eukaryotic DNA. All the organisms are classified as either Prokaryotic or Eukaryotic. The Organisms that lack nucleus or membrane bounded organelles are called prokaryote while eukaryotes have ‘true’ nuclei that contain DNA and membrane bound organelles. • In eukaryotes, DNA is found mostly in the cell nucleus, but some are in mitochondria and chloroplast while, in prokaryotes, it is found in the cytoplasm. • DNA usually occurs as circular chromosomes in Prokaryotes while it is linear chromosomes in Eukaryotes.
At the chemical level, the DNA of prokaryotic cells, which have no nuclear membranes, and that of eukaryotic cells, which have separate, membrane-enclosed nuclei, is identical. The types of proteins found in prokaryotic chromosomes, known as the nucleoid-associated proteins, differ from the histone proteins that appear in eukaryotic chromosomes and cause the prokaryotic chromosomes to form looped structures.
DNA in pro-/eukaryotes. Cells are the basal unit of all living organisms (except virusses, but these are not true, independently living organisms). There are two kinds of cells on the earth: types of cells: prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells (eu = true; karyon = nucleus, pit). 
Eukaryotic Chromosomes. 1  Many prokaryotes contain a single circular chromosome. 2  Prokaryotic chromosomes are condensed in the nucleoid via DNA supercoiling and the binding of various architectural proteins. 3  Because prokaryotic DNA can interact with the cytoplasm, transcription and translation occur simultaneously. Whereas eukaryotes wrap their DNA around proteins called histones to help package the DNA into smaller spaces, most prokaryotes do not have histones (with the exception of those species in the domain Archaea).
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA. Eukaryotes wrap their DNA around proteins called histones. Multiple proteins act together to fold and condense prokaryotic DNA. Folded DNA is then organized into a variety of conformations that are supercoiled and wound around tetramers of the HU protein.
The organization of prokaryotic DNA therefore differs from that of eukaryotes in several important ways. The most notable difference is the condensation process that prokaryotic DNA molecules undergo in order to fit inside relatively small cells. Whereas eukaryotes wrap their DNA around proteins called histones to help package the DNA into smaller spaces, most prokaryotes do not have histones (with the exception of those species in the domain Archaea).