Eating unprocessed beef, pork, or lamb was not linked to a higher risk for heart disease and diabetes. The study is the largest research review ever to attempt to tease out the health impact of eating processed vs. unprocessed red meat. The finding that all red meats are not equal when it comes to heart and metabolic disease risk has important implications for public health, says study researcher Renata Micha, PhD. Eating one serving a day of processed meat -- or the equivalent of a single hot dog or two slices of salami -- was associated with a 42% increased risk for heart disease and a 19% increased risk for diabetes in the study, conducted by researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health.
May 17, 2010 -- A new study shows eating processed red meat -- such as hot dogs, bacon, sausage, and cold cuts -- is linked to increased risks of heart disease and diabetes. But the study, published in Circulation, shows no such link for unprocessed red meat. Eating one serving a day of processed meat -- or the equivalent of a single hot dog or two slices of salami -- was associated with a 42% increased risk for heart disease and a 19% increased risk for diabetes in the study, conducted by researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health.
Men whose eating habits fell into the processed pattern (processed meats, red meat, organ meats, refined grains, vegetable oils and soft drinks) had a significantly higher risk of prostate cancer than men in the other groups. Men who ate the most processed foods had a 2.5-fold increased prostate cancer risk. Instead, we've done the opposite, says Ludwig. Processed foods have, indeed, been implicated in a host of chronic diseases and health conditions that are currently plaguing the nation. What follows is just a taste of the risks processed foods may present to your health.
Sausages, ham, bacon and other processed meats appear to increase the risk of dying young, a study of half a million people across Europe suggests. It concluded diets high in processed meats were linked to cardiovascular disease, cancer and early deaths. Prof Sabine Rohrmann, from the University of Zurich, told the BBC: High meat consumption, especially processed meat, is associated with a less healthy lifestyle. But after adjusting for smoking, obesity and other confounders we think there is a risk of eating processed meat.
Meat is a good source of protein, vitamins and minerals such as iron, zinc and B vitamins. It is one of the main sources of vitamin B12, also found in milk. Advice from the Department of Health is to consume healthier meat or meat products, such as lean cuts of meat and lean mince and cut down on processed meat. Prof Sabine Rohrmann, from the University of Zurich, told the BBC: High meat consumption, especially processed meat, is associated with a less healthy lifestyle. But after adjusting for smoking, obesity and other confounders we think there is a risk of eating
Sodium nitrate, a preservative that's used in some processed meats, such as bacon, jerky and luncheon meats, could increase your heart disease risk. It's thought that sodium nitrate may damage your blood vessels, making your arteries more likely to harden and narrow, leading to heart disease. And you already know that most processed meats are high in sodium and some are high in saturated fat, which can disrupt a heart-healthy diet. If you eat meat, it's best to limit processed meat and instead choose lean, fresh meat and poultry, and keep serving sizes small. For greater heart health, consider going one step further and increasing the amount of seafood in your diet. With. Katherine Zeratsky, R.D., L.D. 1  Sea salt vs. table salt
If you eat lots of processed meat, try to vary your diet with other protein choices such as chicken, fish, beans or lentils, heart health dietitian Tracy Parker, of the British Heart Foundation, told BBC News. Past studies on red and processed meat's potential health effects have been chalked up to well, people who eat a lot of that stuff lead unhealthy lifestyles to begin with.. Same thinking goes for vegetarians, who are known to live longer than meat-eaters, but who also generally lead healthier lifestyle
If you believe the headlines, regularly indulging in a steak or a bacon sandwich raises your risk of heart disease and cancer. The threat to health comes not from eating white meat, like chicken, but from red and processed meat. 