The pH of any solution is the measure of its hydrogen-ion concentration. The higher the pH reading, the more alkaline and oxygen rich the fluid is. The lower the pH reading, the more acidic and oxygen deprived the fluid is. The pH range is from 0 to 14, with 7.0 being neutral. 
Mucus also acts as a sort of flypaper, trapping unwanted substances like bacteria and dust before they can get into the body -- particularly the sensitive airways. You want to keep that environment, which is a sterile environment, free of gunk, says Johns. Mucus is kind of sticky and thick. Even when you're healthy, your body is a mucus-making machine, churning out about 1 to 1.5 liters of the stuff every day.
A major function of this mucus is to protect against infectious agents such as fungi, bacteria and viruses. The average human body produces about a litre of mucus per day. Bony fish, hagfish, snails, slugs, and some other invertebrates also produce external mucus. In vertebrates, mucus (/mjuːkəs/ MYOO-kəss; adjectival form : mucous) is a slippery secretion produced by, and covering, mucous membranes. Mucous fluid is typically produced from cells found in mucous glands.
Bump Acupuncture & Nutrition. View Julie’s biography here. The PH in your body (potential hydrogen) is depicted on a scale of 0.0 to 14.0. If your PH sits on the low end then you’re more acidic while a higher PH means you’re more alkaline. Our PH controls things such as our metabolic function, enzyme activity and even the vaginal PH. 
A pH less than 7 is said to be acidic and solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic or alkaline. Our ideal pH is slightly alkaline - 7.30 to 7.45. You can test your pH levels regularly by using a piece of litmus paper in your saliva or urine first thing in the morning before eating or drinking anything. Since most people are too acidic, teaching them how to return to a slightly alkaline state is a major piece of the healing puzzle. pH stands for power of hydrogen, which is a measurement of the hydrogen ion concentration in the body.
In response to sexual stimulation, the bulbourethral glands secrete an alkaline mucus-like fluid. This fluid neutralizes the acidity of the urine residue in the urethra, helps to neutralize the acidity of the vagina, and provides some lubrication for the tip of the penis during intercourse. Seminal Fluid. Seminal fluid, or semen, is a slightly alkaline mixture of sperm cells and secretions from the accessory glands. Secretions from the seminal vesicles make up about 60 percent of the volume of the semen, with most of the remainder coming from the prostate gland.
The Function of Histamine by the ECL cells is to (remember that it's from a endocrine cell, so it's a hormone. This will help you remember its function). stimulate parietal cells. The function of Gastrin by the G cells is to (remember it's from a Endocrine cell, so it's a Hormone. It will help you remember its function). stimulates parietal, chief, and ECL cells. The function of Somatostatin by the D cells is to (remember that it's from a endrocrine cell, so it's a hormone. This will help you remember its function). inhibit parietal, G and ECL cells. What fluid, hormone and/or Enzymes comes from the oral cavity secretions. 
Sperm is only comfortable in alkaline (basic) solutions such as semen (with a normal pH of 7.2-7.8). The vaginal vault has a very low pH (acidic) of about 3-4, and sperm typically will not survive in the vagina for more than 1-2 hours. The cervical mucus has a variable pH that depends on the hormonal environment. The hormonal environment is correlated to the time of the menstrual cycle.