Barrage may refer to: In music. 1  Barrage (group) , a Canadian violin ensemble, or. 2  Barrage (album) , their self-titled debut album, or. 3  Barrage (Paul Bley album) , 1965. 
/ˈbɑrɪʤ/. noun. plural barrages. Learner's definition of BARRAGE. [count]. : a barrier (such as a cement wall) that is built across a river or stream especially to increase the depth of water or change its direction. — compare 1barrage. Comments & Question
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. A man faces a barrage of reporters. A man faces a barrage of reporters. The definition of barrage is a large volume of something, or a huge amount of things happening all at once. 1  An example of a barrage is when 100 reporters all shoot questions at the president at the same time. barrage. noun. An artificial obstruction, such as a dam or irrigation channel, built in a watercourse to increase its depth or to divert its flow. French, from barrer, to bar, from barre, bar, from Old French; see bar 1.
29,170 pages onthis wiki. Ice Barrage requires a Magic level of 94 to cast and can freeze your targets, immobilising them for 10 seconds, or 9.6 seconds for players. It requires five water runes and two blood runes to cast. It also requires you to have a magic weapon in your main hand. 
Artillery Barrage. A barrage is a term used to describe extensive artillery fire against enemy positions. Barrages were classified as light, moderate or heavy. A light barrage amounted to six or seven shells every ten minutes. A moderate barrage was thirty shells a minute and a heavy one, fifty to sixty shells a minute. 
barrage /bəˈrɑːʒ/ Brit /ˈbaeˌrɑːʒ/ ˈbæˌrɑːʒ. noun plural. barrages. /barrage/ Bəˈrɑːʒ /brit/. ˈbaeˌrɑːʒ. ˈbæˌrɑːʒ noun. Plural'barrages learner s DEFINITION. of. [barrage] : 1 count a heavy and continuous firing of weapons during. A battle the enemy laid down a barrage-of machine gun fire as our platoon approached. the bridge Learner's definition of BARRAGE. [count]. : a barrier (such as a cement wall) that is built across a river or stream especially to increase the depth of water or change its direction. — compare 1barrage. Comments & Questions.
Posted on. by olivia. Dam vs Barrage. Dams and barrages are barriers constructed across a river or a natural water course for diverting water into a canal for the purpose of irrigation or water supply, or into a channel or tunnel for generation of electricity.
barrage. n. 1. (Firearms, Gunnery, Ordnance & Artillery) military the firing of artillery to saturate an area, either to protect against an attack or to support an advance. 2. an overwhelming and continuous delivery of something, as words, questions, or punches. 