Horses and riders raced from one town's steeple to the next. The steeples were used as markers due to their visibility over long distances. Along the way runners inevitably had to jump streams and low stone walls separating estates. The steeplechase for women is 3,000 metres long, but with lower barriers than for the men. A distance of 2,000 metres, with a shorter water jump, was experimented with before the current race format was established. It made its first major championship appearance at the 2005 World Championships in Helsinki.
Since the water jump is never on the track oval, a steeplechase course is never a perfect 400 metres lap. Instead the water jump is placed inside the turn, shortening the lap, or outside the turn, lengthening the lap. The steeplechase for women is 3,000 metres long, but with lower barriers than for the men. A distance of 2,000 metres, with a shorter water jump, was experimented with before the current race format was established. It made its first major championship appearance at the 2005 World Championships in Helsinki.
Full Definition of STEEPLE. : a tall structure usually having a small spire at the top and surmounting a church tower; broadly: a whole church tower. — stee·pled \-pəld\ adjective. See steeple defined for English-language learners. See steeple defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
The steeplechase is an obstacle race in athletics, which derives its name from the steeplechase in horse racing. The foremost version of the event is the 3000 metres steeplechase. The steeplechase for women is 3,000 metres long, but with lower barriers than for the men. A distance of 2,000 metres, with a shorter water jump, was experimented with before the current race format was established. It made its first major championship appearance at the 2005 World Championships in Helsinki.
When planning the strategic positioning of your organisation, carrying out a STEEPLE analysis can be extremely helpful. While the popular SWOT Analysis focuses on internal factors, the STEEPLE model handles macro-environmental external factors. 
STEEPLE analysis is a strategic planning tool. It can be helpful when planning the strategic positioning. SWOT Analysis is a popular alternative. STEEPLE is more advanced as it deals with macro-environmental external factors. STEEPLE offers an overview of various external fields. STEEP analysis is a similar strategic tool. STEEPLE and STEEP are almost identical versions of each other. Their common goal is to define strategies for the future or to understand the market. The best way to separate STEEPLE from STEEP is to say that it is a modified version.
A steeple, in architecture, is a tall tower on a building, topped by a spire and often incorporating a belfry and other components. Steeples are very common on Christian churches and cathedrals and the use of the term generally connotes a religious structure. At first they were fairly modest and entirely separate structures from churches. Over time, they were incorporated into the church building and capped with ever-more-elaborate roofs until the steeple resulted. St. Martin's church steeple, in Arbon, Switzerland, is a good example of such an early church tower.