Killaloe (Irish: Cill Dalua meaning Lua's church) is a large village in east County Clare, Ireland. The village lies on the River Shannon on the western bank of Lough Derg and is connected by Killaloe Bridge to the twin town of Ballina on the eastern bank of the lake. The surrounding area is popular for hill-walking. The Killaloe Electoral Area is one of six such areas in County Clare and returns four members to Clare County Council. Killaloe is at the center of the Killaloe Civil parish. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Killaloe is the second largest diocese in Ireland.
The name Killaloe (pronounced KILL-a-LOO) hails from an Irish community in Ireland of the same name and salutes the Irish heritage of many of the first settlers to this area who came to Canada in the early 19th century seeking a better life. The early beginnings of this little town centered around the lumber trade. Geographically it is located in Eastern Ontario. The shores of Golden Lake are located 3 km (1.9 mi) to the east, which is well known for quality angling and year-round recreation. The present day town is located about 1 km (0.62 mi) north of the former townsite of Old Killaloe.
Killaloe is the home town of Phineas Finn, the fictional hero of two of Anthony Trollope 's Palliser novels, Phineas Finn and Phineas Redux. In Phineas Finn, Killaloe is presented as a lively, if provincial, social centre. The Killaloe Electoral Area is one of six such areas in County Clare and returns four members to Clare County Council. Killaloe is at the center of the Killaloe Civil parish. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Killaloe is the second largest diocese in Ireland.
The surrounding area is popular for hill-walking. Killaloe was the birthplace of Ireland's famous High King, Brian Boru. He ruled from Kincora, which is believed to have been in modern day Killaloe. The diocese of Killaloe (q.v.), County Clare is the second largest diocese in Ireland. The University of Limerick has its outdoor pursuits centre near Killaloe, on the shore of the lake.
Killaloe, County Clare, Ireland and Ballina, County Tipperary are situated on the banks of the River Shannon, and best known as the birthplace of Brian Boru (c. 941 - 1014), and High King of Ireland (1002 - 1014). While Brian was High King, he ruled from Killaloe making it the Capital of Ireland.. The twin towns of Killaloe, Co Clare and Ballina, Co Tipperary are amongst Ireland's most picturesque attractions and are linked by a 13 arch bridge, which links not only the two towns, but also the counties of Clare and Tipperary.
detailed map of Killaloe and near places. Welcome to the Killaloe google satellite map! This place is situated in Clare, Mid West, Ireland, its geographical coordinates are 52° 48' 24 North, 8° 26' 37. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Killaloe. See Killaloe photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Killaloe in Ireland. Killaloe hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
Location of Killaloe. Killaloe Village is located in the West of Ireland in County Clare. Beautifully located on the banks of the River Shannon.
Killaloe is a town located in Renfrew County, Ontario, Canada in the township of Killaloe, Hagarty and Richards. Geographically it is located in Eastern Ontario. The shores of Golden Lake are located 3 km (1.9 mi) to the east, which is well known for quality angling and year-round recreation. The present day town is located about 1 km (0.62 mi) north of the former townsite of Old Killaloe.