The reason for the location of the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.5° north and south respectively is due to the axial tilt of the Earth. The Earth is titled 23.5 degrees from the plane of the Earth's revolution around the sun each year. The area bounded by the Tropic of Cancer on the north and Tropic of Capricorn on the south is known as the tropics.. This area does not experience seasons because the sun is always high in the sky. On the equator, the length of day and night are equal every day of the year-day is always twelve hours long and night is always twelve hours long. The Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn each lie at 23.5 degrees latitude.
Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. Located at 23.5 degrees North and 23.5 degrees South of the Equator, this area of Planet Earth (between those two lines) is known as the Tropics, and is colored with a lighter blue color on the globe. People living North of the Tropic of Cancer and South of the Tropic of Capricorn experience dramatic seasonal climate changes, based on the earth's tilt, and the subsequent angle of the sun. When it's summer North of the Tropic of Cancer, it's winter South of the Tropic of Capricorn
Tropic of Capricorn, parallel of latitude at 23°30− south of the equator; it is the southern boundary of the tropics. This parallel marks the farthest point south at which the sun can be seen directly overhead at noon; south of the parallel the sun appears less than 90° from the northern horizon at any day of the year. 
The Tropic of Capricorn is the circle marking the latitude 23.5 degrees south where the sun is directly overhead at noon on December 21, the beginning of winter in the northern hemisphere. 
Since the earth's circumference is about 25,000 miles, one quarter of it is about 6,250 miles. The distance from the equator to the tropic is therefore approximately 6,250x23.5/90 = 1,630 miles (2,630 km).     The distance from the equator to the Tropic of Cancer, at 23.5 degrees north latitude, is the same. Confidence votes 1.9K. The Tropic of Capricorn is the southernmost point in which the Sun can be directly overhead. It is currently 23 degrees latitude south of the Equator. It's equivalent is the Tropic of Cancer, which is currently 23 degrees latitude north of the Equator.
The Tropic of Cancer is located at 23.5° North of the equator and runs through Mexico, the Bahamas, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, India, and southern China. On the equator, the length of day and night are equal every day of the year-day is always twelve hours long and night is always twelve hours long. The Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn each lie at 23.5 degrees latitude.
The Tropic of Capricorn is at just under 23.5 degrees south latitude. There are 90 degrees of latitude from the equator to the pole, which is one quarter of the earth's circumference. Since the earth's circumference is about 25,000 miles, one quarter of it is about 6,250 miles. The distance from the equator to the tropic is therefore approximately 6,250x23.5/90 = 1,630 miles (2,630 km). The distance from the equator to the Tropic of Cancer, at 23.5 degrees north latitude, is the same.
The Sun is directly overhead at high-noon on Summer Solstice at the latitude called the Tropic of Cancer. The Sun is directly overhead at high-noon on Winter Solstice at the latitude called the Tropic of Capricorn. The Sun is directly overhead at high-noon on the equator twice per year, at the two equinoxes. Spring (or Vernal) Equinox is usually March 20, and Fall (or Autumnal) equinox is usually September 22. These are the latitudes where the Sun is directly overhead at noon once a year. In the Northern hemisphere, on the Tropic of Cancer, that is the Summer Solstice, usually June 21. In the Southern Hemisphere, on the Tropic of Capricorn, that is the Winter Solstice, usually December 21.