C1-C7 (cervical vertebrae): C1 through C7 are the symbols for the cervical (neck) vertebrae, the upper 7 vertebrae in the spinal column (the vertebral column). C1 is called the atlas. It supports the head and is named for the Greek god Atlas who was condemned to support the earth and its heavens on his shoulders. 
Medical Definition of CERVICAL VERTEBRA. : any of the seven vertebrae of the neck. 
Thoracic vertebrae in all mammalian species are defined as those vertebrae that also carry a pair of ribs, and lie caudal to the cervical vertebrae. Further caudally follow the lumbar vertebrae, which also belong to the trunk, but do not carry ribs. By convention, the cervical vertebrae are numbered, with the first one (C1) located closest to the skull and higher numbered vertebrae (C2-C7) proceeding away from the skull and down the spine. The general characteristics of the third through sixth cervical vertebrae are described here.
Among the vertebrae of the spinal column, the cervical vertebrae are the thinnest and most delicate bones. Yet, in spite of their size, the cervical vertebrae have the huge jobs of supporting the head, protecting the spinal cord, and providing mobility to the head and neck. The cervical vertebrae are stacked along the length of the neck to form a continuous column between the skull and the chest.... Click to read more below. The cervical vertebrae of the spine consist of seven bony rings that reside in the neck between the base of the skull and the thoracic vertebrae in the trunk
One of the segments of the vertebral column; in humans, there are usually 33 vertebrae: seven cervical, twelve thoracic, five lumbar, five sacral (fused into one bone, the sacrum), and four coccygeal (fused into one bone, the coccyx). lumbar vertebrae the five vertebrae between the thoracic vertebrae and the sacrum. vertebra mag´na the sacrum. odontoid vertebra the second cervical vertebra, or axis. vertebra pla´na a condition of spondylitis in which the body of the vertebra is reduced to a sclerotic disk.
cervical vertebrae the upper seven vertebrae, constituting the skeleton of the neck. coccygeal vertebrae the lowest segments of the vertebral column, comprising three to five rudimentary vertebrae that form the coccyx. cranial vertebra the segments of the skull and facial bones, regarded by some as modified vertebrae. lumbar vertebrae the five vertebrae between the thoracic vertebrae and the sacrum. vertebra mag´na the sacrum. odontoid vertebra the second cervical vertebra, or axis. vertebra pla´na a condition of spondylitis in which the body of the vertebra is reduced to a sclerotic disk.
Cervical Vertebrae Definition. The cervical vertebrae are the seven cylindrical bones, or vertebral bodies (C1-C7), that provide support and structure for the cervical spine. Cervical Spine Anatomy Video. The vertebral body is the large portion of the bone that lies anterior (in front of) the spinal cord. The vertebrae get smaller as they near the base of the skull and only the top two segments allow for rotation in the neck. The top cervical segment, called the atlas, is a ring that does not have a vertebral body. The atlas is attached to the second vertebral body (the axis), which acts as a post that the first vertebral ring rotates around. The segments in the cervical spine contain openings in each vertebral body for arteries to carry blood to the brain(vertebral foramen).
Cervical vertebrae: The cervical (neck) vertebrae are the upper 7 vertebrae in the spinal column (the vertebral column). They are designated C1 through C7 from the top down. C1 is called the atlas. 
In humans, cervical vertebrae are the smallest of the true vertebrae, and can be readily distinguished from those of the thoracic or lumbar regions by the presence of a foramen (hole) in each transverse process, through which passes the vertebral artery. The remainder of this article focuses upon human anatomy. By convention, the cervical vertebrae are numbered, with the first one (C1) located closest to the skull and higher numbered vertebrae (C2-C7) proceeding away from the skull and down the spine. The general characteristics of the third through sixth cervical vertebrae are described here.
Cervical Vertebrae. The cervical vertebrae of the spine consist of seven bony rings that reside in the neck between the base of the skull and the thoracic vertebrae in the trunk. Yet, in spite of their size, the cervical vertebrae have the huge jobs of supporting the head, protecting the spinal cord, and providing mobility to the head and neck. The cervical vertebrae are stacked along the length of the neck to form a continuous column between the skull and the chest....