1 The duty cycle rating is a measurement of how much you can operate a welder in a 10 minute period. 2  A machine with a 20% duty cycle can weld for 2 minutes out of 10 minutes. 3  The remaining 8 minutes allows the machine to cool. 4  The higher the duty cycle, the longer the welding time. 1 Most smaller cheaper welding machines have 20% duty cycle. 2  The duty cycle rating is a measurement of how much you can operate a welder in a 10 minute period. 3  A machine with a 20% duty cycle can weld for 2 minutes out of 10 minutes. 4  The remaining 8 minutes allows the machine to cool.
Gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW), or tungsten/inert-gas (TIG) welding, is a manual welding process that uses a non-consumable electrode made of tungsten, an inert or semi-inert gas mixture, and a separate filler material. One of the most common types of arc welding is shielded metal arc welding (SMAW), which is also known as manual metal arc welding (MMAW) or stick welding. An electric current is used to strike an arc between the base material and a consumable electrode rod or stick.
Now he trains pipe welders at the Mechanical Trades Institute in Atlanta. For a lot of people though, welding is something you get your first look at in high school. If that’s where you are now, here’s what you should do: take every shop course you can in welding and metal fabrication. 
A welder or welder operator is a tradesperson who specializes in welding materials together. The term welder refers to the operator, the machine is referred to as the welding power supply. The materials to be joined can be metals (such as steel, aluminum, brass, stainless steel etc.) or varieties of plastic or polymer. This article is about welding as a trade. For the machine used to power arc welding procedures, see Welding power supply. For the album by Elizabeth Cook, see Welder (album) .
1 On most arc welders, you need to watch the duty cycle. 2  That means welding for more than a specified time at a certain amperage will damage the equipment. 3  Most smaller cheaper welding machines have 20% duty cycle. 1 Most smaller cheaper welding machines have 20% duty cycle. 2  The duty cycle rating is a measurement of how much you can operate a welder in a 10 minute period. 3  A machine with a 20% duty cycle can weld for 2 minutes out of 10 minutes. 4  The remaining 8 minutes allows the machine to cool.
During my career as an industrial welder, I have learned that pipe positions are the highest wages. A welders income depends on his or her-self, if you want to make 150,000 yearly its there I prefere to work eight months out of the year and kick back for the rest. I brought in over 70,000 last year. 
Arc welding is a type of welding that uses a welding power supply to create an electric arc between an electrode and the base material to melt the metals at the welding point. One of the most common types of arc welding is shielded metal arc welding (SMAW), which is also known as manual metal arc welding (MMAW) or stick welding. An electric current is used to strike an arc between the base material and a consumable electrode rod or stick.
Gas metal arc welding (GMAW), commonly called MIG (for metal/inert-gas), is a semi-automatic or automatic welding process with a continuously fed consumable wire acting as both electrode and filler metal, along with an inert or semi-inert shielding gas flowed around the wire to protect the weld site from contamination. One of the most common types of arc welding is shielded metal arc welding (SMAW), which is also known as manual metal arc welding (MMAW) or stick welding. An electric current is used to strike an arc between the base material and a consumable electrode rod or stick.