Pure crystals of garnet are still used as gemstones. The gemstone varieties occur in shades of green, red, yellow, and orange. In the US it is known as the birthstone for January. It is the state mineral of Connecticut, New York's gemstone, and star garnet (garnet with rutile asterisms) is the state gemstone of Idaho. Garnet species' light transmission properties can range from the gemstone-quality transparent specimens to the opaque varieties used for industrial purposes as abrasives. The mineral's luster is categorized as vitreous (glass-like) or resinous (amber-like).
Garnet is not a single mineral, but describes a group of several closely related minerals. Garnets come in a variety of colors and have many different varieties. However, the most widely-known color of Garnet gemstones is dark red. When the term Garnet is used, it is usually connotative of the dark red form; other color Garnets are usually given more descriptive gemstone terms. 1 Rhodolite-Rose-red form of Garnet with a light color or more purplish color than typical Garnet gemstones. 2  It is usually an intermediary variety between Pyrope and Almandine, though more closely towards Pyrope in composition. 3  Star Garnet-Form of Almandine Garnet that exhibits asterism in the form of a four-rayed star.
Garnet is a very popular gemstone, and is the most well-known dark red gemstone. Red Garnet gemstones (Almandine and Pyrope) are very affordable and faceted into all types of jewerly, including necklaces, rings, bracelets, and earrings. Round cabochons of red Garnet are also popular and used in rings and bracelets. 1 Rhodolite-Rose-red form of Garnet with a light color or more purplish color than typical Garnet gemstones. 2  It is usually an intermediary variety between Pyrope and Almandine, though more closely towards Pyrope in composition. 3  Star Garnet-Form of Almandine Garnet that exhibits asterism in the form of a four-rayed star.
The different species are pyrope, almandine, spessartine, grossular (varieties of which are hessonite or cinnamon-stone and tsavorite), uvarovite and andradite. The garnets make up two solid solution series: pyrope-almandine-spessartine and uvarovite-grossular-andradite. Garnet species' light transmission properties can range from the gemstone-quality transparent specimens to the opaque varieties used for industrial purposes as abrasives. The mineral's luster is categorized as vitreous (glass-like) or resinous (amber-like).
pomegranate & garnet image by Svetlana Kashkina from Fotolia.com. Garnet is a gemstone that is typically noted for its dark red color but it can also come in a variety of shades. The historical uses of garnet date back as far as 3000 BC and the stone has retained its popularity today
1 Raspberry Garnet-Raspberry-red variety of Grossular Garnet. 2  Rhodolite-Rose-red form of Garnet with a light color or more purplish color than typical Garnet gemstones. 3  It is usually an intermediary variety between Pyrope and Almandine, though more closely towards Pyrope in composition. 1 Rhodolite-Rose-red form of Garnet with a light color or more purplish color than typical Garnet gemstones. 2  It is usually an intermediary variety between Pyrope and Almandine, though more closely towards Pyrope in composition. 3  Star Garnet-Form of Almandine Garnet that exhibits asterism in the form of a four-rayed star.
Garnet Meaning, Powers and History. Garnet is the birthstone for January and the stone that celebrates the 2nd anniversary of marriage. The name “garnet” comes from the Latin word “Garanatus,” meaning “seedlike,” in reference to a pomegranate. This reference makes sense as small garnets look like the bright red seeds you find inside in a pomegranate. 
When thinking of garnet, most people think of red gemstones. Garnet most commonly occurs in red, and the origin of the name garnet lies in this deep red hue. The name garnet comes from the Medieval Latin word, granatum, which is an adjective meaning dark-red. Garnet exhibits a vitreous (glassy) lustre. The demantoid garnet, which is a green variety of andradite, has a high refractive index and is prized for its brilliance and adamantine (diamond-like) lustre. In fact, the name, demantoid, comes from the German word demant, meaning diamond, in reference to its lustre.
Garnets are historically one of the most important of the colored gemstones, valued for their good hardness and excellent brilliance. The name garnet actually refers to a family of different gemstones. There are many different varieties of garnet, but no gemstone that is simply called garnet. 