Radiologists physicians are usually board certified by the American Board of Radiology (for a doctor of medicine) or the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology (for an osteopathic doctor); an indication of a high level of training, and demonstrated excellence in the field. Radiologists graduate from accredited medical schools, pass a licensing examination, and then go on to complete a residency of at least four years of unique post-graduate medical education in, among other topics: 1  Radiation safety and protection.
Radiologists use a variety of imaging techniques such as X-ray radiography, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine including positron emission tomography (PET), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to diagnose and/or treat diseases. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist. Depending on location, the diagnostic radiologist, or reporting radiographer, then interprets or reads the images and produces a report of their findings and impression or diagnosis.
Interventional radiology (IR), also known as vascular and interventional radiology (VIR) or surgical radiology, is an independent medical specialty, which was a sub-specialty of radiology until recently, that uses minimally invasive image-guided procedures to diagnose and treat diseases in nearly every organ system. 
A radiologist is a medical doctor that uses technology, computers, medical imaging and medical equipment like MRI, computed tomography (CT Scans), and ultrasound to assist other doctors in figuring out issues related to their patients' medical conditions. The radiologist is also trained in nuclear medicine and uses that to look into pulmonary embolism, heart disease, signs of stroke, obstructed gall bladder, spread of cancer, bone density, and kidney function among many others.
Radiological exams are absolute necessities in the medical evaluation of any patient and the radiologist is the one that interprets these after ensuring the are made to the highest levels of quality and standards. All radiologists are well trained in the expert use of the various radiological modalities and equipment. These include MRI (magnetic Resonance Imaging), ultrasound (Diagnostic sonography), interventional radiology, fluoroscopy, digital radiography, angiography, nuclear medicine, mammography, and computed tomography. The radiologist is also trained in nuclear medicine and uses that to look into pulmonary embolism, heart disease, signs of stroke, obstructed gall bladder, spread of cancer, bone density, and kidney function among many others.
A radiologist is a medical doctor who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disease and injury by using medical imaging technologies, such as MRI and CT. A radiologist who is certified by the American Board of Radiology will clearly meet this recommendation (all Inland Imaging radiologists are board certified). In its practice guidelines, the ACR defines alternative pathways for physician qualification.
Radiologist salary. Radiologist’s salary in the United States is about $216,577 per year. In fact, an overall salary for a radiologist is determined by various factors such as geographic region, years of work experience, gender, board certification, and region of practice. And how much does a radiologist make in Mexico. In Mexico, Radiologists earn an average salary of about $382,129 per year .These figures however depend on many factors including experience, company, location and size of the facility.
Generally, a radiologist: A radiologist is a medical doctor who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disease and injury by using medical imaging technologies, such as MRI and CT. Radiologists also treat diseases, such as cancer or heart disease, by means of radiation or minimally invasive, image-guided surgery. Radiologists are often able to see problems early by interpreting the results of your imaging study and can provide an accurate diagnosis to your referring physician. A radiologist who is certified by the American Board of Radiology will clearly meet this recommendation (all Inland Imaging radiologists are board certified). In its practice guidelines, the ACR defines alternative pathways for physician qualification.
The radiologist performs many procedures as part of the interventional radiology doctrine. Examples include drainage of an abscess using ultrasound or CT Scan, stopping a bleed by blocking the vessel that is bleeding, extracting urinary stones and unclogging the urinary system, and treating aneurysms in the brain. The radiologist is also trained in nuclear medicine and uses that to look into pulmonary embolism, heart disease, signs of stroke, obstructed gall bladder, spread of cancer, bone density, and kidney function among many others.