Climate In the arctic tundra there are two seasons: winter and summer. In the summer, the sun is present almost 24 hours a day. This sun however, only warms the tundra up to a range of about 3°C to 12°C. In the winter the opposite light conditions are present. There are several weeks where the sun never rises. Flora and Fauna. On a relative scale, the arctic tundra biome has a relatively low biodiversity. There are around 1700 species of plants that live in this zone. There are almost no reptiles or amphibians.
Approximately 1,700 species of vascular plants are found across the Arctic tundra, including flowering plants, low shrubs, sedges, grasses, and liverworts. Lichens, mosses, and algae are also common. Life in any biome includes producers (plants and other photosynthetic organisms) and consumers (organisms that obtain their energy from producers). These consumers may be further classified as herbivores (plant eaters), carnivores (meat eaters), or omnivores (feed on a combination of animals and plants).
The tundra is a biome characterized by an extremely cold climate, little precipitation, poor nutrients, and a short growing season. Other characteristics include low biodiversity, simple plants, limited drainage, and large variations in populations. There are two types of tundra: arctic and alpine. Arctic tundra is located in the Northern Hemisphere; alpine tundra is located at high elevations on mountains throughout the world. Tundra is also found to a limited extent in Antarctica – specifically, the Antarctic Peninsula. Life in any biome includes producers (plants and other photosynthetic organisms) and consumers (organisms that obtain their energy from producers). These consumers may be further classified as herbivores (plant eaters), carnivores (meat eaters), or omnivores (feed on a combination of animals and plants).
Much less extensive than Arctic tundra, Antarctic tundra is found on the Antarctic Peninsula and several Antarctic and subantarctic islands. These areas have rocky soil that supports minimal plant life: two flowering plant species, mosses, algae, and lichens. Life in any biome includes producers (plants and other photosynthetic organisms) and consumers (organisms that obtain their energy from producers). These consumers may be further classified as herbivores (plant eaters), carnivores (meat eaters), or omnivores (feed on a combination of animals and plants).
ARCTIC PLANTS. Approximately 1,700 species of plants live on the Arctic tundra, including flowering plants, dwarf shrubs, herbs, grasses, mosses, and lichens. The tundra is characterized by permafrost, a layer of soil and partially decomposed organic matter that is frozen year-round. When we think of the word “plants” we typically picture trees, bushes, grasses, and ferns – so-called “vascular plants” because of their full systems of leaves, stems, and roots. However, the plant kingdom also includes mosses, liverworts, and hornworts, simpler plants that lack these water-transporting structures.
There are three types of tundra: arctic tundra, alpine tundra, and Antarctic tundra. In tundra, the vegetation is composed of dwarf shrubs, sedges and grasses, mosses, and lichens. Scattered trees grow in some tundra regions. There are few species with large populations. Notable animals in the Arctic tundra include caribou (reindeer), musk ox, Arctic hare, Arctic fox, snowy owl, lemmings, and polar bears (only near ocean-fed bodies of water).
The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. Tract there are three types of: tundra arctic, tundra alpine, tundra And antarctic. tundra There are few species with large populations. Notable animals in the Arctic tundra include caribou (reindeer), musk ox, Arctic hare, Arctic fox, snowy owl, lemmings, and polar bears (only near ocean-fed bodies of water).
The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. Tract there are three types of: tundra arctic, tundra alpine, tundra And antarctic. Tundra in, tundra the vegetation is composed of dwarf, shrubs sedges and, grasses, mosses and. lichens There are few species with large populations. Notable animals in the Arctic tundra include caribou (reindeer), musk ox, Arctic hare, Arctic fox, snowy owl, lemmings, and polar bears (only near ocean-fed bodies of water).