A dicot is a flowering plant with two embryonic seed leaves, rather than the single embryonic seed leaf associated with monocots. Embryonic seed leaves, also known as cotyledons, are an important part of plant development, and monocots and dicots develop in different ways right from the very start. Some flowers, such as the hibiscus flower, are dicots. Plums have five-petaled flowers, a classic sign of a dicot. Dicots are flowering plants with two embryonic seed leaves. Pea plants are dicots
Young castor oil plant showing its prominent two embryonic leaves (cotyledons), that differ from the adult leaves. The dicotyledons, also known as dicots (or more rarely dicotyls), were one of the two groups into which all the flowering plants or angiosperms were formerly divided. The other group of flowering plants were called monocotyledons or monocots, typically having one cotyledon. Historically, these two groups formed the two divisions of the flowering plants.
n. Any of various flowering plants that are not monocotyledons, having two cotyledons in the seed and usually flower parts in multiples of four or five, leaves with reticulate venation, pollen with three pores, and the capacity for secondary growth. 
Diffen › Science › Biology › Botany. Flowering plants are divided into monocots (or monocotyledons) and dicots (or dicotyledons). This comparison examines the morphological differences in the leaves, stems, flowers and fruits of monocots and dicots. 
Note that it is only the Flowering Plants that are Monocots or Dicots. Other plants such as Mosses and Ferns are neither. Monocots have one Cotyledon (the seed capsule where the seed develops) and dicots have two. 
Another important difference is that while in monocots the flowers have petals in multiples of three, in the case of dicot these are in multiples of 4 or 5. As far as the leaves are concerned, monocots exhibit parallel veins while dicots have reticulated veins. There are many other features that distinguish the two. 
Palms, Orchids, and most bulbous plants are monocots. A dicot has two cotyledons (dicot is short for 'dicotyledon', and 'di' means two). The seed leaves are usually rounded and fat, because they are the two halves of the seed. The first true leaves can be many different shapes, from long and thin to rounded or palmate. As well as the fact that a monocot has only one seed leaf compared to the two seed leaves of a dicot, there are other clues which tell you whether a plant is a monocot or a dicot, which is useful if you want to identify a plant that is mature and already flowering.
Monocots have only one cotyledon, dicots have two cotyledons. A cotyledon contains stored food and serves as a food reservoir. Aside from the difference between the seeds of monocots and dicots there are other different structures that separate monocots and dicots. Monocots have long, narrow leaves with parallel veins (such as grasses.) The parts of monocot flowers are arranged in threes or in multiples of three. Dicots have broad leaves with branched veins. The parts of dicot flowers are arranged in fours and fives or multiples of fours and fives