1 Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Digestive symptoms (2 causes). 2  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Drowsiness (2 causes). 3  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Eating symptoms (2 causes). 4  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and MORE SYMPTOMS. 1 Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Cold sweat (2 causes). 2  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Digestive symptoms (2 causes). 3
One or two supratrochlear lymph nodes are placed above the medial epicondyle of the humerus, medial to the basilic vein. Their afferents drain the middle, ring, and little fingers, the medial portion of the hand, and the superficial area over the ulnar side of the forearm; these vessels are, however, in free communication with the other lymphatic vessels of the forearm.
The epitrochlear lymph nodes, also known as the cubital or supraepitrochlear lymph nodes, are part of the superficial lymphatic system of the upper limb. There are usually one or two of these lymph nodes, sometimes three, and rarely four. The epitrochlear nodes are located in the subcutaneous connective tissue on the medial aspect of the elbow, about 4–5 cm above the humeral epitrochlea. Nevertheless, drainage areas of the upper limb are characterized by wide interindividual variability. Some lymphatic vessels arise from the epitrochlear nodes and extend to the axillary station [1] (Fig. 1). Fig. 1. Normal epitrochlear lymph node. Dual-mode image displaying an epitrochlear node (arrows) with a large central hyperechoic hilum and a thin hypoechoic cortex
1 Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Axillary Swelling (2 causes). 2  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Breath symptoms (2 causes). 3  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Cold sweat (2 causes). 1 Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Cold sweat (2 causes). 2  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Digestive symptoms (2 causes). 3  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Drowsines
Whilst epitrochlear nodes are commonly enlarged in specific acute, subacute, and chronic infections, they are not enlarged in the mild, transient, non-specific febrile illnesses with cervical lymphadenopathy of children and young adults. Enlarged epitrochlear glands provide a useful discriminatory sign in the diagnosis of glandular fever. Enlargement of these nodes is common in most of the lymphoproliferative disorders except Hodgkin's disease. In rheumatoid arthritis their palpability indicates activity of hand joints.
Epitrochlear Nodes: Found on the inside of the upper arm, just above the elbow. These are rarely the site of pathology and thus not routinely examined. If there is clinical evidence of an infection distal to the elbow, it makes sense to feel for these nodes as they are part of the drainage pathway. 
1 Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Breath symptoms (2 causes). 2  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Cold sweat (2 causes). 3  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Digestive symptoms (2 causes). 1 Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Cold sweat (2 causes). 2  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Digestive symptoms (2 causes). 3  Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy and Swollen lymph nodes and Drowsines
Their efferents accompany the basilic vein and join the deeper vessels. They are distinguished in Terminologia anatomica from the epitrochlear (or cubital) lymph nodes, but the region is similar. Their afferents drain the middle, ring, and little fingers, the medial portion of the hand, and the superficial area over the ulnar side of the forearm; these vessels are, however, in free communication with the other lymphatic vessels of the forearm.
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Staphylococcal skin infections (see Skin infections). 2  Streptococcal infection. 3  Infectious mononucleosis. 4  Cat-Scratch disease. Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy: Symptom Checker. Listed below are some combinations of symptoms associated with Epitrochlear lymphadenopathy, as listed in our database. Visit the Symptom Checker, to add and remove symptoms and research your condition.