1 Horses typically let the rider know if the spurs are being used incorrectly or too harshly. 2  If your horse bucks or kicks out when you apply leg pressure, seems agitated and tense, or pins his ears and balks, then you probably need to reconsider the spurs you’re wearing.
Thank you for your well-thought out question. The use of spurs has become a controversial subject. Like any training aid, spurs can be used correctly and incorrectly. But just like with bits, whether they are ultimately harsh or gentle for the horse is ultimately up to the rider.
Here are some things to think about before using spurs with your horse. By Cindy Hale | Aug-11. Tweet. All riding horses are taught to respond to pressure from the rider’s leg, whether it’s pressure telling the horse to move over or pressure telling the horse to move faster.
Spurs are one of the distinctive pieces of equipment that have been used by horsemen throughout the ages. In the days of chivalry, spurs and the metal from which they were made were a mark of rank. Hence the expression to earn your spurs..
Dear Julie, My understanding is that spurs are to be used to back up a request if the horse is not responding or to make a cue more clear as in lateral work. It is hard for me to picture how to not have the spur contact the horse, especially in the most forward position when cueing with one's leg.
1 To apply pressure with your spurs, turn your toe out slightly. 2  This will angle the end of the spur toward your horse’s side. 3  Then bring your lower leg inward. 4  Try to feel when the spur presses into your horse’s side; never press more than you need and never “hug” your horse’s sides with your spurs.
Spurs can help enhance and fortify leg pressure cues. But before you strap on a pair of spurs, here are a few suggestions: 1  Keep in mind that not every horse needs to be ridden with spurs. 2  Sensitive and high-energy horses often respond to simple pressure from a rider’s calf or heel.
Spurs do hurt and/or irritate the horse. The use of spurs might look and sound cool and exciting but they poke the horse and may eventually cause them to use bucking as a habit even if you just use your legs without spurs.
1 If you rely on your spurs for every leg cue, your horse will eventually tune out your requests. 2  To apply pressure with your spurs, turn your toe out slightly. 3  This will angle the end of the spur toward your horse’s side. 4  Then bring your lower leg inward.