Here I show you how to brighten up that screen on the new Sony Vaio F Series. A lot of reviews are straight out of the box and judged, I believe there opinion on the screen would change if they took a look first. Rate and Subscribe! Vaio Specs: 16.4 Premium 1920x180 Screen. 
Tips & Warnings. 1  On many Sony laptops, you can raise the screen brightness by pressing the Function and F5 keys simultaneously. 2  To lower the brightness, press the Function and F6 keys simultaneously. 3  The VAIO Event Service must be running on your laptop for this method to work. Tips & Warnings. 1  On many Sony laptops, you can raise the screen brightness by pressing the Function and F5 keys simultaneously. 2  If the computer is in Speed mode or your drivers aren't up-to-date, the slider bar may not appear on the Power Options page.
Doing so should raise the brightness on the screen. Look for a pair of buttons on your keyboard that have little pictures of suns on them. One sun is larger than the other. Press the key with the larger sun to make your screen brighter. Look for a button with a picture of a sun with an arrow pointing up. On many laptops this button is the same as F8 found on a row of buttons at the top of the keyboard. Press this button until you've achieved your desired brightness
This video will show you how to adjust the screen brightness on a PC running the windows 8 Operating System. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i have the same laptop sony vaio well if you want to make your screen brighter... look on the keyboard press Fn (its in blue, 3 keys to the left of the space bar) while pressing Fn... look for the F6 button... in blue it has a picture that looks like a sun/star with a plus sign.. that means the screen will be brighter.. and next to it is the same thing but with a minus sign... so u can adjust the screen brightness.. so remember just keep ur finger pressed on Fn and then F6 to make ur screen brighter...
Booting with Windows 7 will blackout a few times then it will take me to the VAIO repair system. Windows 8 obviously takes me to Windows 8. When the laptop boots up, the large letters or 'VAIO' are bright and normal and sometimes, but not always, when it gets to the dual boot screen, the brightness is normal. For example when I go into Sony VAIO's recovery center, the brightness is ok. Also, if I boot into something like miniXP or a separate OS on a bootable disk or USB, the brightness is fine as well.
I have a Sony VAIO VPCS11X9E and my screen brightness is at the lowest setting for some reason. Also, my FN keys for the brightness setting won't work. Any means of changing the brightness does not work, this does include the brightness bar when you go into settings. For example when I go into Sony VAIO's recovery center, the brightness is ok. Also, if I boot into something like miniXP or a separate OS on a bootable disk or USB, the brightness is fine as well.
1 On many Sony laptops, you can raise the screen brightness by pressing the Function and F5 keys simultaneously. 2  To lower the brightness, press the Function and F6 keys simultaneously. 3  The VAIO Event Service must be running on your laptop for this method to work. Tips & Warnings. 1  On many Sony laptops, you can raise the screen brightness by pressing the Function and F5 keys simultaneously. 2  If the computer is in Speed mode or your drivers aren't up-to-date, the slider bar may not appear on the Power Options page.