Causes and Risk Factors. The light/white blotches of skin associated with vitiligo form when melanocytes fail to produce melanin. It is not known what causes melanocytes to die or stop producing melanin, but the following may play a role: 1  Autoimmune disease. 2  Autoimmune diseases occur when the body mistakenly attacks and destroys its own cell
Vitiligo is a condition that causes patchy loss of skin coloring (pigmentation). The average age of onset of vitiligo is in the mid-twenties, but it can appear at any age. It tends to progress over time, with larger areas of the skin losing pigment. Generalized vitiligo (also called nonsegmental vitiligo), which is the most common form, involves loss of pigment (depigmentation) in patches of skin all over the body.
Vitiligo is a chronic skin condition characterized by portions of the skin losing their pigment. It occurs when skin pigment cells die or are unable to function. Aside from cases of contact with certain chemicals, the cause of vitiligo is unknown. Research suggests vitiligo may arise from autoimmune, genetic, oxidative stress, neural, or viral causes. Vitiligo is typically classified into two main categories: segmental and non-segmental vitiligo.
Vitiligo is an acquired skin disorder characterized clinically by totally white macules, or spots, and microscopically by the total absence of pigment producing cells in the skin called melanocytes. 
Vitiligo is a disease where patches of skin become discolored. About 30% of people with vitiligo also have a family member with it. This means genetics almost certainly has something to do with it. But for reasons I'll get to in a second, there are probably other factors involved too. Immune Cells Gone Wild Causes Vitiligo. You get your skin color because of a pigment called melanin. This pigment is made in certain cells called melanocytes. People with vitiligo have white patches on their skin because their immune system has killed the melanocytes there. No melanocytes, no melanin, white skin.
Genetics. The chronic skin disease of Vitiligo affects about 1-2% of the world s population. In this disease, the pigment or color making cells in the skin, called melanocytes, are destroyed and the mucous membranes (such as the tissue inside the mouth and nose) and the eyemay also be affected. Share
About 15 to 25 percent of people with vitiligo are also affected by at least one other autoimmune disorder, particularly autoimmune thyroid disease, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, psoriasis, pernicious anemia, Addison disease, or systemic lupus erythematosus. Generalized vitiligo (also called nonsegmental vitiligo), which is the most common form, involves loss of pigment (depigmentation) in patches of skin all over the body.
Vitiligo is generally considered to be an autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues and organs. In people with vitiligo the immune system appears to attack the pigment cells (melanocytes) in the skin. Generalized vitiligo (also called nonsegmental vitiligo), which is the most common form, involves loss of pigment (depigmentation) in patches of skin all over the body.