One of the primary advantages of an LLC is that its owners, called members, have limited liability, meaning that, under most circumstances, they are not personally liable for the debts and liabilities of the LLC. For example, if an LLC is forced into bankruptcy, then the members will not be usually be required to pay the LLC's debts with their own money. If the assets of the LLC are not enough to the debts and liabilities, the creditors generally cannot look to the owners for payment.
Benefits. Under LLC statutes, a company automatically qualifies for a tax pass-through.. Tax pass-through means that the company does not pay taxes on net profits; the owners pay taxes on income from the business that's shown on their personal tax returns. Company image by Yuriy Rozanov from Fotolia.com. A limited liability company (LLC) is a type of business in which the owners, called members, have much less liability for company actions and debts than a company like a corporation, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
The simple definition of a limited liability company (LLC) is that it is a form of business entity that limits the liability of its owners while allowing flexibility in operation and management and passing through its income to its members with no tax at the entity level. Basic Features of an LLC. The basic features of a limited liability company are: 1  Its owners have limited liability for the entity's debts and obligations, similar to the status of shareholders in a corporation, and. 2  Its income and losses are normally passed through to the owners as if it were a partnership.
Share |. When looking at business types, many business owners choose to form a limited liability company (LLC). Creating an LLC is a good way to wall off your personal assets from your company's liabilities, offering protection for your personal assets in the event of a judgment against your business. For this reason, forming an LLC is a better fit for many owners than a sole proprietorship or a general partnership.
by BusinessDictionary. A Limited Liability Company, also known as an LLC, is a type of business structure that combines traits of both a sole-proprietorship and a corporation. Advantages of an LLC. 1  The members of an LLC have protection against liability. 2  They cannot be held liable for company losses, or debts and business credit, and their personal assets (such as a house or car) cannot be recovered by the debtors.
A limited liability company, or LLC, is similar to a partnership but has the legal protections of personal assets that a corporation offers without the burdensome formalities, paperwork and fees. The exact rules for forming an LLC vary by state. 
A limited liability company, commonly called an LLC, is a business structure that combines the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. Like owners of a corporation, however, all LLC owners are protected from personal liability for business debts and claims -- a feature known as limited liability.. This means that if the business owes money or faces a lawsuit, only the assets of the business itself are at risk
A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private limited company. A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation