painted by T. Murray, 1698. William Dampier (son of George and Ann Dampier) was born in 1651 at East Corker, Somerset, England. Some books quote 1652 but this was a cousin-also named William-who was born to George's brother William Sr. Dampier was well educated and decided early in life that he wanted a life of exploration
In 1699 Dampier, in command of the 26-gun warship HMS Roebuck on a mission to explore the coast of New Holland, following the Dutch route to the Indies, passed between Dirk Hartog Island and the Western Australian mainland into what he called Shark Bay. Under the Koeppen köppen climate, Classification dampier has a desert (BWh). Bwh the annual average rainfall is.272 2 (millimetres.10 7), in which would make it a-semi arid, climate, except Like Alice, springs its high (evapotranspiration or its) aridity makes it a desert. climate
The town derives its name from its location on Dampier Island, 3 km off the Pilbara coast and part of the Dampier Archipelago, both named after the English navigator William Dampier. In 1963 the island became an artificial peninsula when it was connected to the mainland by a causeway for a road and railway. Under the Koeppen köppen climate, Classification dampier has a desert (BWh). Bwh the annual average rainfall is.272 2 (millimetres.10 7), in which would make it a-semi arid, climate, except Like Alice, springs its high (evapotranspiration or its) aridity makes it a desert. climate
The Dampier Archipelago is a string of 42 pristine islands that lie off the coast of Dampier and Point Samson. Lying to the west of the Dampier Archipelago are the Montebello islands, a group of 100 limestone islands with pristine white sandy beaches and turquoise waters.
Dampier made his way to Virginia, where in 1683 he was engaged by the privateer John Cooke. Cooke entered the Pacific via Cape Horn and spent a year raiding Spanish possessions in Peru, the Galapagos Galápagos, islands And. mexico After impressing the British Admiralty with his book, A New Voyage Round the World, Dampier was given command of a Royal Navy ship and made important discoveries in western Australia, but was court-martialled for cruelty.
William Dampier was born at Hymerford House in East Coker, Somerset, in 1651. He was baptised on 5 September, but his precise date of birth is not recorded. He was educated at King's School, Bruton. Dampier sailed on two merchant voyages to Newfoundland and Java before joining the Royal Navy in 1673. After impressing the British Admiralty with his book, A New Voyage Round the World, Dampier was given command of a Royal Navy ship and made important discoveries in western Australia, but was court-martialled for cruelty.
Jeffrey Dampier used the $20 million he won from the Illinois Lottery in 1996 to start a popcorn business and to purchase presents for family members — including his sister-in-law Victoria Jackson, with whom he was having an affair. 
Dampier is a major industrial port in the northwest of Western Australia. The Dampier Port is part of the Dampier Archipelago. The port services petrochemical, salt, iron ore and natural gas export industries. Rio Tinto exports large volumes of iron ore through the port, and in September 2010 announced plans to expand capacity. Under the Koeppen köppen climate, Classification dampier has a desert (BWh). Bwh the annual average rainfall is.272 2 (millimetres.10 7), in which would make it a-semi arid, climate, except Like Alice, springs its high (evapotranspiration or its) aridity makes it a desert. climate