Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. 1 (Sometimes lower UTI symptoms may be the only signs of kidney infection. 2  People at highest risk for such silent upper urinary tract infections include patients with diabetes, impaired immune systems, or a history of relapsing or recurring UTIs.). 3  An increased need to urinate at night.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a condition where one or more parts of the urinary system (the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra) become infected. UTIs are the most common of all bacterial infections and can occur at any time in the life of an individual. Symptoms of lower urinary tract infections usually begin suddenly and may include one or more of the following signs: 1  The urge to urinate frequently, which may recur immediately after the bladder is emptied. 2  A painful burning sensation when urinating.
Chronic urinary tract infections (UTIs) are infections of the urinary tract that do not respond to treatment. They may either continue to affect your urinary tract despite getting the right treatment, or may recur after treatment. Your urinary tract is the pathway that makes up your urinary system. It includes your: 
Male urinary system. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection in any part of your urinary system — your kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Most infections involve the lower urinary tract — the bladder and the urethra. Women are at greater risk of developing a UTI than men are. Infection limited to your bladder can be painful and annoying. However, serious consequences can occur if a UTI spreads to your kidneys
Bacteria can enter the urinary tract from the outside to cause a UTI to come back, or a recurrent infection can be caused by bacteria that remain in the urinary tract after a previous infection. Children with UTIs are more likely to have fever without the other symptoms. Common conditions that can lead to recurrent UTIs include: 1  Being in a nursing home or hospital. 2  Diabetes. 3  Kidney or bladder stones. 4  Having a catheter. 5  Previous urinary tract surgery. 6  Sexual activity. 7  Having an infected or enlarged prostate.
What to Do When Your Partner Isn't in the Mood. A urinary tract infection, or UTI, occurs when bacteria enter the urinary tract and cause inflammation. The urinary tract consists of your kidneys, the tubes that go from the kidneys to your bladder, and the tube that carries urine to the outside when you urinate. Urine inside the urinary tract is normally sterile, but if any bacteria get in, it can cause an infection. Children with UTIs are more likely to have fever without the other symptoms. Common conditions that can lead to recurrent UTIs include: 1  Being in a nursing home or hospital. 2  Diabetes. 3  Kidney or bladder stones. 4  Having a catheter. 5  Previous urinary tract surgery. 6  Sexual activity. 7  Having an infected or enlarged prostate.
Thus, many of us are all too familiar with the common symptoms of a UTI such as urgency, frequency, small amounts of urine voided, and pain with urination. Many of us may also be familiar with the problems of recurrent/frequent UTIs, or even apparent UTI symptoms for which no bacterial infection can be found. There are two types of recurring infection: re-infection and relapse. Re-infection accounts for the majority of recurring episodes. Re-infection means that a different type of organism has taken up residence. Most re-infections are readily treatable with some type of antibiotic.
Recurrent urinary tract infections, presenting as dysuria or irritative voiding symptoms, are most commonly caused by reinfection with the original bacterial isolate in young, otherwise healthy women with no anatomic or functional abnormalities of the urinary tract. Frequency of sexual intercourse is the strongest predictor of recurrent urinary tract infections in patients presenting with recurrent dysuria. In those who have comorbid conditions or other predisposing factors, recurrent complicated urinary tract infections represent a risk for ascending infection or urosepsis.