A vortex type grit chamber operates on similar principal and basically it has a cylindrical tank, which is designed to create a vortex flow pattern. In order to achieve this, wastewater basically has to enter the chamber tangentially and as such a centrifugal force will ensure that the grit is taken out. Find out more about other forms of physical treatment in wastewater plant such as the use of Dissolved Air Flotation System.
Aerated grit chamber consists of an aeration tank, which is designed to create a spiral flow of wastewater as it moves through the chamber. With the velocity created from the movement of water, a certain particle sized grit will settled at the bottom. In order to achieve this, wastewater basically has to enter the chamber tangentially and as such a centrifugal force will ensure that the grit is taken out. Find out more about other forms of physical treatment in wastewater plant such as the use of Dissolved Air Flotation System.
Grit Removal. Grit particles which are smaller that the aperture of the screen will pass through and cause abrasive problems on pipes and pumps and sludge handling equipment. Also, the grit particles can settle in channels, aeration tanks floor and sludge digestors which can create maintenance problems. Therefore, a grit removal system is required for most sewage treatment plants.
Grit Chambers (Horizontal, Aerated & Vortex). Grit removal, which involves separating foreign particles such as sand and gravel is very important and needs to be carried out in every wastewater treatment system. In order to achieve this, wastewater basically has to enter the chamber tangentially and as such a centrifugal force will ensure that the grit is taken out. Find out more about other forms of physical treatment in wastewater plant such as the use of Dissolved Air Flotation System.
Another design that is sometimes used is an aerated grit chamber. In am aerated grit chamber, air bubbles are injected into a wastewater basin to force a spiral, or rolling, flow. The air bubbles are supposed to strip organic material off the surfaces of the inert grit, and the grit settles in the bottom. 
Grit chambers are basin to remove the inorganic particles to prevent damage to the pumps, and to prevent their accumulation in sludge digestors. Types of Grit Chambers. Grit chambers are of two types: mechanically cleaned and manually cleaned. In mechanically cleaned grit chamber, scraper blades collect the grit settled on the floor of the grit chamber. The grit so collected is elevated to the ground level by several mechanisms such as bucket elevators, jet pump and air lift. The grit washing mechanisms are also of several designs most of which are agitation devices using either water or air to produce washing action. Manually cleaned grit chambers should be cleaned atleast once a week. The simplest method of cleaning is by means of shovel.
An Aerated Grit Chamber removes grit from wastewater streams. How it Works: Airflow is generated by a blower and is introduced into the Aerated Grit Chamber via a tube which is located near the bottom of the chamber, thereby creating a circular or toroidal flow pattern in the wastewater. The continuous rising flow deflects off an energy-recovery baffle at the liquid surface.
1 Transition law: The design of grit chamber is based on removal of grit particles with minimum size of 0.15 mm and therefore Stoke's law is not applicable to determine the settling velocity of grit particles for design purposes. The grit washing mechanisms are also of several designs most of which are agitation devices using either water or air to produce washing action. Manually cleaned grit chambers should be cleaned atleast once a week. The simplest method of cleaning is by means of shovel.
Products Wastewater Grit Removal PISTA® Grit Chamber. High removal efficiencies originate from the PISTA® Grit Chamber’s unparalleled hydraulic design, including its flat chamber floor, patented and low-energy axial-flow propeller. PISTA® Grit Chamber. High removal efficiencies originate from the PISTA ® Grit Chamber’s unparalleled hydraulic design, including its flat chamber floor, patented and low-energy axial-flow propeller. The combination creates a true vortex that effectively separates grit from organics and the waste stream