Of the five different sub-groups that make up the field of Political Science, Comparative Politics is perhaps the most misunderstood. This particular area of Political Science is one of the oldest fields of analysis and has provided the foundation for the works of countless political writers over the centuries. There is actually a good deal of debate as to how one defines Comparative Politics. Some Political Scientists argue over whether the field requires an inductive or deductive approach, or whether to focus on qualitative or quantitative data.
Comparative politics. Comparative politics is a field and a method used in political science, characterized by an empirical approach based on the comparative method. In other words comparative politics is the study of the domestic politics, political institutions, and conflicts of countries. It often involves comparisons among countries and through time within single countries, emphasizing key patterns of similarity and difference. Peter Mair and Richard Rose advance a slightly different definition, arguing that comparative politics is defined by a combination of a substantive focus on the study of countries' political systems and a method of identifying and explaining similarities and differences between these countries using common concepts.
1 Comparative politics, also called comparative government, describes a method of scientific study in the political science field. As the name suggests, comparative politics compares two or more countries and attempts to draw conclusions based on those comparisons. Comparative politics describes the method of testing a hypothesis by setting dependent and independent variables, similar to the scientific method of the physical sciences.
In a wide-rangingdiscussion on the role of theory in comparative politics, for example, some of the lead-ing names in comparative politics and comparative analysis fail to achieve a consensuson what is or should be the theoretical core of the field (see Kohli et al. 1995).5. 
Sometimes, especially in the United States, the term comparative politics is used to refer to the politics of foreign countries.. This usage of the term, however, is often considered incorrect. The highest award in the discipline of Comparative Politics is the Karl Deutsch award, awarded by the International Political Science Association. So far, it has been given to Juan Linz (2003), Charles Tilly (2006), Giovanni Sartori (2009), and Alfred Stepan (2012).
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Comparative politics, also called comparative government, describes a method of scientific study in the political science field. As the name suggests, comparative politics compares two or more countries and attempts to draw conclusions based on those comparisons. Comparative politics describes the method of testing a hypothesis by setting dependent and independent variables, similar to the scientific method of the physical sciences.
As Comparative Politics is defined by the method of study (comparison, in this case), the bulk of college courses offered in this area will deal with comparing and contrasting the governments and policies that are currently at work on the global stage. There is actually a good deal of debate as to how one defines Comparative Politics. Some Political Scientists argue over whether the field requires an inductive or deductive approach, or whether to focus on qualitative or quantitative data.
Comparative politics is a field and a method used in political science, characterized by an empirical approach based on the comparative method. In other words, comparative politics is the study of the domestic politics, political institutions, and conflicts of countries. It often involves comparisons among countries and through time within single countries, emphasizing key patterns of similarity and difference. The highest award in the discipline of Comparative Politics is the Karl Deutsch award, awarded by the International Political Science Association. So far, it has been given to Juan Linz (2003), Charles Tilly (2006), Giovanni Sartori (2009), and Alfred Stepan (2012).