Report Abuse. The Earth’s core is only partially molten. The outer core is composed of molten iron and nickel, and the inner core is solid. The inner core has grown at the expense of the outer core over the 4.5 billion years of the Earth’s history. But there is still a lot of heat inside the earth, so part of that metal core is liquid because the heat is pushing the stuff apart even more than the pressure is pushing it together. It is only really really deep that the pressure part of the issue takes dominance and the metal core turns solid.
Traveling deeper within the Earth, we next would encounter the Earth’s outer core, which extends to a depth of around 3000 miles beneath the surface. It is believed that this outer core is made up of super-heated liquid molten lava. This lava is believed to be mostly iron, and nickel. Mantle. The next layer beneath the crust is called the mantle. It extends to a depth of approximately 1,800 miles and is made of a thick solid rocky substance that represents about 85% of the total weight and mass of the Earth.
During the time when Earth was forming and was in a molten state, heavy materials like iron and nickel sank to the center of the Earth's mass and lighter materials floated to the surface of the mass. The very center of what we call the core, is solid in the middle because of the increased pressure in that region. Outside the core, the largest mass of planet Earth is called the mantle and this is mostly solid rock. The very outermost layer of our planet is about 30 miles thick, is made of lighter rocks, and is called the crust.
The outer core is the only molten layer of the Earth. Partially molten, plastic like, flowing layer located below the  solid part of Earth's mantle is the Asthenosphere. The  asthenosphere is mechanically weak and ductiley defo … rming region of  the upper mantle.
The outer core is the only layer with molten in it. Partially molten, plastic like, flowing layer located below the  solid part of Earth's mantle is the Asthenosphere. The  asthenosphere is mechanically weak and ductiley defo … rming region of  the upper mantle.
As a result of this, we can learn that the Earth has a liquid outer core, a solid mantle exterior to that, and a solid core interior to it! So that’s how come the Earth has the heaviest, densest elements at its core, and how we know its outer core is a liquid layer. 
This molten rock is the Earth’s mantle, and it comprises the largest part of the Earth’s volume. The Earths interior (University of Chicago). The crust we stand on is only about 30 km thick. Out in the oceans, it’s even thinner, getting down to 5 km in places. 
The Earth's inner core is the Earth's innermost part and according to seismological studies, it is primarily a solid ball with a radius of about 1220 kilometers, or 760 miles (about 70% of the Moon 's radius). 
(J. Louie). The earth is divided into four main layers: the inner core, outer core, mantle, and crust. The core is composed mostly of iron (Fe) and is so hot that the outer core is molten, with about 10% sulphur (S). The inner core is under such extreme pressure that it remains solid. Circulation and convection of electrically conductive molten iron in the Earth's outer core produces the magnetic field. To make the magnetic field, the convection must be relatively rapid (much faster than it is in the plastic mantle), so the core must be fluid.
The earth is made up of layers (crust, mantle, outer core, and inner core). Each one has a unique make-up to it. Crust. This is the outer layer of the Earth about 10 miles or so thick. Mostly made up of rock and loose material. Mantle. The next layer beneath the crust is called the mantle. It extends to a depth of approximately 1,800 miles and is made of a thick solid rocky substance that represents about 85% of the total weight and mass of the Earth.