The donkey has been used as a working animal for at least 5000 years. Of the more than 40 million donkeys in the world, about 96% are in underdeveloped countries, where they are used principally as pack animals or for draught work in transport or agriculture. At one time, the synonym ass was the more common term for the donkey. The first recorded use of donkey was in either 1784 or 1785. While the word ass has cognates in most other Indo-European languages, donkey is an etymologically obscure word for which no credible cognate has been identified.
Many people like to own these fine animals for their wonderful personalities and their fine pet qualities. There is probably no more adorable baby in the animal world than the little donkey with its long ears and long legs and sweet face and fuzzy coat. However, there are many uses for donkeys. 
Search Donkey is a free application that allows you to highlight a term and instantly query your favorites services like Yelp, UrbanDictionary, Quora, Wikipedia and others! 
The donkey or ass (Equus africanus asinus), is a domesticated member of the horse family, Equidae. The wild ancestor of the donkey is the African wild ass, E. africanus. At one time, the synonym ass was the more common term for the donkey. The first recorded use of donkey was in either 1784 or 1785. While the word ass has cognates in most other Indo-European languages, donkey is an etymologically obscure word for which no credible cognate has been identified.
Small numbers of donkeys are kept for breeding or as pets in developed countries. A male donkey or ass is called a jack, a female a jenny or jennet; a young donkey is a foal. Jack donkeys are often used to mate with female horses to produce mules. At one time, the synonym ass was the more common term for the donkey. The first recorded use of donkey was in either 1784 or 1785. While the word ass has cognates in most other Indo-European languages, donkey is an etymologically obscure word for which no credible cognate has been identified.
The offspring of a zebra-donkey cross is called a zonkey, zebroid, zebrass, or zedonk; zebra mule is an older term, but still used in some regions today. The foregoing terms generally refer to hybrids produced by breeding a male zebra to a female donkey. At one time, the synonym ass was the more common term for the donkey. The first recorded use of donkey was in either 1784 or 1785. While the word ass has cognates in most other Indo-European languages, donkey is an etymologically obscure word for which no credible cognate has been identified.
Jack: This term refers to a donkey stallion. Gelding: This is the term used for a gelded donkey stallion. Mule and Hinny: These terms are used to describe hybrid animals, each having a donkey parent and a horse parent. In 99.9% of cases, mules and hinnies are sterile. When a donkey stallion is bred with a horse mare, the offspring is called a mule. When a horse stallion is bred with a donkey jennet, the offspring is called a hinny. In groups, we refer to a barren of mules. Molly: This term is used for a female mule. John: This term is used for a male mule.
Donkey milk (or Ass milk) is the milk given by the domesticated ass or donkey. It has been used since Egyptian antiquity for both alimentary and cosmetic reasons. 
The young of a donkey is called a foal. A young male is a colt and a young female a filly. The correct name for a female donkey is jenny and the correct name for a male donkey is jack. A mule is the offspring of a male donkey and a female horse. A hinny is the offspring of a male horse and a female donkey. There are three categories of donkeys. Miniatures are 36 inches and under. Standards are between 36 and 54 inches. Mammoths are over 54 inches. All measured to the shoulder. 