Notes: 1  It may be necessary to connect the USB storage device to an external power supply, depending on its power requirements. 2  If you're using a MacBook or MacBook Pro, try using a different USB port if you cannot startup from the external USB storage device. Starting from an external USB storage device (Intel-based Macs). Learn how to start your Intel-based Mac up from an external USB storage device, such as an external USB-based hard drive. You might do this when troubleshooting certain situations, or for other reasons.
Level 10 (91,910 points). Plug the external drive to the USB port, and then it will appear in your Mac as a network drive. Open a Finder window and you will see it in the Finder sidebar, under Shared. If you have Windows, you will see it under Network, in your Windows Explorer sidebar. Level 1 (0 points). 
CrunchyDoodle replied on February 16, 2013. Can I use an external cd drive to download software to my surface pro. I have a language program that I need to install and need to know if I should try to return it to get the downloadable version. I just tried it with an external DVD drive via USB and it works great. 
This works well if you have a working hard drive already in your Mac; and you should clone the drive before installing the new hard drive. You can connect the hard drive externally to your MacBook Pro using an adapter. Cloning is easily done, and testing the install is accomplished by rebooting the Mac and holding down the Option key. Select the new hard drive from the list, and you'll know pretty quickly if it was successfully cloned or not. 
Usually, when you want to connect an external hard drive to your computer, you just plug it in and that's it. However, if you are using a Macbook Pro or any Mac computer, the hard drive must be pre-formatted as MAC OS Extended/ FAT32. If the hard drive is pre-formatted as NTFS, like most hard drives in the market, the Mac OS X can only read data from it, not write any data on it. Ad. Choose the format of the hard drive. Select Mac OS Extended (Journaled) if you only intend to use the hard drive for a MAC. 1  If you intend to use the hard drive to a PC as well, select MS-DOS File System. 2  If you choose this, you can only transfer files no larger than 4GB.
Clever adapter connects USB accessories to your Android device. With an inexpensive USB OTG adapter, you can connect things like keyboards, USB hard drives, and even gaming controllers to your Android phone or tablet. by Sharon Profis @sharonprofis /.
1 If you're using a MacBook or MacBook Pro, try using a different USB port if you cannot startup from the external USB storage device. 2  On a MacBook Air, the computer may shutdown automatically as a preventive measure if a USB device with issues is connected, or if the USB port on the MacBook Air itself is damaged. Starting from an external USB storage device (Intel-based Macs). Learn how to start your Intel-based Mac up from an external USB storage device, such as an external USB-based hard drive. You might do this when troubleshooting certain situations, or for other reasons.
Connect the hard drive to your Macbook Pro. Your hard drive should have come with a USB cable, firewire cable, or both. Choose the cable available, and plug each end into the compatible slots on your hard drive and Macbook. Choose the format of the hard drive. Select Mac OS Extended (Journaled) if you only intend to use the hard drive for a MAC. 1  If you intend to use the hard drive to a PC as well, select MS-DOS File System. 2  If you choose this, you can only transfer files no larger than 4GB.
Connecting a Seagate USB Hard Drive to a USB port to a BluRay / DVD player is another way to view your digital content on your Television. If your TV doesn’t have USB ports, you can connect a Seagate USB Hard Drive to the BluRay player and access the files from the BluRay player menus. Please consult the BluRay / DVD player User’s Manual for USB compatibility, capacity limitations (over 2TB), and supported video & audio formats.
• Seagate Wireless Plus. For most people, the best external hard drive for the iPad is the Seagate Wireless Plus. Offering 1 TB of storage, the Wireless Plus is a USB 3 external drive, which means you can hook it up to a PC with a USB 3 slot and transfer data much faster than normal external drives. But the biggest feature for the iPad is the ability to connect via Wi-Fi. An external hard drive is a great way to expand the storage of an iPad, but unfortunately, you cannot hook up just any external drive to the iPad. As with Flash drives, any external drive that requires a USB connection won't be recognized by the iPad, even if you have the camera connection kit hooked up to your tablet.