Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Increase the cooking time to 6 to 7 minutes per side for a 1 3/4-inch steak
Medium. To prepare a medium steak on the grill, cook to an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. When you press the steak, it should feel slightly firm with a pink center and a grayish burn on the outside. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Increase the cooking time to 6 to 7 minutes per side for a 1 3/4-inch steak. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit.
Set the Temperature to 375°F/185°C to allow the grill to preheat. Place the chicken in the grill. Close the grill and set the Timer to 5 minutes. When the Timer beeps, check … the chicken with the tip of a knife. Medium steak … is usually 9 minutes and a well done steak would probably be 10-12 minutes. It is also important to marinate the steaks before putting on the grill. You can start to grill after giving 6 hours to marinate but you may experience a change in flavor.
A 1 inch boneless rib eye, tenderloin, or top loin steak should be cooked for 6-8 minutes on the George Foreman Grill (covered) at 350 degrees F to 375 degrees F for medium rare. If you are cooking uncovered it should be 8-11 minutes. Medium steak … is usually 9 minutes and a well done steak would probably be 10-12 minutes. It is also important to marinate the steaks before putting on the grill. You can start to grill after giving 6 hours to marinate but you may experience a change in flavor.
With your steak grilled, it's time to get it off the grill and onto a plate (not a cold plate). Resting meat is one of the most important steps when grilling. Let your steak rest for 5 minutes before serving. This will allow the meat to relax and the heat and juices to redistribute. When we turn the steaks in a minute you will want to know where that top is in order to get the perfect grill marks. Before we put that steak on, lets talk about time. If you are looking for a medium rare 1-inch thick steak our cooking times are going to be one minute (four units of one minute).
Let the steak rest for about 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness. This allows the juices to move back into the meat. Resting should be done in a place that is about room temperature and with only a loose covering over it. If you doubt me, try cutting a steak in half right off the grill. Grilling: Here's what I recommend. Get your grill good and hot. The ideal temperature is one that will cook the steak to the desired doneness in the shortest amount of time without burning the surface. Place the room temperature steaks on the grill and close the lid.
Let's start with one of the most important steps in grilling steaks. We want to grill our steaks quickly and evenly, so it is very important to let the steak come to room temperature before grilling. Remove your steaks from the refrigerator and set them on the kitchen counter for about 30 minutes prior to grilling. Don't leave it there too long though, that's just gross, just get it to room temperature. Seasoning. Just like we talked about when grilling hamburgers, there is no need to over-think seasoning. Once the steaks are grilled to your desired doneness, remove them and place them on a platter. Now DON'T TOUCH those beautiful hunks of meat for 5 minutes if you can help it. Remember, the juices on the inside are disrupted a lot when you are grilling a steak. They need about 5 minutes to calm down and redistribute.
Medium: Grill 10 minutes per side or to 155°F internal temperature. Check Internal Temperature. Remove steaks from the grill when a quick-response meat thermometer inserted through the side of the steak to its center reads the desired temperature below. To retain juices and reach final temperature, let steaks sit for 2 minutes before cutting
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). Directions. About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes