Lewis Morris is often called Llewelyn Ddu or Llewellyn Ddu o Fon; Fôn williams tells his brother that his baby'son s name Is [... lewis but] later he refers to the child 'As llywelyn'. Fach IN alma 35 King louis Of france is Called Llewelyn' — Ffreinig morgan And (morgan). 1985 Although Llywelyn was the most common form of the name in the medieval period, variant spellings started emerging even in the early Middle Ages, in particular Llewelyn and Llewellyn, spellings that gave rise to a folk belief that the name was connected with lions (the Welsh word for lion being llew).
Llewellyn /llewel-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced loo-ELL-en. It is of Welsh origin, and the meaning of Llewellyn is like a lion . Like the Welsh name Lleu, Llewellyn is also possibly derived from the name of an ancient Celtic god, meaning  shining one. Kreatif forms: Llewellan, Llewellin, Llewelne. Llewellyn is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#5544 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census).
The origin and thus the meaning of the name Llewellyn is inherited by all variant forms. Llewellyn's language of origin is Welsh. Here, the meaning is 'shining one; lion-like; leader; likeness'. See also the related form, Lugh (Irish). Llewellyn is uncommon as a baby name for boys. At the modest height of its usage in 1910, 0.009% of baby boys were given the name Llewellyn. Its ranking then was #722.
Recorded in several modern forms including LLewellyn, LLewellin, LLeweln, and LLewhellin, this is an ancient surname of Olde English and Welsh pre 7 century origins. It derives from the Celtic elements llyw meaning leader and eilun, meaning the likeness to. 
Hello, Guest. Llewellyn / Llywelyn is a common patriotic first name in Wales, with its distinctive Welsh double LL's; in the U.S. Llewellyn would make a daring choice, though with the chance that some might find the ellen sound slightly feminine. Llewelyn Moss is a major character in Cormac McCarthy's No Country for Old Men, played on screen by Josh Brolin. Llewellyn, which can be spelled in a number of ways, has some appealing, if quirky, short forms as well-- Llew, Lleu and Llelo.
Llywelyn (. [ɬəˈwɛlɪn]) is a Welsh personal name, which has also become a family name most commonly spelled Llewellyn. The name has many variations and derivations, mainly as a result of the difficulty for non-Welsh speakers of representing the sound of the initial double ll (a voiceless alveolar lateral fricative). Although Llywelyn was the most common form of the name in the medieval period, variant spellings started emerging even in the early Middle Ages, in particular Llewelyn and Llewellyn, spellings that gave rise to a folk belief that the name was connected with lions (the Welsh word for lion being llew).
Welsh Meaning: The name Llewellyn is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Llewellyn is: Leader. Lion-like. American Meaning: The name Llewellyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Llewellyn is: Leader. Lion-like.
Tweet. Llewellyn is used mostly in Welsh and it is of Celtic origin. Old forms of the name include Lugobelinos (Celtic) and Lugubelenus (Old English). The name is most likely derived from the Celtic Lugubelenus, although it has sometimes been considered to be of Welsh roots. See also the related form, Lugh (Irish). Llewellyn is uncommon as a baby name for boys. At the modest height of its usage in 1910, 0.009% of baby boys were given the name Llewellyn. Its ranking then was #722.