Whether a parrot is plucking or chewing its feathers, the causes and cures are usually the same. The following describes some the possible causes of plucking, and what you can do about it. It is important to remember that each individual is different. For example, a diet that does not have enough protein may cause a parrot to start eating his own feathers to supplement his diet. Sometime a diet too low in fat will cause plucking in some greys. Each animal is an individual and will metabolize nutrients differently. So what works for one, may not work for another.
Why Do Parrots Pluck Their Feathers? When a pet bird starts picking feathers, it can be a frustrating experience. Find out what parrots species are moreprone to feather picking, and what ways you can help stop it.Rebecca SweatPosted: April 24, 2013, 1:00 p.m. 
Birds that are stressed will pluck as a means of pacifying themselves, and sometimes out of boredom or lack of interaction. To determine if there is an environmental cause for the bird's behavior, ask yourself the following questions: If you suspect that your bird has been plucking its feathers, the best advice is to get your bird to an avian vet as quickly as possible. If the vet determines your bird to be free of PBFD or other medical problems, then your bird's plucking is most likely due to an environmental issue.
Illness or Parasites. Medical conditions can sometimes cause parrots to pluck their feathers. One of the most visible symptoms of internal illnesses is feather plucking. Occasionally, lice or mites can cause parrots to pluck their feathers. Stress. The second most common reason that parrots pluck their feathers is stress. Parrots can become stressed because of lack of attention from their owners, dirty or cramped accommodations, and boredom. According to veterinarian Ron Hines, Some birds literally groom their feathers off for lack of other pastimes..
ADVERTISEMENT. Birds usually pluck their feathers to preen and groom themselves. Feather plucking becomes a serious behavioral disorder when the bird moderately overpreens or even self-mutilates its self. There many causes for feather plucking disorder; they include: 1  Disease like feather cyst. Birds that are overactive and overstimulated frequently pluck their feathers, as do birds that are bored. Such birds also show anxiety and aggressive behaviors. Anxiety can be caused by a lack of fresh air, lack of light, and a disturbance in the bird's circadian rhythm (a physiological 24-hour cycle).
If a bird's hormones are surging, it may pluck its feathers when it wants to nest. This is known as brood patch plucking. Seasonally, some birds will pluck a patch of feathers on the chest or abdominal area that is used during incubation to transfer heat to the eggs. A parrot that’s been plucking due to nutritional deficiencies may just need to be switched over to a more balanced diet. It may be a simple matter of installing a humidifier to add some moisture to the room, or removing the fluorescent lights and putting in flicker-free” light bulbs.
Feather plucking is a someone frequent issue with many parrot species, and this unfortunately includes the Quaker Parrot. Written by a veterinary technician, this article provides solid information on this frustrating disorder and the most common causes. Definition and Description. Feather picking, also known as feather plucking, is a condition in which birds cause damage to their own feathers. All normal, healthy birds preen daily, but feather pickers typically overpreen to the point of obsession. This can include chewing on their feathers or actually plucking them out. 
Answer: Birds pluck their feathers for several reasons. In the wild, they use plucked feathers to line their nests during breeding season. Many bird feathers also come out as a bird performs its normal preening and grooming routine. In captivity, however, a plucking bird can be a sign of veterinary or environmental problems. If you suspect that your bird has been plucking its feathers, the best advice is to get your bird to an avian vet as quickly as possible. If the vet determines your bird to be free of PBFD or other medical problems, then your bird's plucking is most likely due to an environmental issue.