excretion. 1. the act, process, or function of excreting. Ordinarily, what is meant by excretion is defecation, the evacuation of feces. Technically, excretion can refer to the expulsion of any matter, whether from a single cell or from the entire body, or to the matter excreted. 1. the act, process or function of excreting. 2. material that is excreted. Ordinarily, what is meant by excretion is
Excretion is the process by which waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials are eliminated from an organism. In vertebrates this is primarily carried out by the lungs, kidneys and skin. This is in contrast with secretion, where the substance may have specific tasks after leaving the cell. Excretion is an essential process in all forms of life. In mammals urine is carried out through the urethra and that is part of the excretory system. In single-celled organisms, waste products are discharged directly through the surface of the cell. Chemical structure of uric acid.
What does the term excretion mean? Excretion is the process of eliminating waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials.It is an essential process in all forms of life. Excretion is a biological process by which metabolic waste products and toxic materials are removed from the body of an organism. It's an essential part in life, because it ge … ts rid of all the poisons and etc. There are three types of waste, they are urea, sodium and excess water. + 101 others found this useful.
Excretion. Excretion is the process by which waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials are eliminated from an organism. In vertebrates this is primarily carried out by the lungs, kidneys and skin. This is in contrast with secretion, where the substance may have specific tasks after leaving the cell. Excretion is an essential process in all forms of life. In humans urine is carried out through the urethra and that is part of the excretory system. In single-celled organisms, waste products are discharged directly through the surface of the cell.
Confidence votes 39. Excretion is the process of eliminating waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials.It is an essential process in all forms of life. It contrasts secretion, where the substance may have specific tasks after leaving the cell. Excretion is a biological process by which metabolic waste products and toxic materials are removed from the body of an organism. It's an essential part in life, because it ge … ts rid of all the poisons and etc. There are three types of waste, they are urea, sodium and excess water. + 98 others found this useful.