The Romance languages —sometimes called the Latin languages, and occasionally the Romanic or Neo-Latin languages —are the modern languages that evolved from spoken Latin between the sixth and ninth centuries A.D. and that thus form a branch of the Italic languages within the Indo-European language family. French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romanian are also official languages of the European Union. Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, Romanian, and Catalan are the official languages of the Latin Union; and French and Spanish are two of the six official languages of the United Nations.
The five most widely spoken Romance languages by number of native speakers are Spanish (410 million), Portuguese (216 million), French (75 million), Italian (60 million), and Romanian (25 million). French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romanian are also official languages of the European Union. Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, Romanian, and Catalan are the official languages of the Latin Union; and French and Spanish are two of the six official languages of the United Nations.
The Latin alphabet is derived from the Etruscan and Greek alphabets. Latin was originally spoken in Latium, Italy. Through the power of the Roman Republic, it became the dominant language, initially in Italy and subsequently throughout the Roman Empire. Vulgar Latin developed into the Romance languages, such as French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romanian. Latin and French have contributed many words to the English language. Latin and Greek roots are used in theology, biology, and medicine
Yes. Portuguese along with Spanish, French, Romanian and Italian are Latin based languages. English has about 45% Latin based words with the remainder being derived from Low G … erman, Anglo Saxon and Celt. A search through a dictionary will reveal just how many of our words are Latin based. German is a West Germanic language   German is not a Latin based language because it is not a romance language. A Romanc … e language is a language that is derived directly from Latin. They inlude Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Portuguese, and French.
Latin is the language that was originally spoken in the region around Rome called Latium. It gained great importance as the formal language of the Roman Empire. All Romance languages are descended from Latin, and many words based on Latin are found in other modern languages such as English. It is said that 80% of scholarly English words are derived from Latin (in a large number of cases by way of French)
You covered the major ones... Although, English, technically speaking is not a Latin-based language, even though it has many Latin roots, it is a Western Germanic language. But there are a few other Romance languages such as Gallician and other smaller ones (sorry I don't know them at the top of my head). Matt · 3 years ago. Thumbs up.
Some of the languages you said aren't Latin based languages, they're dialects. Most of them are Italians, French and Spanish. Anyway, Latin created the base only of Italian, Spanish, French, Portuguese, Romanian, Ladin (it's a language which is spoken in northern Italy) and Sardinian. Sally · 3 years ago. Although, English, technically speaking is not a Latin-based language, even though it has many Latin roots, it is a Western Germanic language. But there are a few other Romance languages such as Gallician and other smaller ones (sorry I don't know them at the top of my head). Matt · 3 years ago. Thumbs up.
Answer   German is not a Latin based language. German is a West Germanic language   German is not a Latin based language because it is not a romance language. A Romanc … e language is a language that is derived directly from Latin. They inlude Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Portuguese, and French.
Languages with roots in the Latin language are known as Romance languages. French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian and Romansh are all the Romance Languages with offic … ial status. Others include Sardinian, Catalan and Sicilian. But...most other European languages have some words coming from the Latin language. The Romance languages are all based on Latin, since they all evolved from Latin. There are dozens of Romance languages, but most are no longer spoken. The most common living R … omance languages are: ....