Weasels are mammals in the genus Mustela of the Mustelidae family. In technical discourse, however, as in American usage, the term weas … el can refer to any member of the genus, or to the genus as a whole. Of the 16 extant species currently classified in the genus Mustela, ten have weasel in their common name.
Mustela frenata. There are three species of weasels in Minnesota, the short-tailed weasel (Mustela erminea), the long-tailed weasel (Mustela (renata, and the least weasel. All belong to a family of mostly long, narrow tube-shaped animals in the family Mustelidae.
General description: Weasels are small, elongated predators that are brown in the summer, but that turn white in the winter. The short-tailed and long-tailed weasels have a black-tipped tail, while the least weasel is completely white.
Weasel is a common name for about 12 species of mammals in the genus Mustela of the Mustelidae family. They are found throughout North America, Asia, Africa, South America, an … d Europe Weasels are aggressive and fierce and will attack animals much larger than themselves.
Foods Long-tailed weasels eat mice, rats, voles, squirrels, chipmunks, shrews, moles and rabbits. Less common foods include birds, bird eggs, snakes, frogs and insects. Least weasels specialize in taking small prey such as mice and voles. They do most of their hunting in tunnels made by these rodents.
Weasels are in the family Mustelidae of the order Carnivora (they are carnivores)   Originally, the name weasel was applied to one species of the genus, the European form of the Least Weasel (Mustela nivalis).
Long-tailed weasels have a long slender body and head. Their long bodies and flexible backs allow them to enter the burrows of rodents and other animals that are smaller than them. On average, males are larger than females. These weasels have long, bushy tails that make up about 50% of their total body length.
Young weasels begin to hunt when they are about two months old. Appearance The weasel has a tiny face, sharp teeth and claws, and a tail with black fur at the tip. In winter it is white and in summer it is brown. DIAGRAM of a short-tailed weasel The short-tailed weasel is a tiny animal, only 15 to 23 cm long.