The Social Security Administration can take however long it needs to make its decision on your Social Security disability claim. Even the people that understood that the 120 days was an average were still confused about how long their claims were going to take. Many thought that their cases would take 120 days give or take a few days. In reality, the amount of time that it takes to make a decision varies greatly from case to case.
Social Security Disability: The Appeals Council Stage. When people ask how long it will take for a Social Security Disability application to be processed, they are usually given an answer of 90 to 120 days. Unfortunately, this time frame is often a matter of wishful thinking. The average time it takes for to process an appeal with the Social Security Disability Appeals Council can be anywhere from six months to two years. In 2009, the average appeal to the took 261 days to complete.
By R. M. Bottger. The Social Security Administration will tell you that it takes an average of 120 days to make a decision on your Social Security and/or Supplemental Security Income disability claim. However, this is not the whole story. Even the people that understood that the 120 days was an average were still confused about how long their claims were going to take. Many thought that their cases would take 120 days give or take a few days. In reality, the amount of time that it takes to make a decision varies greatly from case to case.
The average amount of time it takes to receive a decision after filing for SSD benefits, also referred to as SSDI (Social Security Disability Insurance) benefits is about 120 days, or approximately three months. 
The question of how long it takes to get a decision on a Social Security Disability or SSI benefit claim is not easy to answer, for several reasons. Social Security Disability and SSI cases can be won in as little as 30 days, or take as long as two years for benefits to be awarded. There is simply no way to predict how long a case will take because, unlike other programs (Department of Social Services, for instance), the federal disability program does not have deadlines for applications or appeals.
For example, to be eligibility for Social Security disability benefits you have to have paid into Social Security 20 of the last 40 quarters. For Supplemental Security Income (SSI), you must have below a certain level of income and resources. Even the people that understood that the 120 days was an average were still confused about how long their claims were going to take. Many thought that their cases would take 120 days give or take a few days. In reality, the amount of time that it takes to make a decision varies greatly from case to case.
On average, though, a decision for an initial disability claim takes three to four months, and a reconsideration (the first level of appeal) takes about as long, though a case could be decided much sooner or much later. There is simply no way to predict how long a case will take because, unlike other programs (Department of Social Services, for instance), the federal disability program does not have deadlines for applications or appeals.
Talk to a Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. It is hard to predict exactly how long it will take the Social Security Administration (SSA) to decide your disability case. This is, in part, because there is no deadline the SSA is required to follow. Decision times also depend on the following factors: 1  whether you are at the initial application stage or have appealed. If the AC decides to review your claim (it has the option not to), it can take up to a year to receive the AC's decision. The length of time it takes the AC to reach a decision depends on: 1  how many decision-makers are available. 2  the size of the caseload.
Once you receive a decision as to the outcome of your Social Security Disability hearing, you have 60 days to ask for a review by the Social Security Appeals Council if your disability benefits are denied at the hearing level. The average time it takes for to process an appeal with the Social Security Disability Appeals Council can be anywhere from six months to two years. In 2009, the average appeal to the took 261 days to complete.
There is no certain amount of time for a medical decision on a social security disability claim or SSI claim to be processed. Usually, though, the Social Security Administration makes a medical decision within 30-120 days of an application being taken. Working as a disability examiner myself, I found that a high percentage of claims would be decided generally by the 90th day of processing.