One special group of hormones is the tropic hormones that stimulate the hormone production of other endocrine glands. For example, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) causes growth and increased activity of another endocrine gland, the thyroid, which increases output of thyroid hormones. A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour.
Parathyroid hormone is secreted by the parathyroid glands and is the most important regulator of calcium levels in the blood and within the bones. Alternative names for parathyroid hormone PTH; parathormone; parathyrin. What is parathyroid hormone? Parathyroid hormone is secreted from the four parathyroid glands, which are small glands in the neck, located behind the thyroid gland. Parathyroid hormone regulates calcium levels in the blood, largely by increasing the levels when they are too low. It does this through its actions on the kidneys, bones and intestine:
Parathyroid hormone. Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) is a peptide hormone produced by the parathyroid glands. It binds to receptors in the bone and kidney. A decrease in serum calcium concentration and an increase in serum phosphorous concentration stimulate PTH secretion. PTH also: Growth hormone. Growth Hormone (GH) is a growth promoting hormone produced by the pituitary gland. It is anabolic, which means it stimulates bone formation. Growth hormone also: * stimulates the production of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) by the skeleton. * is important in stimulating longitudinal growth.
The pituitary gland is a tiny organ, the size of a pea, found at the base of the brain. As the “master gland” of the body, it produces many hormones that travel throughout the body, directing certain processes or stimulating (causing) other glands to produce other hormones. 1 Growth hormone (GH) - GH stimulates growth in childhood and is important for maintaining a healthy body composition and well-being in adults. 2  In adults, GH is important for maintaining muscle mass and bone mass. 3  It also affects fat distribution in the body.
Growth Hormone Basics. Growth hormone (GH), also known as somatotropin, is a peptide hormone produced by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland. Growth hormone secretion occurs in a pulsatile fashion following a circadian (daily) rhythm, which is controlled by a central area of the brain known as the hypothalamus. 
Growth hormone is a protein hormone of about 190 amino acids that is synthesized and secreted by cells called somatotrophs in the anterior pituitary. Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones. The major role of growth hormone in stimulating body growth is to stimulate the liver and other tissues to secrete IGF-I. IGF-I stimulates proliferation of chondrocytes (cartilage cells), resulting in bone growth