The Berlin Wall divided East Berlin from West Berlin, walling in the Germans on the Eastern side so that they could not flee to the West and escape communism. The enabled the Soviet-controlled East German government to be even more oppressive. And along the Spree River, which separated East Berlin from West Berlin in places, they put a fence down the middle of the river so no one could swim over, and called it good. The impact of the Berlin Wall was threefold.
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.
The Berlin Wall. During the early years of the Cold War, West Berlin was a geographical loophole through which thousands of East Germans fled to the democratic West. In response, the Communist East German authorities built a wall that totally encircled West Berlin. It was thrown up overnight, on 13 August 1961. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.
The key factor in the wall’s construction, however, was the impact on East Germans of the connection between West Berlin and the increasing freedom in West Germany and Western Europe. In 1950, with certain exemptions related to military service, West Berlin became a part of the FRG. 
The Berlin Wall Debate. The Berlin Wall separated East and West Germany both physically and politically. The wall also didn't allow people to leave or come into East or West Germany. The wall also affected the people in Germany. The Germans could not visit their family and friends on the other side of the Berlin Wall. Families were separated and they would not see each other again for a long time. People who worked on either side of the wall suddenly lost their jobs because they could not go to the other side. Then by losing their jobs, they could not buy food for their families. It separated the people from freedom. -http://dualshockers.com/2010/10/04/game-based-around-the-berlin-wall-gets-postponed/. Many people tried to escape and get through the Berlin Wall to the other side. Only a handful of people were successful.
Construction of the Berlin Wall. The Berlin Wall was erected on August 13, 1961. Early on that Sunday morning the GDR began, under Secretary General Erich Honecker, to block off East Berlin and the GDR from West Berlin by means of barbed wire and antitank obstacles. The construction and destruction of the Berlin Wall stand as milestones of the Cold War era. In July 1958, the East German Fifth Congress ordered a wholesale collectivization of agriculture and a sharp rise in industrial output.
1 Berlin Wall, a personal view of Berlin and the effect of the Berlin wall on the city and its inhabitants by Chris De Witt (contains photographs). 2  The Berlin Wall (auf Deutsch and in English) contains info on the Background, Construction, Measurements and Fall of the Wall. The Berlin Wall became the symbol of the Cold War and the division of East from West until its destruction in the fall of 1989. Timeline 1948, June: Berlin airlift began. 1949, May: Berlin airlift ended.
Before the Wall's erection, 3.5 million East Germans circumvented Eastern Bloc emigration restrictions and defected from the GDR, many by crossing over the border from East Berlin into West Berlin; from which they could then travel to West Germany and other Western European countries. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.