arctic wolves live to 10-20 years and Arctic wolves use there howl to locate the other wolves. Wolves in the wild seldom live more than 8 or 10 years, this is true for arctic … wolves as well. In captivity maybe twice as long. 9 people found this useful. 1 They aren't actually a separate species of wolf. 2  Grey wolves live in remote areas of North America, Europe, Asia, and North A….
The Arctic wolf is a sub-species of the grey wolf and lives in the Arctic regions of North America and Greenland. Arctic Wolves (Canis lupus arctos), Montebello, Quebec, Canada.. Thanks to its isolation, the arctic wolf is not threatened by hunting and habitat destruction like its southern relatives. In fact, the arctic wolf is the only sub-species of wolf that is not threatened.
No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. It is very unique due to the location where it is found. While some species of wolves do have some white coloring, this one is almost completely white. They do offer some aspects of yellow, gray, and black in places though. Anatomy. Due to the extreme cold where the Arctic Wolf lives, they have two thick layers of fur. The outer layer actually gets thicker as the winter months come along. They first layer helps to form a waterproof barrier for the skin. As a result their body temperature can stay warm enough even when it is bitter cold.
White wolf redirects here. For other uses, see White Wolf (disambiguation) . The Arctic wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also known as the Melville Island wolf is a possible subspecies of gray wolf native to the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, from Melville Island to Ellesmere Island. The Arctic wolf was first described as a distinct subspecies by British zoologist Reginald Pocock in 1935, after having examined a single skull from Melville Island.
For most of the year, the arctic wolf habitat is covered in thick ice. Unlike their cousins, the grey wolves and timber wolves who live further south in warmer climates, the arctic wolves are unable to dig through the frozen ground to create dens. For this reason, they shelter in caves and outcrops and among trees. 
The arctic wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also known as white wolf or polar wolf, is a subspecies of the gray wolf that belongs to the family of Canidae. Arctic wolves inhabit all along the Alaska, northern areas of Greenland, and Canadian Arctic. 1 The average lifespan of arctic wolves is 7 – 10 years in the wild while in captivity they can live up to 20 years. 2  Arctic wolves tend to cover with the additional layer of coat with the arrival of winter season to keep them warm.
How long do Arctic wolves live? arctic wolves live to 10-20 years and Arctic wolves use there howl to locate the other wolves. Wolves in the wild seldom live more than 8 or 10 years, this is true for arctic … wolves as well. In captivity maybe twice as long. 9 people found this useful. 
Habitat/Distribution. Alaska is where the majority of the wild Arctic Wolves live. They are able to walk on the frozen ground due to the way their feet are designed. That allows them to shift their weight around and to keep a good grip. Anatomy. Due to the extreme cold where the Arctic Wolf lives, they have two thick layers of fur. The outer layer actually gets thicker as the winter months come along. They first layer helps to form a waterproof barrier for the skin. As a result their body temperature can stay warm enough even when it is bitter cold.
Mammal. The Arctic wolf is a subspecies of the gray wolf (Canis lupus). Arctic wolves inhabit some of the most inhospitable terrain in the world where the air temperature rarely rises above -30 degrees C (-22 F) and the ground is permanently frozen.
Description: Arctic wolves have adapted very well to the icy environment where they live. They have white fur, which allows them to blend into their snowy surroundings. To help reduce heat loss, they have more-rounded ears, a shorter muzzle and shorter legs than other gray wolf subspecies. 