Every piece of equipment that is installed in a computer is considered hardware. Some include hard drive, motherboard, CD-ROM drive, modem, NIC, fan, power supply, etc. Monito … rs, scanners and printers are considered peripherals, but are also hardware. It is then demodulated back into digital form at the other end. Incoming digital information modulated onto an analog carrier is demodulated by the modem and its digital format restored. Basically a modem is the device that allows your computer to connect to the Internet using phone lines.
It is the device/internal card that allows you to connect to the internet through a provider. The older modems used to be mostly installed inside the computers, and were conne … cted through an RJ11 phone line, at really slow speeds by today's standards... 14.4Kbps, 28.8Kbps, 36Kbps and 56Kbps. It is then demodulated back into digital form at the other end. Incoming digital information modulated onto an analog carrier is demodulated by the modem and its digital format restored. Basically a modem is the device that allows your computer to connect to the Internet using phone lines.
User: Which is considered computer hardware windows media player, Microsoft outlook, mcAfee virus protection, or standard modem ?Weegy: a standard modem! because all the others are considered softwareExpert answered|elfrankiee|Points 0|User: In Microsoft office, what is the keyboard shortcut for cutting text? 
it is considered both because the modem itself whether embedded or external is hardware and will contain firmware on a ROM chip that contains the protocols and instructions ne … eded to format and convert data so that it can be transported over phone lines to a receiving modem. It is then demodulated back into digital form at the other end. Incoming digital information modulated onto an analog carrier is demodulated by the modem and its digital format restored. Basically a modem is the device that allows your computer to connect to the Internet using phone lines.
2. A Modem or Broadband Modem is also used to refer to the hardware device that connects a computer or router to a broadband network. For example, a Cable Modem and DSL Modem are two examples of these types of Modems. Types of computer Modems. Below are the four versions of a computer Modem found in computers. Onboard Modem is a Modem that is built onto the computer motherboard. These Modems cannot be removed, but can be disabled through a Jumper or CMOS Setup.
A softmodem (soft ware modem) is a modem with minimal hardware that uses software running on the host computer, and the computer's resources (especially the central processing unit, random access memory, and sometimes audio processing), in place of the hardware in a conventional modem. 
Report Abuse. The only computer hardware you listed is a standard modem (hardware is so your computer can function in basic tasks, such as surfing the internet or seeing graphics). 
Computer hardware is any physical device used in or with your machine, whereas software is a collection of code installed onto your computer's hard drive. For example, the computer monitor you are using to read this text and the mouse you are using to navigate this web page is computer hardware. The Internet browser that allowed you to visit this page and the operating system that the browser is running on is considered software.
(mō´dem) (n.) Short for modulator-demodulator. A modem is a device or program that enables a computer to transmit data over, for example, telephone or cable lines. Computer information is stored digitally, whereas information transmitted over telephone lines is transmitted in the form of analog waves. A modem converts between these two forms