We know how important your tax refund is to you. Good news, the IRS started processing tax returns on January 30th. Returns will be processed in the order they were submitted and as soon as your tax return is accepted, we will notify you by email. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year. 
The IRS provides methods for checking the status of your return within the normal processing time -- 21 days for e-filed returns and four weeks for mailed returns. Check the status on the IRS website using the “Where’s My Refund” link or use the “IRS2Go” mobile application. Tracking systems update every 24 hours. You also may call the IRS Refund Hotline at 800-829-1954 for automated information 24 hours a day. Check the status of an e-filed tax return within 24 hours of the filing. Wait four weeks to check the status of a mailed paper return. Processing Returns. The IRS issues most tax refunds in fewer than 21 days, according to the agency’s website
If you e-file you will generally receive an acknowledgment that the IRS has received your return within 48 hours, either by email or within the tax-filing program you used. Seventy-two hours after the IRS has acknowledged your return you can track it on the IRS' Where's my refund? page. Information about the progress of your return will be available on the site. Bear in mind that you can only track returns for the current tax-filing year.
RE: How long does it take for the irs to process your 2013 tax refund? I filed my taxes feb 1st and it was accepted so then I checked the status of my refund and its still saying your refund is being processed. Its been 8 days now and I looked at the refund cycle chart and It says expected deposit date is feb 15th.
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10.
If a tax return is e-filed it will take approximately 10 days to  receive the refund by direct deposit. Mailed checks take about 21  days. Confidence votes 5.9K. The IRS can take as long as it needs to in order to properly verify that you are owed a refund. If they don't send your refund within 45 days after April 15 or 45 after they receive your return (whichever is later), they will pay interest.
The amount of time it takes to receive your federal income tax return varies from state to state and depends on the first letter of your last name. It also depends how much ti … me it takes the government to asses your paper work. In general it can take as little as two weeks to as much as two months. -  See more at:  http://www.formosapost.com/how-long-does-it-take-to-get-amended-tax-return-back/ . 12 people found this useful. 1  Key Tips for Filing an Amended Return If you have made a mistake on your tax return that needs to be corrected, you need to make an amendment to the return in order to correct your mistake.
Save. The length of time it takes the Internal Revenue Service to process a return, send a refund or apply a payment depends on several conditions, including the filing and refund delivery methods. The IRS, according to statistics on its website, processed more than 145 million individual returns in 2013. Tracking systems update every 24 hours. You also may call the IRS Refund Hotline at 800-829-1954 for automated information 24 hours a day. Check the status of an e-filed tax return within 24 hours of the filing.
1 Generally tax returns are accepted by the IRS within a day or two of the return having been electronically filed with the IRS. 2  In most cases, the IRS DRT is available within 2-3 weeks after the return has been accepted by the IRS. 3  IRS will process the tax return in June. 1 Generally tax returns are accepted by the IRS when the tax return is received by the IRS. 2  In most cases, the IRS DRT is available within 8-11 weeks after the tax
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Typical processing time for a mailed paper return with a refund due and paid by mail is 6 to 8 weeks. Returns with a balance due go to the tail end of the processing queue since there's no need to process them in a timely fashion. 