Recurrent Pregnancy Loss. Recurrent pregnancy loss is the loss (i.e. miscarriage) of three or more consecutive pregnancies. Almost 20% of all pregnancies end in miscarriage. The risk of miscarriage is 9.5% for women younger than age 24 and rises with age, to 11% by age 30 and 33% by age 40. For women over age 44, the incidence of miscarriage increases dramatically to 53%. Often the cause(s) of recurrent pregnancy loss are unexplained and diagnostic tests are inconclusive. However, 60% of all women who are diagnosed with unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss achieve a successful pregnancy with minimal treatment
The American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) considers that, “Recurrent pregnancy loss is a disease distinct from infertility, defined by two or more failed pregnancies. When the cause is unknown, each pregnancy loss merits careful review to determine whether specific evaluation may be appropriate. Undoubtedly, the goal is not to leave recurrent miscarriages undiagnosed and untreated. With a history of recurrent pregnancy loss or RPL, Dr. Ramirez will usually add the following anti-clotting and supportive medications during and after each ovulatory cycle:
Traditionally, the diagnosis of recurrent pregnancy loss is not made until a woman has lost at least three pregnancies. Overall about 20% of pregnancies end in miscarriage due to a non-recurrent cause. So, the risk of two consecutive losses is 20% of 20% or 4% of women will experience two losses. And, if undetected or untreated, you may likely be at increased risk for a loss in a subsequent pregnancy. Some physicians and insurance companies argue that there is no point in initiating an evaluation for recurrent pregnancy loss unless your risk for miscarriage in a subsequent pregnancy is increased.
The incidence of pregnancy loss among all women is about 20%. Statistics show that if the first pregnancy ended in miscarriage, the second pregnancy has a similar probability of miscarriage. After two miscarriages, however, the risk rises to 25%-30%. Low progesterone levels-If blood tests indicate that a woman has “luteal phase defect” (not producing enough of the hormone progesterone to support an early pregnancy), treatment with progesterone (injectable, vaginal tablets or suppositories) may be considered.
Approximately 3-5% of pregnant couples suffer from recurrent pregnancy loss. Less than 1% will experience 3 or more consecutive miscarriages. For a woman who has had three consecutive miscarriages but no history of live birth, the next pregnancy has a 30-45% chance of ending in miscarriage. Low progesterone levels-If blood tests indicate that a woman has “luteal phase defect” (not producing enough of the hormone progesterone to support an early pregnancy), treatment with progesterone (injectable, vaginal tablets or suppositories) may be considered.
A miscarriage is considered a spontaneous loss of a pregnancy before 20 weeks of gestation and recurrent pregnancy loss (or recurrent miscarriage) is usually defined as at least 3 consecutive miscarriages. Several issues may lead to miscarriage and if they are not treated, may result in recurrent miscarriage. These treatable problems may be structural issues with the uterus like a septum or fibroid that may be surgically removed or hormonal imbalances like thyroid disease that may be treated medically.
Hormonal Problems. A number of hormone problems that are related to recurrent pregnancy loss can be effectively treated. 1  Thyroid problems can generally be dealt with administration of additional thyroid hormone (for underactive thyroid) or treatment of the thyroid gland directly (for overactive thyroid). Treatment for Recurrent Pregnancy Loss. Patients who undergo testing for recurrent pregnancy loss are found to have an abnormality of some type about 50% of the time. A number of treatments exist and depend on the abnormality that is discovered.
888-300-BIVF (2483). Recurrent pregnancy loss is the loss (i.e. miscarriage) of three or more consecutive pregnancies. Almost 20% of all pregnancies end in miscarriage. The risk of miscarriage is 9.5% for women younger than age 24 and rises with age, to 11% by age 30 and 33% by age 40. For women over age 44, the incidence of miscarriage increases dramatically to 53%. Often the cause(s) of recurrent pregnancy loss are unexplained and diagnostic tests are inconclusive. However, 60% of all women who are diagnosed with unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss achieve a successful pregnancy with minimal treatment
Age related infertility may result in recurrent loss. An elevation of FSH or decrease in inhibin B on the third day of the menstrual cycle may indicate an age related decline in fertility and an increase in the possibility of miscarriage. And, if undetected or untreated, you may likely be at increased risk for a loss in a subsequent pregnancy. Some physicians and insurance companies argue that there is no point in initiating an evaluation for recurrent pregnancy loss unless your risk for miscarriage in a subsequent pregnancy is increased.