knee. 1. the joint of the human leg that allows for movement between the femur and tibia and is covered by the patella; the central area of the leg between the thigh and the lower leg.
The majority of knee injuries, however, are minor and do not require intensive treatment. The knee, the largest joint in the body, connects the thighbone (femur) to the lower leg (tibia). It is a complex and efficient joint consisting of ligaments, cartilage, and the bone of the kneecap (patella). All of these parts can be injured. Inside the knee joint is synovial fluid that protects and lubricates the parts, which during injuries may increase and cause swelling.
Total knee replacement may be done on people, usually over 55, whose knees have been damaged by arthritis, trauma, or other destructive diseases of the joint resulting in severe limiting knee pain and significant stiffness, instability (constant giving way) and deformity (lock-knees or bowlegs) of the knee.
Because the knee joint is both vulnerable and used extensively in many activities, it is prone to injuries. The American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons estimates that 19.5 million visits to doctors' offices in 2002 were for knee problems.
The surgery is done by separating the muscles and ligaments around the knee to expose the inside of the joint. The ends of the thigh bone (femur) and the shin bone (tibia) are removed as is often the underside of the kneecap (patella). The artificial parts are then cemented into place.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the entire joint involving the cartilage, joint lining, ligaments, and underlying bone. The breakdown of these tissues eventually leads to pain and joint stiffness. The joints most commonly affected are the knees, hips, and those in the hands and spine.
1. (Anatomy) the joint of the human leg connecting the tibia and fibula with the femur and protected in front by the patella. Technical name: genu. 2. (Anatomy). a. the area surrounding and above this joint. b. (modifier) reaching or covering the knee: knee breeches; knee socks.
The knee joint is the largest of weight bearing joint in the body. It is a hinge joint that connects the rounded, bony ends (condyles) of the thigh bone (femur) and the shin bone (tibia) and is bounded in front by the knee cap (patella).
knee. n. 1. a. The joint between the thigh and the lower leg, formed by the articulation of the femur and the tibia and covered anteriorly by the patella.