3. Foods containing melatonin. Melatonin is a hormone made by a small gland in the brain. Melatonin helps control your sleep and wake cycles. Very small amounts of it are found in foods such as banana, corn, rice, tomatoes, almonds, seeds and oats. You can also buy it as a supplement. 
Cheese and crackers. Old wivesa wivesâ tales suggest that warm milk can make you, sleepy but the truth is any dairy product can. Help (calcium found in, cheese, yogurt, milk and these surprising) sources helps the brain use the tryptophan found in dairy to manufacture-sleep triggering. melatonin 
Foods That Fight Winter Depression. When long nights bring on a long face, this can mean seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Here are some tips to help fight off the winter blues. 
Walnuts are also a natural dietary source of melatonin. Walnuts contain 3.5 ng of melatonin per gram, according to research by scientists at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio and published in Nutrition in September 2005. 
But melatonin “is not only produced in the pineal gland—it is also naturally present in edible plants.”. That might explain the results of a study, “Effects of a Tart Cherry Juice Beverage on the Sleep of Older Adults with Insomnia” (See Tart Cherries for Insomnia). 
These foods have the added advantage of also being low-glycemic. This means that they provide a more stable glucose level and, therefore, do not cause insomnia through glucose-fueled highs and sugar crashes. Complex carbohydrates contain tryptophan which is known to help ease the body into deep sleep. Eating these foods may help you sleep at night Foods are sometimes regarded as medicines. They contain nutrients and phytochemicals that can act in the same ways as drugs and supplements.
Research has shown that list of foods with melatonin is quite abundant. This hormone plays several important roles in our bodies, such as a sleep regulator, antioxidant and Glutathione booster. However, not all foods with melatonin are able to raise blood melatonin levels high enough to help with sleep disorders. 
Tart Cherries. Tart cherries technically known as Prunus Cerasus, and often called sour cherries, have been recently identified as having Melatonin in them. It has been known that some foods contain very small amounts of melatonin: bananas, rolled oats and corn for example. 
bowl of walnuts Photo Credit zkruger/iStock/Getty Images. Melatonin is a hormone produced in the body by the pineal gland and also produced in the gastrointestinal tract. This hormone plays a key role in synchronizing circadian rhythms and helps regulate the sleep-wake cycle in mammals. Sources. couple holding wine glasses Photo Credit Luca Francesco Giovanni Bertolli/iStock/Getty Images. Common foods such as olive oil, wine and even beer are rich sources of the hormone. Melatonin is also found in many common fruits and vegetables including tomatoes, grape skins, tart cherries and walnuts.