If you have a Part D prescription drug plan, it will pay for the vaccine itself and for your doctor or other health care provider to give you the shot. You are only responsible for paying the plan's approved copay at the time you get vaccinated, which usually runs around $60 to $80.
Answer: Yes, some Medicare Part D prescription drug plans do cover the Shingles Vaccine. However, coverage can vary depending on your chosen Medicare prescription drug plan and the pharmacy where you purchase the medication (or have the vaccine administered).
The reason the shingles vaccine is covered by your Medicare prescription drug plan is because these plans are required, by law, to cover any commercially-available vaccine. Your Part D plan will pay for the vaccination itself and for your doctor or other health care provider to give you the shot (administration).
The shingles shot isn’t covered by Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) . Generally, Medicare prescription drug plans (Part D) cover all commercially-available vaccines (like the shingles shot) needed to prevent illness.
Print. Print. Yes, the shingles vaccine is covered by Medicare but your physician cannot bill Medicare for the vaccine. Unlike some other vaccines that are covered under Part B Medicare, the shingles vaccine is covered by Part D, the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. You purchase Part D as a private stand alone prescription plan if you have Original Medicare, sometimes referred to as Traditional Medicare.
Original Medicare, Part A and Part B, does not cover the shingles vaccination. To get this covered, you must enroll in either a stand-alone Medicare Prescription Drug Plan (PDP) or a Medicare Advantage plan that includes drug coverage (also known as MAPD).
Medicare part B does NOT cover shingles vaccination. Part D covers it as a prescription drug (even though it is a preventive vaccine). If your Medicare advantage plan covers part D (drugs) then the shingles vaccine is covered.