Miranda and Chris were on tour together in 2012, and rumor has it that her affair with him is what caused Blake Shelton to file for divorce from her to begin with. One thing is for sure, Miranda is not going to have any trouble securing a good rebound. This week’s edition of National Enquirer teases that Miranda has her sights set on Jake Owen, Chris Young, and Brett Eldredge. According to the tabloid’s inside sources, Jake and his wife Lacey just broke up over the summer – and Miranda is planning to make a move on him.
Miranda Lambert seems to be handling things okay since the split, but of course things have changed a lot for these two. Back when news came out that Miranda Lambert and Blake Shelton were getting a divorce, TMZ was able to catch Sam Hunt and ask his opinions on their divorce. Sam Hunt explained that he has been single for a while. They did ask him if he is looking for a steady woman, and Hunt shared that he would be when he has time. The fact that he is on tour with Miranda Lambert would give them the time to work on their relationship.
It is starting to look like newly single Miranda Lambert may have already found love, and it is with one of the most eligible bachelors in country music. Celeb Dirty Laundry is sharing that the sources say Miranda is now dating Sam Hunt, and the two have been an item for a couple of months. Sam Hunt explained that he has been single for a while. They did ask him if he is looking for a steady woman, and Hunt shared that he would be when he has time. The fact that he is on tour with Miranda Lambert would give them the time to work on their relationship.
Scroll down for video. Not off limits: Miranda Lambert has admitted she knew Blake Shelton was married when she first set her sights on him. She said: 'I had seen their wedding picture in Country Weekly,. I knew better, like this is off limits. 'Because my parents are private investigators, for God's sakes.
comments. Miranda Lambert has revealed she set her sights on her now-husband Blake Shelton when she knew he was married. The country singer, who wed Shelton last year, admits in a new interview with Dateline NBC that she had been aware he was married to Kaynette Williams when she began working with him in 2005. Not off limits: Miranda Lambert has admitted she knew Blake Shelton was married when she first set her sights on him. She said: 'I had seen their wedding picture in Country Weekly,. I knew better, like this is off limits. 'Because my parents are private investigators, for God's sakes.
Miranda Lambert was upset with reports claiming Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani were dating, according to a magazine. In this photo, dated Fe. 9, 2015, Lambert arrives at the 57th annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles, California. Reuters/Mario Anzuoni. The source added that Shelton likes that Stefani has children -- something which the 39-year-old wanted from Lambert, according to the magazine. Miranda never wanted to have children with Blake, and he wanted kids very badly. Gwen is a doting mom who comes with children; that is enticing to him.
Miranda Lambert is currently single. She has been in two celebrity relationships averaging approximately 5.1 years each. Her only marriage lasted 4.2 years.
Blake Shelton may want to turn his chair around to face his personal life. The Voice coach’s wife, Miranda Lambert, raised eyebrows on Feb. 23 when she was spotted flirting up a storm with country crooner Chris Young during a night out at Losers Bar in Nashville. “Miranda and Chris were really into each other,” an eyewitness dishes to Star. “They were acting like a couple.”. PHOTOS: Cheating, Gay Lovers, Incest, Drugs & Lip Synching! 50 Of Hollywood’s Juiciest Confessions. The blonde beauty, 31, who married Shelton in 2011 after five years of dating, has been friends with Young, 29, for years.
Blake Shelton was rumored to be hooking up with his Voice co-star Gwen Stefani – but it’s actually his ex-wife Miranda Lambert that is getting all of the action. This week’s edition of National Enquirer teases that Miranda has her sights set on Jake Owen, Chris Young, and Brett Eldredge. According to the tabloid’s inside sources, Jake and his wife Lacey just broke up over the summer – and Miranda is planning to make a move on him.
Miranda Lambert and Blake Shelton ’s divorce has been barely official for three months, but the country music singers aren’t exactly sitting at home and crying over each other. This week’s edition of National Enquirer teases that Miranda has her sights set on Jake Owen, Chris Young, and Brett Eldredge. According to the tabloid’s inside sources, Jake and his wife Lacey just broke up over the summer – and Miranda is planning to make a move on him.