When a bill is introduced in either the Senate or the House, it is sent to a standing committee for study and to receive public comment. The committee makes an initial determination if the proposal should go forward in the legislature. 
Congressional oversight is oversight by the United States Congress over the Executive Branch, including the numerous U.S. federal agencies. Congress’s oversight authority derives from its “implied” powers in the Constitution, public laws, and House and Senate rules. It is an integral part of the American system of checks and balanc
Under the Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, all powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for the states and the people. All state governments are modeled after the federal government and consist of three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. The U.S. Constitution mandates that all states uphold a republican form of government, although the three-branch structure is not required. The legislature also approves a state's budget and initiates tax legislation and articles of impeachment. The latter is part of a system of checks and balances among the three branches of government that mirrors the federal system and prevents any branch from abusing its power.
Review of Administrative Rules The legislature’s review of administrative rules is another way in which the General Assembly oversees the executive branch. A “rule” is a formal written statement of law that state agencies adopt to carry out statutory policies and administer programs. 70 A Guidebook for Ohio Legislators Activities That Include Oversight Legislative Committees with Oversight Functions In the General Assembly, the work of standing committees, select committees, and task forces may include oversight activities.
The Senate. The Senate has 100 members and is the upper house of the United States Congress. It is called the upper house because it has fewer members than the House of Representatives and has powers not granted to the House, such as giving approval to appointments of Cabinet secretaries and federal judges. The House Chamber. The House of Representatives has 435 voting Members and five Delegates, each serving a two year term, and one Resident Commissioner who serves for four years. The House of Representatives is referred to as the lower house of the United States Congress, because it has more Members than the Senate.
Legislative Branch. All 50 states have legislatures made up of elected representatives, who consider matters brought forth by the governor or introduced by its members to create legislation that becomes law. The legislature also approves a state's budget and initiates tax legislation and articles of impeachment. The latter is part of a system of checks and balances among the three branches of government that mirrors the federal system and prevents any branch from abusing its power.
The Legislative Branch. The United States Congress is made up of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Learn more about the powers of the Legislative Branch of the federal government of the United States. Established by Article I of the Constitution, the Legislative Branch consists of the House of Representatives and the Senate, which together form the United States Congress. The President may veto bills Congress passes, but Congress may also override a veto by a two-thirds vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Article I of the Constitution enumerates the powers of Congress and the specific areas in which it may legislate.