We believe last weekend after a dirt bike accident my boyfriend may have torn the soleus muscle in his calf. He doesn't have health insurance and refuses to go to the doctors, is it possible it will heal on its own. Its been 9 days now and he is still in pain. We believe last weekend after a dirt bike accident my boyfriend may have torn the soleus muscle in his calf. He doesn&#39;
Not Medical Advice: Yes, it can take a few weeks or more for the torn muscles to heal on its own. You can apply ice to reduce swelling and alleviate pain. report this answer. Updated on Thursday, February 02 2012 at 11:55AM EST. 
Heal w/scar: A 'torn' muscle does heal but depending on the size of the tear and location it generally heals w/ fibrous tissue similar to scar tissue.Muscle does not reform itself.Muscle can hypertrophy(get bigger) and make up for the defect created but not re-create the muscle that was torn or lost. Get help from a doctor now ›. No, but...: A muscle tear will heal with fibrous tissue (scar) but if t is a small area, it does not matter. The muscle function will be the same, unless the tear is large enough to let the muscle retract (pull apart).
1 There will be some pain and swelling, but this injury can heal on its own through rest, the use of ice and anti-inflammatory medications and therapeutic knee exercises. 2  Grade II – A Grade 2 ACL knee injury will include some tears to the knee fibers. 3  Symptoms will be more severe. 
RE: Can a torn muscle ever fully recover? We believe last weekend after a dirt bike accident my boyfriend may have torn the soleus muscle in his calf. He doesn&#39;t have health insurance and refuses to go to the doctors, is it possible it will heal on its own. Its been 9 days now and he is still in pain.
1 At the shoulder joint: A proximal biceps tendon rupture is an injury to the biceps tendon at the shoulder joint. 2  This is the most common bicep tendon tear and typically occurs in patients 60 years of age or older. 3  This injury creates minimal symptoms and usually will heal on its own. As the injured tendon progresses, it will eventually tear. These bicep tears can occur in two distinct ways: 1 
Best Answer: You can't expect a torn muscle to heal by asking it to forcefully contract over and over again. Ice, anti-inflammatories, and careful exercise selection only go so far. The human body is its own best healer, and rest the best medicine when it comes to muscle strains. We believe last weekend after a dirt bike accident my boyfriend may have torn the soleus muscle in his calf. He doesn&#39;t have health insurance and refuses to go to the doctors, is it possible it will heal on its own. Its been 9 days now and he is still in pain.
1 This is the most common bicep tendon tear and typically occurs in patients 60 years of age or older. 2  This injury creates minimal symptoms and usually will heal on its own. 3  At the elbow joint: A distal biceps tendon rupture is an injury at the elbow joint. As the injured tendon progresses, it will eventually tear. These bicep tears can occur in two distinct ways: 1  At the shoulder joint: A proximal biceps tendon rupture is an injury to the biceps tendon at the shoulder joint.