Microsoft says that the svchost.exe “is a generic host process name for services that run from dynamic-link libraries”, whatever that means. Well, what this means is that it comes from something that Microsoft decided to do a while ago. Additionally, If you have Windows Vista, do this: After opening the task manager and finding the svchost.exe program on the list, right-click on it. Find the option that says “Go to Services” which will open the slew of services that are running under that svchost.exe file.
Determining the services running under a SVCHOST.EXE process in Windows Vista and Windows 7. Windows Vista and Windows 7 have enhanced their Windows Task Manager and one of its features allows us to easily see what services are being controlled by a particular SVCHOST.EXE process. To use task list to see the services that a particular SVCHOST.EXE process is loading, just follow these steps: 1. Click on the Start button and then click on the Run menu command. 2. In the Open: field type cmd and press enter.
That’s when you’d love to know which services (or svchost.exe file) can be disabled. The best way to do that is to fire up your task manager and click on the tab “show processes from users” or something related in other windows versions. You will see all the programs running on your computer which will include your instance of svchost.exe too. Additionally, If you have Windows Vista, do this: After opening the task manager and finding the svchost.exe program on the list, right-click on it. Find the option that says “Go to Services” which will open the slew of services that are running under that svchost.exe file.
svchost.exe is a system process belonging to the Microsoft Windows Operating System which handles processes executed from DLLs. This program is important for the stable and secure running of your computer and should not be terminated. MORE INFORMATION The Svchost.exe file is located in the %SystemRoot%\System32 folder. At startup, Svchost.exe checks the services part of the registry to construct a list of services that it must load.
Additionally, if you are noticing very heavy CPU usage on a single svchost.exe instance you can restart the services running under that instance. The biggest problem is identifying what services are being run on a particular svchost.exe instance… we’ll cover that below. Those services are organized into logical groups, and then a single svchost.exe instance is created for each group. For instance, one svchost.exe instance runs the 3 services related to the firewall. Another svchost.exe instance might run all the services related to the user interface, and so on.
(Redirected from Svchost). In the Windows NT family of operating systems, svchost.exe (Service Host, or SvcHost) is a system process that hosts multiple Windows services. Svchost is essential in the implementation of so-called shared service processes, where a number of services can share a process in order to reduce resource consumption.
Svchost.exe is a generic host process name for services that run from dynamic-link libraries (DLLs). jayfox. it has something to do with VIRUSES! it drove me nuts for 5 days,I was scanning the machine with a lot of other antiviruses and antispyware programs,and I found a lot of stuff,viruses etc. Svchost.exe is a generic host process name for services that run from dynamic-link libraries (DLLs). Necessary system file; no problem if it has access to the internet. BUT, there should only be one file, and must be located in C:\Windows\System32. Otherwise, it is malicious.
If the svchost.exe file is located in any folder other than C:\Windows\System32 then it’s malware. Here’s how to check: In Windows 8 and 8.1, open the Task Manager, click over to the Details tab then click the Name column to sort by process name. 
Report Abuse. Svchost.exe is a generic host process name for services that run from dynamic-link libraries (DLLs). MORE INFORMATION The Svchost.exe file is located in the %SystemRoot%\System32 folder. At startup, Svchost.exe checks the services part of the registry to construct a list of services that it must load. Multiple instances of Svchost.exe can run at the same time. Each Svchost.exe session can contain a grouping of services