With aseptic meningitis a person has signs and symptoms of meningitis, but bacteria does not grow in cultures. Many different things can cause aseptic meningitis including viruses, fungi, tuberculosis, some medications and infections near the brain or spinal cord, such as epidural abscesses.
Aseptic meningitis is an illness characterized by headache, fever and inflammation of the lining of the brains. Aseptic Meningitis looks like bacterial meningitis, bacteria do not grow in cultures of the spinal fluid, which is fluid around the spinal cord and brain.
Background. Aseptic meningitis is an illness characterized by serous inflammation of the linings of the brain (i.e., meninges), usually with an accompanying mononuclear pleocytosis. Clinical manifestations vary, with headache and fever predominating.
Viral meningitis. Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Viruses probably account for most cases of meningitis and are an important cause of admission to hospital[1]. Symptoms of viral meningitis include headache, dislike of bright lights, neck stiffness, fever and nausea/vomiting.
Viral infection. Overall, viral infection is the most common form of aseptic meningitis, and enteroviruses are the most common viral cause. Enteroviruses are small, nonenveloped RNA viruses of the picornavirus family with various serotypes. More than 50 subtypes have been linked with meningitis.
Meningitis is an inflammation of the tissue that covers the brain and spinal cord. Viral meningitis is the most common type of meningitis. It is often less severe than bacterial meningitis, and most people usually get better on their own (without treatment). However, infants younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe illness.
Overall, viral infection is the most common form of aseptic meningitis, and enteroviruses are the most common viral cause. Enteroviruses are small, nonenveloped RNA viruses of the picornavirus family with various serotypes.