Production of TMA is associated with foods rich in choline, such as organ meats, eggs, certain legumes and saltwater fish. Excess TMA is excreted from the body in sweat, breath, saliva and urine. This study of 353 people with unexplained body odor problems found that 118 (33%) of them had TMAU. Odor associated with TMAU can affect social and work relationships and cause psychological distress. FRIDAY, Sept. 9 (HealthDay News) -- One-third of people with unexplained body odor may actually have an inherited metabolic disorder, a new study finds. This disorder that impairs their ability to metabolize a compound -- produced naturally from many foods -- that has a foul, fishy odor.
1 Fish odor syndrome (trimethylaminuria) is a genetic disease; symptoms are often present from birth. 2  Fish odor syndrome is characterized by an offensive body odor and the smell of rotting fish due to the excessive excretion of trimethylaminuria (TMA) in the urine, sweat, and breath of affected individuals. 1 Fish odor syndrome is characterized by an offensive body odor and the smell of rotting fish due to the excessive excretion of trimethylaminuria (TMA) in the urine, sweat, and breath of affected individuals.
1 Other causes of odor body can occur as a result from an excess of proteins in the diet, or from an increase in bacteria that normally produce trimethylamine in the GI tract (also may make fish odor syndrome worse); liver disease, kidney disease, poor hygiene, gingivitis, and cases of blood-borne halitosis. 1 Fish odor syndrome is characterized by an offensive body odor and the smell of rotting fish due to the excessive excretion of trimethylaminuria (TMA) in the urine, sweat, and breath of affected individuals.
The human body is capable of causing a right stink-from smelly feet, to bad breath, flatulence and many more flower-wilting whiffs. The root causes are usually the bacteria that live on and inside us, and that includes the bad body odor that can sometimes emanate from armpits, belly buttons and other areas. Although people associate sweat with bad body odor, it is in fact odorless. The rank smells are caused by bacteria mixing with the sweat and can sometimes be a sign of an underlying serious medical condition.
6. What you eat affects your body odor. Foods that tend to make you sweat more, such as hot peppers or other spicy foods, might also contribute to body odor. And the aroma of foods such as onions or garlic can be carried in the sweat, making you smell bad. Drinks with caffeine or alcohol may also cause you to sweat more. WebMD Medical Reference.
No one wants offensive body odor, and for most of us, a good deodorant can keep it under control. For some people, though, body odor is a constant problem caused by a medical condition, not an hour on the treadmill or a skipped dose of underarm deodorant. An extreme example is the genetic disorder trimethylaminuria, but this odor is so strong the smell it that can't be tamed by deodorants. Also known as fish malodor syndrome, trimethylaminuria makes a person smell like rotting fish.
Trimethylaminuria (TMAU), as defined by the KIM consortium of endocrinology disorders as fish odor syndrome or fish malodor syndrome, is a rare metabolic disorder that causes a defect in the normal production of the enzyme flavin containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3). 
But sometimes, unusual body odors are a sign of illness. An extreme example is the genetic disorder trimethylaminuria, but this odor is so strong the smell it that can't be tamed by deodorants. Also known as fish malodor syndrome, trimethylaminuria makes a person smell like rotting fish.
Tweet. A bad body odor may not only be due to the odor from the skin. Halitosis (bad breath), offensive groin odor and even bad foot odor are all factors to consider in body odor. In close proximity to others, even odors in concealed areas may be detectable. The causes of foul body odor in general may be due to the following causes 1  : Bromhidrosis (also known as ozochrotia or osmidrosis is mentioned above). 2  Poor hygiene. 3  Tobacco smoking. 4  Alcohol consumption. 5  Topical applications. 6  Foul odor from clothing. 7  Causes of halitosis (bad body odor). 8  Discharge from the penis, vagina, ear, nose.