To answer to “how long does the flu last?” I offer this information. First, there is a period of incubation from the time you are exposed to the flu virus to the time you start suffering the signs and symptoms and that period is approximately 1-5 days. The flu virus definitely works fast!! During this period, a person is contagious from about the day before they started becoming ill to approximately five days after that. The worst and most common symptoms tend to last from anywhere from three to ten days in most healthy adults.
All symptoms of the flu are usually gone in 7 to 10 days, except a cough, which might last up to two weeks. If symptoms are extended beyond this time frame, check with your do … ctor to see if you need an examination. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu s … ymptoms for slightly longer.
If you have flu, you generally start to feel ill within a few days of being infected. You should begin to feel much better within a week or so, although you may feel tired for much longer. You will usually be most infectious from the day your symptoms start and for a further three to seven days. You can catch flu – short for influenza – all year round, but it's especially common in winter, which is why it's also known as seasonal flu. It's not the same as the common cold. Flu is caused by a different group of viruses and the symptoms tend to start more suddenly, be more severe and last longer.
Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu symptoms for slightly longer. All symptoms of the flu are usually gone in 7 to 10 days, although sometimes a cough can last for a couple of weeks after the other symptoms are gone.
The first question you have is probably “How long does flu last?” The average case of the flu lasts for around a week—seven days—but symptoms can linger for up to two weeks. The worst symptoms usually end in three or four days, but some effects, like pain and fatigue, can last for a few more days. 
The typical incubation period for influenza is 1-4 days (average: 2 days). Adults shed influenza virus from the day before symptoms begin through 5-10 days after illness onset. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu s … ymptoms for slightly longer.
The symptoms, severity and infection of flu depend on a person. Usually, the temperature that you acquire with the flu goes down in 48 hours. On the other hand, worst flu symptoms can last more than 4-5 days and complete recovery may take around 10 days or even longer. Note: Flu lasts for 1 to 2 weeks. The answer to the question how long does the flu last is over here. The above listed symptoms might linger for a week. But the gloom and tiredness feeling can persist for few weeks. Many people who suffer from flu feel better within 1 or 2 weeks.
Some people get mild cases of only a few days, o … thers get severe cases of a few weeks or more and are hospitalized. On average, the symptoms of the flu generally last 3 - 10 days but the H1N1/09 virus lasts more typically 4 - 7, although a cough and fatigue may persist for up to 2 weeks. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu s … ymptoms for slightly longer.
Most otherwise healthy individuals actually have the flu virus infection for approximately one to two weeks but the main symptoms described above last from 3-10 days and most of the symptoms will begin to subside in about one week. The flu virus definitely works fast!! During this period, a person is contagious from about the day before they started becoming ill to approximately five days after that. The worst and most common symptoms tend to last from anywhere from three to ten days in most healthy adults.