The different meanings of the name Claudio are: The meaning of the name “Claudio” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Form of: Claudius. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Claudio and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Claudio and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
Meaning of Claudio. English name. In English, the name Claudio means-Lame.. Other origins for the name Claudio include-English, Latin-American, Spanish.The name Claudio is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Lame. Origin-English.
Origin and history [edit]. Claudius (Claudio) was the name of an eminent Roman clan (Gens), the most important member of which were: 1  Appius Claudius Sabinus Inregillensis (fl.500BC), founder of the family. 2  To the Romans he was known as Appius Claudius
The meaning of Claudio has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Claudio are: 1  Latin meaning: Disabled. Form of: Claudius. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Claudio and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Claudio and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
English Meaning: The name Claudio is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Claudio is: Lame. Spanish Meaning: The name Claudio is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Claudio is: Lame. Latin Meaning: The name Claudio is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Claudio is: Has a limp; lame. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Claudio is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Claudio is: The Tragedy of Julius Caesar' A servant to Brutus.
Claudio /clau-dio/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name. Claudio's root is Latin, and Claudio means lame. Claudio is a version, with the suffix-io, of Claude (Latin): Roman clan name. Kreatif forms: Calddio, Claydio. Claudio is a somewhat prominent first name for men (#925 out of 1220, Top 76%) and an even more prominent surname for both adults and children (#6018 out of 150436, Top 4%).
Claudio Name Meaning. Portuguese (Claudio) cláudio And: spanish from the personal, Name Portuguese, Claudio Cláudio, spanish claudio vernacular Forms Of, latin Claudius a roman family name derived ‘from’. claudus lame
The name Claudio is of Latin origin, and it means Lame . It's a name commonly given to boys. 
Personal experiences with the name Claudio: | Edit. Popular name in Brazil and some Spanish-Speaking Latin-American countries. It is my Chilean husband's name, and no classmates every had the same name. It's very hard to pronounce in American English and many people have a hard time with it.. Nicknames for Claudio: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Claudio: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Claudio: | Edit. Claudio Sanchez of the band Coheed and Cambria.