Archaea were only shown to be a separate domain—through analysis of their RNA—in 1977. Many archaea thrive under the extreme conditions of hot sulfur pools or in minerals and rock deep inside the Earth. 
Expert answered|beboythewizkid|Points 1598|User: Which is a characteristic of something in the domain Archaea? A. Multicellular B. Membrane-enclosed organelles C. Unicellular D. Cell nucleus Weegy: C. Unicellular Expert answered|beboythewizkid|Points 1598|User: Which is not a kingdom in the Eukarya domain? A. Archaea B. Protista C. Plantae D. Fungi Weegy: A. Archaea Expert answered|beboythewizkid|Points 1598|. A. They have no similar characteristics. B. They are multicellular, but bacteria are unicellular. C. They are able to perform endosymbiosis, but bacteria are not.
In Biology. The characteristics of domain bacteria is that it is a prokaryote, bacteria can be found in soil, water, and even on and inside the human body. some bacteria causes diseas … es, such as pneumonia. Other bacteria make chemicals that help humans fight disease-causing bacteria. - by yha gurl v.rizzle ! Unicellula. Domain Bacteria is composed of organisms that are much more common than Archaea and live almost anywhere. There are more bacteria in a person's mouth than there are peop … le in the world. Many are decomposers, some are photosynthesizers, and a few cause disease
Weegy: The characteristics of domain bacteria is that it is a prokaryote, bacteria can be found in soil, water, and even on and inside the human body. some bacteria causes diseases, such as pneumonia. [ Other bacteria make chemicals that help humans fight disease-causing bacteria. ]. Get an answer.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A phylogenetic tree based on rRNA data, showing the separation of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. The three-domain system is a biological classification introduced by Carl Woese et al. in 1977 that divides cellular life forms into archaea, bacteria, and eukaryote domains. 
1. eukaryote-an organism with cells characteristic of all life forms except primitive microorganisms such as bacteria; i.e. an organism with `good' or membrane-bound nuclei in its cells. eucaryote. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. 1. (Biology) any member of the Eukarya, a domain of organisms having cells each with a distinct nucleus within which the genetic material is contained. Eukaryotes include protoctists, fungi, plants, and animals. Compare prokaryote.
The Three domains-Some Characteristics: Bacteria: Domain Bacteria is familiar to most people when associated with human or animal disease. However, most bacterial species do not (and cannot) cause disease. Many species even play beneficial roles by producing antibiotics and food. 
Answer by Apex1000. Confidence votes 190. The characteristics of domain bacteria is that it is a prokaryote, bacteria can be found in soil, water, and even on and inside the human body. some bacteria causes diseases, such as pneumonia. Other bacteria make chemicals that help humans fight disease-causing bacteria. - by yha gurl v.rizzle ! Unicellula.