The plate count is linear for E. coli over the range of 30 - 300 CFU on a standard sized Petri dish. Therefore, to ensure that a sample will yield CFU in this range requires dilution of the sample and plating of several dilutions. Typically ten-fold dilutions are used, and the dilution series is plated in replicates of 2 or 3 over the chosen range of dilutions. Estimation of microbial numbers by CFU will, in most cases, undercount the number of living cells present in a sample for these reasons. This is because the counting of CFU assumes that every colony is separate and founded by a single viable microbial cell.
So, if a microliter of milk (1/1000 th of a milliliter) produces 200 colonies on a plate, it can be assumed that a milliliter would have produced 1000 times as many (200,000), and that that corresponds to 200,00 bacteria ber milliliter, which is apparently the upper limit of contamination acceptable. Source(s): Best Answer: After you plate out the milliliter of milk (or a portion of it), the individual bacteria will start to multiply. Each one will form a colony, or a visible circle on the growth medium.
CFU is an acronym (type of abbreviation) commonly seen on products containing probiotics. It stands for colony forming unit and is a measurement of the good bacteria and yeasts inside. A colony forming unit is a bacteria or yeast that is capable of living and reproducing to form a group of the same bacteria or yeasts. Microbiologists use CFU to describe the number of active, live organisms instead of the number of all the bacteria-dead, inactive and alive-in a laboratory sample. Taking a consistent amount of 25 billion, as one-sixteenth of a teaspoon, may be difficult. Another way the information may be presented is CFU/g or /ml, meaning colony forming unit per unit of measure, or how many capable-of-living microbes are in a certain measurement.
If there are 2 x 10 12 bacteria in 200 ml, what is the cell concentration? 2. If you have 175 ml of a crystal violet solution of 5 :g/ml, how much cry stal violet do y ou have?3. If you add 2 ml of a bacterial suspension with a concentration of 2 x 10 9 cells/ml to 13 ml of water, what is the new cell concentration?4. Plate 0.1 ml (as used in the calculation above) from the 10 -8 and 10-7 dilutions. c. We use two dilutions as inocula because the cells may only be 10% viable.That is, if the cells are all alive, the 0.1 ml from the 10 -8 dilution will contain 62 cfu.
CFU ml -1 (or g -1) = (colonies on plate)/(final plate dilution). Frequently, volumes other than one ml are used to inoculate the plate. For example, 0.1 ml is often used when surface-plating, as larger volumes may not be absorbed by the agar. When 1.0 ml of a 10 -4 dilution is plated, the final plate dilution is 10 -4. When 0.1 ml of the same dilution is plated, the final plate dilution is 10 -4 X 10 -1 = 10 -5. The formula becomes: CFU ml -1 (or g -1) = (colonies on plate)/(d x i). Express answers in scientific notation with two significant figures.
Colony forming units, usually abbreviated as CFU, refer to individual colonies of bacteria, yeast or mold. A colony of bacteria or yeast refers to a mass of individual cells of same organism, growing together. For moulds, a colony is a group of hyphae (filaments) of the same mould growing together. Colony forming units are used as a measure of the number of microorganisms present in or on surface of a sample. Colony forming units may be reported as CFU per unit weight, CFU per unit area, or CFU per unit volume depending on the type of sample tested. The colonies that form are counted. CFU is not a measure for individual cells or spores as a colony may be formed from a single or a mass of cells or spores. If you're new here, you may want to subscribe to my RSS feed.
* Colony Forming Unit. * This is the count of isolated colonies on the plate. * CFU is a measure of viable cells in numbers. * Colony forming units may be reported as CFU per unit weight, CFU per unit area, or CFU per unit volume depending on the type of sample tested. 
In microbiology, a colony-forming unit (CFU) is a unit used to estimate the number of viable bacteria or fungal cells in a sample. Viable is defined as the ability to multiply via binary fission under the controlled conditions. Estimation of microbial numbers by CFU will, in most cases, undercount the number of living cells present in a sample for these reasons. This is because the counting of CFU assumes that every colony is separate and founded by a single viable microbial cell.
CFU-GM (or GMP, for granulocyte-macrophage progenitor) is a colony forming unit. It is derived from CFU-GEMM. The GM stands for  granulocyte, monocyte . It is the precursor for monoblasts and myeloblasts. Production is stimulated by granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). 