Garuda is the king of the birds. He mocks the wind with the speed of his flight. As the appointed charger of Vishnu he is venerated by all, including humans. Garuda is the son of Kashyap, a great sage, and Vinata, a daughter of Daksha, a famous king. Garuda is one of the three principal animal deities in the Hindu Mythology that has evolved after the Vedic Period in Indian history. The other two are Ganesha, the elephant-headed son of the goddess Durgha, and Hanuman, the monkey god. It is after Garuda that the Indonesian National Airlines is named.
Garuda. Garuda is the king of the birds and often acts as a messenger between the gods and men. Garuda has the head, wings, talons and beak of an eagle and the body and limbs of a man. Garuda's mother was Vinata and his father Kasyapa, the law-minded grandfather of the world, who did tapas at the banks of the Lamhitya. When Garuda crawled out of his egg, he was very hungry.
The Golden Garuda. The mythical bird GARUDA is one of the four protectors of the secondary directions. He protects against the kind spirit harm that causes illness, calamity and terminal illness. The Garuda Bird also protects against harm brought by the illness #2 star. 
The most important creatures of the Himmapan forest is probably the Garuda. Garuda is the king of birds, half-man and half-bird, the vehicle of Vishnu, a Hindu God. Descriptions of Garuda vary from legend to legend. He’s usually represented as having the head, beak, wings, and talons of an eagle. With the torso like that of human. His face appears white, his wings red, and shiny golden body. 
Garuda. Home -› Animal Deities -› Garuda. GARUDA with the head and wings of eagle and sometimes with the rest of his body like that of a man is called the king of birds and he is also the carrier of god Vishnu. Garuda is the subject of numerous mythological stories in Mahabharata and other Puran
Confidence votes 2.0K. The garuda is a mythical eagle-like bird with spiritual significance in Hinduism and Buddhism. The garuda is powerful and swift, able to fly as soon as it is hatched. With one movement of its wings it can go cross the entire universe. In art the garuda is shown with a snake in its beak. 
The Garuda is a large bird-like creature, or humanoid bird that appears in both Hinduism and Buddhism. Garuda is the mount (vahana) of the Lord Vishnu. Garuda is the Hindu name for the constellation Aquila. The brahminy kite and phoenix are considered to be the contemporary representations of Garuda. The image of Garuda is often used as the charm or amulet to protect the bearer from snake attack and its poison, since the king of birds is an implacable enemy and devourer of serpent. Garudi Vidya is the mantra against snake poison to remove all kinds of evil.