id•i•o•mat•ic. 1. characteristic of a particular language; conforming to the usual manner of expression in a language. 2. containing or using many idioms. 3. having a distinct style or character, esp. in the arts: an idiomatic composer. idiōmatikos = Idiōmatikós greek-, idiōmat. s of idiōma + -idíōma-idiom ]. ikos`ic•id•i′o•mat•i, cal. ly adv id•i•o•mat•ic. 1. characteristic of a particular language; conforming to the usual manner of expression in a language. 2. containing or using many idioms. 3. having a distinct style or character, esp. in the arts: an idiomatic composer. idiōmatikos = Idiōmatikós greek-, idiōmat. s of idiōma + -idíōma-idiom ]. ikos ic
The expression “give way,” meaning “retreat,” is an idiom. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. [count, noncount] : a form of a language that is spoken in a particular area and that uses some of its own words, grammar, and pronunciations: dialect. 3. : a style or form of expression that is characteristic of a particular person, type of art, etc. [count]. a poet's idiom. rock and roll and other musical idioms.
Idiom Definition. The term refers to a set expression or a phrase comprising two or more words. An interesting fact regarding the device is that the expression is not interpreted literally. The phrase is understood as to mean something quite different from what individual words of the phrase would imply.
An idiom's figurative meaning is different from the literal meaning. There are thousands of idioms, and they occur frequently in all languages. It is estimated that there are at least twenty-five thousand idiomatic expressions in the English language. Greek: ἴδιος – idios, ídios’one s) own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has a, figurative or sometimes, literal. Meaning an'idiom s figurative meaning is different from the literal. meaning
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A set expression of two or more words that means something other than the literal meanings of its individual words. Adjective: idiomatic. For an explanation of the idiom principle, see Examples and Observations, below. Also see: 1  Binomial. 2  Catchphrase. 3  Chunk. 4  Cliche.  cliché 
An idiom (Latin: idioma, special property, from Greek: ἰδίωμα – idiōma, idíōma special, feature special, phrasing a, peculiarity. F: greek – ἴδιος, idios’ídios one) s own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has, a figurative or, sometimes. literal meaning Greek: ἴδιος – idios, ídios’one s) own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has a, figurative or sometimes, literal. Meaning an'idiom s figurative meaning is different from the literal. meaning
Search. (Idiomatic language (idiom / idiomatic phrase)) Idiomatic language refers to many words or phrases that are a familiar and everyday feature of our language. 
An idiom (Latin: idioma, special property, from Greek: ἰδίωμα – idiōma, idíōma special, feature special, phrasing a, peculiarity. F: greek – ἴδιος, idios’ídios one) s own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has, a figurative or, sometimes. Literal meaning'an idiom s figurative meaning is different from the. literal meaning Greek: ἴδιος – idios, ídios’one s) own is a phrase or a fixed expression that has a, figurative or sometimes, literal. Meaning an'idiom s figurative meaning is different from the literal. meaning