Best Answer: Here is a tutorial on how to set up a tri-fold brochure in InDesign: http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~jbass/course... Also, InDesign has some preset templates you can use. When you first start up InDesign, on the right side of the Welcome box that pops up is a Create New option. Under there, just select From Template. This will open up Bridge, and will show you the templates to choose from-there is a Brochures folder. 
Select the size and shape you need to create a brochure. 1  Don't worry about the layout or color themes at this stage. 2  You will change those to your preference at a later stage in the process. 3  Clicking each sample brochure will provide details of the specific layout at the right side of the window. 11. Place your own photograph or image file on the first page of your brochure. 1  Click File and then Place on the drop-down menu. 2  A window will launch. 3  Browse to and select the image file you want to place on
Bring in images and create graphics. Your new document is properly set up but it’s blank. Learn how to quickly add existing images to your brochure with InDesign’s Place command. Then learn how to draw and stylize a line to separate and highlight your content. Style your text. Now you have text telling the story of the images in your brochure, but the text is difficult to read and looks rather boring on the page. Learn how to use InDesign’s Type tool to change the font, size, color and alignment of your text.
Design your brochure in the area inside the page and column margins. You can have a line or photo going across one of the folds as long as it does not look awkward or is not hard to read. Place all the photos and text in the proper panels, using the plan you outlined in Step 2. Use the Type tool to make text boxes. Instructions. Gather the information that needs to be in the brochure. Include photos, the company's name, address, phone numbers, website and email addresses, as well as testimonials and a small biography on the company or each staff member. Fold a blank piece of letter-size paper in three.
Type and place your text. Learn how to add text to your document using InDesign’s Type tool. The Type tool makes it simple to type text directly into your document or to copy and paste text you’ve written with a text editor or word processing application. It’s easy to place text anywhere you’d like simply by clicking and dragging. Style your text. Now you have text telling the story of the images in your brochure, but the text is difficult to read and looks rather boring on the page. Learn how to use InDesign’s Type tool to change the font, size, color and alignment of your text.
Create a new two-page Adobe InDesign document with a page size equal to the flat size of your bifold brochure. To print your project on a desktop printer or networked copier/printer, select a standard sheet size such as letter or A4.. Tips. 1  To number the pages in your brochure, use manual instead of automatic numbering. 2  Because each sheet in your project contains two pages, Adobe InDesign's automatic page numbers will display duplicate values on each page's panels.
Select the size and shape you need to create a brochure. 1  Don't worry about the layout or color themes at this stage. 2  Clicking each sample brochure will provide details of the specific layout at the right side of the window. 3  Choose a template that offers the number of pages you want in your brochure. 4  For this example, choose the first template ... 11. Place your own photograph or image file on the first page of your brochure. 1  Click File and then Place on the drop-down menu. 2  A window will launch. 3  Browse to and select the image file you want to place o
InDesign is a desktop-publishing program that allows graphic designers to create not just tri-fold brochures, but also posters, business cards and other print and Web projects. Many designers use InDesign in conjunction with image-editing software, giving the end product the potential to be creative and professional. Instructions. Gather the information that needs to be in the brochure. Include photos, the company's name, address, phone numbers, website and email addresses, as well as testimonials and a small biography on the company or each staff member. Fold a blank piece of letter-size paper in three.
Create Your Document. Let’s create a new document in InDesign. You’ll want to set the document’s width to 10¾ inches, the height to 8¼ inches, and the orientation to Landscape (the icon with the little person image on it’s side). You’ll also want Facing Pages to be turned off and your bleed set to ⅛ inch