This discovery of spontaneous “radioactivity” (a term coined by Becquerel’s doctoral student, Marie Curie) eventually earned Becquerel a Nobel Prize for Physics in 1903, which he shared with Marie Curie and her husband Pierre Curie. Benchmarks: Henri Becquerel discovers radioactivity on February 26, 1896. Credit: A photographic plate made by Henri Becquerel shows the effects of exposure to radioactivity. A metal Maltese cross, placed between the plate and radioactive uranium salt, left a clearly visible shadow on the plate.
The term radioactivity was actually coined by Marie Curie, who together with her husband Pierre, began investigating the phenomenon recently discovered by Becquerel. The Curies extracted uranium from ore and to their surprise, found that the leftover ore showed more activity than the pure uranium. Ernest Rutherford, who did many experiments studying the properties of radioactive decay, named these alpha, beta, and gamma particles, and classified them by their ability to penetrate matter. Rutherford used an apparatus similar to that depicted in Fig.
1898: Radium is discovered by the husband-and-wife team of Pierre and Marie Curie. Sorbonne-bred physicist Pierre Curie had been noodling with crystals and magnetism since the early 1880s. He was a professor at the School of Physics in Paris when one of his students, Marie Sklodowska, caught his eye. 
1 Henri Becquerel discovered the radioactive properties of uranium when he stored a piece with some film and notched an image on the film. 2  Uranium was named a radioactive element because if gives off something that is invisible to the human eye called radiation. Subsequent to Roentgen's discovery of X-rays, in 1896 a French scientist Henri Becquerel was experimenting with a uranium compound. While investigating the properties of fluorescent minerals, it was Becquerel who discovered that certain types of atoms disintegrate by themselves.
1 radioactivity: Discovery of Radioactivity-Discovery of Radioactivity Natural radioactivity was first observed in 1896 by A. H. Becquerel, who ... Since these effects are produced both by salts and by pure uranium, radioactivity must be a property of the element and not of the salt. In 1899 E. Rutherford discovered and named alpha and beta radiation, and in 1900 P. Villard identified gamma radiation.
The Early Discovery of Radioactivity. A Frenchman named Henri Becquerel is said to be the person who discovered radioactivity. In the year 1896, Becquerel got some naturally fluorescent minerals to be used in an in-depth experiment. The purpose of the experiment was to study the properties of x-rays
Henri Becquerel. February 26, 1896, was an overcast day in Paris — and that presented a problem for French physicist Antoine Henri Becquerel. Becquerel was hoping to demonstrate a link between minerals that glow when exposed to strong light and a new type of electromagnetic radiation called X-rays. Benchmarks: Henri Becquerel discovers radioactivity on February 26, 1896. Credit: A photographic plate made by Henri Becquerel shows the effects of exposure to radioactivity. A metal Maltese cross, placed between the plate and radioactive uranium salt, left a clearly visible shadow on the plate.
Becquerel had discovered radioactivity. Becquerel used an apparatus similar to that displayed below to show that the radiation he discovered could not be x-rays. X-rays are neutral and cannot be bent in a magnetic field. The new radiation was bent by the magnetic field so that the radiation must be charged and different than x-rays. Ernest Rutherford, who did many experiments studying the properties of radioactive decay, named these alpha, beta, and gamma particles, and classified them by their ability to penetrate matter. Rutherford used an apparatus similar to that depicted in Fig.
Discovery of Radioactivity. Natural radioactivity was first observed in 1896 by A. H. Becquerel, who discovered that when salts of uranium are brought into the vicinity of an unexposed photographic plate carefully protected from light, the plate becomes exposed. The radiation from uranium salts also causes a charged electroscope to discharge. Since these effects are produced both by salts and by pure uranium, radioactivity must be a property of the element and not of the salt. In 1899 E. Rutherford discovered and named alpha and beta radiation, and in 1900 P. Villard identified gamma radiation.