During a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, stocks no longer produce dividends. Old stocks become worthless and must be exchanged for new shares of stock from the reorganized corporation. Stockholders may receive fewer shares in the new company as in the old company. Most of the time the stocks can no longer trade on The New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq due to their low value. Shares of stock can be sold as over the counter stocks. The stock ticker will have a Q at the end of it to identify it as an OTC stock. An OTC stock does not have to meet the strict SEC listing requirements.
Bankruptcy isn't necessarily the end for a corporation. If a company files Chapter 7, it liquidates its assets and closes its doors. In Chapter 11, however, the company reorganizes, paying off some debt, wiping out the rest, and then rising stronger from the ashes. Chapter 11 rarely works out well for the stockholders, who are at the bottom of the list to get paid off.
Investors should understand that existing shares of common stock in a company filing for Chapter 11 usually are cancelled, even if the company emerges and returns to profitability. Also, keep in mind that stockholders will not receive dividends during a bankruptcy proceeding. In most cases, the stock of a company in Chapter 7 bankruptcy is completely worthless. Bonds, at best, may retain a tiny fraction of their face value. For bonds secured by collateral, repayment is based on the value of that collateral.
But in the case of companies reorganizing in bankruptcy, the apparent bargains when their shares trade at under a dollar are nothing but deadly money traps. This article will explain what happens during a bankruptcy and what becomes of the common stock of the company involved. 
If the company doesn't recall shares, stockholders can continue trading them during bankruptcy, if they find buyers. During Chapter 11, it's unlikely the company will qualify for listing on a major exchange, but the shares can still sell in venues that deal in cheap, over-the-counter stocks. If a company files Chapter 7, it liquidates its assets and closes its doors. In Chapter 11, however, the company reorganizes, paying off some debt, wiping out the rest, and then rising stronger from the ashes. Chapter 11 rarely works out well for the stockholders, who are at the bottom of the list to get paid off.
By Albert Phung AAA |. A: Filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection simply means that a company is on the verge of bankruptcy, but believes that it can once again become successful if it is given an opportunity to reorganize its assets, debts and business affairs. 
Written by James Hirby | Fact checked by The Law Dictionary staff. When a company files Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the company is restructured, not liquidated. In other words, the company remains open and develops a plan to pay its creditors. Unfortunately, corporate stock suffers almost certain death. Most of the time the stocks can no longer trade on The New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq due to their low value. Shares of stock can be sold as over the counter stocks. The stock ticker will have a Q at the end of it to identify it as an OTC stock. An OTC stock does not have to meet the strict SEC listing requirements.
Corporate Bankruptcy. There are two primary types of bankruptcy filings available to businesses, Chapter 7 and Chapter 11. If a company files for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, the company is dissolved and goes out of business, with its assets used to cover debts and other obligations. With Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the company is reorganized with the assistance of the court and continues to operate throughout the bankruptcy proceedings. When assets are liquidated as part of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy filing, stockholders receive the lowest priority in regards to distribution of these liquidated funds. First priority goes to secured creditors such as banks, ensuring that they receive the money owed on mortgage loans and other secured transactions.
By Chizoba Morah AAA |. A: When a company files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the management of the company is still in charge of the daily operations. That said, significant business decisions, especially those pertaining to debt or debt securities, are sent to the bankruptcy court for approval. When a corporation is on the verge of bankruptcy, its stock value will reflect the risk that a Chapter 11 may become a Chapter 7. For example, a company traded at $50 may trade at $2 per share due to bankruptcy speculation. If Chapter 11 is actually filed, the stock price may fall to 10 cents