Desertification is the process by which desert-like conditions develop in regions that have experienced human disturbance such as deforestation, overgrazing, or poorly managed agriculture. 
desertification. 1. The process by which land that has been farmed or inhabited becomes changed into desert, usually through climatic change or overfarming. 2. Fertile land becoming unproductive desert, often due to overcropping and overgrazing. Actualites Eecrit par Maria Souinida Sous l'egide du Haut commissariat aux eaux et forets et a la lutte contre la.
The transformation of land once suitable for agriculture into desert. Desertification can result from climate change or from human practices such as cutting down forests or allowing too many animals to graze in a particular area. Actualites Eecrit par Maria Souinida Sous l'egide du Haut commissariat aux eaux et forets et a la lutte contre la.
Desertification can result from poorly managed human intervention in the savannah. Areas of desert are created by the destruction of natural vegetation. Causes of desertification include: 1  Removal of vegetation cover. 2  Overgrazing. 3  Uncontrolled fuel wood collection. 4  Unsustainable farming practice and loss in fertility of soil. 5  Excessive tree felling. 
Desertification is the persistent degradation of dryland ecosystems by variations in climate and human activities. Home to a third of the human population in 2000, drylands occupy nearly half of Earth’s land area. 
Geographical Extent of Desertification Desertification is occurring in drylands all over the world. Estimates for total global dryland area affected by desertification vary significantly, depending on the calculation method and on the type of land degradation included in the estimate (C22.4.1). 
Desertification is a type of land degradation in which a relatively dry land region becomes increasingly arid, typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife. Desertification often causes rural lands to become unable to support the same sized populations that previously lived there. This results in mass migrations out of rural areas and into urban areas, particularly in Africa.
• DESERTIFICATION (noun). The noun DESERTIFICATION has 1 sense: 1. the gradual transformation of habitable land into desert; is usually caused by climate change or by destructive use of the land. Familiarity information: DESERTIFICATION used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. T
Geography is the science of place and space. As geography major, you will learn to uniquely link social science theories and methods with natural science ideas and methods and incorporate the use of cutting edge technology to help us understand the world in which we live. 
desertification-the gradual transformation of habitable land into desert; is usually caused by climate change or by destructive use of the land; the dust storms in Korea are the result of rapid desertification in China. Actualites Eecrit par Maria Souinida Sous l'egide du Haut commissariat aux eaux et forets et a la lutte contre la.