If you used your Gmail address as the email address for your Microsoft Account, you will automatically be prompted to add the Google account to Windows 8. If you used a different email provider for your Microsoft Account then click on the Google option under the Add your email accounts section. To add Gmail to Windows 8, click on the Mail tile in the Windows 8 Start Screen. This will launch the Mail app, which you will be using to set up your Gmail account.
Make a browser bookmark. Drag the bookmark to your desktop. It won't have the GMail icon, but will probably have your browser's icon, however it will be a serviceable link. If you use Chrome, you can enable Application shortcuts and have a GMail icon on your desktop, your start menu or in your taskbar-or in all three
Instructions. Log in to your Gmail account, select “Settings,” click on the “Forwarding and POP/IMAP” tab, choose “Enable POP for all mail,” and then click on the “Save settings” button. The “Enable POP for all mail” allows you to download all your Gmail messages to your computer once you configure your Gmail with Outlook 2007. One email program Gmail users can use on their PC to access their Gmail account is Microsoft Outlook 2007. Log in to your Gmail account, select “Settings,” click on the “Forwarding and POP/IMAP” tab, choose “Enable POP for all mail,” and then click on the “Save settings” button.
Step 1. Open your Internet browser and navigate to the Google website, then access your Gmail account. Step 2. Click on the Restore Down button located on the top-right corner of the browser, between the X and the - button to provide easier access to the desktop. Step 3. Click on the URL in the address bar. Click on the Web Document tab and then choose the Change Icon button. Step 7. Scroll through the system icons and choose one. If you have downloaded or created a custom icon, click the Browse button and locate the saved icon on the hard drive.
how do i get the gmail icon on my desktop once i add gmail as a shortcut. clouscot. 1/13/09 11:07 AM. i tried adding the g mail shortcut to my desktop but all that comes up is this bad picture of Google or a Google icon. I want the G MAIL icon. Re: how do i get the gmail icon on my desktop once i add gmail as a shortcut. martuski. 7/16/10 1:03 AM. I tried these and nothing worked. Maybe it is a Windows 7 glitch. I did load Google Desktop, and it worked in a round about manner, but there was still not exactly a short cut.
The first thing that you have to do is enable IMAP on your Gmail account. To do so, launch Internet Explorer and sign in to your Gmail account as you normally would. Once you do, click the Settings link at the very top of the Gmail main page. When you get to the Settings page, select the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab. Then, select the Enable IMAP option button, as shown in Figure A, and click the Save Changes button. To configure Windows Mail to access Gmail, you'll launch Windows Mail from the Start | All Programs menu. From Gmail's Settings page, you must enable IMAP. The second thing that you should do is perform some housekeeping in your Gmail account. You should clear out the Spam and Junk E-mail folders. You'll then want to empty the Trash.
The Gmail gadget is one of the thing that you can install on your desktop for easy access to your Gmail account. You don’t really get the full-fledged Gmail, but it will enable you to read your emails and star it without logging on in the browser. 