The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day. Creatinine is transported through the bloodstream to the kidneys.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
Results. Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure creatinine levels in your blood and urine to give information about how well your kidneys are working. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours. A creatinine clearance test gives better information than a blood creatinine test on how well your kidneys are working. A creatinine clearance test is done on both a blood sample and on a sample of urine collected over 24 hours (24-hour urine sample).
Results. Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure creatinine levels in your blood and urine. These tests give information about how well your kidneys are working. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours. A creatinine clearance test measures how well creatinine is removed from your blood by your kidneys. This test gives better information than a blood creatinine test on how well your kidneys are working. The test is done on both a blood sample and on a sample of urine collected over 24 hours.
Creatinine is a chemical waste molecule that is generated from muscle metabolism. Creatinine is produced from creatine, a molecule of major importance for energy production in muscles. Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day. Creatinine is transported through the bloodstream to the kidneys.
What Do High Creatinine Levels Mean. High creatinine means that the concentration of creatinine in the blood is higher than the normal range and this condition lasts for quite long time. The normal creatinine for men is 0.7-1.2 and it is 0.5-1.0 for women. Creatinine in the blood mainly comes from metabolism of muscles and meat products we eat. That is why men have higher creatinine then women because they usually have more muscle masses.
So a number that is outside the normal range here may still be normal for you. Blood creatinine: Men: 0.6-1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or 53-106 micromoles per liter (mcmol/L). Women: 0.5-1.1 mg/dL or 44-97 mcmol/L. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours. This value is the amount of blood cleared of creatinine per minute, based on your body size.
Results. Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure creatinine levels in your blood and urine. These tests give information about how well your kidneys are working. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours. This value is the amount of blood cleared of creatinine per minute, based on your body size.
Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure the level of the waste product creatinine in your blood and urine. These tests tell how well your kidneys are working. The substance creatine is formed when food is changed into energy through a process called metabolism. A creatinine clearance test gives better information than a blood creatinine test on how well your kidneys are working. A creatinine clearance test is done on both a blood sample and on a sample of urine collected over 24 hours (24-hour urine sample).
The range for a normal test result depends on your age and gender. For adults younger than 40, normal levels are typically in the range of: 107 to 139 mL/min or 1.78 to 2.32 mL/s (SI units) for men. 87 to 107 mL/min or 1.45 to 1.78 mL/s (SI units) for women. Creatinine clearance rates go down as you age. For every decade after age 40, a normal test result is 6.5 mL/min less than the numbers above. For newborns, the normal range is 40 to 65 mL/min. An abnormal creatinine clearance rate may mean you have a problem with your kidneys. Or it may mean a problem somewhere else in your body is affecting blood flow to the kidneys. Healthy kidneys remove creatinine from the blood. It then passes out of your body through urine. The creatinine clearance test usually compares the creatinine level in a 24-hour urine sample with the creatinine level in your blood. This tells your doctor how well your kidneys are working.