The weather on the planet Neptune is characterized by extremely dynamic storm systems. The winds around Neptune’s equator blow at a rate of almost 1,500 feet (450 m) per second, or just over 1,000 miles (1,600 km) per hour, making the smallest gas giant also one of the windiest.
A Windy, Cold Blue World. Neptune is the eighth planet from the Sun and, at this distance, the Sun looks a whole lot like the other stars that would be visible from this planet. Actually, there are times when Neptune is the furthest planet from the Sun.
1 This planet is known as being a “gas giant”. 2  The other planets that are classed as gas giants are Jupiter, Neptune and Uranus. 3  Saturn is the second largest planet in our solar system. 4  The rings of Saturn are made of chunks of rock and ice.
Neptune, the eighth planet from the sun, is one of four “gas giants.” Similar in composition to Uranus, the deep blue color of Neptune comes from the methane present in its atmosphere. Like Uranus, Neptune has a system of rings.
Neptune is so far away, it's impossible to see without a telescope. Because Pluto has such a weird orbit, Neptune is actually the furthest planet from the sun for 20 years out of every 248 Earth years. Pluto moved out of the way for Neptune at the end of the 20th century.
1 The other planets that are classed as gas giants are Jupiter, Neptune and Uranus. 2  Saturn is the second largest planet in our solar system. 3  The rings of Saturn are made of chunks of rock and ice. 4  If you was driving at 75 miles (121 km) per hour, it would take 258 days to drive around one of Saturn’s rings.
Name: _______________________ Neptune by Cynthia Sherwood Neptune is the eighth planet from the sun and the one that’s the farthest away. (Pluto is even farther, but it doesn’t count since most astronomers no longer consider it a planet.) Neptune is a cold, dark place that’s the smallest of the gas giants.
Neptune is the most distant planet in our solar system located 4.5 billion Km from the Sun. Named after the God of the Sea, Neptune is the fourth largest Planet and like the other Gas Giants is made up mostly of hydrogen, helium and methane.
Neptune hasn't made an entire circle around the sun since it was discovered! Learn why the planet is such a deep blue and more! Neptune is the second furthest planet from the sun. It's the eighth one out, if you're counting.