soot. A black, powdery compound consisting mainly of carbon. Soot forms through the incomplete combustion of wood, coal, oil, or other materials. - Etymologically, something that sits on something else—like film settling on a surface.
The noun SOOT has 1 sense: 1. a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink. Familiarity information: SOOT used as a noun is very rare. • SOOT (verb). The verb SOOT has 1 sense: 1. coat with soot. Familiarity information: SOOT used as a verb is very rare.
Full Definition of SOOT. : a black substance formed by combustion or separated from fuel during combustion, rising in fine particles, and adhering to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke; especially: the fine powder consisting chiefly of carbon that colors smoke. See soot defined for English-language learners
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: soot (Noun). Fine black or dull brown particles of amorphous carbon and tar, produced by the incomplete combustion of coal, oil etc. Origin: sot, from sōtan, a derivation of sitjanan (whence also English sit). Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: carbon black, lampblack, soot, smut, crock (verb). a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink. soot (verb). coat with soot.
The formation of soot is a complex process, an evolution of matter in which a number of molecules undergo many chemical and physical reactions within a few milliseconds. Soot is a powder-like form of amorphous carbon. Gas-phase soot contains polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). The PAHs in soot are known mutagens and are classified as a known human carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). The formation of soot depends strongly on the fuel composition. The rank ordering of sooting tendency of fuel components is: naphthalenes → benzenes → aliphatics. However, the order of sooting tendencies of the aliphatics (alkanes, alkenes, and alkynes) varies dramatically depending on the flame type.
soot. n. The fine black particles, chiefly composed of carbon, produced by incomplete combustion of coal, oil, wood, or other fuels. [Middle English, from Old English. ; see sed-in Indo-European roots .]. Soot forms through the incomplete combustion of wood, coal, oil, or other materials. - Etymologically, something that sits on something else—like film settling on a surface.
soot. 1. a black carbonaceous substance produced during incomplete combustion of coal, wood, oil, etc., rising in fine particles that adhere to and blacken surfaces on contact. 2. to mark, cover, or treat with soot. Soot forms through the incomplete combustion of wood, coal, oil, or other materials. - Etymologically, something that sits on something else—like film settling on a surface.
In fact, soot is anything but simple and is certainly not harmless. Soot includes the fine black particles, chiefly composed of carbon, produced by incomplete combustion of coal, oil, wood, or other fuels. Soot can consist of acids, chemicals, metals, soils, and dust. The common trait of soot particles is that they are extremely tiny – 2.5 micrometers or smaller in diameter. This is smaller than dust and mold, and is about 1/30 the diameter of a human hair. This combination – extremely small size and toxic composition – is what makes soot so dangerou
Soot is a byproduct of the incomplete burning of organic (carbon-containing) materials, such as wood, fuel oil, plastics, and household refuse. The fine black or brown powder that makes up soot may contain a number of carcinogens, including arsenic, cadmium, and chromium. 
Soot as an airborne contaminant in the environment has many different sources, all of which are results of some form of pyrolysis. The formation of soot depends strongly on the fuel composition. The rank ordering of sooting tendency of fuel components is: naphthalenes → benzenes → aliphatics. However, the order of sooting tendencies of the aliphatics (alkanes, alkenes, and alkynes) varies dramatically depending on the flame type.