Usually it takes a few hours for the swelling to go down. If you  have a large local reaction to the stinger, the swelling will  increase for the next 1 or 2 days but will s … ubside after the course  of about a week. If nothing is done at all it can take several hours to days. however if you use some allergy medication (I recommend Benadryl) the swelling should go down in less than 2 hours. If swelling remains after taking medication for more than 4 hours I would go to a clinic to confirm that there is no infection or minor allergy
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. How long it takes swelling to go down after a bee or wasp sting varies greatly from person to person, as well as from insect to insect. For example, wasp stings generally take longer than bee stings to subside in swelling. If you are allergic to one and not the other, though, it may take much longer. Usually it takes a few hours for the swelling to go down. If you  have a large local reaction to the stinger, the swelling will  increase for the next 1 or 2 days but will s … ubside after the course  of about a week. 24 people found this useful. Pizzaparty23688.
Bee; wasp stings can actually continue to swell after the 24 hour mark. Apply ice in 10 min. Increments (10 on/10 off). If you have swelling that is greater than 4 inches (for one sting) - and it isn't resolving consider medical attention. Swelling with wasp; bee stings can sometimes continue for over 24 hours. If a single sting has marked swelling (greater than 4 inches or size of baseball) which is not reducing than medical evaluation is encouraged. In the mean time apply ice for 10 minute intervals (10 on and then 10 off). ...Read more.
Health related question in topics Conditions Illness .We found some answers as below for this question How long does it take for the swelling of a bee sting to go down,you can compare them. Normal swelling from a bee sting may last up to a few days. During the days following a stinging incident, the wound may itch. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-it-take-for-the-swelling-of-a-bee-sting-to-go-down ]. More Answers to  How long does it take for the swelling of a bee sting to go down . 
3---Get tender relief with meat tenderizer. Make a paste with meat tenderizer and water and apply it to the sting. The reason meat tenderizer works is because insect bites and stings are made up of protein and meat tenderizer breaks down this protein. 5---Try baking soda. Some doctors say baking soda can help ease bee sting pain. an allergist in Asheville, North Carolina, recommends applying a paste of baking soda and water directly on the sting for 15 or 20 minutes. 6---Kill the sting with Sting-Kill. Another towelette product that works well is called Sting-Kill
Get help from a doctor now ›. The depends on how: Long it has been; the degree of swelling. Swelling with wasp; bee stings can sometimes continue for over 24 hours. If a single sting has marked swelling (greater than 4 inches or size of baseball) which is not reducing than medical evaluation is encouraged. In the mean time apply ice for 10 minute intervals (10 on and then 10 off). ...Read more.
After the area is cleaned, many people use meat tenderizer to reduce the swelling from wasp stings. A thick paste of meat tenderizer and water can be applied to the area and left on for about 30 minutes, or until it dries. 