Check the ewe's teats to make sure they are open and to make sure the ewe has milk. Dip the lamb's navel in iodine to prevent a navel infection. The next step in the birth process is the appearance of the head. Most of the time a thin membrane will still cover the lamb. This membrane should break as the lamb is born.
Ewes will cycle every 16 to 17 days until they are bred or they reach the anestrous period. They are normally receptive to the ram for 24 to 48 hours. Once fertilization occurs, the ewe will give birth from 144 to 152 days after mating.
Thus, for some producers, it is commonplace to breed well-grown ewe lambs when they are 7 to 9 months of age. Other producers wait until their ewes are 18 months old before breeding them to lamb as 2 year olds. Different breeds of sheep reach puberty (sexually maturity) at different ages.
The ewe's gestation period is from 144 to 151 days, with an average of 147 days. The date that the first lambing is to be expected can be calculated from the date of the first exposure of the ewes to a fertile ram. Before lambing starts, a kit of lambing aids should be prepared.
Lambing. Ewes generally lamb around 145 days after mating. Some of course will be earlier & some later, but 145 days is the norm. For a successful lambing, ewes need to receive good nutrition, particularly in the last month of pregnancy when the lamb will approximately double in size.
It is more efficient to feed the lamb directly than to feed a ewe that produces milk that a lamb consumes. Early weaning generally takes place when lambs are 60 days old. Lambs should weigh at least 45 pounds at this time. Most ewes peak in their milk production around three to four weeks after the lambs are born.
All lambs should nurse or be tube fed colostrum within 6 - 8 hours of birth. In the first 24 hours of life, each lamb should receive about one litre of colostrum. After 36 hours the lamb is unable to absorb any more antibody from the
The average gestation period of a sheep is 147 days, but it can range from 138 to 159. There are breed differences in gestation length, so breeds that mature earlier will have shorter pregnancies than later maturing breeds. If the ewe is pregnant with more than one lamb, they will also tend to have a shorter pregnancy.