People have been intrigued by the origin of the name Dasani. The name Dasani was chosen when consumer testing showed the name was relaxing and suggested pureness and replenishment. A company exec... Read More ». Dasani water, a product of the Coca Cola Company, is bottled using processed water from the municipal water supply of the city where the bottling plant is located. Before bottling, Dasani water is ... Read More ». http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/2008104.
(viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. Your name of Dasani has made you a very kind, thoughtful, and sociable person. Because of your friendly and diplomatic qualities, you make friends easily. 
In 2010, in a bid to counteract falling sales and bans on bottled water, The Coca-Cola Company announced they would be distributing Dasani water in new packaging made of 30% plant based materials. The brand was made available in Quebec shortly afterwards, in April 2001. There are five common Dasani bottle sizes sold in Canada: 330 mL, 500mL, 591 mL, 1 L, and 1.5 L. Bottles are sold individually and in packs of 6, 12, and 24. The first source of Dasani water in Canada was Calgary, Alberta.
Dasani (pronounced /dəˈsɑːni/) is a brand of bottled water from the Coca-Cola company, launched in 1993, after the success of Aquafina (produced by Coca-Cola-rival PepsiCo). After all, Dasani is just heavily-advertised tap water. More than a tragedy — a scandal « BuzzMachine. (Pepsi-Cola makes Aquafina, the No. 1 bottled water; Coke makes Dasani, which is closing the gap.). We’ll sell you water… and then sell you a bridge
Dasani is Coca-Cola's bottled water brand that apparently sells well in some markets. By using a new filteration technique similar to that used in cell function or dialysis the water is cleaned and minerals added. 
Aquafina. Aquafina is a brand of purified bottled water products produced by PepsiCo, consisting of both unflavored and flavored water. The Aquafina brand name is also licensed for use on multiple skin care products, including lip balm and wrinkle cream. It was first distributed in Wichita, Kansas in 1994, before becoming more widely sold across the United States, Spain, Canada, Lebanon, Turkey, the GCC countries, Iran, Egypt, Vietnam, Pakistan and India to compete with The Coca-Cola Company's Dasani and Dr. Pepper Snapple's Deja Blue.
(March 2012). Dasani /dəˈsaːni/ is a brand of bottled water from The Coca-Cola Company, launched in 1999, after the success of Aquafina (produced by Coca-Cola-rival PepsiCo). It is one of many brands of Coca-Cola bottled water sold around the world. The brand was made available in Quebec shortly afterwards, in April 2001. There are five common Dasani bottle sizes sold in Canada: 330 mL, 500mL, 591 mL, 1 L, and 1.5 L. Bottles are sold individually and in packs of 6, 12, and 24. The first source of Dasani water in Canada was Calgary, Alberta.
Examples. After all, Dasani is just heavily-advertised tap water. More than a tragedy — a scandal « BuzzMachine. (Pepsi-Cola makes Aquafina, the No. 1 bottled water; Coke makes Dasani, which is closing the gap.). We’ll sell you water… and then sell you a bridge « BuzzMachine. Coca-Cola recalled Dasani in the United Kingdom after they