Plate Tectonics-Formidable Forces. Plate tectonics is the fundamental mechanism that drives geological processes in the geosphere. Plate tectonic theory is based on an understanding of the Earth's internal structure, the different types of tectonic plates and plate boundaries, and the driving forces of plate movements. (Figure 4a): occur where two lithospheric plates move away from each other, driven by magma rising from deep within the mantle. Volcanic activity at a divergent plate boundary creates new lithosphere along what is known as a spreading ridge. Figure 4b: Generalised structure of a convergent plate boundary.
1 Earthquakes: the sudden displacement of rocks along faults, triggered by plate movements, or by the movement of magma upwards in the crust, causes violent shaking of the Earth (Figure 5). 2  Folding and Faulting: movement of the lithospheric plates bends and fractures the crust, creating folds and faults in the rocks. (Figure 4a): occur where two lithospheric plates move away from each other, driven by magma rising from deep within the mantle. Volcanic activity at a divergent plate boundary creates new lithosphere along what is known as a spreading ridge. Figure 4b: Generalised structure of a convergent plate boundary.
Scientists noticed that the earthquake epicenters were located along the mid-ocean ridges, trenches and large faults that mark the edges of large slabs of Earth's lithosphere (Figure 6.13). They named these large slabs of lithosphere plates. The movements of the plates were then termed plate tectonics. Melting of the subducting plate causes volcanic activity and earthquakes. When two oceanic plates converge, the older, denser plate will sink beneath the other plate and plunge into the mantle. As the plate is pushed deeper into the mantle, it melts, which forms magma.
The geoscientific community accepted plate-tectonic theory after seafloor spreading was validated in the late 1950s and early 1960s. The lithosphere, which is the rigid outermost shell of a planet (the crust and upper mantle), is broken up into tectonic plates. Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually.
From seismic and other geophysical evidence and laboratory experiments, scientists generally agree with Harry Hess' theory that the plate-driving force is the slow movement of hot, softened mantle that lies below the rigid plates. 
At these mid-ocean ridges, lava rises, erupts, and cools. Magma cools more slowly beneath the lava mostly forming the igneous intrusive rock gabbro. The entire ridge system, then, is igneous. Earthquakes are also common at mid-ocean ridges since the movement of magma and oceanic crust result in crustal shaking. Melting of the subducting plate causes volcanic activity and earthquakes. When two oceanic plates converge, the older, denser plate will sink beneath the other plate and plunge into the mantle. As the plate is pushed deeper into the mantle, it melts, which forms magma.
Plate movement has three theories. They are 1. Divergent where they more away from each other, 2. Convergent where they move towards each other, and the 3rd theory or movement … is transform, where the movements are side by side. Answered. In Volcano
They are 1. Divergent where they more away from each other, 2. Convergent where they move towards each other, and the 3rd theory or movement … is transform, where the movements are side by side. Plate movement has three theories. They are 1. Divergent where they more away from each other, 2. Convergent where they move towards each other, and the 3rd theory or movement … is transform, where the movements are side by side. Answered. In Volcanoes.
A mantle plume is a mechanism proposed in 1971 to explain volcanic regions of the earth that were not thought to be explicable by the then-new theory of plate tectonics. Some such volcanic regions lie far from tectonic plate boundaries, for example, Hawaii. 