Avoid bedtime intake: For relief of gerd, avoid spicy & greasy foods, tomato-foods, mints, alcohol, tobacco, caffeine, chocolate, late night meals (& yes even vitamins!) before bed. Doctor can distinguish acid versus non-acid causes of reflux & rule out motility problems of the esophagus & stomach. 
Heartburn Causes. Heartburn is actually a symptom of GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease), and is caused by acid refluxing back into the esophagus. Risk factors include those that increase the production of acid in the stomach, as well as structural problems that allow acid reflux into the esophagus.
Medicines That Can Cause Heartburn. Many prescription and nonprescription medicines can cause heartburn. A few examples are: 1  Aspirin, ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), and naproxen (such as Aleve). 2  Antibiotics. 3  Steroids, such as prednisone. 4  Some heart medicines. 
This liquid then rises into the esophagus. It causes pains in the chest and a burning sensation in the chest and abdomen, thus the term heartburn. Food is one of the obvious causes of heartburn, but there are other causes as well. One of these other causes in some people is vitamin supplements. While it is possible for some vitamins to cause heartburn, this does not occur in everyone that takes vitamins. The first of the vitamins to cause heartburn is vitamin C. Vitamin C is a naturally acidic nutrient and is even more acidic for people who are sensitive to or allergic to the supplement. Vitamin B is another supplement that has been shown to possibly contribute to or cause heartburn in some individuals.
Medications and dietary supplements that can irritate your esophagus and cause heartburn pain include: 1  Antibiotics, such as tetracycline. 2  Bisphosphonates taken orally, such as alendronate (Fosamax), ibandronate (Boniva) and risedronate (Actonel). 3  Iron supplements. Medications and dietary supplements that can increase acid reflux and worsen GERD include: 1  Anticholinergics, such as oxybutynin (Ditropan XL), prescribed for overactive bladder and irritable bowel syndrome.
by Amanda Gardner. If you have heartburn, pills can be your best friend and worst enemy. Some pills (such as antacids) soothe the painful burning you experience after downing an order of buffalo wings or drinking one too many glasses of wine. Other pillsthe ones you take for health conditions that are not related to heartburncan make the pain worse or even trigger heartburn in the first place.
I've heard that some medications can aggravate the symptoms of GERD. Certain medications and dietary supplements can irritate the lining of your esophagus, causing heartburn pain, and others can increase the severity of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is a chronic condition in which stomach acid flows back (refluxes) into your esophagus. Medications and dietary supplements that can increase acid reflux and worsen GERD include: 1  Anticholinergics, such as oxybutynin (Ditropan XL), prescribed for overactive bladder and irritable bowel syndrome.
Heartburn is an annoyance and a discomfort, but it can also be a sign of a serious medical condition or vitamin deficiency. Heartburn is a condition that leaves people uncomfortable, uneasy and sometimes fearful to eat or drink, usually for several minutes or several hours. The first of the vitamins to cause heartburn is vitamin C. Vitamin C is a naturally acidic nutrient and is even more acidic for people who are sensitive to or allergic to the supplement. Vitamin B is another supplement that has been shown to possibly contribute to or cause heartburn in some individuals.
Several studies have shown that enteric-coated peppermint capsules can help treat symptoms of IBS, including pain, bloating, gas, and diarrhea. (Enteric-coated capsules keep peppermint oil from being released in the stomach, which can cause heartburn and indigestion.) However, a few studies have shown no effect. One study examined 57 people with IBS who received either enteric-coated peppermint capsules or placebo twice a day for 4 weeks.
If you take any prescription or over-the-counter medications, you may have side effects. And one of them can be heartburn -- that burning in your chest or throat that happens when acid flows up from your stomach. Don’t assume you’ll just have to live with it. 3. Pay attention to when and how you take the drug. Some medications and supplements should be taken right after a meal to make heartburn less likely. Others should be taken on an empty stomach. If you are unsure, ask your doctor or pharmacist when to take each of your medications.