Ability To Exert Force. If by strongest you mean “ability to exert a force on an external object”, then a human’s strongest muscle is his or her ‘ masseter ‘ muscle. The masseter muscle is a thick muscle in the cheek and is located at the back of the jaw. It’s responsible for opening and closing your jaw during chewing
The largest muscle in the human body is the gluteus maximus. The gluteus maximus is located in your buttocks and its size directly corresponds to the important role it has in your everyday life. It’s main function is to keep your body erect and straight. If by strongest you mean “ability to exert a force on an external object”, then a human’s strongest muscle is his or her ‘ masseter ‘ muscle. The masseter muscle is a thick muscle in the cheek and is located at the back of the jaw. It’s responsible for opening and closing your jaw during chewing
The strongest skeletal muscle is usually said to be the Masseter, a relatively small and squarish muscle that creates movement at the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) or, in lay terms, the jaw. To be more specific, the masseter is considered the strongest muscle for its size. By this definition, the strongest muscle of the body is usually said to be the quadriceps femoris or the gluteus maximus.A shorter muscle will be stronger pound for pound (i.e., by weight) than a longer muscle.
The gluteus maximus is the largest muscle in the human body. It is large and powerful because it has the job of keeping the trunk of the body in an erect posture. It is the chief antigravity muscle that aids in walking up stairs. Masseter. The strongest muscle based on its weight is the masseter. With all muscles of the jaw working together it can close the teeth with a force as great as 55 pounds (25 kilograms) on the incisors or 200 pounds (90.7 kilograms) on the molars. Muscles of the Uterus. The uterus sits in the lower pelvic region
The strongest muscle IN the body tongue ON your body Gluteus Maximus (Butt-Bottom) Then again the strongest muscle has to be the one that is used and trained the most. If you’re sitting round all day your heart does not have to work hard because it is happy pumping blood at the rested rate. Report Abuse. The strongest muscle of the body is in your behind; it's also called the gluteus maximus (a muscle in the buttocks) The tongue is also one of the strongest muscles in the body. In ordinary parlance, muscular strength usually refers to the ability to exert a force on an external object—for example, lifting a weight
It's not the tongue, it's made up of group of 16 muscles, and while it's a cool little thing it's not the strongest in any category. The strongest muscle depends on what you mean by strongest, for pure force generation it's the gluteus maximus, simply because it is the largest muscle in the body. Meaning, if you were to dissect any muscle from the body, the gluteus maximus would lift the most weight.
Yet another answer to this question could be the heart. While the heart is not skeletal muscle tissue, like the muscles that move your bones, it is still a muscle. The heart is comprised of a kind of tissue called cardiac muscle tissue. Because your heart is constantly beating, it is a very strong muscle. By this definition, the strongest muscle of the body is usually said to be the quadriceps femoris or the gluteus maximus.A shorter muscle will be stronger pound for pound (i.e., by weight) than a longer muscle.