Oysters fall into this category. One medium raw oyster contains 5 grams of protein. The recommended daily intake is 56 grams for men and 46 grams for women. Oysters also make good options if you are following a low-carb diet. A medium-sized oyster has only 2 grams of carbs. These shellfish are commonly served raw as appetizers, smoked and canned, or breaded and deep-fried. In all these preparations, oysters offer several important nutrients the body needs. Choosing the right variety will help you reap the mollusk's benefits without a lot of added fat and calories.
Oysters are a low-fat, high-protein food that is rich in several important nutrients. However, uncooked seafood can be vulnerable to the Vibrio vulnificus bacteria. You can minimize -- although not completely eliminate -- your risk of becoming infected by only eating legally harvested oysters. Oysters are high in several extremely beneficial vitamins and minerals, including iron, zinc, and B vitamins, especially B-12. Most foods, whether meat, fish, fruits or vegetables, lose a significant percentage of the beneficial vitamins they contain during the cooking process.
Omega 3 Fatty Acids. Oysters are loaded with Omega 3 Fatty Acids which are good for your joints, skin, vision, brain, heart, and helps lower bad cholesterol (LDL) levels. 100g (about 6 medium oysters) have 740mg of Omega 3 Fatty Acids. The average recommended daily value is 1000mg for women and 600mg for men. A serving of oysters contains more Zinc than any other food per serving (76.7mg in 6 medium oysters!). This is more than 100% of the suggested daily amount of 8-11mg. Zinc helps maintain a healthy immune system which is needed for fighting illness and healing wounds. It also helps maintain your sense of taste and smell.
Oysters have a place in a healthy diet plan. Oysters belong to the mollusk family, along with clams, mussels and scallops. These shellfish are commonly served raw as appetizers, smoked and canned, or breaded and deep-fried. In all these preparations, oysters offer several important nutrients the body needs. Choosing the right variety will help you reap the mollusk's benefits without a lot of added fat and calories.
Oysters come loaded with essential minerals. A single 6-ounce portion of oysters contains 28 milligrams of zinc, 9 milligrams of iron and 131 micrograms of selenium -- significantly more than the amount you need each day to maintain your health. Oysters have long made up a part of the American diet -- they've been consumed in Maine for thousands of years, according to the Maine Sea Grant -- and they have a place in a balanced meal plan. They contain several nutrients, especially minerals, that your body needs for good health.
Eating oysters benefits your health by boosting your vitamin intake. A serving of oysters provides a considerable amount of vitamin C -- 13.6 milligrams, which is 15 percent of the recommended daily intake for men and 18 percent for women. Oysters have long made up a part of the American diet -- they've been consumed in Maine for thousands of years, according to the Maine Sea Grant -- and they have a place in a balanced meal plan. They contain several nutrients, especially minerals, that your body needs for good health.
Pacific Oysters are naturally one of the most nutritionally well balanced of foods. They are low in fat, calories and cholesterol in addition to being high in protein, iron, omega 3 fatty acids, calcium, zinc and vitamin C. A serving of oysters contains more Zinc than any other food per serving (76.7mg in 6 medium oysters!). This is more than 100% of the suggested daily amount of 8-11mg. Zinc helps maintain a healthy immune system which is needed for fighting illness and healing wounds. It also helps maintain your sense of taste and smell.
Oysters are mollusks that are often eaten raw or cooked. They are a very nutritious food, with lots of protein, vitamins and minerals! They have a longer shelf life than some shellfish, you can keep them up to 4 weeks if you buy them fresh and keep them refrigerated out of water in 100% humidity. 
3. Oysters can help you lose weight! They are low in calories, low in fat and a good source of protein which makes you feel fuller after eating. 4. Oysters are a good source of other essential nutrients. These include vitamins A, E, and C, zinc, iron, calcium, selenium, and vitamin B12. 5. Oysters can help improve your energy. They are a good source of iron which helps the body transport oxygen to individual cells giving you more energy.