It forms a framework for the movement of organelles around the cytoplasm-most of the organelles are attached to the cytoskeleton. The network consists of protein microfilaments, intermediate filaments, and microtubules. The cytoskeleton provides an important structural framework for: 1  Cell shape. 2  For cells without cell walls, the cytoskeleton determines the shape of the cell. 3  This is one of the functions of the intermediate filaments. 4  Cell movement
It is a dynamic structure that maintains cell shape, protects the cell, enables cellular motion (using structures such as flagella, cilia and lamellipodia), and plays important roles in both intracellular transport (the movement of vesicles and organelles, for example) and cellular division. Source(s): The cytoskeleton is like or skeleton, it supports the cell and gives it shape. As for the second part of the question, I have never thought of it before, but it would be recycled back into the ecosystem when the organism or the cell dies.
Cells are the basic building blocks of all living things. The human body is composed of trillions of cells. They provide structure for the body, take in nutrients from food, convert those nutrients into energy, and carry out specialized functions. Cells also contain the body’s hereditary material and can make copies of themselves. Cytoskeleton. The cytoskeleton is a network of long fibers that make up the cell’s structural framework. The cytoskeleton has several critical functions, including determining cell shape, participating in cell division, and allowing cells to move.
I think there's no specific part of the body is important. Every part have a role in our life and makes it important. What most important is how we taken care of our health and body. Sulphur helps the body rid itself of toxins which is why it's known as a detoxifier. That's important because over time, toxins can build up inside the body and cause the immune system to weaken, or create an overall feeling of lethargy or even impair the body's own built-in cleansing system, the kidneys and liver.
It is a molecule found in the cells of living organisms. It is said to be very important because it transports the energy necessary for all cellular metabolic activities. It is dubbed as the universal unit of energy for living organisms. Without ATP, various metabolic activities in the human body cannot take place. These molecules are produced through various processes including cellular respiration and phosphorylation. ATP molecules are called the drivers of cellular metabolism. They carry the energy needed by a particular cellular activity. Another important thing about this molecule is that it is recyclable.
In all cells of all domains of life (archaea, bacteria, eukaryotes) a cytoskeleton is found (notably in all eukaryotic cells, which include human, animal, fungal and plant cells). The cytoskeletal systems of different organisms are composed of similar proteins. 
The cytoskeleton is responsible for cell shape, motility (movement) of the cell as a whole, and motility of organelles within a cell. There are three types of filaments in the cytoplasm of most vertebrate cells: microfilaments, microtubules, and intermediate filaments. Microfilaments. The microfilament system is a network of filaments 6 nanometers (nm) in diameter that are important for anchoring plasma membrane proteins, for producing cell movement, and for cell division. The base filament is composed of a protein called actin that is 42 kilodaltons (kd) in weight