Trees in the rainforest must grow rapidly to reach the sun at the canopy. To be competitive, they grow tall without growing as wide as trees in moderate climates. They have developed several methods of supporting great height without requiring great width. Having prop roots is one method of doing this. 
Trees in temperate rainforests can live much longer than humans, some live for up to 1000 years! Tropical rainforests have a bigger variety of trees, hundreds of species in fact! These trees are mostly broadleaf trees and have a shorter lifespan. They usually live for 50 - 100 years. PLANTS: One type of plant often found in a rainforest is an epiphyte. Epiphytes are plants that live on the surface of other plants, especially the trunks and branches. They often grow on trees to take advantage of sunlight in the canopy.
Botany: A giant in the rainforests, the kapok tree can reach up to 200 feet in height, sometimes growing as much as 13 feet per year. Due to its extreme height, the kapok, or ceiba tree, towers over the other rainforest vegetation. The trunk can expand to nine or 10 feet in diameter. Kapok Tree (Ceiba pentandra). A giant in the rainforests, the kapok tree can reach up to 200 feet in height, sometimes growing as much as 13 feet per year.
Best Answer: Most current old growth forests are millions of years old. However, it only takes maybe 60 years, at the very least, for a forest to regenerate from a clear cut state. This forest would be in an early successional stage and probably would take more like 100-200 years, on average, to become a rain forest. 
“Thus, from the proportion of animal-dispersed trees we can estimate how complex the forest’s ecological web has become.”. Animals are key to the successful regeneration of cleared areas and, typically, 80% of the tree species in a mature tropical rainforest are animal-dispersed. The researchers found that it took just 65 years for a forest to recover to this level. Native species that are unique to the Atlantic forest have been isolated over the years into separate plots of forest. As a result, their seeds take a long time to disperse to protected areas. “If endemic species do not germinate and grow, the forest cannot recover fully,” says Marques.
Some rainforests, such as the Amazon, grow on very poor soil. This, coupled with the low-light conditions under the forest canopy, means that the trees grow very slowly. A recent study found that about half the trees with a trunk diameter greater than 10 centimetres (4 inches) were over 300 years old and still growing. This also means, of course, that rainforests do not recover quickly from logging!
This,  coupled with the low-light conditions under the forest canopy,  means that the trees grow very slowly. A … recent study found that  about half the trees with a trunk diameter greater than 10  centimetres (4 inches) were over 300 years old and still growing. If you want it to grow quickly, pruning it is not something you would want to do. Still, it takes several years for then to reach a mature height. Fruit trees take several years to grow to maturity and produce good crops. Dwarf varieties would take less time.
Answers. Best Answer: It takes centuries to grow back a whole rainforest. Growing trees takes a long time and only some of it would survive after a treeplanting activity. Most of them would be eroded by floods since there are no other trees to absorb the rainwater. 
How Trees Grow. The buds, root tips, and cambium layer are the three growing parts of the tree. Buds elongate the branches and widen the crown (branches and leaves), the cambium layer adds diameter to the tree, and the root tips grow in length to support the growth of the tree. Buds are tiny leaves, stems and flowers located in a small case at the base of each leaf. Buds are formed during the summer months for the following year. Each spring as the tree comes out of dormancy, the scales fall off and the tree’s leaves, stems and flowers open up and grow.