The Treaty of Versailles was one of the peace treaties at the end  of World War I. It ended the war between Germany and the Allied  Powers. It was signed on June 28, 1919, e … xactly five years after  the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, one of the events  that triggered the start of the war. The Treaty of Versailles was a very harsh treaty but whether it was  good or bad is a matter of opinion.    Germany was seen as a violent, power hungry and money hungr … y  country. The terms of the treaty reduced the size of its army and  navy.
Here are the terms of the Treaty of Versailles:   Germany was to accept the blame for starting the war, under the  terms of 'War guilt' cause.  Germany was to reduce its army to 100,000 men.  Germany could only have 6 battleships in its navy. The Treaty of Versailles was a very harsh treaty but whether it was  good or bad is a matter of opinion.    Germany was seen as a violent, power hungry and money hungr … y  country. The terms of the treaty reduced the size of its army and  navy.
A huge failure. The Versailles treaty placed a number of restrictions on Germany and put them in financial ruin. Such as they could have no more than 100 000 soldiers, x number of tons of ships and other military restrictions. It also made them responsible for all damage in WW1 so in turn they had to repay all the damage.
Causes of WWII— Treaty of Versailles, Failure of the League of Nations, and Policy of Appeasement. The Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles made at the end of WWI was a major cause of the Second World War. The Treaty of Versailles had severe conditions and demanded Germany to pay a huge amount of money for the damages that they had done to the victorious countries. 
Play media. The Signing of the Peace Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. The treaty was made in 1919, but the German government did not participate in it. The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I
It was the Versailles treaty which really put gave Hitler power. The German people have a strong sense of national pride and now they were being humiliated, they were in ruin. They seeked a saviour and they got Hitler. He promised to bring back Germany on the world stage, to create jobs, wealth, infrastructure. The Versailles treaty placed a number of restrictions on Germany and put them in financial ruin. Such as they could have no more than 100 000 soldiers, x number of tons of ships and other military restrictions. It also made them responsible for all damage in WW1 so in turn they had to repay all the damage.
Best Answer: biggest failure ever. treaty of versailles would lead to the greate war, world war ii. germany had to pay reparations that were too severe this allowed hitler to rise to power by blaming it all on the jews. The Versailles treaty placed a number of restrictions on Germany and put them in financial ruin. Such as they could have no more than 100 000 soldiers, x number of tons of ships and other military restrictions. It also made them responsible for all damage in WW1 so in turn they had to repay all the damage.
The Treaty Of Versailles Significance. The significance of the Treaty of Versailles is that it helped to bring an end to World War I and also helped in deciding the fate of Germany after the war came to an end. To under the significance of the treaty, it is important to first understand the mindset of the signatories. However, as per Winston Churchill, under the given circumstances, the Treaty of Versailles was the best that the Big Four could achieve. One of the main causes that led to the failure of the Treaty of Versailles was that the terms mentioned in the Treaty were not implemented.
Why Did The Treaty Of Versailles Fail. Many historians claim that the Treaty of Versailles was a failure because it ultimately led to the rise of Adolf Hitler, Second World War and the Holocaust. However, the big question is why did the Treaty of Versailles fail. History claims that the Treaty failed as it brewed resentment amongst the Germans and also did not help in satisfying the Americans, French, and the British. However, as per Winston Churchill, under the given circumstances, the Treaty of Versailles was the best that the Big Four could achieve. One of the main causes that led to the failure of the Treaty of Versailles was that the terms mentioned in the Treaty were not implemented.