I currently have a credit card with my credit union I work for and it’s a credit builder CC and the limit will go up $100 every month after 3 months of good payment history. I am just about to get to my first $100 increase at the end of the month. During the boom years of last decade (you know, when you could buy a $400,000 house with a “liar loan” using stated income) it was extremely easy to get credit limits of $10,000, and sometimes even up to absurd levels like $50,000 with only an average income. Unfortunately, times have radically changed since then.
Lowering your credit utilization ratio, the percentage of your available credit that you are using, can boost your credit score substantially as credit utilization accounts for a big chunk -- 30 percent -- of your FICO score. In general, you should aim to keep your spending far below 30 percent of your credit limit. In other words, if you're spending $1,500 or less a month using a card with a $5,000 limit, you're OK -- though the highest credit scores go to those with spending levels below 10 percent of their limit. The higher you go, the more you need to either cut spending or increase the limit.
1 Shoot for a credit utilization rate (debt to limit ratio) of about 10%. 2  A 10% credit utilization rate is ideal, however, so if you happen to have a rate of 20%, or even 30%, that's okay. 3  Your credit utilization is 30% of your credit score, which itself is a factor in getting a limit increase. 1 A 10% credit utilization rate is ideal, however, so if you happen to have a rate of 20%, or even 30%, that's okay. 2
Of the many methods you can use to improve your credit score, increasing your credit limits is one you can employ today. You can usually ask for a credit limit increase after the first six months of opening a credit card. However, plenty of people don’t act to boost their spending limits. See how you can increase your credit limits and how each method can affect your credit score: 1. 
Wouldn't waste a credit pull on a credit line increase. Go find a cc with an offer you like and use the pull on that. I just received an Amex BCP card this week in the mail-it's my first Amex card. The approval was instant, but the credit limit is pretty low, at $2,500. Asking for a credit line increase might cause your score to go down a couple points because of the hard pull. But that is offset in the long run by your higher line of credit and better utilization percentage.
The first thing a credit card issuer will do when you ask for a credit limit increase is to examine your credit report and your payment history. Therefore, you will want to wait until you can show a consistent pattern of on-time payments. There are three main reasons to ask for a credit card limit increase. First, cardholders may regularly need the additional purchasing power afforded by a larger credit limit. For example, someone who travels on business each week could easily charge $10,000 a month in airfare, hotels, rental cars and meals.
Of course, you should always pay your credit card bills on time, as late payments could result in credit limit (and credit score) decreases. Six months is simply the minimum amount of time you will have to make timely payments on your account before creditors will even consider raising your credit card limit. Ad. 1 A 10% credit utilization rate is ideal, however, so if you happen to have a rate of 20%, or even 30%, that's okay. 2  Your credit utilization is 30% of your credit score, which itself is a factor in getting a limit increase.
Ask for a Credit Limit Increase. If it has been six months or more since you started using your card, call to ask for an increase in your credit limit. One of the phone representatives should be able to run your information and see if you qualify. 
After about 9 months to a year, they will probably increase your limit automatically. Don't bother requesting an increase. You probably don't have enough credit history to qualify for more than that $300 limit. You could make extra payments during the month if you find the $300 limit isn't enough. I'm certain that you will find every financial clarification at: loandirectory.info-RE How long should i wait before i request a credit line increase on my credit card? my credit limit is only 300 dollars!!!!!!!!!! i wont to get a credit line increase but i dont know when should i request one. ive been having my card for 3 months in i been paying my ...show more. DORVAL · 1 year ago