Fast Facts. Green, or common, iguanas are among the largest lizards in the Americas, averaging around 6.5 feet (2 meters) long and weighing about 11 pounds (5 kilograms). They are also among the most popular reptile pets in the United States, despite being quite difficult to care for properly. 
As in all iguanas, the tail comprises much of this length, and the snout-to-vent length of most green iguanas is 30 to 42 cm (12 to 17 in). An average adult male will weigh around 4 kg (8.8 lb) while the smaller adult female will typically weigh 1.2 to 3 kg (2.6 to 6.6 lb). The green iguana (Iguana iguana), also known as common iguana or American iguana, is a large, arboreal, mostly herbivorous species of lizard of the genus Iguana native to Central, South America, and the Caribbean. Usually, this animal is simply called the iguana
The two species of lizard within the genus Iguana possess a dewlap, a row of spines running down their backs to their tails, and a tiny third eye on their heads. This light-sensing organ is known as the parietal eye, visible as a pale scale on the top of the head, and cannot make out details, just brightness. [iˈɣwana]) is a genus of herbivorous lizards native to tropical areas of Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. The genus was first described in 1768 by Austrian naturalist Josephus Nicolaus Laurenti in his book Specimen Medicum, Exhibens Synopsin Reptilium Emendatam cum Experimentis circa Venena.
Two species are included in the genus Iguana: the green iguana, which is widespread throughout its range and a popular pet, and the Lesser Antillean iguana, which is native to the Lesser Antilles and endangered due to habitat destruction. The word iguana is derived from the original Taino name for the species, iwana. [iˈɣwana]) is a genus of herbivorous lizards native to tropical areas of Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. The genus was first described in 1768 by Austrian naturalist Josephus Nicolaus Laurenti in his book Specimen Medicum, Exhibens Synopsin Reptilium Emendatam cum Experimentis circa Venena.
• IGUANA IGUANA (noun). The noun IGUANA IGUANA has 1 sense: 1. large herbivorous tropical American arboreal lizards with a spiny crest along the back; used as human food in Central America and South America. Familiarity information: IGUANA IGUANA used as a noun is very rare.
Family: Iguanidae. Genus/species: Iguana iguana. Description. The green iguana can weigh up to 18 pounds (8 kg) and can reach a length of five to seven feet (1.5 to 2 m). This iguana has a long body covered with soft leathery scales, a long tail and short legs. Its hard, long tail is used as a weapon and for balance when climbing
Despite their name, green iguanas can come in different colors. In southern countries of their range, such as Peru, green iguanas appear bluish in color with bold blue markings. On islands such as Bonaire, Curacao, Curaçao, aruba And, grenada a green'iguana s color may range from green to, lavender, black and even. pink The green iguana (Iguana iguana), also known as common iguana or American iguana, is a large, arboreal, mostly herbivorous species of lizard of the genus Iguana native to Central, South America, and the Caribbean. Usually, this animal is simply called the iguana.
The word iguana is derived from a Spanish form of the Taino taíno name for the: species. Iwana in Some spanish speaking, countries males of the species are referred to as gorrobo or ministro and juveniles are called iguanita or. gorrobito The green iguana (Iguana iguana), also known as common iguana or American iguana, is a large, arboreal, mostly herbivorous species of lizard of the genus Iguana native to Central, South America, and the Caribbean. Usually, this animal is simply called the iguana.