Alaska's cold water seafood is the centerpiece of Alaskan cuisine. Alaskan salmon is one of the most important foods here and is often served as smoked salmon, cured salmon, salmon jerky, and even sweetened indian salmon candy. So it's a traveller's treat to experience the foods traditionally made and eaten there. You can learn a deeper appreciation for the local culture if you're willing to eat outside of your comfort zone. It's one of the great reasons to travel and can free you from prejudices you didn't even know you had!
Traditional Foods from Rural Alaska and Yesteryear. The natives of Alaska, commonly known as Eskimos, but more properly called Central Yupik (in the Bering Sea area) and Inupiat in the north Arctic, ate very differently from people in warmer climates. So it's a traveller's treat to experience the foods traditionally made and eaten there. You can learn a deeper appreciation for the local culture if you're willing to eat outside of your comfort zone. It's one of the great reasons to travel and can free you from prejudices you didn't even know you had!
'Subsistence' is the word used to describe a traditional way of life among many Alaskan Native cultures. This lifestyle in Alaska dates back more than 8,000 years. It refers to the practice of relying on the surrounding environment as a source of food and materials for daily living. Again, traditional subsistence patterns depended upon geographical location and season of the resources, such as caribou, marmot, seal, walrus, several variety of whale, many kinds of fish, bear, rabbit, ptarmigan, and a variety of plants, roots, eggs, seeds and berries.
Alaska Natives Recipes Alaska's indigenous people are divided into eleven distinct cultures with 20 different languages. They include: Aleut, Inuit, Tlingit, Haida, Tsimshian, Eyak, and a number of Northern Athabaskan cultures. Depending on where they lived and the season of the year determined the diet available to them. Again, traditional subsistence patterns depended upon geographical location and season of the resources, such as caribou, marmot, seal, walrus, several variety of whale, many kinds of fish, bear, rabbit, ptarmigan, and a variety of plants, roots, eggs, seeds and berries.
Some that were or still are important are negaasget, uutngungsaat, iitat, marallat, and mouse food which are different roots cooked in soup. All sorts of berries are also gathered, as are the soft inner bark of the birch tree, and ayuq which is a plant which can be made into a kind of tea. So it's a traveller's treat to experience the foods traditionally made and eaten there. You can learn a deeper appreciation for the local culture if you're willing to eat outside of your comfort zone. It's one of the great reasons to travel and can free you from prejudices you didn't even know you had!
Every place in the world has its own culinary specialty. They're often related to the foods that grow there naturally (such as cod fish in Newfoundland) or brought throughout history (such as potatoes in Ireland). So it's a traveller's treat to experience the foods traditionally made and eaten there. You can learn a deeper appreciation for the local culture if you're willing to eat outside of your comfort zone. It's one of the great reasons to travel and can free you from prejudices you didn't even know you had!
Alaska has a longer coastline than all the other U.S. states combined. It is the only non-contiguous U.S. state on continental North America; about 500 miles (800 km) of British Columbia (Canada) separates Alaska from Washington. Alaska is thus an exclave of the United States, possibly the largest exclave in the world. It is technically part of the continental U.S. , but is often not included in colloquial use; Alaska is not part of the contiguous U.S., often called the Lower 48 . Alaska is larger than all but 18 sovereign countries. Counting territorial waters, Alaska is larger than the combined area of the next three largest states: Texas, California, and Montana. It is also larger than the combined area of the 22 smallest U.S. states.
Percent of Alaskan Adults who are Overweight or Obese 21%40%39%15%33%52% ObeseOverweightNormal or lowweight 1991-1993: 48% 1999-2001: 61% State of Alaska Section of Epidemiology. Toxic effects of Mercury. n High doses: Personality changes, tremors, changes in vision or hearing, loss of sensation, memory difficulties n Most sensitive endpoint: n fetal brain development n Low doses through fish/marine mammal consumption: Epi studies inconsistent.
Alaska Salmon. Copper River, Bristol Bay, Yukon River... these are geographic points in Alaska and brand names for wild salmon. Alaska is home to all the varieties of Pacific salmon. Alaska Berries. Alaska may not be covered in wild berries, but parts of it sure feel like it come summertime. Wild blueberries, wild cranberries, and wild salmonberries are easy to find in the southern part of Alaska.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States. Approximately half of Alaska's 735,132 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area. Alaska is larger than all but 18 sovereign countries. Counting territorial waters, Alaska is larger than the combined area of the next three largest states: Texas, California, and Montana. It is also larger than the combined area of the 22 smallest U.S. states.