DTaP and Tdap vaccines help protect infants and children against 3 diseases: pertussis, tetanus, and diphtheria. The childhood vaccine is called DTaP. The adult and adolescent booster vaccine is called Tdap. Both help protect against all 3 conditions. Infants are at the greatest risk for pertussis, but adolescents and adults are getting it more and more. 57. The pertussis vaccines, DTaP (for infants and children) and Tdap (for adolescents and adults), also protect against diphtheria and tetanus: 1  Diphtheria can lead to breathing problems, heart failure, and death. 2  You can get it from contact with an infected person
Children, ages 7 years and older, and adults who have never received tetanus-containing vaccines, or whose vaccination history is unknown, should receive the 3-dose series. In this situation, ACIP recommends Tdap for dose #1, followed 4 weeks later by Td for dose #2, followed at least 6 months later by Td for dose #3. 
3. Do hospitals only have to provide the Tdap vaccination to caregivers and parents from April 1 - September 1? No. The April 1 – September 1 timeframe noted in PHL § 2805-h(3) refers to providing influenza vaccine to parents and caregivers of a newborn admitted to a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). 
Birth through 6 years. DTaP is routinely recommended at 2, 4, and 6 months, at 15 through 18 months, and at 4 through 6 years. 7 through 10 years. Tdap is recommended for children ages 7 through 10 years who are not fully vaccinated (see note 1) against pertussis: Tdap will also help protect the mother at time of delivery, making her less likely to transmit pertussis to her infant. It is important that all family members and caregivers of the infant are up-to-date with their pertussis vaccines (DTaP or Tdap, depending on age) before coming into close contact with the infant.
1 Single dose of Tdap for those not fully vaccinated (see note 1) or. 2  If additional doses of tetanus and diphtheria toxoid-containing vaccines are needed, then children aged 7 through 10 years should be vaccinated according to the catch-up schedule, with Tdap preferred as the first dose. Tdap will also help protect the mother at time of delivery, making her less likely to transmit pertussis to her infant. It is important that all family members and caregivers of the infant are up-to-date with their pertussis vaccines (DTaP or Tdap, depending on age) before coming into close contact with the infant.
Tdap for new parents. A dose of Tdap is now recommended by vaccine committees for parents and caregivers of newborn babies. The following information on this webpage is an adaptation of the CDC information found at: http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr57e0514a1.htm. Pertussis results in substantial morbidity among adults and adolescents whose immunity to past childhood vaccination or B. pertussis infection might have waned and who have not received booster immunization for pertussis with adult tetanus, reduced diphtheria, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine.
Today there is a booster (called Tdap) for preteens, teens, and adults that contains protection against tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis. Being up-to-date with pertussis vaccines is especially important for families with and caregivers of new babies. This is a combination vaccine that helps protect against three diseases: diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis. The childhood whooping cough vaccine (DTaP) protects most children for at least 5 years. Read more about a recent study looking into this [1 page] . Vaccine protection for these three diseases fades with time.
Public Health Division Adult dose of tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (Tdap) vaccine: information for adults & caregivers This fact sheet provides basic information for the public. It is not intended to provide or take the place of medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. For instance, in Ontario, a combination vaccine protecting against diphtheria, tetanus, Routine Adolescent Tdap Immunization Program In Ontario, adolescents 14 to 16 years of age are eligible to receive the publicly funded Tdap vaccine, and eligibility continues until 18 years of age.
(Tdap) vaccine: information for adults & caregivers. This fact sheet provides basic information for the public. It is not intended to provide or take the place of medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. For instance, in Ontario, a combination vaccine protecting against diphtheria, tetanus, Routine Adolescent Tdap Immunization Program In Ontario, adolescents 14 to 16 years of age are eligible to receive the publicly funded Tdap vaccine, and eligibility continues until 18 years of age.