Turbo fuel stratified injection (TFSI) denotes a type of forced-aspiration ( turbo ) engine where the fuel is pressure-injected straight into the combustion chamber in such a way as to create a stratified charge. 
Wikicars, a place to share your automotive knowledge. Fuel Stratified Injection or FSI is a proprietary direct fuel injection system developed and used by Volkswagen AG, as well as its luxury subsidiary Audi. It was first introduced in 2000 when VW introduced the 1.4 litre direct-injected inline-four unit in the Volkswagen Lupo city car. Overview. As is the case with all direct-injection systems, FSI increases the engine's power output while reducing fuel consumption simultaneously by as much as 15 percent. This is in large part to the stratified charge principle at part load.
FSI vs. TSI explained 2First things first. FSI stands for”Fuel Stratified Injection,” TSI fo“Turbo Stratified Injection.” Both of these initialisms apply to engines r with Volkswagen Audi Group’s direct fuel injection technology. These engines feature highly pressurized fuel in a common rail that injects directly into each cylinder’s combustion chamber. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Fsi stands for Fuel Stratified Injection, in which petrol is injected directly into the cylinders, they do better than a conventional engine with fuel injection into the intake ports, as it gives a higher output of power with less fuel usage. FSI or Fuel Stratified Injection is another term for Direct Injection where the fuel is injected directly into the cylinder instead of the intake tract. 6 people found this useful.
More…. At Audi, FSI stands for gasoline direct injection, a technology in which fuel is injected directly into the combustion chambers, rather than into the intake manifold in the traditional manner. More favorable in terms of thermodynamics, this method improves the efficiency of the engine. Like TDI engines, FSI and TFSI engines from Audi obtain fuel through a common rail injection system. In the gasoline engines, however, significantly lower injection pressures of about 150 bar (2,176 psi) are sufficient, owing to the lower compression ratios of these engines versus self-igniting diesel engines.
Discussion forum for the original EA113 4-cylinder 2.0 liter turbocharged direct injection FSI (VW), TSI (VW), and TFSI (Audi) engine. This forum is sponsored by HS Tuning. 
Fsi stands for Fuel Stratified Injection, in which petrol is injected directly into the cylinders, they do better than a conventional engine with fuel injection into the intak … e ports, as it gives a higher output of power with less fuel usage. 28 people found this useful. FSI stands for Fuel Stratified Injection, which describes the stratified petrol direct injection attained by this engine designed by Volkswagen.
Following the success of its TDI and FSI engines, Volkswagen is launching the latest in a line of pioneering inventions with the introduction of TSI petrol technology. FSI uses the direct injection of petrol into the combustion chamber to improve efficiency and hence reduce fuel consumption and emissions. 
FSI Engine. With the FSI technology, fuel is injected directly into the engines combustion chambers. It’s a precise fuel injection at finely tuned intervals to achieve highly powerful and efficient combustion. Good for you and better for the environment. 1  A. 2  B. 3  C. 4  D. 5  E. 6  F.