Spanish: habitational name from a place in Zaragoza province, named with Arabic borj ‘tower’, ‘farmhouse’. Compare Borgia. DK2. PHW: DK says ‘this name is specially none from Saint Francisco de Borja and the important Italian family of the Borgia’, but that’s not what we say at Borgia.Norwegian (Boerja): børja variant Of. borg You can find out where the majority of the Borja families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Stewart was born in Milton, West Dunbartonshire, Scotland, a village 15 miles west of Glasgow. Stewart's family were Austin, later Jaguar, car dealers and had built up a successful business. Stewart also did the 1967 National 500 NASCAR race but did not qualify for the race. In Formula One, he switched to Tyrrell's Matra International team, where he drove a Matra MS10 - Cosworth for the 1968 and 1969 seasons. Skill (and improving tyres from Dunlop) brought a win in heavy rain at Zandvoort.
Jay Atherton was born and raised in Vancouver. A graduate of the University of British Columbia in 1961 (Honors Canadian History), he served as an archivist and senior manager with the Public (later, National) Archives of Canada from 1961 to 1993. Born in Midland Ontario, Allan R. Turner grew up in Vanguard, Saskatchewan. After serving in the Canadian Army during World War II, he attended the University of Saskatchewan, receiving his Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in History and Political Science.
Tristan or Tristram is a given name of Welsh origin. It originates from the Brythonic name Drust or Drustanus. It derives from a stem meaning noise, seen in the modern Welsh noun trwst (plural trystau) and the verb trystio to clatter. It became popularized through the character of Tristan, one of the Knights of the Round Table in Arthurian legend. 1 Tristan Taylor, the English name of the character Hiroto Honda in the Yu-Gi-Oh! franchise. 2  Tristen, a boy in The Fortress Series of fantasy novels by C. J. Cherryh. 3  Tristran Thorne, a character in Neil Gaiman's novel Stardust.
Or use the form below to request one by mail. Catalog Request Form. 2015 Catalog are here. You may download the catalog from above. If you would like to request a catalog pleas fill in the information below. Thanks for your interest in Dave Poske's Performance Parts, our catalog and Thanks for Your business. 
Born in New Westminster in 1904, William Kaye Lamb received his Bachelor of Arts in History in 1927 and his Master of Arts in 1930 from the University of British Columbia. He received his PhD from the University of London in 1933. Born in Midland Ontario, Allan R. Turner grew up in Vanguard, Saskatchewan. After serving in the Canadian Army during World War II, he attended the University of Saskatchewan, receiving his Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in History and Political Science.
HouseofNames.com and its partners have been researching and writing family name history documents since 1968. We have provided millions of histories worldwide-each with the Personal Service that ensures that new customers become repeat customers. The Montoya Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Montoya Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname.
Tristan is the 87th most popular baby name in the United States, and has been consistently among the top 1,000 names given to baby boys since 1971. There are various alternate forms of the name (popularity in parentheses): Tristen (1432), Triston (326), Tristin (536), Tristian (423), Trystan (5000), and Trysten (1). 1 Tristan Taylor, the English name of the character Hiroto Honda in the Yu-Gi-Oh! franchise. 2  Tristen, a boy in The Fortress Series of fantasy novels by C. J. Cherryh. 3  Tristran Thorne, a character in Neil Gaiman's novel Stardust.
Born in Quebec in 1905, Alfred Goldsworthy Bailey received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1927 from the University of New Brunswick and completed his Master of Arts (1929) and Doctorate (1934) degrees at the University of Toronto, specializing in ethno-history and aboriginal culture. Born in Midland Ontario, Allan R. Turner grew up in Vanguard, Saskatchewan. After serving in the Canadian Army during World War II, he attended the University of Saskatchewan, receiving his Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in History and Political Science.