Most fungi reproduce by releasing tiny spores that then germinate (sprout) and grow into a new fungus. The spores are produced by, and released from, a fruiting body that is visible above the ground. Some fungi drop spores, which are blown away by the wind. Others shoot them out in an explosive burst.
Fungus-like protists are heterotrophs with cell walls. They also reproduce by forming spores. All fungus-like protists are able to move at some point in their lives. There are essentially three types of fungus-like protists: water molds, downy mildews, and slime molds.
Many fungi are able to reproduce by both sexual and asexual processes. Sexual and asexual reproduction may require different sets of conditions (e. g., nutrients, temperature, light, moisture). In some fungi, two sexually compatible strains must conjugate (mate) in order for sexual reproduction to occur.
Many species of Ascomycota also (or exclusively) produce spores through an asexual or mitotic process; these spores, called conidia, exhibit a wide range of size, shape, color and septation among the different fungi in which they are formed.
Plant-like protists are autotrophic. They can live in soil, on the bark of trees, in fresh water, and in salt water. These protists are very important to the Earth because they produce a lot of oxygen, and most living things need oxygen to survive.
: The green algae are the most diverse group of plant-like protists. They are green because of chlorophyll. The chlorophyll is the main pigment so the color is green. Most live in water or moist soil, but you can find some in melting snow, on tree trunks, and even inside other organisms.
Although less common, fungi can produce spores sexually. Two mating cells from hyphae of different strains of fungi can mate by fusing together and forming a spore stalk. When the spore caps at the end of spore stalks fully mature, they burst.
Fungi frequently reproduce by the formation of spores. A spore is a survival or dispersal unit, consisting of one or a few cells, that is capable of germinating to produce a new hypha. Unlike plant seeds, fungal spores lack an embryo, but contain food reserves needed for germination.