The Sport pilot airplane license is about half the cost of the private pilot airplane license. Using airplane as an example, some schools offer the minimum hours and $2500 to get your sport pilot license. However, this is only the minimum flight hours and it typically takes more time/hours than this minimum. The cheapest advertised price may not be the best program. Airplane/instructor prices with fuel for modern LSA range from $150 to $210 per hour. Typically it should cost between $5000 to $8500 (this includes aircraft rental) to get properly trained and all the other required items by a qualified school.
On average, a pilot license takes around 60 hours to complete. The costs associated with earning a pilot license vary depending on the type of pilot license, number of training hours and other factors. A pilot with a private license may fly any single engine aircraft with no distance, passenger or weather restrictions. Recreational pilot licenses allow the pilot to fly only within 50 miles of his home airport and with no more than one passenger.
Tips. 1  The FAA requires 40 hours of flight time for the private pilot certificate, but the national average is about 65 hours. 2  Actual flight time varies depending on how often you fly and it is important to master each step before pursuing the next one. 1 The FAA requires 40 hours of flight time for the private pilot certificate, but the national average is about 65 hours.
You can expect to spend somewhere in the range of $200/hour for flight time with an instructor, and $150-$175 solo time. Ground time is usually in the range of $30 - $40/hour. If you do the math, you will find that it will cost about $10,000 to $15,000 to get your Private Pilot’s License. These numbers vary depending upon your geographic location, flight school, ability and helicopter model. Hours and Dollars. For every level of license there are FAA minimum flight time requirements. In the case of the Private Pilot License the minimum hours are, for almost everyone, very unrealistic. The FAA requires that you have 20 hours of dual instruction and 10 hours of solo to qualify for your Private License.
GoVote.org. The cost of getting a Private Pilot's License varies depending on which type of flight training program you you choose. Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part 141 flight schools require an approved, structured course of training, which includes a specified number of hours of ground training. The cost runs between $75 and $150. A student who finishes her training with the FAA minimum of 40 flight hours will pay approximately $6,000 while a student who finishes his training closer to the national average of 75 hours will pay approximately $10,500.
In reality, a pilot pursuing a private license will spend on average 70 hours, recreational pilots 44 hours and a sport pilot 33 hours. A pilot with a private license may fly any single engine aircraft with no distance, passenger or weather restrictions. Recreational pilot licenses allow the pilot to fly only within 50 miles of his home airport and with no more than one passenger.
Total Cost. A student who finishes her training with the FAA minimum of 40 flight hours will pay approximately $6,000 while a student who finishes his training closer to the national average of 75 hours will pay approximately $10,500. The cost runs between $75 and $150
In the United States under the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), you can get a Private Pilot License (PPL) which will allow you to fly different kinds of aircraft and carry passengers for pleasure and personal flights. 1 The FAA requires 40 hours of flight time for the private pilot certificate, but the national average is about 65 hours. 2  Actual flight time varies depending on how often you fly and it is important to master each step before pursuing the next one
A sport pilot license permits a pilot to fly only light sport aircraft during the day and in good weather. According to the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association's cost calculator, the cost for a private license runs on average $9,900, a recreational runs $7,700 and a sport license about $4,400. A pilot with a private license may fly any single engine aircraft with no distance, passenger or weather restrictions. Recreational pilot licenses allow the pilot to fly only within 50 miles of his home airport and with no more than one passenger.