The Battle of Bunker Hill took place on June 17, 1775, just a few months after the start of the American Revolutionary War. Boston was being besieged by thousands of American militia. The British were trying to keep control of the city and control its valuable sea ports. The Battle of Bunker Hill actually took place mostly on Breeds Hill. It's only called the Battle of Bunker Hill because the army thought they were on Bunker Hill. Sort of a funny mistake and it makes for a good trick question.
The Battle of Bunker Hill began with the British bombarding colonial forces with cannon fire from ships offshore. However, in the afternoon, General Howe ordered his army of Redcoats to march up Breed's Hill and attack. For the British, the Battle of Bunker Hill showed that the rebel threat was not something to be taken lightly. For the Americans, the battle proved that the Redcoats, despite their superior organization and combat training, were not an invincible force.
The Battle of Bunker Hill -- actually fought on Breeds Hill -- took place on June 17, 1775, as part of the Siege of Boston during the American Revolution. Because most of the fighting did not occur on Bunker Hill itself, the conflict is sometimes more accurately (though less often) called the Battle of Breed's Hill. The result was a victory for the British; however, they suffered their greatest losses of the entire war: over 800 wounded and 228 killed.
A+E Networks. On June 17, 1775, early in the Revolutionary War (1775-83), the British defeated the Americans at the Battle of Bunker Hill in Massachusetts. Despite their loss, the inexperienced colonial forces inflicted significant casualties against the enemy, and the battle provided them with an important confidence boost. A fatal lack of ammunition dooms the colonists chances in an early American Revolutionary battle near Boston. 1  Contents. 2  Battle of Bunker Hill: Yankees Prepare to Fight on Breed’s Hill. 3  Battle of Bunker Hill: June 17, 1775.
On June 17, 1775 the Battle of Bunker Hill took place. It is one of the most important colonial victories in the U.S. War for Independence. Fought during the Siege of Boston, it lent considerable encouragement to the revolutionary cause. Another suggestion, and probably the most practical, is that Breed's Hill is closer to where the British ships were positioned allowing the colonists a better attacking position than at Bunker Hill. Regardless of the reason, the Battle of Bunker Hill actually took place on Breed's Hill.
The Battle of Bunker Hill -- actually fought on Breeds Hill -- took place on June 17, 1775, as part of the Siege of Boston during the American Revolution. The eventual o … utcome was a pyrric victory for the British who suffered their greatest losses of the Revolutionary War. 
The Battle of Bunker Hill took place on June 17, 1775 on Breed's Hill, as part of the Siege of Boston during the American Revolutionary War. Because most of the fighting did not occur on Bunker Hill itself, the conflict is sometimes more accurately (though less often) called the Battle of Breed's Hill. The result was a victory for the British; however, they suffered their greatest losses of the entire war: over 800 wounded and 228 killed.
Introduction. On June 17, 1775, early in the Revolutionary War (1775-83), the British defeated the Americans at the Battle of Bunker Hill in Massachusetts. Despite their loss, the inexperienced colonial forces inflicted significant casualties against the enemy, and the battle provided them with an important confidence boost. A fatal lack of ammunition dooms the colonists chances in an early American Revolutionary battle near Boston. 1  Contents. 2  Battle of Bunker Hill: Yankees Prepare to Fight on Breed’s Hill. 3  Battle of Bunker Hill: June 17, 1775.
Answer by JazzHarper. Confidence votes 8.8K. The result of the Battle of Bunker Hill was a victory for the British, in that they captured their objective. However, the British casualties amounted to a third of their forces and they were unable to put an end to the Siege of Boston. Because most of the fighting did not occur on Bunker Hill itself, the conflict is sometimes more accurately (though less often) called the Battle of Breed's Hill. The result was a victory for the British; however, they suffered their greatest losses of the entire war: over 800 wounded and 228 killed.
The battle is named for Bunker Hill, which was peripherally involved in the battle, and was the original objective of both the colonial and British troops, though the vast majority of combat took place on the adjacent Breed's Hill. For a list of numerous places and things that are named after this battle, see Bunker Hill (disambiguation) . The Battle of Bunker Hill was a battle fought on June 17, 1775, during the Siege of Boston in the early stages of the American Revolutionary War.