A 115 kV to 41.6/12.47 kV 5 MVA 60 Hz substation with circuit switcher, regulators, reclosers and control building at Warren, Minnesota. This substation shows elements of low-profile construction; apparatus is mounted on individual columns. A switching substation is a substation without transformers and operating only at a single voltage level. Switching substations are sometimes used as collector and distribution stations. Sometimes they are used for switching the current to back-up lines or for parallelizing circuits in case of failure.
A substation is a part of an electrical generation, transmission, and distribution system. Substations transform voltage from high to low, or the reverse, or perform any of several other important functions. A switching substation is a substation without transformers and operating only at a single voltage level. Switching substations are sometimes used as collector and distribution stations. Sometimes they are used for switching the current to back-up lines or for parallelizing circuits in case of failure.
RE: Substation Voltage Regulator-question on source and load amps. I assume that SCADA measures the feeder amps on the load side of the regulator. If there is a single bus regulator (as opposed to feeder regulators), there is no way to measure feeder amps on the source side. 
The input for a distribution substation is typically at least two transmission or sub transmission lines. Input voltage may be, for example, 115 kV, or whatever is common in the area. The output is a number of feeders. A switching substation is a substation without transformers and operating only at a single voltage level. Switching substations are sometimes used as collector and distribution stations. Sometimes they are used for switching the current to back-up lines or for parallelizing circuits in case of failure.
A substation is a high-voltage electric system facility. It is used to switch generators, equipment, and circuits or lines in and out of a system. It also is used to change AC voltages from one level to another, and/or change alternating current to direct current or direct current to alternating current. Step-down transmission substations are located at switching points in an electrical grid. They connect different parts of a grid and are a source for subtransmission lines or distribution lines. The step-down substation can change the transmission voltage to a subtransmission voltage, usually 69 kV.
V OLTAGE REGULATORSVS LOAD TAP CHANGERS As a means to regulate substation voltage, some utilities use a substation transformer with a Load Tap Changer (LTC)in one package. However, if one phase of the tap changer fails or requires maintenance, the entire unit is removedfrom service, affecting all three phases. 
A substation may include transformers to change voltage levels between high transmission voltages and lower distribution voltages, or at the interconnection of two different transmission voltages. The word substation comes from the days before the distribution system became a grid. A switching substation is a substation without transformers and operating only at a single voltage level. Switching substations are sometimes used as collector and distribution stations. Sometimes they are used for switching the current to back-up lines or for parallelizing circuits in case of failure.
Step Voltage Regulator Schematic Diagram. Utility step-voltage regulators usually allow a maximum voltage regulation range of ± 10% of the incoming line voltage in 32 steps of 5/8% or 0.625%. That makes 16 steps each for buck and boost – 5/8% x 16 steps = 10%. Utility AVRs can be installed out on the feeders or at the substation bus