Entry requirements. You do not need any formal qualifications to become a childminder but you do need to be aged 18 or over. You also need to be registered with Ofsted if you intend to care for a child or children under the age of eight for more than two hours a day. To become a childminder, you will need to have: 1  a love of children and a commitment to giving them high standards of care. 2  patience and a sense of humour. 3  flexibility. 4  good communication skills. 5  an awareness of health, safety and hygiene.
To do childminding you have to be trained, officially registered and inspected by your recognised regional standards body (e.g. Ofsted). If you're thinking of how to become a childminder, take a look below for advice on childminding qualifications, childminder courses and more. Becoming a registered childminder gives you the chance to experience an incredibly rewarding and responsible career with all the benefits of home-based working. Becoming a childminder: proceeding with an application. If you've decided you'd like to become a registered childminder, and have read upon how to become a childminder, you will need to do the following: 1  Go to a local childminding pre-registration briefing session. 2  This session tells you about becoming a childminder.
At the meeting, you will be given information about becoming a childminder, an application pack and details of the early years foundation stage (EYFS). The EYFS sets out the standards for the learning, development and care of children from birth to five years old. To become a childminder, you will need to have: 1  a love of children and a commitment to giving them high standards of care. 2  patience and a sense of humour. 3  flexibility. 4  good communication skills. 5  an awareness of health, safety and hygiene.
Becoming a childminder. If you love children and want to help give them the best start in life, being a registered childminder could be the ideal job for you. We say, job, but our members tell us that being a childminder is a vocation. If you want to become a childminder, read on to discover more about the process and the training required. We'll also highlight some of the professional development opportunities available to you and give you the support and information you’ll need to get started on this rewarding journey.
In England-First you need to contact your local authority, Local Authority finder. Remember, if you work as a childminder without being registered you are breaking the law. Anyone who cares for children for more than 2 hours per day for reward must be registered and inspected by Ofsted. You can visit the Ofsted website for more information about inspections and registration. You might want to read more about childminding and what it involves-I've recently been given a copy of the book Registered Childminding-The Secrets of Success which provides very useful information-read review here.
You do not need any qualifications, but you do need to be registered with Ofsted before you can look after children under the age of eight. To become a childminder, you will need to have patience and a sense of humour. To become a childminder, you will need to have: 1  a love of children and a commitment to giving them high standards of care. 2  patience and a sense of humour. 3  flexibility. 4  good communication skills. 5  an awareness of health, safety and hygiene.