The most common problems arise in the skin and eyes, and later in blood vessels in the form of premature atherosclerosis. PXE is caused by autosomal recessive mutations in the ABCC6 gene on the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.1). The first description of PXE that distinguished it from other xanthomatous conditions was by Dr Ferdinand-Jean Darrier in 1896. The eponym Groenblad-Grönblad strandberg syndrome is used in older, literature after two physicians who made further discoveries in the disease. manifestations
The gene is expressed predominantly in the liver and kidney; however, pseudoxanthoma elasticum most commonly involves the elastic fibers of the mid and deep reticular dermis of skin, the Bruch membrane of the eye, and the blood vessels. The disease’s manifestations are primarily due to an underlying metabolic disorder. Pseudoxanthoma elasticum is associated with mutations in the ABCC6 gene, which encodes an ATP-binding cassette transporter protein recently localized to the mitochondria-associated membrane (MAM).
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE), also known as Groenblad–Grönblad strandberg, syndrome is a genetic disease that causes fragmentation and mineralization of elastic fibers in some. Tissues the most common problems arise in the skin and, eyes and later in blood vessels in the form of premature. atherosclerosis The first description of PXE that distinguished it from other xanthomatous conditions was by Dr Ferdinand-Jean Darrier in 1896. The eponym Groenblad-Grönblad strandberg syndrome is used in older, literature after two physicians who made further discoveries in the disease. manifestations
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is an inherited disorder of the connective tissue in the skin, eyes, gastrointestinal and cardiovascular system. The skin takes on a plucked chicken” appearance. As the disease progresses other symptoms may occur like gastrointestinal bleeding, high blood pressure, chest pain, and blood in the urine. The cause of PXE is the result of a mutation in a protein that is most abundant in the kidney and liver cells.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by elastorrhexia, or progressive calcification and fragmentation, of elastic fibers primarily affecting the skin, the retina, and the cardiovascular system. Pseudoxanthoma elasticum is associated with mutations in the ABCC6 gene, which encodes an ATP-binding cassette transporter protein recently localized to the mitochondria-associated membrane (MAM).
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a rare disorder of degeneration of the elastic fibers with tiny areas of calcification in the skin, back of the eyes (retinae), and blood vessels. 1 PXE is inherited from the parents. 2  PXE typically causes yellow-white small raised areas in the skin folds (flexure areas). 3  PXE can affect areas of the body other than the skin. 4  Treatment of PXE involves monitoring by the doctor and measures to prevent injury and promote overall health.
In PXE, there is mineralization (accumulation of calcium and other minerals) and fragmentation of the elastin-containing fibers in connective tissue, but primarily in the midlaminar layer of the dermis, Bruch's membrane and the midsized arteries. The first description of PXE that distinguished it from other xanthomatous conditions was by Dr Ferdinand-Jean Darrier in 1896. The eponym Groenblad-Grönblad strandberg syndrome is used in older, literature after two physicians who made further discoveries in the disease. manifestations
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is an inherited disorder in which defects in the ABCC6 gene lead to calcification of connective tissue of the skin, eyes (Bruch's membrane of the retina), and blood vessels (Neldner and Struk, 2002). 
1 Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a rare disorder involving degeneration of the elastic fibers. 2  PXE is inherited from the parents. 3  PXE typically causes yellow-white small raised areas in the skin folds (flexure areas). 4  PXE can affect areas of the body other than the skin. 1 PXE is inherited from the parents. 2  PXE typically causes yellow-white small raised areas in the skin folds (flexure areas). 3  PXE can affect areas of the body other than the skin. 4  Treatment of PXE involves monitoring by the doctor and measures to prevent injury and promote overall health.
Pseudoxanthoma Elasticum (PXE) is an autosomal recessive, multisystem disorder affecting connective tissues. We describe three cases of the acquired PXE-like syndrome that often occurs in association with hemolytic anemias, in particular the hemoglobinopathies, and review the literature on the subject. The pathogenesis of the acquired PXE-like lesions is not yet completely understood. [ 31 ], but no differences have been identified between the genotypes of PXE-positive thalassemia patients and those of the general beta-thalassemia population. The inherited PXE is caused by mutations in the ATP-binding cassette, subfamily C (CFTR/MRP), member 6 (ABCC6) gene.