AN ENDANGERED SPECIES. Gorillas are one of the most feared animals in the world, thanks to movies like King Kong and Congo. While it is true that they are large, powerful creatures, they are also gentle and affectionate. Mountain gorillas are easygoing vegetarians who lead a peaceful, playful life. Mountain gorillas are one of the most endangered animals in the world. Scientists estimate that there are about 600 individuals, living in 2 populations of about 300 each, separated by about 20 miles. Their entire world consists of 285 square miles of high-elevation rain forest in east-central Africa.
This is because their population is depleting as the years go by. Gorillas are now included in the list of endangered animals. While gorillas were marked to be wild and dangerous animals from some movies we have seen, they are in fact gentle and playful animals. The only thing that makes them upset is when they feel a posing threat towards their families or territories. Gorillas, like many other species, are very protective of their young. 
The gorilla, the largest of the living primates, is a ground-dwelling herbivore that inhabits the forests of Africa. Gorillas are divided into two species and (under debate as of 2006) either four or five subspecies. With 92-98% of its DNA being identical to that of a human, it is the next closest living relative to humans after the two chimpanzee species. Gentle Giants: Gorillas are usually a very gentle animal. They are rather calm animals except when they think they are in danger. Gorillas have been taught sign language! Gorillas are closely related to humans and are considered highly intelligent. A few individuals in captivity, such as Koko, have been taught a subset of sign language.
Gorillas are not carnivores, so they do not have a strong predator instinct or the instinct to kill animals. Ninety-nine percent of the time a gorilla would rather be left alo … ne and leave another animal alone than be wanting to kill it. A gorilla will only kill out of defense. Gorillas are very violence animals. However, They are not carnivorous so they don't rapidly attack animals. But they attack animals who try to take their territory or try har … m them or their children.
Many people are fascinated with gorillas due to the fact that they have so many characteristics of humans. However, that is one of the reasons why so many are upset over these animals being in captivity. Gorillas fit into the category of primates, and they are the largest of all of primates found in the world. There are only two species of them left in the world – the Eastern gorilla and the Western gorilla.
The mountain gorilla is one of two subspecies of gorilla. The other subspecies, the lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla), is the species found in zoos. There are no mountain gorillas in captivity. Mountain gorillas are one of the most endangered animals in the world. Scientists estimate that there are about 600 individuals, living in 2 populations of about 300 each, separated by about 20 miles. Their entire world consists of 285 square miles of high-elevation rain forest in east-central Africa.
Introduction to Gorillas. Gorillas fit into the category of primates, and they are the largest of all of primates found in the world. There are only two species of them left in the world – the Eastern gorilla and the Western gorilla. Each one has a couple of subspecies as well that helps to further break them down into smaller group
Making the world better, one answer at a time. because they are just like us in a way they are just the same they are frightened bylittle stuff like we are so that is why they are considered as a gentle animal. Gorillas are very violence animals. However, They are not carnivorous so they don't rapidly attack animals. But they attack animals who try to take their territory or try har … m them or their children.