Viruses, bacteria and mycoplasma, a type of small-cell bacteria, are implicated in autoimmune diseases. Often a bout of illness with a virus such as the Epstein-Barr virus triggers the onset of an autoimmune disease. Toxic Metal Exposure. An estimated twenty-five percent of us have some form of heavy metal poisoning. This means that if you have a family member with an autoimmune disease, you are at an increased risk of developing an autoimmune condition as well. And it does not have to be the same disease-one relative may have autoimmune thyroid disease, another multiple sclerosis, and another inflammatory bowel disease.
Immune system disorders cause abnormally low activity or over activity of the immune system. In cases of immune system over activity, the body attacks and damages its own tissues (autoimmune diseases). Immune deficiency diseases decrease the body's ability to fight invaders, causing vulnerability to infections. 1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and fibromyalgia (feye-broh-meye-AL-juh) (FM) are not autoimmune diseases. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  FM is a disorder in which pain or tenderness is felt in multiple places all over the body. Overall, autoimmune diseases are common, affecting more than 23.5 million Americans. They are a leading cause of death and disability. Yet some autoimmune diseases are rare, while others, such as Hashimoto's disease, affect many people.
The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs. Symptoms worsen during flare-ups and lessen during remission. Autoimmune diseases affect many parts of the body. The most common organs and tissue affected are: 1  joints. 2  muscles. 3  skin. 4  red blood cells. 5  blood vessels. 6  connective tissue.
Graves’ disease. An autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland that results in the overproduction of thyroid hormone. This causes such symptoms as nervousness, heat intolerance, heart palpitations, and unexplained weight loss. Immune system.
1 Systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus). 2  People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 3  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 4  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. An autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland that results in the overproduction of thyroid hormone. This causes such symptoms as nervousness, heat intolerance, heart palpitations, and unexplained weight loss. Immune system.
A. Autoimmune diseases usually do not usually have a simple, single cause. There are usually two major factors that are involved in causing them: genetics and environment. Genetics-Even with a genetic connection to autoimmune disease, there is no guarantee that you will develop an autoimmune disease. Something must turn on your immune system to trigger an autoimmune response. Environment-Environmental factors make up more than half the risk of developing an autoimmune disease.
Autoimmune-The Cause and The Cure identifies the cause and the cure for a wide range of autoimmune disorders including: Chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, lupus, Sjogren's, rheumatoid arthritis, Raynaud's, rosacea, myasthenia gravis, Hashimoto's, type 2 diabetes, multiple sclerosis and more. This means that if you have a family member with an autoimmune disease, you are at an increased risk of developing an autoimmune condition as well. And it does not have to be the same disease-one relative may have autoimmune thyroid disease, another multiple sclerosis, and another inflammatory bowel disease.
Your first symptoms of an autoimmune disease may be general, such as fatigue, low-grade fever, and difficulty concentrating, making autoimmune diseases difficult to diagnose at first. You also may feel depressed and consult a doctor for that. 