Extracts from this document... Introduction. The Great Gatsby Final Paragraph's Analysis This final section of the novel uses an ambivalent tone, recurring images and fractured syntax to draw together the essential thematic concerns of the novel. 
. . . And then one fine morning— So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.” (Fitzgerald, 189). The green light Fitzgerald mentions in the first sentence is a representation of mens dreams and goals, in this case, Gatsbys. Close Reading: 'The Great Gatsby' Last Paragraph. Fitzgerald ends The Great Gatsby in the following way: “Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that’s no matter—to-morrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther.
This passage is the last three paragraphs of the story. The passage is Nick's thoughts on Gatsby and the future. This passage ends the story and concludes Nick's narrative. It happens while Nick is going home to Minnesota in a train. It illustrates the main theme of the un-attainability of the American Dream. The diction of the second paragraph adds to the tone of the passage, showing the un-attainability of the American Dream. The last paragraph is only one sentence and is also the last sentence in the book. Fitzgerald uses this sentence to show that the current is flowing towards the East, and hence corruption. He uses the word ceaselessly to describe the movement of time into the past
The Great Gatsby is a novel by the American author F. Scott Fitzgerald. First published on April 10, 1925, it is set in Long Island's North Shore and New York City during the summer of 1922. The novel chronicles an era that Fitzgerald himself dubbed the Jazz Age.
Analysis. The final line of The Great Gatsby is one of the most famous in American literature, and serves as a sort of epitaph for both Gatsby and the novel as a whole. So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past. 
Last line: So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past. Meaning: there is a hopeless with respect to personal progress.... and ultimately our destiny does not push us forward but alas backward into the past. Hence we are tethered to our past forever. So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_significance_of_the_last_line_in_The_Grea … t_Gatsby#ixzz1v3ZFFHCx.
So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past. In The Great Gatsby, the last sentence reads: So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past. This refers to the dualities of Gatsby and America. At the end of the novel, Nick aligns himself Gatsby. Nick says Gatsby is worth the whole damn bunch (the Buchanans and Jordan, et al) put together. So, Nick is saying he will get into Gatsby's boat, the one that only sailed backwards on the sea of history--into the past to recapture his childhood dreams. To me, it is Fitzgerald's commentary on the meaning of the novel. Your question says to look back at the previous three paragraphs. To me, those paragraphs are about how, in the past, it was more possible to dream big dreams (like the Dutch sailors did). But now, the world that those Dutch sailors saw has gone.