You grow pigeon peas from seed. There are many varieties of pigeon pea around the world, from tall tree like species, to smaller bushes and dwarf varieties. The different varieties also mature at different times. If you live in a cool climate grab a faster maturing species. Pigeon peas are very heavy croppers and the seed pods grow in big clusters at the end of the branches. It's easy to gather a good amount for a meal. You can prune your plants at any time if you want to use them as mulch. If you need all the peas then the best time is obviously after the harvest.
Dhal is made from pigeon peas.) The peas can also be sprouted to make them even more nutritious, and they can be ground into flour. Leaves, flowers, seed pods and seed all make nutitious animal fodder. My chickens love the peas. Pigeon peas are very heavy croppers and the seed pods grow in big clusters at the end of the branches. It's easy to gather a good amount for a meal. You can prune your plants at any time if you want to use them as mulch. If you need all the peas then the best time is obviously after the harvest.
The seeds have a high germination rate, so consider this if you are using the clippings around your garden. Pigeon Pea has many uses. The foliage can be chopped and used as a soil improver and the seed pods can be harvested green to provide a green pea or dried and used in a similar way as lentils or other dried peas. Pigeon Pea is a perennial, evergreen shrub, growing to over 3m tall. It has a life span of about 5 years, with seed production declining each year. Pigeon Pea suits a sub-tropical to tropical climate and thrives in a warm position with adequate water. It prefers warmer temperatures and is not frost tolerant.
Pigeon Pea tolerates various soil types, low nutrient levels and will grow well in a soil pH from 5 to 8. If you don’t want the seeds germinating throughout your garden areas, then remove all seed pods before pruning and using on the soil. You can also plant Pigeon Pea as a wind break or prune to form a hedge. Pigeon Pea is a perennial, evergreen shrub, growing to over 3m tall. It has a life span of about 5 years, with seed production declining each year. Pigeon Pea suits a sub-tropical to tropical climate and thrives in a warm position with adequate water. It prefers warmer temperatures and is not frost tolerant.
The plant has edible beans that are popular in the West Indies. Pigeon pea grows well in most climates and requires very little maintenance in moist, nutrient-rich soil. The pigeon pea has an average life span of five years and grows best in US Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 to 15. Planting should take place in late spring, after the last frost or early summer. Plant one pigeon pea seed into the hole. Cover the seed with soil. Avoid putting too much soil on top of the seed; use just enough to conceal the seed.
Pigeon peas will grow just about anywhere. They can cope with poor soils and little water. Of course they will grow faster, bigger, better, and live longer if they have plenty of water and nutrients. Most varieties are not frost tolerant, although there are some newer varieties that supposedly can handle a bit of frost. Pigeon peas are very heavy croppers and the seed pods grow in big clusters at the end of the branches. It's easy to gather a good amount for a meal. You can prune your plants at any time if you want to use them as mulch. If you need all the peas then the best time is obviously after the harvest.
Cultivation. To grow pigeon pea as a home garden crop, choose a short-maturation variety. Plant seeds as soon as frost danger is past at about twice the depth of the seed's diameter. Keep the soil moist and seeds should germinate in two to three weeks, faster in warm soils than in cool ones. Pigeon pea is a subtropical and tropical plant growing in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 10 through 12. In warmest USDA zones, pigeon pea is a short-lived perennial shrub lasting about five years. It is grown as an annual in cooler areas.
About Pigeon Pea Seed Growing. Pigeon peas can be grown in most places where there is a lot of sun and very little frost. According to the USDA Plant Hardiness Map, pigeon peas can be grown in zones 9 through 15. Plant seeds one inch deep and 12 inches apart for best results. Plants will germinate in 10 to 15 days, and pods will appear in four months. Pods can be picked fresh for peas or left on the tree until they are dry.
Plants can start to bloom after two months, but can take longer depending on the cultivar. Pigeon pea is a short-day plant, blooming when nights are long, except for day-neutral varieties such as Amarillo, which will bloom regardless of day length. Pigeon pea is a subtropical and tropical plant growing in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 10 through 12. In warmest USDA zones, pigeon pea is a short-lived perennial shrub lasting about five years. It is grown as an annual in cooler areas.