A coastal zone is the interface between the land and water. These zones are important because a majority of the world's population inhabit such zones. 1 The tidal bulges result in a rhythmic rise and fall of ocean surface, which is not noticeable to someone on a boat at sea, but is magnified along the coasts. 2  Usually there are two high tides and two low tides each day, and thus a variation in sea level as the tidal bulge passes through each point on the Earth's surface.
Prof. Stephen A. Nelson. Coastal Zones. A coastal zone is the interface between the land and water. These zones are important because a majority of the world's population inhabit such zones. Coastal zones are continually changing because of the dynamic interaction between the oceans and the land. Waves and winds along the coast are both eroding rock and depositing sediment on a continuous basis, and rates of erosion and deposition vary considerably from day to day along such zones. 1 The tidal bulges result in a rhythmic rise and fall of ocean surface, which is not noticeable to someone on a boat at sea, but is magnified along the coasts. 2  Usually there are two high tides and two low tides each day, and thus a variation in sea level as the tidal bulge passes through each point on the Earth's surface.
Rugged coastline of the West Coast Region of New Zealand. A coastline or a seashore is the area where land meets the sea or ocean, or a line that forms the boundary between the land and the ocean or a lake. A precise line that can be called a coastline cannot be determined due to the Coastline paradox. The term  coastal zone  is a region where interaction of the sea and land processes occurs. Both the terms coast and coastal are often used to describe a geographic location or region; for example, New Zealand's West Coast, or the East and West Coasts of the United States.
Coastal.com is an online retailer of contact lenses, eyeglasses and sunglasses founded in 2000 by Roger Hardy and his sister Michaela. They are one of the largest online contact lens retailers in North America, and the largest seller of prescription eyeglasses online in the world. In 2004, Coastal Contacts raised $6 million in an initial public offering, which they used to expand into the United Kingdom and parts of Europe. In late 2004, they acquired a mail order contact lens business in Europe, LensWay.
A pelagic coast refers to a coast which fronts the open ocean, as opposed to a more sheltered coast in a gulf or bay. A shore, on the other hand, can refer to parts of the land which adjoin any large body of water, including oceans (sea shore) and lakes (lake shore). The term  coastal zone  is a region where interaction of the sea and land processes occurs. Both the terms coast and coastal are often used to describe a geographic location or region; for example, New Zealand's West Coast, or the East and West Coasts of the United States.
CWPPRA provides funding for Louisiana’s coastal restoration. The Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration Act, (CWPPRA pronounced kwǐp-ruh), is federal legislation enacted in 1990 that is designed to identify, prepare, and fund construction of coastal wetlands restoration projects. These projects provide for the near-term conservation of wetlands Read more...
The coastal city of Bal Harbour. The coastal city of Bal Harbour. The definition of coastal is something that is either located near or has to do with the coast. 1  Cancun is an example of a coastal city. 2  Pacific Coast Highway is an example of a coastal highway. 1 Autumn is warmer than spring, especially in the coastal regions, and this is exaggerated in the eastern region by local land winds, which replace the cool sea-breezes of summer: overcoats are ordinarily worn in Spain and Italy till July, and are then put aside till October.