: This page is part of the section about the structure and function of different Tissue Types, which is related to the section about Histology and Cells (incl. structure of animal cells, cell division, mitosis, meiosis). 2.0 The Structure (Physical Description) of the blood tissues. Blood consists of many components (constituents). These include: 55%. Plasma. 45%. Components, i.e. 'Blood Cells'. Of these, 99% are erythrocytes (red blood cells) and 1% are leucocytes (white blood cells) and thrombocytes (blood platelets).
Blood. Our blood is a fluid that is also a type of connective tissue. It is composed of blood cells and an aqueous fluid known as plasma. Two major functions of the blood include transporting substances to and from our cells and providing immunity and protection against infectious agents such as bacteria and viruses. 
White blood cells, or leukocytes, are the defense army within the blood tissue. They are the only true cells in the blood and are not limited to the blood stream. When called to defeat an infection or to dispose of a dead cell, they can squeeze through openings in the vessel walls. Blood platelets that do not clot blood will be disposed of by the body every 10 days. A diagram of the composition of the blood. A diagram showing different types of white blood cells, part of the blood tissue. View slideshow of images above.
As a result of this basic topology, other tissues are either supported upon connective tissue (epithelial surfaces), invaginated into connective tissue (glandular epithelium), or embedded within the connective tissue (blood vessels, muscles, and nerves). Connective tissue comprises one of the four basic tissue types. The others are: epithelial tissue (surfaces and glands), muscle tissue (contractile cells), and nervous tissue. Organs represent various combinations of these four basic tissue types, which thus comprise the entire body.
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component.
A tissue type test is a blood test that identifies substances called antigens on the surface of body cells and tissues. Checking the antigens can tell if donor tissue is safe (compatible) for transplant to another person. This test may also be called HLA typing. A tissue type test is done to: 1  See if the antigen pattern for donated tissue or organs (including a blood platelet transfusion or bone marrow transplant) is a match. 2  See how likely two people are related. 3  Find people who may have a high chance of certain autoimmune diseases.
Types of blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to all other tissues in the body, and take carbon dioxide back to the lungs to be removed. Having too few red blood cells in the body (anemia) can make you feel tired, weak, and short of breath because your body tissues are not getting enough oxygen. Granulocytes are mature, infection-fighting cells that develop from myeloblasts, a type of blood forming cell in the bone marrow. Granulocytes have granules that show up as spots under the microscope. These granules contain enzymes and other substances that can destroy germs, such as bacteria.
Blood is a highly specialized, fluid tissue. Blood is traditionally classified as a specialized form of connective tissue. To appreciate the basic unity of blood and other varieties of connective tissue, consider the following. 1  All of the several blood cell types originate in the connective tissue of bone marrow. Certain white blood cells, notably lymphocytes and monocytes, move freely back and forth between blood and other connective tissues. For historical reasons, a couple of the white blood cell types have two different names, depending on whether they are found in blood or in other connective tissues (monocyte in blood = macrophage in ordinary connective tissue; basophil in blood = mast cell in ordinary connective tissue). Other internet resources:
Two main antigen groups are used for a tissue type test. Class I has three classes of antigens (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C) that are found on some kinds of blood cells. Class II has one class of antigens (HLA-D) that are found only on certain cells in the body. There are many different types of antigens in each category. A tissue type test is done to: 1  See if the antigen pattern for donated tissue or organs (including a blood platelet transfusion or bone marrow transplant) is a match. 2  See how likely two people are related. 3  Find people who may have a high chance of certain autoimmune diseases.
Blood is considered a connective tissue for two basic reasons: (1) embryologically, it has the same origin (mesodermal) as do the other connective tissue types and (2) blood connects the body systems together bringing the needed oxygen, nutrients, hormones and other signaling molecules, and removing the wastes. Hemopoiesis is the continual production of new blood cells. There are two kinds of hemopoietic tissue: (1) myeloid tissue or bone marrow where RBCs, granular WBCs, platelets, monocytes are produced and (2) lymphatic tissue-thymus, spleen, lymph nodes, where lymphocytes are made.