A stator is the static part of rotary electromagnetic devices such as electric motors, alternators, and generators. It represents one of the two primary components of the device, the other being the moving rotor that supplies the working output. Ad. Whether the relevant machine is a motion output device such as a motor, or a source of electrical power output such as a generator, the stator and rotor fulfill one of two basic functions in the work cycle. The first is that of a field device, or field coil as it is often called.
Stator of a 3-phase AC-motor. Stator of a brushless DC motor from computer cooler fan. The stator is the stationary part of a rotary system, found in electric generators, electric motors, sirens, or biological rotors. The main use of a stator is to keep the field aligned. Stator winding of a generator at a hydroelectric power station. The stator of these devices may be either a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. Where the stator is an electromagnet, the coil which energizes it is known as the field coil or field winding. The coil can be either iron core or aluminum
The term, stator is derived from the word stationary. The stator then is the stationary part of the AC motor. The rotor is the rotating electrical component. It also consists of a group of electro-magnets arranged around a cylinder, with the poles facing toward the stator poles. The rotor is located inside the stator and is mounted on the AC motor's shaft. Thus, as the magnetic field of the stator rotates, the rotor is forced to rotate with it. One way to produce a rotating magnetic field in the stator of an AC Motor is to use a three-phase power supply for the stator coils. To produce a rotating magnetic field in the stator of a three-phase AC motor all that needs to be done is wind the stator coils properly and connect the power supply leads correctly
The two basic components are a rotating rotor and a stationary stator. In the case of a motor, the rotor is the part of the device which supplies the working motion the machine is designed to produce. Ad. Whether the relevant machine is a motion output device such as a motor, or a source of electrical power output such as a generator, the stator and rotor fulfill one of two basic functions in the work cycle. The first is that of a field device, or field coil as it is often called.
Noun. 1. stator coil-mechanical device consisting of the stationary part of a motor or generator in or around which the rotor revolves. stator. electric motor-a motor that converts electricity to mechanical work. generator-engine that converts mechanical energy into electrical energy by electromagnetic induction.
In simple terms, a stator can be defined as the stationary part of an alternator. In order to understand what the stator does, it is helpful to know how a basic electrical system works. The electrical system on most vehicles includes a way to generate, store, and use electricity. An alternator generates power by producing AC (alternating current).
stator. n. 1. (Electrical Engineering) the stationary part of a rotary machine or device, esp of a motor or generator. 2. (Aeronautics) a system of nonrotating radially arranged parts within a rotating assembly, esp the fixed blades of an axial flow compressor in a gas turbine. 
what is a stator. The stator is the stationary part, with windings, that lies under the rotor, or the rotationary part that revolves as the flywheel spins. The rotor/flywheel has the magnets around its ID perimeter and the result of the magnets spinning around the windings produces AC current