Chipotle is Not Unhealthy. One of my pet peeves is the misconception that Chipotle is unhealthy for you. Nearly everyone I talk to about Chipotle believes that Chipotle is as bad for them as is McDonald. By the way, Chipotle is not owned by McDonald and does not source its ingredients like McDonald does. The one flaw of Chipotle is that its foods contain a lot of sodium. Although sodium will not make you fat, sodium can cause other health problems if taken in excess. Thus, if Chipotle could reduce the sodium in its foods in half, I don’t see why I could not live off Chipotle for the rest of my life.
Chipotle is not a low-calorie option for dining out. A Chipotle burrito with chicken, white rice, pinto beans, tomato salsa, lettuce, sour cream, cheese, guacamole and green salsa tips the scales at a hefty 1,180 calories. Protein. One of the upsides to most Chipotle menu items is that they contain a healthy serving of protein. Whether you choose a burrito, a bowl, tacos or a salad, you have the option of adding your choice of chicken, steak, carnitas, tofu or barbacoa. In addition, beans and rice are served with all order
When talking about the nutritional value of Chipotle, it is important to realize that, yes, Chipotle can be unhealthy, but more often than not, Chipotle is not unhealthy. Those who believe Chipotle is a burrito-shaped missile that will harm a healthy lifestyle argue that Chipotle burritos have so much calories. The one flaw of Chipotle is that its foods contain a lot of sodium. Although sodium will not make you fat, sodium can cause other health problems if taken in excess. Thus, if Chipotle could reduce the sodium in its foods in half, I don’t see why I could not live off Chipotle for the rest of my life.
A meal with a lot of calories does not make it unhealthy. They are fresh quality ingredients that hit all categories: Fats, Protein and Carbs. I literally ate Chipotle every day and lost 50 pounds. About one in 10 meals ordered by Chipotle customers had more than 1,600 calories. The burrito’s tortilla is a big culprit, as on its own it contains about 300 calories. Only about 2 percent of the burritos in the data—just 25 out of 1,200 burritos in all—were under 700 calories. It’s not all bad news though. Many Chipotle customers can and do order meals with fewer than 650 calories, such as a cheese-free burrito bowl
The New York Times today posted an informative, detailed report about just how unhealthy Chipotle is for a variety of reasons. They also, for some inexplicable reason, seem to genuinely think this is news to us. The piece, which, again, is very well-constructed and contains a good amount of fine detail, menus, and graphics, first points out how a typical Chipotle order takes up over half the recommended daily calories for an adult (a typical order is around 1070 calories, while the recommended intake is 1600-2400).
The fact is that Chipotle gives you a lot of food and the food is healthy quality fresh cooked food free from GMO’s and additives. If I had enough vegetables to equal 1000 calories you wouldn’t call it unhealthy. About one in 10 meals ordered by Chipotle customers had more than 1,600 calories. The burrito’s tortilla is a big culprit, as on its own it contains about 300 calories. Only about 2 percent of the burritos in the data—just 25 out of 1,200 burritos in all—were under 700 calories. It’s not all bad news though. Many Chipotle customers can and do order meals with fewer than 650 calories, such as a cheese-free burrito bowl
Look, we're talking about Chipotle here. This is a place that sells bricks of meat, cheese, and vegetables encased in an enormous carb blanket. The tortilla alone is 300 calories. It's all well and good to know just how unhealthy this stuff is, sure. The piece, which, again, is very well-constructed and contains a good amount of fine detail, menus, and graphics, first points out how a typical Chipotle order takes up over half the recommended daily calories for an adult (a typical order is around 1070 calories, while the recommended intake is 1600-2400).