Short form of GABRIELLE. This is also the name of towns in the Netherlands and New Jersey, though their names derive from a different source. 
Brielle is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Bri-elle. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 118 in baby name popularity for girls with 2638 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
Irish Meaning: The name Brielle is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Brielle is: Hill. Alsoand Breanna. American Meaning: The name Brielle is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Brielle is: Hill. Alsoand Breanna
For years I have been the only bearer of this name because the name was of my Mum's creation. Brielle, originally intended for my middle name, is a mixture of my parents middle names: Brian and Ellen. Brielle as I am known, is not a short form of Gabrielle or otherwise, but on it's own, Brielle, just like that. 
[ 2 syll. briel-le, br-ie-lle ] The baby girl name Brielle is pronounced as BRiy-EH L- †. Brielle is primarily used in the English and French languages. It is of Celtic and Hebrew origin. In addition, Brielle is a form of the English and Irish name Brianna. Brielle is also an English short form of the English and French name Gabrielle as well as an English form of the German name Gabriele. The names Briell, Briella, Briette, and Bryelle are forms of Brielle. Brielle is popular as a baby girl name, and it is also considered trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of very modest use only. At the recent height of its usage in 2012, 0.143% of baby girls were given the name Brielle. It was #111 in rank then.
About the name Brielle. The meaning of the name Brielle: God Is My Strength. The origin of the name Brielle: French. Notes: Short form of the name Gabrielle. Brielle in song, story & screen: | Edit. Brielle is the title of a song by Sky Sailing (same singer as Owl City), and the name of the girl described in the song. I chose Brielle as my confirmation middle name for My baby Michaela.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Brielle and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Brielle and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Brielle for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Brielle is a girl name. The name Brielle is of Hebrew origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
More About Irish Name: Brielle. This is originally from the french Gabrielle. Which means: God's able one. or God is my strength. Brielle is the short form of the name Gabrielle, which is from the Hebrew name Gabriel, which means strong woman of God.. Brielle is the name of a town in the Netherlands. 
In Irish the meaning of the name Brielle is: A shortened form of the name Gabrielle. The name Brielle is a baby girl name. The name Brielle comes from the Irish origin.