Diagram the anterior patellar region, showing the quadriceps, the IT tract, lateral collateral ligament, medial collateral ligament, patellar tendon, and the pes anserinus (semitendinosus, gracilis, and sartorius). 
Best Answer: Popliteal refers to the area behind your knee. Your kneepit. There's an artery and vein and nerve that run through there and are named after the region. Source(s): I'm a physician. Report Abuse. False,..the popliteal region is the one seen at the back of the knee..the anterior elbow region is the cubital region or antecubital fossa. princess · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
a. the patellar region is superior to the popliteal region. b. the patellar region is distal to the popliteal region. c. the patellar region is lateral to the popliteal region. d. the patellar region is proximal to the popliteal region. e. the patellar region is anterior to the popliteal region. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. 
False,..the popliteal region is the one seen at the back of the knee..the anterior elbow region is the cubital region or antecubital fossa. princess · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. False,..the popliteal region is the one seen at the back of the knee..the anterior elbow region is the cubital region or antecubital fossa. princess · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
cranial fossa any one of the three hollows (anterior, middle, and posterior) in the base of the cranium for the lobes of the brain. digastric fossa a depression on the inner surface of the mandible, giving attachment to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. epigastric fossa. 1. one in the epigastric region. incisive fossa a slight depression on the anterior surface of the maxilla above the incisor teeth. infraclavicular fossa the triangular region of the chest just below the clavicle, between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. infratemporal fossa an irregularly shaped cavity medial or deep to the zygomatic arch.
ovarian fossa a shallow pouch on the posterior surface of the broad ligament of the uterus in which the ovary is located. paravesical fossa the fossa formed by the peritoneum on each side of the urinary bladder. pituitary fossa hypophyseal fossa. popliteal fossa the hollow at the posterior part of the knee. subarcuate fossa a depression in the posterior inner surface of the pars petrosa of the temporal bone. incisive fossa a slight depression on the anterior surface of the maxilla above the incisor teeth. infraclavicular fossa the triangular region of the chest just below the clavicle, between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. infratemporal fossa an irregularly shaped cavity medial or deep to the zygomatic arch.