The sixth series of Benidorm is currently being filmed at the hotel and will continue up until June, so if you are staying there is a chance you can catch some of the stars in action – or possibly get famous by featuring in the background, you never know. You probably do as it’s one of the main settings of the hit TV series Benidorm. What you may not have known is that the ‘Solana’ is in fact the Sol Pelicanos-Ocas Hotel, and happens to be one of our most popular hotels in Benidorm.
The Solana is the hotel featured in the show where all the cast stay. The pool scenes are filmed at the Sol Pelicanos Pelícanos ocas In. Benidorm the rooms are filmed in The ACUARIAM Ii apartments which overlook the, pool and The reception (area Including'kenneth s) salon is a studio. set The series features an ensemble cast of holiday makers and staff at the Solana all-inclusive hotel in Benidorm, Spain. The show first aired on 1 February 2007.
Best Answer: The Hotel Sol Pelicanos/Ocas. The cabaret scenes in the so called Neptune Bar were not filmed in the hotel, but in Morgan's Tavern just along the road, opposite the Ambassador Hotel. what name was the hotel that benidorm was filmed with johnny vagues in it. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think that this question violates the Community Guidelines.
It is filmed at the Solana Apartments. Near the coast on the Poniente side of Benidorm (but near the Levante end). This information was obtained from the itv.com/benidorm website. The Pelicanos/Ocas hotels are featured in the beginning scenes. They are sister hotels in the Levante area and share the same swimming pool area
The Solana aka Sol Pelicanos hotel in Benidorm. Ask any Brit back in the UK to name a hotel in Benidorm and I bet many will come up with  The Solana !It is amazing how many believe that the Solana is actually a real hotel, made famous by the hit ITV comedy series Benidorm. Sol Pelicanos-better known as Solana to many. The pool and swim up bar of the Sol Pelicanos hotel has been used since the very first series, as has Morgans Tavern, which is transformed into “ Neptunes ” for the nightclub scenes.
The hotel in Benidorm the ITV comedy, starring Johnny Vegas, Jake Canuso, Tim Healy, Steve Pemberton and Siobhan Finneran, is filmed on location at Hotel Sol Pelicanos-Ocas in Benidorm, Spain. 
Hotel in TV programme Benidorm is filmed in the Benidorm Hilton. Benidorm, Alicante, Comunidad Valenciana, Spain. report this answer. Updated on Friday, February 03 2012 at 06:11AM GMT. Source: uk.answers.yahoo.com/... 82ASK what is the real life name of the solana hotel in benidorm where the i.t.v sitcom benidorm is set.
Benidorm is a British sitcom written by Derren Litten and produced by Tiger Aspect for ITV. The series features an ensemble cast of holiday makers and staff at the Solana all-inclusive hotel in Benidorm, Spain. The show first aired on 1 February 2007.
Best Answer: My belief was that it was filmed in The Ambassador Playa Hotel, with cabaret scenes in Morgan's Tavern opposite but the following is provided by Wikipedia-Benidorm was filmed at the Hotel Sol Pelicanos-Ocas in Benidorm and many of the extras featured in the series are local expats. Near the coast on the Poniente side of Benidorm (but near the Levante end). This information was obtained from the itv.com/benidorm website. The Pelicanos/Ocas hotels are featured in the beginning scenes.
Sol Pelicanos/Ocas Hotel Introduction. If you're looking for the ultimate Benidorm holiday, look no further! With a fun and lively family friendly atmosphere, these sister hotels are famous for having much of the TV comedy series Benidorm filmed in their grounds. 