The Revised GRE is a long, grueling test. To get a perfect score on the quantitative section (a 170) you will not only have to answer the difficult questions correctly, but you will also have to answer all of the easy ones. Nonetheless, I’ve focused on the difficult questions for the 170-challenge. Some of his GRE students have raised their scores by nearly 400 points. He has taken many GMAT students from the doldrums of the 600s to the coveted land of the 700+. Rumor has it he does a secret happy dance when his students get a perfect score.
By the way, students who use Magoosh GRE improve their scores by an average of 8 points on the new scale (150 points on the old scale.) Click here to learn more. For the last ten years, Chris has been helping students excel on the SAT and the GRE. In this time, he’s coached 5 students to a perfect SAT score. Some of his GRE students have raised their scores by nearly 400 points. He has taken many GMAT students from the doldrums of the 600s to the coveted land of the 700+. As a result, of math tutors/teachers who sit for the GRE, many can score close to perfect. Physics majors: On the old GRE, physics majors (like our Content Developer, Mike!) were more likely than any other major to get a perfect GRE score.
The maximum score on the SAT is a 2400. Out of the 1.6 million students who take the test every year, only about 300 get the highest possible SAT score. This elusive perfect score catapults you to the top of high school academic achievement and can be a big boost to your college applications. I scored perfect scores on the SAT. I actually scored two perfect scores-a 1600 in 2004 when I was in high school, and a 2400 in March 2014 when I took it 10 years later. Most of the advice out there about how to get a perfect score come from people who didn't get perfect scores
I have known students who actually think Barron’s is the official study guide for the GRE. (East or West Barron’s is the Best). Barrons GRE Book is good, but you would have to buy the official GRE Study Guide. To get perfect GRE scores, you need to have a complete understanding of the GRE test. You need a thorough understanding of each of the sections in the exam and what kind of questions appear under each section. This way, you eliminate test anxieties that might arise by being surprised by a question. 
How to get a perfect GRE score 1600. If you're smart, you'll do pretty well on the GRE with only a little preparation. But if you want the prestige of a perfect score, you can achieve it by starting early and working hard. In this article, I will tell you exactly what I did in college, in the weeks leading up to the test, and during the test that gave me a score of 1600 on my first try.
Having taught GRE for some while now and having seen so many students take the GRE test, my advice is not to get hung up on perfection. A very good score is anything above 162 on the quant and 150 on the verbal – such scores will help you get into very good programs in the U.S. Good Luck! Hence if you do 2-3 easier questions incorrectly on the quant section then you can still expect to score perfectly – but if you get the harder ones wrong then you must expect to lose a lot of points. Moreover there is no way for a student to discern the harder questions from the easier ones.
Due to the relative scoring each of the two sections (Quant and Verbal) has a different scoring dynamic. So for instance if you miss 2-3 questions on the verbal section you will still get a perfect score – however on the quantitative section 2-3 questions will drop your score to 168. Hence if you do 2-3 easier questions incorrectly on the quant section then you can still expect to score perfectly – but if you get the harder ones wrong then you must expect to lose a lot of points. Moreover there is no way for a student to discern the harder questions from the easier ones.
And for an even more select group, it is getting a perfect GRE score. 170 + 170 = 340. Perfect GRE Verbal score + Perfect GRE Math score = Perfect GRE Score. If you’re really shooting for the stars, a perfect 6 on the AWA essays should be on your list, too. As a result, of math tutors/teachers who sit for the GRE, many can score close to perfect. Physics majors: On the old GRE, physics majors (like our Content Developer, Mike!) were more likely than any other major to get a perfect GRE score.
In this time, he’s coached 5 students to a perfect SAT score. Some of his GRE students have raised their scores by nearly 400 points. He has taken many GMAT students from the doldrums of the 600s to the coveted land of the 700+. Rumor has it he does a secret happy dance when his students get a perfect score.