Red blood cells from Syrian hamsters, infected with Babesia parasites, are fixed on a glass slide. Patient serum is added, and the patient's B. microti-specific IgG or IgM antibodies bind to the parasites in the infected red blood cells. In the third step, a labeled anti-human antibody is added. Fluorescence occurs if Babesia-specific antibodies are present. The slides must be read with a fluorescent microscop
Clinical Utility. Babesia microt i IgG and IgM assays are used to detect infection of the tick-borne protozoan Babesia microti, specifically in cases of diagnostic uncertainty or suspected chronic infection. The assays are performed by indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) methods
May include intervals based on age and sex when appropriate. Reference Ranges. Elevated antibody levels to B. microti indicate exposure to the organism. Human babesiosis infection is transmitted by the bite of an infected Ixodes tick or less frequently from transfusion with blood from an infected donor. Definitive diagnosis is made by identifying intraerythrocytic organisms in peripheral blood. Intervals are Mayo-derived, unless otherwise designated. Reference Ranges. Elevated antibody levels to B. microti indicate exposure to the organism. Human babesiosis infection is transmitted by the bite of an infected Ixodes tick or less frequently from transfusion with blood from an infected donor.
Procedure. Human IgG and IgM antibodies to Babesia microti (B. microti) antigens are detected by indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) assay. Briefly, a slide well coated with fixed, infected red blood cells are incubated with diluted human serum. Babesia microt i IgG and IgM assays are used to detect infection of the tick-borne protozoan Babesia microti, specifically in cases of diagnostic uncertainty or suspected chronic infection. The assays are performed by indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) methods
Reference Values. Reference Ranges. Elevated antibody levels to B. microti indicate exposure to the organism. Human babesiosis infection is transmitted by the bite of an infected Ixodes tick or less frequently from transfusion with blood from an infected donor. 
Procedure Human IgG and IgM antibodies to Babesia microti (B. microti) antigens are detected by indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) assay. Briefly, a slide well coated with fixed, infected red blood cells are incubated with diluted human serum. 