The service temperature is a material characteristic which provides information about the thermal stability of a material. The service temperature is standardized in Germany in accordance with DIN 53476. An upper and lower service temperature exists, and a distinction is also made according to long term service temperature, short-term service temperature, and heat deflection temperature which define the application limits of a material. Negative service temperature. The service temperature in the negative temperature range depends heavily on the toughness / brittleness of the material. The more brittle the material, the more likely a material failure is to occur at low temperatures.
1 Note that the range of maximum service temperature does not mean the range of temperature in which the material must be used! 2  It may be assumed that any operating temperature below the maximum service temperature down to zero degrees Centigrade is safe in design. 1 For prolonged loading the maximum stress will be lower because creep (permanent stretching over time) will occur. 2  The data for a material on the selection chart shows the range in which the maximum service temperature fall (since a given material on the chart will include many different variants with the same name).
1 Maximum service temperature indicates the maximum temperature at which a material can be used in engineering above this its strength rapidly decreases. 2  This chart is useful for identifying materials for components which operate at temperatures above room temperature, e.g. cooking utensils, car engines and exhausts. 
Long-term service temperature. The long-term service temperature is defined as the maximum temperature at which a plastic has lost no more than 50% of its initial properties after 20,000 hours of storage in hot air (in accordance with IEC 216). Negative service temperature. The service temperature in the negative temperature range depends heavily on the toughness / brittleness of the material. The more brittle the material, the more likely a material failure is to occur at low temperatures.
Introduction. The maximum oxidation service temperatures for heat resisting steels is shown 'for guidance only' in table B.2 of EN 10095. Although helpful, this only covers the steels specifically designed for heat resisting applications. Maximum service temperatures in air for stainless steels
1 The maximum service temperature is important for applications where components become hot. 2  Jet engines, brake discs and extrusion dies are all examples of products which operature at temperatures of 400 o C or more-metals and ceramics are then required. 1 For prolonged loading the maximum stress will be lower because creep (permanent stretching over time) will occur. 2  The data for a material on the selection chart shows the range in which the maximum service temperature fall (since a given material on the chart will include many different variants with the same name).
The U Thermo insulation solutions cover a broad range of thermal requirements in industrial applications. The Maximum Service Temperature (MST) of U Thermo insulation solutions is declared according to EN ISO 14 706 and EN ISO 14 707. The tests measure performance under a load of 250-500 Pa depending on the density of the products to simulate real life installation conditions. Maximum Service Temperature (MST) under 500Pa – a guarantee that can be used for design. To estimate the highest continuous operating temperature at which a product can be used, a variety of methods exists.
Maximum service temperature is a measure indicating the maximum continuous temperature at which an insulation material can operate without any degradation in thermal insulation performance. MST is either measured according to: Maximum Service Temperature (MST) under 500Pa – a guarantee that can be used for design. To estimate the highest continuous operating temperature at which a product can be used, a variety of methods exists.
1 The strength of a material tends to fall quickly when a certain temperature is reached. 2  This temperature limits the maximum operating temperature for which the material is useful. 3  For metals the maximum operating temperature is usually around two thirds of the melting temperature. 1 For prolonged loading the maximum stress will be lower because creep (permanent stretching over time) will occur. 2  The data for a material on the selection chart shows the range in which the maximum service temperature fall (since a given material on the chart will include many different variants with the same name).