Peer Recovery Support Specialists are individuals who are in recovery or have life experience from any life altering event or disruption. Their life experiences allow them to provide recovery support in such way that others can benefit from their experiences. 
Peer support occurs when people provide knowledge, experience, emotional, social or practical help to each other. Trained peer support workers such as peer support specialists and peer counselors receive special training and are required to obtain Continuing Education Units, like clinical staff.
Welcome to the list of Peer Support and Wellness Specialists Training Programs approved by the Oregon Health Authority. This page includes an alphabetical listing of all the programs. Browse, search or contact a program by using the controls provided below. 
About the Peer Support Certification. This program does: 1  Help prepare peer specialists for work in the North Carolina mental health and substance use disorder (mh/sud) service system. 2  Issue a certificate that shows that the person has satisfactorily completed approved training and met application criteria. The employer agency in which the peer specialist works is responsible for hiring, supervision, performance reviews, and ensuring the peer specialist can perform the essential functions of that job, just like other positions.
Peer support is distinct from other forms of social support in that the source of support is a peer, a person who is similar in fundamental ways to the recipient of the support; their relationship is one of equality. Trained peer support workers such as peer support specialists and peer counselors receive special training and are required to obtain Continuing Education Units, like clinical staff.
When peer support specialists work in publicly funded services, the peer support specialists are required to meet government and state certification requirements. Because of their life experience, such persons have expertise that professional training cannot replicate. This is not to be confused with peer educators who may not consider recovery a suitable goal for everyone and may focus instead on the principles of harm reduction.
The peer support specialist program is a program designed to help clients in all stages of recovery. We have first-hand experience with mental illness and the challenges that come with it. Despite those challenges we have come to know the reality of wellness. 
Peer Specialists go by different names in different settings—for example, peer support specialists, certified recovery support specialists, and in the Department of Veterans Affairs, peer support technicians—but they have a common commitment to assisting their peers from a strengths-focused perspective. A Peer Specialist is an individual with lived recovery experience who has been trained and certified to help their peers gain hope and move forward in their own recovery.
To develop a qualified Peer Support Specialist workforce that has the support, access, credibility, competency, respect and the valued role within the mental health and substance use disorder service delivery system to positively impact the lives of individuals experiencing mental health and addiction challenges. The employer agency in which the peer specialist works is responsible for hiring, supervision, performance reviews, and ensuring the peer specialist can perform the essential functions of that job, just like other positions.
Peer support specialist. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A Peer Support Specialist is a person who has progressed in their own recovery from alcohol or other drug abuse or mental disorder and is willing to self-identify as a peer and work to assist other individuals with chemical dependency or a mental disorder. Because of their life experience, such persons have expertise that professional training cannot replicate. This is not to be confused with peer educators who may not consider recovery a suitable goal for everyone and may focus instead on the principles of harm reduction.