Compressive Strength Testing of Plastics. The compressive strength of a material is the force per unit area that it can withstand in compression. This is in contrast to the more commonly measured tensile strength. ASTM D695 is the standard test method in the USA. The figure below, from Quadrant Engineering Plastic Products, shows the test geometry. North American plastics manufacturers generally report compressive yield strength, the stress measured at the point of permanent yield, zero slope, on the stress-strain curve. Ultimate compressive strength is the stress required to rupture a specimen. Materials such as most plastics that do not rupture can have their results reported as the compressive strength at a specific deformation such as 1%, 5%, or 10% of the test sample's original height
CIP 35 - Testing Compressive Strength of Concrete WHAT is the Compressive Strength of Concrete? Concrete mixtures can be designed to provide a wide range of mechanical and durability properties to meet the design requirements of a structure. Compressive strength is measured by breaking cylindrical concrete specimens in a compression-testing machine. Compressive strength is calculated from the failure load divided by the cross-sectional area resisting the load and reported in units of pound-force per square inch (psi) or megapascals (MPa).
The compressive strength of the material would correspond to the stress at the red point shown on the curve. In a compression test, there is a linear region where the material follows Hooke's Law. Hence for this region where this time E refers to the Young's Modulus for compression. By definition, the ultimate compressive strength of a material is that value of uniaxial compressive stress reached when the material fails completely. The compressive strength is usually obtained experimentally by means of a compressive test.
CIP 35 - Testing Compressive Strength of Concrete WHAT is the Compressive Strength of Concrete? WHY is Compressive Strength Determined?Concrete mixtures can be designed to provide a wide rangeof mechanical and durability properties to meet the designrequirements of a structure. 
Compressive strength is measured on materials, components, and structures. By definition, the ultimate compressive strength of a material is that value of uniaxial compressive stress reached when the material fails completely. The compressive strength is usually obtained experimentally by means of a compressive test.
Definition of COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH. : the maximum compressive stress that under gradually applied load a given solid material will sustain without fracture — compare tensile strength. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis
Compressive Strength. Compressive strength is defined as the maximum compressive load a body can bear prior to failure, divided by its cross sectional area. Ceramics typically have good tensile strengths and are used under compression e.g. concrete. 
Top 10 facts about the world. Compressive strength is a measure of a material’s ability to withstand compressive forces, where it is squeezed laterally. Materials testing can determine the compressive strength of a material in optimal conditions, using a specialized device that applies known pressure loads to materials of interest. 
4.1 Care must be exercised in the interpretation of the significance of compressive strength determinations by this test method since strength is not a fundamental or intrinsic property of concrete made from given materials. 1.1 This test method covers determination of compressive strength of cylindrical concrete specimens such as molded cylinders and drilled cores. It is limited to concrete having a density in excess of 800 kg/m 3 [50 lb/ft 3 ].