Xanthan Gum is a plant-based thickening and stabilizing agent. It is named for the bacteria, Xanthomonas campestris, which plays a crucial role in this description. Technically speaking, xanthan gum is a polysaccharide, which is just a fancy way to say a string of multiple sugars..
When used in baking, you can use the same amount of Konjac powder as you would xanthan gum (1/2 teaspoon per cup of flour for cakes and breads). For other baked goods like flatbreads or tortillas, you can increase the amount of Konjac you use to ¾ teaspoon per cup of four to get the desired consistency.
Xanthan gum is a chemically produced product derived either from corn or sugarcane. It is milled into a fine powder that resembles baking soda or powder and is used in gluten-free and whole wheat baking to replace the glutinous binding agent. Without xanthan gum, many gluten-free bakery goods would crumble and fall apart.
Those unable to use xanthan gum or guar gum in their baking are still left with a lot of options. What’s more, these solutions promise to deliver results which are just as desirable as using xanthan gum or guar gum. You will definitely find a binding agent that works best for you.
1 Bread and pizza dough recipes: Add 1 teaspoon xanthan gum or guar gum per cup of gluten-free flour used in bread and pizza dough recipes. 2  Cake, muffin and quick bread recipes: Add 1/2 teaspoon xanthan gum or guar gum per one cup of gluten-free flour used.
Xanthan gum is also used in frozen products to make them smoother and creamier-tasting, especially ice cream. We see xanthan gum listed in a lot of low-fat products as well. These same binding and thickening properties make xanthan gum very useful at home for gluten-free baking.
Xanthan gum is a polysaccharide secreted by the bacterium Xanthomonas campestris, used as a food additive and rheology modifier, commonly used as a food thickening agent (for example in salad dressings) and a stabilizer (in cosmetic products to prevent ingredients from separating).
Xanthan Gum is often used to thicken baked goods. It is especially popular as a thickener in gluten-free baked goods, and we sell Gluten-Free Xanthan Gum for this very purpose.
Xanthan gum is a corn-based, fermented product. It's made by fermenting corn sugar with a microbial called Xanthomonas campestris.. It's used extensively in the food industry to make products thicker and it's a common ingredient in gluten-free recipes.