Actavis' acquisition of Allergan is just the latest in a wave of tie ups among companies in the pharmaceutical sector. Bayer announced in May that it was buying Merck's consumer care business for $14.2 billion. And in April, Novartis, Glaxo SmithKline and Eli Lilly joined forces in a $28.5 billion deal. Actavis to buy Botox maker Allergan for $66B. Actavis is paying $66 billion to buy fellow drugmaker Allergan in a deal that could finally end a months-long takeover battle waged by Valeant Pharmaceuticals for the Botox maker.
By. 0 COMMENTS. Actavis PLC on Tuesday completed its acquisition of Allergan Inc., AGN -1.68 % now valued at $70.5 billion, closing the biggest deal from 2014 and ending one of the year’s more dramatic takeover battles. The deal makes Actavis one of the world’s largest drug makers by sales, offering a range of eye, skin and stomach drugs. The company is expected to have $23 billion in sales next year, more than 30,000 employees and a market capitalization of $128 billion, about 12 times Actavis’s equity value just two years ago.
Actavis (ACT) announced Monday that it will buy its pharmaceutical peer Allergan (AGN) in a $66 billion deal that appears to have finally thwarted efforts by Valeant Pharmaceuticals (VRX) to acquire the Botox manufacturer through a hostile takeover. The acquisition is valued at $219 per share in cash and Actavis shares. Actavis to buy Botox maker Allergan for $66B. Actavis is paying $66 billion to buy fellow drugmaker Allergan in a deal that could finally end a months-long takeover battle waged by Valeant Pharmaceuticals for the Botox maker.
Actavis Completes Allergan Acquisition. - Combination Creates One of the Fastest Growing, Most Dynamic Pharmaceutical Companies in Global Healthcare - - Leading Positions in Eye Care, Neurosciences/CNS, Medical Aesthetics/Dermatology/Plast... 
Actavis's revenue will exceed $21.6b in 2015 due to this acquisition. Allergan had a stable growth on y-o-y basis and will bring a valuable portfolio to existing Actavis's drug portfolio. A great potential of new drug developments. Actavis PLC (ACT) is a global integrated specialty pharmaceutical company. Actavis's merger with Allergan was financed by Actavis's existing equity, debt, and a new equity issuance. In the beginning of March 2015, Actavis announced a notes issuance for a total value of $22b. This increases Actavis's net debt.
The deal would be the biggest ever for Actavis and the largest acquisition in a year full of big deals, eclipsing Comcast ’s $45 billion takeover of Time Warner Cable and AT&T ’s $48.5 billion purchase of DirecTV. But because Actavis had already completed its move abroad, it was exempt from the new Treasury rules and will be able to pay lower taxes on Allergan’s international sales. Actavis already took advantage of its newfound financial flexibility as an Irish company this year when it acquired Forest Laboratories.
Allergan Acquisition and Actavis Name Change [edit]. In November 2014 Actavis announced its intention to acquire Allergan, the manufacturer of Botox Completion of the deal would increase its market capitalization to $147 billion. On March 17, 2015, Actavis completed the acquisition of Allergan in a cash and equity transaction valued at approximately $70.5 billion. In June 2015 Allergan announced it would acquire Kythera Biopharmaceuticals for around $2.1 billion. On June 1, the company completed its acquisition of Auden Mckenzie Holdings Limited for £306 million. On July 6, the company acquired start-up, Oculeve, for $125 million.
Allergan shares are up 7% during morning trading on news of the deal, to a market capitalization of about $63.6 billion. Shares of Parsippany, N.J.-based Actavis are up nearly 4%, at a market capitalization of about $64.6 billion. The combined company, which is expected to have revenue of about $23 billion in 2015, will be headed by Actavis Chief Executive Brent Saunders, and Actavis Executive Chairman Paul Bisaro will continue in his role, according to a statement by the companies.