Full Definition of OPERATIVE. 1. a: producing an appropriate effect: efficacious. 2. : exerting force or influence: operating. 3. a: having to do with physical operations (as of machines). 4. — op·er·a·tive·ly adverb. Learn More About OPERATIVE. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for operative. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of operative. Nglish: Translation of operative for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of operative for Arabic speakers.
operative-effective; producing a desired effect; the operative word. significant, important-important in effect or meaning; a significant change in tax laws; a significant change in the Constitution; a significant contribution; significant details; statistically significant. operative-being in force or having or exerting force; operative regulations; the major tendencies operative in the American political system. inoperative-not working or taking effect; an inoperative law.
operative. adj. 1. in force, effect, or operation. 2. exerting force or influence. 3. producing a desired effect; significant: the operative word. 4. (Surgery) of or relating to a surgical procedure. n. 
More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  They will not be operative there and in effect it is the same as being anywhere else in the country. 2  Still, the crowding-out effect is operative as the new money ‘printed’ by the government is competing for resources with old money saved by the public. 1 Still, the crowding-out effect is operative as the new money ‘printed’ by the government is competing for resources with old money saved by the public. 2  In 1999 and 2000, its members decided to transfer its operative functions into the EU, in order to strengthen its European Security and Defence Policy.
adjective. The definition of operative is in force, functioning or having control, or refers to something that has the most significance or the greatest importance. 1  When a new solar-powered car is now functioning and runs successfully, this is an example of a situation where the car is operative. 1 When a law is in place banning watering your lawn, this is an example of a time when the water ban is operative. 2  When you want to emphasize that someone is reallyvery wealthy, this is an example of a situation where you might say the operative word is rich..
operative. 1  capable of, characterized by, or in operation. 2  accomplishing what is desired; effective. 3  of primary importance; key; essential: the operative word in a sentence. 1 When a law is in place banning watering your lawn, this is an example of a time when the water ban is operative. 2  When you want to emphasize that someone is reallyvery wealthy, this is an example of a situation where you might say the operative word is rich..
2. working, going, running, functioning Make sure that the safety equipment is operative. 3. relevant, important, key, fitting, significant, appropriate, crucial, influential, apt, applicable, indicative, pertinent, apposite, germane A small whisky may help you sleep - `small' being the operative word. noun. operative-being in force or having or exerting force; operative regulations; the major tendencies operative in the American political system. inoperative-not working or taking effect; an inoperative law.
operative. adj. 1. in force, effect, or operation. 2. exerting force or influence. 3. producing a desired effect; significant: the operative word. operative-being in force or having or exerting force; operative regulations; the major tendencies operative in the American political system. inoperative-not working or taking effect; an inoperative law.
1. pertaining to an operation. 2. effective; not inert. operative technique. the actual step-by-step procedure of performing a specific surgical procedure. 