A dividend is a payment made by a corporation to its shareholders, usually as a distribution of profits. When a corporation earns a profit or surplus, it can re-invest it in the business (called retained earnings), and pay a fraction of this reinvestment as a dividend to shareholders. Shareholders in companies that pay little or no cash dividends can reap the benefit of the company's profits when they sell their shareholding, or when a company is wound down and all assets liquidated and distributed amongst
DEFINITION of 'Dividend'. A dividend is a distribution of a portion of a company's earnings, decided by the board of directors, to a class of its shareholders. Dividends can be issued as cash payments, as shares of stock, or other property
Use an Equity, Retained Earnings or Other Current Liability account when setting up a Dividend account. These show the value of the Dividend account and allow you to account for dividends to your shareholders. The most common way to create a Dividend account is to set it up as an Equity account. Click the Account column and select the Retained Earnings account from the drop-down list if you are using a Retained Earnings account to track dividends. Enter the amount of the dividend in the Debit column.
A dividend is generally considered to be a cash payment issued to the holders of company stock. However, there are several types of dividends, some of which do not involve the payment of cash to shareholders. These dividend types are: 1  Cash dividend. 2  The cash dividend is by far the most common of the dividend types used. 3  On the date of declaration, the board of directors resolves to pay a certain dividend amount in cash to those investors holding the company's stock on a specific date. 1 On the date of payment, the company issues dividend payments. 2  Stock dividend. 3  A stock dividend is the issuance by a company of its common stock to its common shareholders without any consideration.
A dividend is allocated as a fixed amount per share, with shareholders receiving a dividend in proportion to their shareholding. For the joint stock company, paying dividends is not an expense; rather, it is the division of after tax profits among shareholders. Retained earnings (profits that have not been distributed as dividends) are shown in the shareholders' equity section on the company's balance sheet-the same as its issued share capital. Shareholders in companies that pay little or no cash dividends can reap the benefit of the company's profits when they sell their shareholding, or when a company is wound down and all assets liquidated and distributed amongst
There are a number of types of dividends that can be issued, including the following: 1  Cash dividend. 2  This is the most common form of dividend, paid solely in cash. 3  Stock dividend. 4  This is the issuance of additional shares to investors. 
A: Cash or stock dividends distributed to shareholders are not considered an expense on a company's income statement. Stock and cash dividends do not affect a company's net income, and they represent part of a company's retained earnings returned to a company's shareholders.
Stock dividends do not represent a cash flow transaction and are not considered an expense either. Companies distribute stock dividends to their shareholders in certain proportion to common shares outstanding. Cash or stock dividends distributed to shareholders are not considered an expense on a company's income statement. Stock and cash dividends do not affect a company's net income, and they represent part of a company's retained earnings returned to a company's shareholders