In 1876, Karl Wernicke found that damage to a different part of the brain also caused language problems. This area of the brain (Wernicke's Area), was further back and lower in the brain compared to Broca's area. In fact, Wernicke's area is in the posterior part of the temporal lobe.
Primary Progressive Aphasia (PPA). PPA is caused by degeneration in the parts of the brain that control speech and language (the left, or “dominant,” side of the brain in the frontal, temporal and parietal regions that normally control language function).
The earliest research on speech and language centers of the brain dates back to the early nineteenth century. Physicians noted that brain-injured patients with damage to the left hemisphere would lose power of speech and language abilities, while those with injuries to the right hemisphere did not lose this ability.
When you wink your right eye, that's the left side of your brain at work. Because of this criss-cross wiring, damage to one side of the brain affects the opposite side of the body. In general, the left hemisphere is dominant in language: processing what you hear and handling most of the duties of speaking.
Right hemisphere brain damage (RHD) is damage to the right side of the brain. The brain is made up of two sides or hemispheres. Each hemisphere is responsible for different body functions and skills. In most people, the left side of the brain contains the person's language functions. The right side contributes to a number of functions, such as attention, memory, reasoning, and problem solving (all of which contribute to effective communication).
The left hemisphere is the logical brain and is involved in language and analysis and the right hemisphere is the creative brain, involved in daydreaming and imagination. The left hemisphere controls the right side of the body while the right hemisphere controls the left side.
1) In all humans, the right hemisphere controls the left side of the body; the left hemisphere controls the right side of the body. This arrangement--called contralateral neural control is not limited to humans but is also present in all vertibrates--fish, frogs, lizards, birds and mammals.