Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis).
Laxative Effects of Licorice. According to Purdue University, one of the properties of the herb licorice is its laxative effect. When used as directed by the manufacturer, it may help decrease discomfort caused by constipation. Uses for Herbal Licorice. The herb licorice is available as an extract, tincture, capsule and powder at your local health food store. It is used to treat upper respiratory conditions that produce excessive amounts of mucous.
Avocados are a good choice for a natural laxative. Peas, which are high in fiber, may be used as a natural laxative. Aloe vera is sometimes taken as a supplement to treat digestive issues. Watermelon could be used as a natural laxative because it has a high concentration of water. Prunes are excellent natural laxatives. Yogurt is considered a natural laxative, as it promotes the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestinal tract. Foods high in water content, such as lettuce, are considered good natural laxatives. Eating grapefruit can increase hydration levels and work as a natural laxative. Celery is a high-fiber food
Black licorice candy that contains actual licorice may have a mild laxative effect, but large quantities can cause serious side effects. Black licorice candy that contains actual licorice is no longer produced in the United States, according to PubMed Health, but imported candy may contain actual licorice. Black licorice that contains actual licorice may have a mild laxative effect. Actual licorice can have serious side effects; do not consume large amounts without your doctor’s approval.
Its also popularly used as a natural laxative, so it can help with constipation, and as an aid for digestive problems. According to the medical journal, Nutrition and Cancer, substances in licorice may even protect against carcinogen-induced DNA. Its sweet taste is distinct and has similar flavouring to fennel or anise. In fact, licorice candy often contains less licorice extract and more anise flavouring, but it’s the extract — the remnants of boiled licorice root — that has many health benefits.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Yes: Black licorice is a candy, and licorice root is a plant (glycyrrhiza glabra). Black licorice candy contains glycyrrhizin, the compound made from black licorice root that's used as a sweetener. Glycyrrizin can cause body potassium levels to fall. 
Uses. Licorice root extract is used in alternative medicine as a laxative, a diuretic and an anti-inflammatory agent. It is also used to treat gastric ulcers, respiratory problems such as asthma and bronchitis and skin conditions such as eczema and canker sores. Black licorice that contains actual licorice may have a mild laxative effect. Actual licorice can have serious side effects; do not consume large amounts without your doctor’s approval.
Licorice the herbal supplement and licorice the candy are decidedly different. In contrast to the sweet candy, the herb licorice is used in natural medicine to treat upper respiratory infections and stomach ulcers internally. Topically, licorice is used to treat conditions such as canker sores and eczema. Herbal licorice is available with or without a naturally occurring substance called glycyrrhizin. Purdue University also adds that licorice may act as a laxative in your body. Uses for Herbal Licorice. The herb licorice is available as an extract, tincture, capsule and powder at your local health food store. It is used to treat upper respiratory conditions that produce excessive amounts of mucous.
Background. Licorice (or liquorice) is a plant of ancient origin and steeped in history. Natural licorice is an extract from the root of Glycyrrhiza glabra, a 4- to 5-foot woody shrub that contains glycyrrhizic acid (GZA) and grows in subtropical climates in Europe, the Middle East, and Western Asia. 