Best Answer: American Pie is an eight-and-a-half minute long soft rock song by singer-songwriter Don McLean about the day the music died.. Recorded in 1971 and released that year on the album of the same name, the single was a number-one U.S. hit for four weeks in 1972. 
American Pie  is a song by American folk rock singer and songwriter Don McLean. Recorded and released on the American Pie album in 1971, the single was a number-one US hit for four weeks in 1972. In the UK, the single reached No. 2 on its original 1972 release and a reissue in 1991 reached No. 12. In February 2015, McLean announced he would reveal the meaning of the lyrics to the song when the original manuscript goes for auction in New York City in April 2015. The lyrics and notes were auctioned on April 7, and sold for $1.2m.
A bit of information about the song and recording  artist:   The name of the song is American Pie, recorded by Don McLain in  1972, and is a tribute to the 1960's rock and roll singer, Buddy  Holly, who was killed in a plane crash. This song is about the death of Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, and JP Richardson who were on a plain together that crashed. Don McLean is writing about how the the three people' … s death changed music, our in his terms, how music died.
Don McLean wrote the song in Cold Spring, New York and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The song made its debut in Philadelphia at Temple University when he opened for Laura Nyro on March 14, 1971. In February 2015, McLean announced he would reveal the meaning of the lyrics to the song when the original manuscript goes for auction in New York City in April 2015. The lyrics and notes were auctioned on April 7, and sold for $1.2m.
American Pie was written and sung by Don McLean. It was released in 1971 on the album of the same name. The song is widely considered to be McLean’s signature song and he still performs it at various events and concerts around the world. The single was re-released in 1991. 
According to McLean (as posted on his website), this song was originally inspired by the death of Buddy Holly. The Day The Music Died is February 3, 1959, when Holly, Ritchie Valens, and The Big Bopper were killed in a plane crash after a concert. The success of American Pie turned Don overnight from an unknown folk singer into an international star. While his most famous song, however, it was not his biggest hit in the UK-he scored two UK #1's later in his career - Vincent in 1972, and Crying in 1980.
Initially inspired by his memories of the death of Buddy Holly in 1959, ‘American Pie’ is autobiographical and presents an abstract story of Don McLean’s life from the mid 1950s until when he wrote the song in the late 1960s. 
McLean has been cagey about the song for decades, but has always insisted that American Pie was inspired by musicians Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P The Big Bopper Richardson, who died in a tragic plane crash on Feb. 3, 1959. It became known as  the day the music died .. Don McLean's manuscript for American Pie went up for auction at Christie's on Tuesday and sold for $1.2 million, and though he's never really spoken publicly about the song's cryptic meaning, he somewhat spilled the beans in the auction house's catalog.
Verse 1. A long, long time ago... American Pie was written in 1971 and the time McLean is going to talk about is the 1950's. This seems like a long time ago 'cause of all the turmoil that occurred in the 60's. I can still remember how that music used to make me smile. Refrain. So bye, bye Miss American Pie Pimp Daddy McLean was dating one of the Miss America contestants during one of the pageants. Also the American Pie part is a symbol of the American Dream (at least of the 50's), it was also the name of the plane that crashed and killed Holly (or so goes the rumor).