Some research suggests that delays in canonical babbling (not using canonical babbling by about 10 months of age) can sometimes be a predictor of later disabilities such as speech and language delays or learning disabilities (Oller et al. 1999). However, this is not always the case.
Babies begin babbling around 5-7 months of age. Babbling is a stage in child development and a state in language acquisition, during which an infant appears to be experimenting with uttering articulate sounds, but not yet producing any recognizable words.
By 9–10 months of age, infant babbling begins to resemble the native language of a child. The final stage is known as conversational babbling, or the jargon stage (usually occurring by about ten months of age).
Babbling is intimately linked to the abstract structure of language and not—contrary to prevailing opinion—a concrete specific linguistic structure.
[…] This type of babbling is called canonical babbling and usually starts at the age of 6 to 10 months of age. Since Fiona’s hearing age is 5 months then she is right on target for where we would want her to be. If you’d like to learn more about the types of babbling babies go through here is a good link.
Marginal Babbling: This babbling usually happens between 4-6 months of age. You will hear your infant put together consonant-vowel (CV) or vowel-consonant (VC) sound combinations, like “baaaa”, “maaaa”, or “uuuum.” (Sidenote: Before this phase, between 1-4 months, your infant should be cooing.
There is evidence to suggest that canonical babbling (reduplicated and non-reduplicated) is an important precursor to later language development. If your baby is not producing age-appropriate babbling, then it may indicate a larger issue such as a hearing loss, speech and language delay, or learning disability.
The babbling stage is a very early stage of language development, usually occurring around ages 3-4 months, in which children spontaneously produce all sorts of nonsensical, unrelated sounds.