• Bluebell plants are poisonous. The chemical that makes them poisonous was used in alchemy and is being researched by modern day scientists for medical use. • 25-49% of the world’s population of bluebells are found in the UK. • Bluebells can also be white. The bluebell is probably one of Britain’s best known wildflowers. Even those who are seemingly uninterested in our native flora can hardly fail to marvel at the beautiful sight of a spring woodland carpeted in blue.
Amazing bluebells. The bluebell is probably one of Britain’s best known wildflowers. Even those who are seemingly uninterested in our native flora can hardly fail to marvel at the beautiful sight of a spring woodland carpeted in blue.
Bluebells is toxic to dogs. Many of the houseplants including ferns, dieffenbachia, pothos, ivy, philodendron, and even poinsettias are very toxic to dogs. Corn plant, peace lilies and any of the ornamental tobacco plants can be very dangerous for both full-grown dogs and puppies.
Hyacinthoides non-scripta (formerly Endymion non-scriptus or Scilla non-scripta) is a bulbous perennial plant, found in Atlantic areas from north-western Spain to the British Isles, and also frequently used as a garden plant. 
There are a number of fairly common poisonous flowers which can often be found in gardens or growing wild in the countryside. Young children love flowers with their bright colours, love picking them, and very young children, especially babies and toddlers, are prone to putting anything and everything in their mouths! IRIS (Iridaceae): the whole plant can cause stomach upset and discomfort, but the tubers in particular affect the gastrointestinal system. DEADLY NIGHTSHADE (Atropa): the whole plant is very toxic. For a more comprehensive list please see the RHS list of Potentially harmful garden plants.
Hyacinthoides non-scripta (bluebell). Bluebells, almost half the global population of which is found in the UK, can create a stunning carpet of woodland colour during the spring. Hyacinthoides non-scripta (Image: Peter Gasson). There is yet another link between bluebells, tourism and railways – the flower lends its name to the famous 'Bluebell Railway' in East Sussex, not far from Wakehurst. With its steam locomotives, the railway has the distinction of being the world’s first preserved standard gauge passenger line.
Toxicity. All members of the lupine family, including Texas bluebells, may be toxic, according to the Ladybird Johnson Wildflower Center. The seeds, in particular, are high in alkaloids, and have been known to poison livestock and even cause birth defects in unborn calves after being ingested by a pregnant cow. Texas bluebells grow wild throughout Texas. Several species of lupines are native to the U.S., and grow as wildflowers in pastures and prairie lands across the West and Midwest.
Hyacinthoides non-scripta has a bulb and nodding heads of blue flowers; it is native to western Europe, where it is found in deciduous woodlands, flowering in late April or early May. A woodland floor covered with flowering bluebells is a stunning sight, and often forms a popular, seasonal tourist attraction. There is yet another link between bluebells, tourism and railways – the flower lends its name to the famous 'Bluebell Railway' in East Sussex, not far from Wakehurst. With its steam locomotives, the railway has the distinction of being the world’s first preserved standard gauge passenger line.
1 Bluebells. 2  All parts of the plant are poisonous to dogs. 3  Signs are related to stomach, intestine and heart function and include vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal discomfort. 4  There is a risk of heart beat irregularity (arrhythmia) if a significant quantity be ingested. 
Find out what plants and flowers may be poisonous to dogs with the following list of common toxic plants and flowers. Please note that this is not a complete list. If you have a particular plant in mind for your home or yard, you should thoroughly research it first. 