A structural engineer has expertise and training in areas concerning the structural soundness of your home. You would hire one to both advise and plan a home or addition. A structural engineer is also the professional to call when your existing home has issues like foundation problems, sagging roofs or sliding chimneys. They help figure out ways to reconstruct those areas safely.
Engineering fees are mechanical and structural engineering costs not already included in an architectural design fee. These fees may be structured in a few different ways, including as a percentage of the overall construction estimate or costs.
RE: Architect/Structural Fee Residential. What do you fellows think would be a fair fee for engineering where the plans are designed for smaller commercial projects ($100,000 to $500,000) by a senior technologist.
A decade later that same structural engineer can ask for $30.43 to $42.28, or between thirty and forty-five thousand per year for the same work. Today, according to Eng-Tips.com, a consumer can expect to pay roughly 8% of a total construction project fee to the structural engineer.
RE: Architect/Structural Fee Residential. In my area, most of the house designs up to around 6,000 sq.ft. are typically done by architectural techs or home designers. Above 6,000 sq.ft. requires both a registered architect and engineer. Typical fees charged by the arch techs is in the $1.00 to $1.50 per sq.ft.
A structural engineer’s average cost is $100 to $150 per hour for their services. A job requiring a residential structural engineer will typically only last an hour or two. While this may seem like a large amount of money, they guarantee the work they perform. They are liable for any mistake in their calculations.
For instance, many structural engineers rely on laboratory work, and engineering tests that they hire others to perform. These additional fees can drive the cost of any project up, but even more importantly, they can derail a program that was originally on schedule.