Medical Definition of DEAD SPACE. 1. : space in the respiratory system in which air does not undergo significant gaseous exchange—see anatomical dead space, physiological dead space. 2. : a space (as that in the chest following excision of a lung) left in the body as the result of a surgical procedure. Definition of DEAD SPACE. : the portion of the respiratory system which is external to the bronchioles and through which air must pass to reach the bronchioles and alveoli. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. 1
Definitions: 1. a cavity, potential or real, remaining after the closure of a wound that is not obliterated by the operative technique; See: anatomic dead space, physiologic dead space. The definition information for dead space is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
Anatomic dead space is an area in the trachea, bronchi, and air passages containing air that does not reach the alveoli during respiration. Physiologic dead space is an area in the respiratory system that includes the anatomic dead space together with the space in the alveoli occupied by air that does not contribute to the oxygen-carbon dioxide exchange.
The definition information for alveolar dead space is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 
Dead space (physiology). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In physiology, dead space is the volume of air which is inhaled that does not take part in the gas exchange, either because it (1) remains in the conducting airways, or (2) reaches alveoli that are not perfused or poorly perfused. Anatomical dead space is that portion of the airways (such as the mouth and trachea to the bronchioles) which conducts gas to the alveoli. No gas exchange is possible in these spaces.
alveolar dead space the difference between anatomical dead space and physiologic dead space, representing the space in alveoli occupied by air that does not participate in oxygen–carbon dioxide exchange (alveolar ventilation). Physiologic dead space is an area in the respiratory system that includes the anatomic dead space together with the space in the alveoli occupied by air that does not contribute to the oxygen-carbon dioxide exchange.
There are two different ways to define dead space-- anatomic and physiologic. Anatomic dead space is the total volume of the conducting airways from the nose or mouth down to the level of the terminal bronchioles, and is about 150 ml on the average in humans. Dead space is the portion of each tidal volume that does not take part in gas exchange.
Medical Definition of PHYSIOLOGICAL DEAD SPACE. : the total dead space in the entire respiratory system including the alveoli—compare anatomical dead space. What made you want to look up physiological dead space?
2 the amount of lung in contact with ventilating gases but not in contact with pulmonary blood flow. Alveolar dead space is characterized by alveoli that are ventilated by the pulmonary circulation but are not perfused. The condition may exist when pulmonary circulation is obstructed, as by a thromboembolus. Physiologic dead space is an area in the respiratory system that includes the anatomic dead space together with the space in the alveoli occupied by air that does not contribute to the oxygen-carbon dioxide exchange.