Plant fossils are commonly preserved in fine-grained sediment such as sand, silt, or clay, or in association with organic deposits such as peat (coal). As you look at the various modes of preservation in lab, note the characteristics of the rock matrix in which plant material is preserved. Three conditions are required for the preservation of plant fossils: Removing the material from oxygen-rich environment of aerobic decay; Fixing the organic material to retard anaerobic decay; Introducing the fossil to the sedimentary rock record (a.k.a., burial).
Fossils and fossil types. We learn about the earth s past by studying rocks. Evidence of animals that lived long ago is preserved in rocks as fossils. Fossils are marks or material left in rock layers by living things. 
Formation of fossils. Most fossils are found in sedimentary rocks, those rocks produced by the accumulation of sediment such as sand or mud. Wind and other weathering conditions wash away sediment on land, depositing it in bodies of water. A fossil is the remains or traces of a once-living plant or animal that was preserved in rock or other material before the beginning of recorded history. The term also is used to describe the fossil fuels (oil, coal, petroleum, and natural gas) that have been formed from the remains of ancient plants and animals.
Sedimentary rocks form when particles of sediment are deposited by water or wind, and then (in most cases) hardened or consolidated through time. Shale, sandstone, and limestone are types of sedimentary rocks that often contain fossils. Even though a relatively small proportion of plants and animals that live are preserved as fossils, because so many animals live and die, and because sedimentary rock is very common, finding fossiliferous (fossil-bearing) rocks is not very difficult.
© Larry Fellows. In certain conditions, and over a very long period of time, sediment becomes compacted and cemented into sedimentary rock. Fossils are more common in some kinds of sedimentary rocks than others. There are many factors that can contribute to the likelihood of an organism being preserved as a fossil. Fossils are most common in limestones. That is because most limestones consist partly or mostly of the shells of organisms. 
Fossils are most often preserved within sediments that were deposited in water, such as wetlands, river basins, or the ocean. Permineralization or Petrification-After an organism is buried, minerals carried by water such as silica, calcite or pyrite replace the organic material in the fossil. The oldest fossils in the fossil record date from 3.5 billion years ago, however it wasn't until around 600 million years ago that complex, multi-cellular life began was first preserved in the fossil record. There are two main types of fossils; body and trace.
1.1.3 Types of fossils. There are many ways in which a record of an organism can be preserved. Body fossils can occur in many ways, including: unaltered preservation, recrystallization, replacement, permineralization, carbonization, impressions, casts and internal molds. 1.2.2 Other types of fossils. 1  1. Trace fossils. 2  Unlike body fossils, where a portion of the actual organism or its skeleton is preserved, trace fossils are the remains of an organism's activity or behavior. 3  Examples include tracks, trails, burrows, and borings. 4  Trace fossils will be covered in detail in a later lab. 5  2.
Chemical fossils are chemicals found in rocks and fossil fuels (petroleum, coal, and natural gas) that provide an organic signature for ancient life. Molecular fossils and isotope ratios represent two types of chemical fossils. Fossils may also consist of the marks left behind by the organism while it was alive, such as animal tracks or feces (coprolites). These types of fossil are called trace fossils (or ichnofossils), as opposed to body fossils.
Other types of rock, such as granite are not formed by sediments accumulating, so animals will not be preserved in them. Sedimentary rock includes sandstone, shale, mudstone, limestone, and clay. Included here are some well known places to find fossils. There are many ways an organism can become preserved as a fossil. Some of the ways include Casts and Molds, Permineralization, Replacement, and Carbonization Sometimes the fossil is unaltered, meaning it is the actual organism.