Demyelination occurs when there is a breakdown of the protective covering of nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. Multiple sclerosis is a common cause of demyelination. Physical therapy may be implemented as part of a comprehensive treatment plan for demyelination. There are several causes of demyelination. Myelin, found in the insulating white matter around the nerves, is an important part of the nerves. During transmission of information, myelin has the responsibility of receiving and interpreting the messages sent from the brain.
Demyelination is incorrectly often equated to multiple sclerosis, whereas in reality it is a generic pathological term simply describing, as the word suggests, the loss of normal myelin around axons in the central nervous system. 
Demyelination is the breakdown of the protective covering of the nerve fibers in the spinal cord and brain. This protective covering, called a myelin sheath, helps promote proper nerve function. Demyelination is a condition known as demyelinating disease. There are several causes of demyelination. Myelin, found in the insulating white matter around the nerves, is an important part of the nerves. During transmission of information, myelin has the responsibility of receiving and interpreting the messages sent from the brain.
Causes of Demyelination listed in Disease Database: Other medical conditions listed in the Disease Database as possible causes of Demyelination as a symptom include: 1  Abetalipoproteinaemia. 2  Alexander disease. 3  Aspartylglucosaminuria. 4  Central pontine myelinosis. 5  Diffuse sclerosis of Schilder. 6  Familial Danish dementia. Causes of Similar Symptoms to Demyelination. Research the causes of these symptoms that are similar to, or related to, the symptom Demyelination: 1  Abetalipoproteinaemia. 2  Alexander disease. 3  Aspartylglucosaminuria. 4  Central pontine myelinosis.
Causes of Demyelination. Inflammation is the most common cause of myelin damage. Other causes include: 1  inflammation. 2  infection with certain viruses. 3  metabolic problems. 4  loss of oxygen. 5  physical compression. When myelin is worn away or damaged, nerves don’t work as well. They can deteriorate, causing problems inside the brain and throughout the body. Damage to the myelin sheath around nerves is called demyelination. Demyelination plays a part in several chronic diseases.
Nerves are protected in the body by a coating called myelin. When myelin is worn away or damaged, nerves don’t work as well. They can deteriorate, causing problems inside the brain and throughout the body. Damage to the myelin sheath around nerves is called demyelination. Demyelination plays a part in several chronic diseases.
The nerves in our body are covered with a protective coating known as myelin. When the myelin gets damaged it causes white matter demyelination and foci of demyelination. The primary function of myelin is to pass the signals from the brain to the nerves. Symptoms of white matter demyelination and foci of demyelination. The disease is quite unpredictable and does not follow a given path. As of now, we do not know what causes this disease. There are a host of symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis and they differ from person to person
Organophosphates, a class of chemicals which are the active ingredients in commercial insecticides such as sheep dip, weed-killers, and flea treatment preparations for pets, etc., will also demyelinate nerves. Neuroleptics can also cause demyelination. Demyelinating diseases are traditionally classified in two kinds: demyelinating myelinoclastic diseases and demyelinating leukodystrophic diseases. In the first group a normal and healthy myelin is destroyed by a toxic, chemical or autoimmune substance. In the second group, myelin is abnormal and degenerates. In turn, the reduction in conduction ability causes deficiency in sensation, movement, cognition, or other functions depending on which nerves are involved. Some demyelinating diseases are caused by genetics, some by infectious agents, some by autoimmune reactions, and some by unknown factors.