WatchIt Technologies, Inc. was founded in 1968 and is based in Arden, North Carolina.
WatchIt Technologies, Inc., formerly Evans Systems Inc., is a technology incubator with activities in management support, leadership expertise and marketing implementation.
WatchIt Technologies, Inc., formerly known as Evans Systems, Inc., is a venture capital and private equity firm specializing in incubation, early stage, later stage, emerging growth, leveraged buyouts, strategic acquisitions, recapitalization, growth financing, restructuring, and turnaround investments.
Watchit Technologies, Inc. is a venture capital and private equity investment firm. The Company invests in small companies that exclusively involved with alternative energies, manufacturing, financial services, real estate, and media sectors with a focus on green technologies. 229 Airport Rd.
The firm prefers to invest in the alternative energies, manufacturing, financial services, real estate, and media sectors with a focus on green technologies. It can take both control and minority stake in its portfolio companies. The firm also takes a seat on the board of directors of its investments.
The name WatchIt Technologies is a strategic first step in branding a company that is diverse, with proven leadership in media, Internet technology, and fully reporting public companies. This new name better communicates the core focus of the newly installed corporate management.
WatchIt Technologies Inc is a publicly traded company. PrivCo specializes in private companies, but includes records on public companies like WatchIt Technologies Inc solely for their private market activity (such as investments into and acquisitions of private companies).
WatchIt Technologies, Inc., formerly known as Evans Systems, Inc., is a venture capital and private equity firm specializing in incubation, early stage, later stage, emerging growth, leveraged buyouts, strategic acquisitions, recapitalization, growth financing, restructuring, and turnaround investments.