Escherichia coli (/ˌɛʃɨˈrɪkiə ˈkoʊlaɪ/ ; also known as E. coli) is a Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium of the genus Escherichia that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms (endotherms). 
Escherichia coli (commonly abbreviated E. coli) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms (endotherms). Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can cause serious food poisoning in humans. The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2, and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine. Escherichia coli bacteria. Certain strains of E. coli, such as O157:H7, O104:H4, O121, O26, O103, O111, O145 ,and O104:H21, produce potentially lethal toxins. Food poisoning caused by E. coli can result from eating unwashed vegetables or undercooked meat.
There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals
E. Coli   Escherichia coli, usually abbreviated to E. coli, (coli is latin for of the colon) discovered by Theodor Escherich, a German pediatrician and bacteriologist, i … s one of the main species of bacteria that live in the lower intestines of mammals, known as gut flora. Gastrointestinal infection Certain strains of E. coli, such as O157:H7, O121 and O104:H21, produce potentially-lethal toxins. Food poisoning caused by E. coli is usually caused by eating unwashed vegetables or undercooked meat.
E. coli bacteria are everywhere in the environment. E. coli and other kinds of bacteria are found in our intestines and are necessary for us to digest food and remain healthy. E. coli, along with other species of bacteria in our intestine, provide many necessary vitamins including Vitamin K and B-complex vitamins. Although most E. coli are harmless and are a needed bacterium for health, there are some strains of E. coli bacteria that can be very harmful to our health. A rare strain of E. coli that you may have seen in the news can cause potentially dangerous outbreaks and illness.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. E. coli consists of a diverse group of bacteria. Pathogenic E. coli strains are categorized into pathotypes. Six pathotypes are associated with diarrhea and collectively are referred to as diarrheagenic E. coli.
E. coli is a type of bacteria that normally live in the intestines of people and animals. However, some types of E. coli, particularly E. coli 0157:H7, can cause intestinal infection. Symptoms of intestinal infection include diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. More severe cases can lead to bloody diarrhea, dehydration, or kidney failure.
The appearance of E. coli will vary depending on what type of agar you used. But I assume you have used a standard nutrient agar type of medium. In that case E. coli colonies will look like pale yellow, round, smooth colonies. Well, at least that is how laboratory strains of E. coli will look. 
You can't tell whether a food is contaminated with E. coli by the way it looks, smells or tastes. Although most types of Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria are harmless, certain strains, such as E. coli O157:H7, can cause serious foodborne illness.