Best Answer: If your image problem is due to a broken or malfunctioning laptop screen replacing it is fairly easy. It should be noted that laptop screens are extremely expensive and can sometimes cost 50% or more of the total price of the computer, for instance more than $500 for a $1,000 computer. The replacement of your screen is complete. Your computer should work like new. Replacing your laptop screen on your own is a great way to save lots of money not only on the cost of the laptop screen, but the cost of labor as well.
A dying or cracked display doesn’t mean your laptop is a paperweight. For most laptops, a screen replacement takes $80 and an hour of your time at most. If you’re a DIYer, replacing a broken laptop screen yourself is a great way to save cash, as most computer repair shops will quote you $150 to $300 for the job.
Best Answer: The screen will need a total replacement. I broke mine about a month ago and replaced it for $70 bucks. Got the brand new lcd panel from ScreenCountry. Today someone stepped on my laptop and the screen cracked. I can still use the computer, but there are 5 large black lines running through the screen. I was just curious if anyone knows how much that would be to...
As for the replacement LCD, you should be able to buy one either from the laptop manufacturer's authorized parts dealer or a third-party supplier. Depending the screen, they usually cost between $50 and $250 dollars&#8212more if it's a high-end display or you buy an OEM replacement. Regardless, you'll want to buy a new screen that matches your broken one exactly. 
How much would it cost to repair a cracked laptop screen? I have a HP Pavilion dv6000 laptop that I bought about 2 years ago, so the warranty is not any good. Today someone stepped on my laptop and the screen cracked. I can still use the computer, but there are 5 large black lines running through the screen. I was just curious if anyone knows how much that would be to repair. Today someone stepped on my laptop and the screen cracked. I can still use the computer, but there are 5 large black lines running through the screen. I was just curious if anyone knows how much that would be to...
Best Answer: If you were to take it to a shop, with the markup on parts, you are looking at between $250 and $300 for just the screen, plus an hour of labor. About how much should it cost to get a new screen? My dad is a computer programmer, and he thinks it's going to cost about as much as a new laptop. So would it just not be worth it to get a new screen and I should just get a new laptop? My laptop is a little over year old, it's Toshiba, and cost me about $450-$500.
Replacement screen for your laptop will cost about $200-$250 including labor. Cheaper than a new laptop. Shop around a bit and you may be able to do better. Avoid the big boxes... Best Buy, Staples, etc...and look for a reputable local computer shop. About how much should it cost to get a new screen? My dad is a computer programmer, and he thinks it's going to cost about as much as a new laptop. So would it just not be worth it to get a new screen and I should just get a new laptop? My laptop is a little over year old, it's Toshiba, and cost me about $450-$500.
Most laptop screens will cost between $80 and $150 and then to have it installed in anywhere between $100 and $200 dollars. One is looking at a total of between $180 and $400 … to have the laptop screen replaced. Joseph Larsen. Answer by Greenlight Automation. Confidence votes 14.6K. The cost of a replacement screen varies depending on the size and the manufacturer. Buying from the manufacturer will be the most expensive route but there are suppliers on-line who can offer screens from around $100 and up. The time taken for the repair is likely to cost as much as the screen itself so it may be worth considering buying the part and replacing it yourself
When Carlene Primus' laptop fell and cracked its screen, someone wanted to charge her $1,200 for the repair. She asked about cheaper alternatives. Unless it was a new laptop and the fall destroyed pretty much everything, you can consider that price a rip-off. Replacing a laptop screen, including parts and labor, shouldn't cost you more than $300. In fact, it will probably come in closer to $200. [Email your tech questions to answer@pcworld.com or post them on the PCW Answer Line forum .].