You should eat before and after the gym. An hour(or two) before going to the gym you should eat something healthy that give strentgh to your body considering you will be sweating, burning calories, doing things that will tire your body and eating will give you the energy to be able to work yourself. If you eat right before going to the gym it might hurt your stomach. I would try eating something small an hour or two before going and then after drink lots of water and wait maybe a half an hour then eating a regular meal. fizzgig037 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
You need to fuel your body prior to exercise so you can get the most out of your workout-try something light like 1/2 yogurt, piece of fruit or 1/2 smoothie an hour before you run, then eat a solid breakfast like eggs with veggies, or oatmeal with fruit, within 2 hours post-exercise. - Answered by Dr. Kara Mohr. As far as losing weight goes, is it better to eat breakfast before or after a morning run? I'm struggling between whether not eating beforehand prompts your body to burn more fat, or if this will throw my body into starvation mode. There is a lot of conflicting research out there, and I'd like some straight answers!
What you choose to eat before you exercise can make or break your workout. Food is fuel, and it's important to eat at least something prior to a workout. Eating before exercise serves several functions: 1  Fuels your muscles (both with food eaten in the days before as well as the hour or two before). 2  Helps settle your stomach and avoid hunger. Drink water, juice, or carbohydrate rich sports drinks to replace what you sweat out. If you aren't used to eating before or after exercise, remember that it's a learned behavior. You can train your body to do almost anything. Teaching your body how to use food for exercise is an important part of building your fitness.
Best Answer: You should eat after you go to the gym. That way you will burn stored calories and not only the ones you just ate. I forget the exact numbers but you burn like 200% more calories if you work out on an empty stomache. If you eat right before going to the gym it might hurt your stomach. I would try eating something small an hour or two before going and then after drink lots of water and wait maybe a half an hour then eating a regular meal. fizzgig037 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Short answer: It is best to do both! Eating before a workout serves a very different purpose than eating after a workout but they are both equally important. A pre-workout meal should consist of mainly easy to digest, carbohydrate type foods in order to supply the energy requirements for the up-coming workout. Smoothies are a great way to get a fast, convenient and healthy meal in before an exercise session. Your smoothie can contain any fruit that you enjoy eating but the following work particularly well mixed in a blender: raspberries, strawberries, blueberries, mangoes, peaches, grapes, and/or bananas.
Best Answer: It is better to eat after a work out-that is when your body needs to replenish its energy stores. Eat some high-protein low-fat food like chicken or fish when you get home, but not too late. I go for a 40min run/workout before work (6am) but i wanna start going at night also, just has stopped me as i get home at 6pm so by the time i eat dinner I cbf, or is it ok to eat after gym?
Report Abuse. After becuase, after a good workout your more likley to eat food thats good for you at a good portion size. If you eat before going to the gym your stomach may hurt while working out and you might not even feel like going. I go for a 40min run/workout before work (6am) but i wanna start going at night also, just has stopped me as i get home at 6pm so by the time i eat dinner I cbf, or is it ok to eat after gym?
Both strategies (eating before and eating after exercise) are good for performance, fitness, and health. However, how to eat for exercise is dependent on several factors, specifically, how long you exercise, your type of exercise, your exercise experience, and health factors that may play a role in how you process food. Drink water, juice, or carbohydrate rich sports drinks to replace what you sweat out. If you aren't used to eating before or after exercise, remember that it's a learned behavior. You can train your body to do almost anything. Teaching your body how to use food for exercise is an important part of building your fitness.