The Need for Clarity. For leaders and managers to understand what they have to do, and to achieve excellence in doing it, they need to understand the essence of the difference between them. This is a matter of definition-understanding how the roles are different and how they might overlap. 
A manager focuses on process and procedure, a leader focuses on people. A manager administrates. A leader envisions. A manager maintains. A leader develops. A manager measures projections. A leader projects measures. A manager ensures that things are done right. A leader ensures that the right things are being done. A manager ensures that rules are followed (such as laws, regulations and policy). A leader empowers and inspires innovation. A manager deals in detail
Leaders have vision and are of spirit. Management is not an art whereas leadership is an art. A leader is certainly a step above a manager. This is because of the fact that a leader is essential whereas a manager is necessary. Leaders are essential in an organization especially when it is growing by leaps and bounds. This is because both the words seem to mean one and the same thing. There can still be a great difference between manager and leader. You would wonder whether managers can be good leaders or leaders can be good managers. A leader is capable of taking the concern or the firm into new levels of growth and development.
In my experience being a manager and being a leader are roles that can be fundamentally different. A manager is one who has a title that describes their role within an organization, whereas a leader is someone that individuals look up to for guidance and support. 
Some look at leaders and managers as different because a leader tends to deal with the personal issues of a group, whereas a manager manages tasks and projects, not people. A â additionally it is believed that a, manager because they are considered, superior has. subordinates Summary. 1  A manager manages and takes responsibility of a situation. 2  A â a leader takes, charge is, influential and sets an. 3  Example the manager has responsibilities and is able to delegate and implement.  plans
The Difference Between a Leader and a Manager. April 30, 2015 in Culture, Leadership with 11 Comments. R ecently, on Twitter, I got into a disagreement with someone on the difference between the role of a manager and the role of a leader. A leader envisions. A manager maintains. A leader develops. A manager measures projections. A leader projects measures. A manager ensures that things are done right. A leader ensures that the right things are being done. A manager ensures that rules are followed (such as laws, regulations and policy).
The difference between manager and leader: 1  Leaders have vision and are of spirit, whereas managers are of the mind. 2  Leaders are essential for an organization, whereas managers are necessary for organization. 3  Leaders look for growth and development, whereas managers look for rapid results. This is because both the words seem to mean one and the same thing. There can still be a great difference between manager and leader. You would wonder whether managers can be good leaders or leaders can be good managers. A leader is capable of taking the concern or the firm into new levels of growth and development.
Manager vs Leader. While the words manager and leader may appear to mean they same thing, they do not. A â a manager is someone who manages and is responsible for the important aspects of a, job, project or. TEAM A â a leader is someone who, is influential, takes charge and is an example. for others Summary. 1  A manager manages and takes responsibility of a situation. 2  A â a leader takes, charge is, influential and sets an. 3  Example the manager has responsibilities and is able to delegate and implement.  plans
The terms leadership and management are often used interchangeably, but there is a huge difference between a leader and a manager. There's a Difference. The terms leadership and management are often used interchangeably, but there is a huge difference between a leader and a manager. By Curt Richardson. By Curt Richardson. OtterBox founder and CEO Curt Richardson created the first prototype of a waterproof case in his garage in the early '90s.