And this doesn't happen until you've used up the glycogen stores in your liver and muscles. So when you fast one day a week, you deplete the stores of sugar in your liver and muscles, and you begin to break down your muscles-these are the main things you accomplish during the first day of water fasting. Significant detoxification only begins to occur if you continue past day one of fasting. But let's be clear: the main benefit of a one-day juice fast is not significant detoxification; it's a concentrated period of rest for your digestive organs, and an opportunity for the organs that are responsible for ongoing detoxification-your liver, kidneys, skin, and lungs-to do a little extra health-promoting work.
And this doesn't happen until you've used up the glycogen stores in your liver and muscles. So when you fast one day a week, you deplete the stores of sugar in your liver and muscles, and you begin to break down your muscles-these are the main things you accomplish during the first day of water fasting. Significant detoxification only begins to occur if you continue past day one of fasting. 
Nature Cure. A 7-day (one-week) water fast can be taken up by those who are well versed with the benefits of the shorter one day and three day water fasts. A 1-week fast is more intense than a 3 day fast, but is definitely easy for those who have prior experience with shorter fasts. Preparation for a one week (7 day) water fast. Longer fasts are recommended in traditional medicine like naturopathy for its various health benefits. In such cases, the fasting is done under the supervision of a qualified doctor and one can follow the instructions from the doctor.
Instead of fasting, you would probably be better to have one day a week with no saturated fats, no processed foods, no artificial sweetners, etc, and spend the day eating 5-6 small meals that include fiber and good fats (fish oil, avacodo, olive oil, etc...), and only having water to drink. 
And this doesn't happen until you've used up the glycogen stores in your liver and muscles. So when you fast one day a week, you deplete the stores of sugar in your liver and muscles, and you begin to break down your muscles -- these are the main things you accomplish during the first day of water fasting. Significant detoxification only begins to occur if you continue past day one of fasting. 
So when you fast one day a week, you deplete the stores of sugar in your liver and muscles, and you begin to break down your muscles-these are the main things you accomplish during the first day of water fasting. Significant detoxification only begins to occur if you continue past day one of fasting. To sum things up, I would say that it's not good for long term health to fast one day a week on water only. If you want to give your body a period of rest and intense cleansing once in a while, it makes more sense to spend a day eating all raw fruits and vegetables, or drinking nothing but freshly pressed juices.
To sum things up, I would say that it's not good for long term health to fast one day a week on water only. If you want to give your body a period of rest and intense cleansing once in a while, it makes more sense to spend a day eating all raw fruits and vegetables, or drinking nothing but freshly pressed juices. But let's be clear: the main benefit of a one-day juice fast is not significant detoxification; it's a concentrated period of rest for your digestive organs, and an opportunity for the organs that are responsible for ongoing detoxification-your liver, kidneys, skin, and lungs-to do a little extra health-promoting work.
Diet Specifics. Fasting one day a week means exactly that. One day a week you consume very few calories, filling up on calorie-free beverages such as water, coffee and tea, as well as chewing on sugar-free gum. On the other six days of the week you are allowed to eat whatever you want. When it comes to weight loss, there's no one size fits all fix. It's simply a matter of figuring out what strategy works best for helping you reduce your calorie intake. Fasting one day a week can help you lose weight if you're not overdoing it on the other six days.
Fasting one day per week will not put you in that second phase. With a weekly fast of 24 to 36 hours, you’ll still be in glucose metabolism; you’ll still feel quite normal, but you’ll be hungry. The benefits of a weekly fast are that it’s a true digestive rest. Weekly fasting gives your body a break from digesting. I recently started fasting one day a week — either a juice fast or a 24-hour water fast.