They are large, multinucleate cells that form through the fusion of precursor cells. Unlike osteoblasts, which are related to fibroblasts and other connective tissue cells, osteoclasts are descended from stem cells in the bone marrow that also give rise to monocytes. Osteocytes manufacture type I collagen and other substances that make up the bone extracellular matrix. Osteocytes will be found enclosed in bone. Osteoclasts are bone-resorbing cells (-clast means to break; osteoclasts break down bone).
Osteoblasts are bone-forming cells. They are connective tissue cells found at the surface of bone. They can be stimulated to proliferate and differentiate as osteocytes. Osteocytes are bone cells. Osteocytes manufacture type I collagen and other substances that make up the bone extracellular matrix. Osteocytes will be found enclosed in bone. Osteoclasts are bone-resorbing cells (-clast means to break; osteoclasts break down bone).
Bone cells. Bone may seem to be stable and unchanging, but in fact, bone is constantly being remodeled. Bone remodeling is triggered by a need for calcium in the extracellular fluid, but it also occurs in response to mechanical stresses on the bone tissue. Osteocytes manufacture type I collagen and other substances that make up the bone extracellular matrix. Osteocytes will be found enclosed in bone. Osteoclasts are bone-resorbing cells (-clast means to break; osteoclasts break down bone).
5. Once a tunnel of bone is formed around a blood vessel, the bone building cells of the periosteum lay down bone in concentric circles that fill in the tunnel. True. 
A. True. B. False. 19. The cells in bone tissue include: A. Osteogenic cells, osteoblasts, osteocytes, and articular cartilage. B. Osteogenic cells, osteoblasts, lacunae, and osteoclasts. C. Osteogenic cells, osteoblasts, osteocytes, and osteoclasts
1 These bone building cells arise from the osteoprogenitor cells in periosteum in bone marrow. 2  monomucleate cells, expressess all receptors of the fibroblassts in addition to genes for sialoprotein and osteocalcin. 3  Consists of high amount of RER large Golgi apparatus with spherical nucleus. BONE BUILDING CELLSBone can be defined as the rigid endoskeleton of calcium phosphate and forms the endoskeleton of the body. The skeletal system formed by the bones is the unit that is associated with the muscular system that enables movement.
Osteoblast (from the Greek combining forms for  bone , ὀστέο-, osteo-and βλαστάνω, blastanō germinate) are cells with single nuclei that synthesize bone. During active bone formation, the surface layer of osteoblasts consists of cuboidal cells, called active osteoblasts. When the bone-forming unit is not actively synthesizing bone, the surface osteoblasts are flattened and are called in
____ 10. An osteoblast is a a. bone building cell. c. bone cell surrounded by matrix. b. bone destroying cell. d. bone marrow cell. ____ Red bone marrow functions in the formation of11. a. white blood cells only. c. red and white blood cells and platlets. b. red and white blood cells only. d. red blood cells only. ____ 12. Bones that develop between sheet-like layers of connective tissue are called a. endochondral bone. c. cartilagenous bone. Periosteum forms from connective tissue on the outside of the developing bone. c. Hyaline cartilage changes to adipose tissue. d. Hyaline cartilage develops into the shape of the future bone. ____ An osteocyte is a9.
Individual cells cannot make bone, and the group of organized osteoblasts together with the bone made by a unit of cells is usually called the osteon; the basis of this is discussed in Organization and ultrastructure of osteoblasts below. During active bone formation, the surface layer of osteoblasts consists of cuboidal cells, called active osteoblasts. When the bone-forming unit is not actively synthesizing bone, the surface osteoblasts are flattened and are called in
Bone Building Cells. In the bone, there are 5 types of bone building cells: OSTEOBLAST :Characters. 1  These bone building cells arise from the osteoprogenitor cells in periosteum in bone marrow. 2  monomucleate cells, expressess all receptors of the fibroblassts in addition to genes for sialoprotein and osteocalcin. BONE BUILDING CELLSBone can be defined as the rigid endoskeleton of calcium phosphate and forms the endoskeleton of the body. The skeletal system formed by the bones is the unit that is associated with the muscular system that enables movement.