Causes of purpura rash. The direct cause of purpura is blood in the skin which has leaked from blood vessels, which is what makes the little purplish-red dots or blisters to appear. This bleeding can be the result of several different causes. MAIN Health Rashes Purpura Rash. Blood blisters caused by purpura. Purpura, which is also known as skin hemorrhages and blood spots, is a rash which appears as an outbreak of red dots on the skin. A purpura rash can appear anywhere on the body, but it more commonly appears in specific areas such as the front of the lower legs, or the outer sides of the lower arm
Causes and Risk Factors for Henoch-Schonlein Purpura. The exact cause of HSP is not known. The body's immune system is believed to play a role in targeting the blood vessels involved. An abnormal immune response to an infection may be a factor in many cases. Henoch-Schonlein purpura (HSP) is a disease involving inflammation of small blood vessels. It most commonly occurs in children. The inflammation causes blood vessels in the skin, intestines, kidneys, and joints to start leaking
Henoch-Schonlein Purpura (HSP). Henoch-Schonlein purpura (HSP) is a disease involving inflammation of small blood vessels. It most commonly occurs in children. The inflammation causes blood vessels in the skin, intestines, kidneys, and joints to start leaking
Causes. In Henoch-Schonlein purpura, some of the body's small blood vessels become inflamed, which can cause bleeding in the skin, joints, abdomen and kidneys. Why this initial inflammation develops isn't clear, although it may be the result of an overzealous immune system responding inappropriately to certain triggers. Nearly half the people who have Henoch-Schonlein purpura developed the disease after an upper respiratory infection, such as a cold. Infectious triggers may include chickenpox, strep throat, measles and hepatitis. Other triggers may include certain medications, food, insect bites or exposure to cold weather.
Purpura is a condition of red or purple discolored spots on the skin that do not blanch on applying pressure. 1 Decomposition of blood vessels including purpura is a symptom of acute radiation poisoning in excess of 2 Grays of radiation exposure. 2  This is an uncommon cause in general, but is commonly seen in victims of nuclear disaster.
Purpura, also called blood spots or skin hemorrhages, refers to purple-colored spots that are most recognizable on the skin. The spots could also be located on organs or mucous membranes, including the inside of the mouth. Have a board certified dermatologist examine your skin problem ». The following could cause nonthrombocytopenic purpura: 1  disorders affecting blood clotting. 2  certain congenital (present at or before birth) disorders such as rubella and cytomegalovirus. 3  certain medications (including steroids and those that affect platelet functioning). 4  weak blood vessels
For other uses of Purpura, see Purpura (disambiguation) . Purpura is a condition of red or purple discolored spots on the skin that do not blanch on applying pressure. The spots are caused by bleeding underneath the skin usually secondary to vasculitis or dietary deficiency of vitamin C (scurvy). 1 Decomposition of blood vessels including purpura is a symptom of acute radiation poisoning in excess of 2 Grays of radiation exposure. 2  This is an uncommon cause in general, but is commonly seen in victims of nuclear disaster.