Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375. 2  Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 3  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 4  Top with sauce. 5  Bake for 45 minutes. 6  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 7  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 8  This. 9  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way. 1 Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 2  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 3  Top with sauce. 4  Bake for 45 minutes. 5  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 6  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 7  This. 8  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way.
1 Because you are cooking the chicken breasts frozen, you will need to increase the standard cooking time by 50 percent. 2  So chicken breasts that would usually cook for 20 to 30 minutes should cook for 30 to 45 minutes if they are put in frozen. You will need 1 to 6 tbsp. of spices, depending upon how many chicken breasts you plan to cook. 1  Use salt and pepper and a little lemon, if you want a simple recipe. 2  If you want a more tangy dish, pour barbecue sauce or another wet sauce onto the chicken breasts in your non-stick pan.
Answer: It’s fine to cook frozen chicken in the oven (or on the stove top) without defrosting it first, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Bear in mind, though, that it’ll generally take about 50 percent longer than the usual cooking time for thawed chicken. So, for instance, if you’re preparing chicken breasts and your recipe calls for 40 minutes of cooking time in the oven or on the stove top, you’ll need about an hour if you’re using frozen chicken. To determine if your cooked chicken is safe to eat, be sure to use a food thermometer. 
A frozen meat pie of average size should be cooked at 350 degrees and covered with foil for 35-40 minutes. Check center temperature. If temperature has reached 165 degrees, un … cover and cook for another 5-8 minutes until the crust has reached desired color. Simply add 50% of the normal time it would bake. So if you're cooking a whole chicken that is about 3 pounds, you'd normally cook it thawed for 1 hour. So frozen you'd cook it for an hour and 1/2. You need to be vary careful however. You can end up with a burned chicken that's still raw in the middle.
According to the USDA it is safe to bake (in the oven) frozen chicken. Simply add 50% of the normal time it would bake. So if you're cooking a whole chicken that is about 3 pounds, you'd normally cook it thawed for 1 hour. So frozen you'd cook it for an hour and 1/2. You need to be vary careful however. At 350oF, you should roast a whole (thawed)chicken for  20 minutes per pound, plus 15 more minutes. If stuffed, cook the  chicken for an additional 15 minutes.    So … for a 4.5 lb stuffed chicken, you should cook it for 2 hours.
8. Place your pan in the oven. Set the timer for 30 minutes, or 45 minutes if you aren’t planning to add sauce to the chicken. 1  Because you are cooking the chicken breasts frozen, you will need to increase the standard cooking time by 50 percent. You will need 1 to 6 tbsp. of spices, depending upon how many chicken breasts you plan to cook. 1  Use salt and pepper and a little lemon, if you want a simple recipe. 2  If you want a more tangy dish, pour barbecue sauce or another wet sauce onto the chicken breasts in your non-stick pan.
According to the USDA it is safe to bake (in the oven) frozen chicken. Simply add 50% of the normal time it would bake. So if you're cooking a whole chicken that is about 3 pounds, you'd normally cook it thawed for 1 hour. So frozen you'd cook it for an hour and 1/2. You need to be vary careful however. You can end up with a burned chicken that's still raw in the middle.
I test at the shorter cooking time with the thermometer. Poaching. To poach boneless, skinless chicken breasts, place them in a large skillet and add 1-2 cups of water or chicken broth. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover, and cook for 9-14 minutes until chicken reaches 160 degrees F. about 15 minutes. You can also poach in the oven.
1 Preheat oven to 375. 2  Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 3  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 4  Top with sauce. 5  Bake for 45 minutes. 6  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 7  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 8  This. 9  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way. 1 Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 2  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 3  Top with sauce. 4  Bake for 45 minutes. 5  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 6  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 7  This. 8  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way.