A: Please check with the individual doctor’s office if you are an established patient, so that they can review your chart and let you know. Most patients with polyps have colonoscopy every 3-5 years. Patients with a family history of colon cancer, but without recent polyps, usually have colonoscopies every 5 years.
Yes. Most women will have regular menstrual cycles while on the pill. I was really irregular before I got on the pill, having a period every 3 or 4 months, and them lasting 2 … or 3 weeks. After I got on the pill, I have had a period every month for 3-5 days. Gaines Fox.
Yes, you can get pregnant right after your period. You are actually starting to move into your fertility window. On a typical cycle that occurs every 28 to 30 days, the fertility window is usually between Day 11 and Day 21. As noted above sperm can live 2, 3 and up to 5 days. If your period (bleeding time) last for 5 to 7 days, and you have sex right after that, you are approaching your fertility window. If you stop bleeding on Day 6, have sex on Day 7, and ovulate on Day 11. It is possible that the sperm from Day 6 will be waiting in your fallopian tubes for conception
A colonoscopy is a procedure that allows your doctor to examine the lining of your colon for abnormalities. 1 Most of the time, the bleeding will stop on its own. 2  Very rarely (only in about 1 out of every 1,000 colonoscopies), the scope can make a hole, called a perforation, in the wall of your colon. 3  This may need more surgery or treatment with medication. 4  Sometimes, the colonoscopy can miss a polyp.
I've had colonoscopies done during my periods, I get put to sleep so it doesn't bother me and the GI is a doc so I think he's past being grossed out by a chicks period considering what he does in his line of work LOL. If I were you and couldn't use a tampon I would remove my pad at the very last minute. The actual procedure doesn't take long enough to bleed out. (hopefully) My GI says he deals with it all the time. good luck 25/ Female DXed Crohn's 1/09.
· just now. Report Abuse. Yes you can,but if your period is on i wouldn't.My mom got hers the same day as her colonoscopy and she was bleeding heavy..she was never so embarrassed when the techs had to clean her up. Your sedated so you can't really feel anything..but it depends on the heaviness of your flow among all things.. 
1 What to Expect After a Colonoscopy When you have a colonoscopy, a doctor scans the entire length of your emptied colon with a specialized camera scope. 2  If any small growths or polyps are found, the doctor remo…. It depends on the indication (reason) for which the colonoscopy is being performed. If it is a simple screening colonoscopy then it is advised to wait until the period is over. The reason is that colonoscopy has a risk for perforation and bleeding.
You could have sex towards the end of your bleeding and then actually conceive 4 or 5 days later with your early ovulation. The probabilities of getting pregnant while on your period are low, but the possibilities are there. This is not the time to have sex if you are trying to get pregnant. If your period (bleeding time) last for 5 to 7 days, and you have sex right after that, you are approaching your fertility window. If you stop bleeding on Day 6, have sex on Day 7, and ovulate on Day 11. It is possible that the sperm from Day 6 will be waiting in your fallopian tubes for conception
I am scheduled to have a colonoscopy during the same time of my period...I'm nervous and embarrassed about this. Has anyone been through this? I asked the nurse and she said with a sarcastic tone, it will not interfere,,,,I'm scared of making a mess. Need advice. 