Contribution Limits. Your Roth contributions cannot exceed your earned income for the year. For example, if your total yearly earned income is only $2,000, you may contribute up to $2,000 to your IRA.
If you are age 50 or older the same $5,500 contribution limit applies. However, you are also allowed to contribute an additional $1,000 as a catch up contribution toward retirement, for a total of a $6,500 contribution. Read on to learn more about Roth IRA contribution limits.
It depends on what kind of IRA it is. Almost anyone can contribute to a traditional IRA, provided you (or your spouse) receive taxable income and you are under age 70 ½. But your contributions are tax deductible only if you meet certain qualifications.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½.
Roth IRAs: 1  Roth contributions (but not earnings) can be withdrawn penalty-and tax-free any time, even before age 59 ½. 2  five tax years after the first contribution, you can withdraw up to $10,000 of Roth earnings penalty-free to pay for qualified first-time homebuyer expenses.
The idea is that even if you earn too much to contribute to a Roth IRA directly, you can open a Traditional nondeductible IRA and convert it to a Roth; there is no income limit on Traditional nondeductible IRAs or conversions.
For each year you contribute to a Roth IRA, you (or your spouse, if you file jointly) must have compensation or alimony income. If you don’t have compensation or alimony income you can’t contribute, even if you have other types of income.
Roth IRA Contribution Eligibility. Anyone with earned income that falls under the above guidelines can use a Roth IRA to save for retirement. How much you can save is dependent upon your age. If you under the age of 50 years old you can contribute $5,500 toward retirement in a Roth IRA.
1 If you have a workplace retirement plan, the deduction for your traditional IRA contribution is phased out completely if your AGI is $109,000 or more (married couple filing jointly) or $66,000 or more (individual), or $10,000 for a married person filing separately.