The Modern Condition can be understood as having its philosophical roots in the Enlightenment and Romanticism, and its historical roots in the Industrial Revolution, Colonialism and the major wars and genocide of the late Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries. Where religion had given us a universe with meaning and order, Darwin gave us one of blind luck and empty blackness: not only were we not at the center of the universe, science suggested, but the universe was endlessly vast and we just another insignificant organism, made in the image of bacteria rather than God.
The ideas of the Enlightenment undermined the authority of the monarchy and the church, and prepared the way for the revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries. A variety of 19th-century movements, including liberalism and neo-classicism, trace their intellectual heritage back to the Enlightenment. The major figures of the Enlightenment included Voltaire, Denis Diderot, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, David Hume, Adam Smith, and Immanuel Kant.
In this case, Modernism usually refers to Neo-Classical, Enlightenment assumptions concerning the role reason, or rationality, or scientific reasoning, play in guiding our understanding of the human condition and, in extreme cases of Postmodern theory, nature itself. Reason and science provide accurate, objective, reliable foundation of knowledge. Reason and science are Ideologies in the Marxist sense; myths created by man. Reason transcends and exists independently of our existential, historical, cultural contexts; it is universal and true.
se e also Periods. Modernism is not identical to modernity or modernization, though these terms' meanings overlap. Modernism is a recent period of Western or World Civilization; modernity or modernization is a historical process rather than a period. Modernization or modernity is ongoing since emergence of humanism and modern science in Classical Greece, or at least since the Renaissance. 
One common use of the term, Early Modern is to describe the condition of Western History either since the mid-1400's, or roughly the European discovery of moveable type and the printing press, or the early 1600's, the period associated with the rise of the Enlightenment project. Since the term Modern is used to describe a wide range of periods, any definition of modernity must account for the context in question. Modern can mean all of post-medieval European history, in the context of dividing history into three large epochs: Antiquity, Medieval, and Modern.
The Enlightenment. The Enlightenment, sometimes referred to as the Age of Reason, was a confluence of ideas and activities that took place throughout the eighteenth century in Western Europe, England, and the American colonies. In Europe, Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau were the torchbearers of Enlightenment literature and philosophy. Rousseau was a strong advocate for social reform of all kinds. He more or less invented the autobiography as it is known today.
Modernism (or Enlightenment Humanism). Postmodernism. Reason and science provide accurate, objective, reliable foundation of knowledge. Reason and science are Ideologies in the Marxist sense; myths created by man. Reason transcends and exists independently of our existential, historical, cultural contexts; it is universal and true.
Some commentators define Modernism as a mode of thinking—one or more philosophically defined characteristics, like self-consciousness or self-reference, that run across all the novelties in the arts and the disciplines. Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900) was another major precursor of Modernism, with a philosophy in which psychological drives, specifically the  will to power  (Wille zur Macht), was of central importance: Nietzsche often identified life itself with 'will to power', that is, with an instinct for growth and durability.
Though it is typical of the Enlightenment thinkers of the eighteenth century (for example Voltaire in his Letters on the English Nation, 1734) to embrace Newton's physical system in preference to Descartes', Newton's system itself depends on Descartes' earlier work, a dependence of which Newton himself was aware. Despite the confidence in and enthusiasm for human reason in the Enlightenment – it is sometimes called “the Age of Reason” – the rise of empiricism, both in the practice of science and in the theory of knowledge, is characteristic of the period.
Enlightenment or Postmodernism. During the period of the Eighteenth century known as the Enlightenment, many intellectuals began to conceive of the world in a new manner. Spurred by the rise of science, philosophers came to see nature as an entity which man could actively control through technology and reason. Additionally, this confidence coincided with a rise in the stature of the self as an autonomous being, free to shape his or her personal world.