2. In the neuromuscular junction, acetylcholine... diffuses across the synaptic cleft and binds to acetylcholine receptors on the postsynaptic muscle fiber. is actively transported across the synaptic cleft and binds to acetylcholine receptors on the postsynaptic muscle fiber. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used by the motor neurons to stimulate action potentials in the muscle cells. When an action potential reaches the end of a neuron, the acetylcholine is released and a new action potential begins in the muscle tissue.
The result of this binding of acetylcholine to the acetylcholine receptor is opening of sodium channels and influx of sodium cations into the muscle cell, causing the resting potential of that muscle cell to begin to depolarize. The result of this communication is electrical excitation of the muscle cell, what we call an action potential. The action potential of the muscle cell activates that muscle and causes the muscle cell to contract or shorten.
2. In the neuromuscular junction, acetylcholine... diffuses across the synaptic cleft and binds to acetylcholine receptors on the postsynaptic muscle fiber. is actively transported across the synaptic cleft and binds to acetylcholine receptors on the postsynaptic muscle fiber. 
In summary, excite the muscle cell. In a little more detailed summary, acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that reversibly binds to and stimulates the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on the post-synaptic region of the sarcolemma of the skeletal muscle, called the motor end plate. The result of this communication is electrical excitation of the muscle cell, what we call an action potential. The action potential of the muscle cell activates that muscle and causes the muscle cell to contract or shorten.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
When an action potential reaches a neuromuscular junction, it causes acetylcholine to be released into this synapse. The acetylcholine binds to the nicotinic receptors concentrated on the motor end plate, a specialized area of the muscle fibre's post-synaptic membrane. This binding causes the nicotinic receptor channels to open and let sodium ions enter the muscle fibre.
In the peripheral nervous system, ACh is the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction between the motor nerve and skeletal muscle. Figure 11.3. Distribution of cholinergic cell groups and projections in the rat brain. 
In summary, excite the muscle cell. In a little more detailed summary, acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that reversibly binds to and stimulates the muscarinic acetylcholi … ne receptors on the post-synaptic region of the sarcolemma of the skeletal muscle, called the motor end plate. The result of this binding of acetylcholine to the acetylcholine receptor is opening of sodium channels and influx of sodium cations into the muscle cell, causing the resting potential of that muscle cell to begin to depolarize.
A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. AChRs at the skeletal neuromuscular junction form heteropentamers composed of two α, one β, one ɛ, and one δ subunits. When a single ACh ligand binds to one of the α subunits of the ACh receptor it induces a conformational change at the interface with the second AChR α subunit.
Basically, acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter or chemical messenger that the nerve cell uses to communicate with the muscle cell. The result of this communication is electrical excitation of the muscle cell, what we call an action potential. The action potential of the muscle cell activates that muscle and causes the muscle cell to contract or shorten.