Etruscan Majolica was a brand name given to the earthenware pottery created first by Griffen, Smith and Hill, then later manufactured by Griffen, Smith and Company; Griffen, Love and Company; and Griffen China Company, of Phoenixville, Pennsylvania in the years between 1879 and 1892. 
Majolica has been used to describe several types of wares over the centuries which are similar in that the colours are strong and bright but the materials and processes to achieve the effect have progressed over time. Original Majolica. 
Majolica is glazed pottery often associated with certain regions of Italy, although it also is produced in other parts of the world. Italy has a long-standing tradition in the production of ceramics and pottery dating back to the 13th century. During the Renaissance, a small town in Umbria called Deruta, made use of the special clay from the Umbrian hills to establish itself as the center for the production of majolica and italian pottery.
Definition of MAJOLICA. 1. : earthenware covered with an opaque tin glaze and decorated on the glaze before firing; especially: an Italian ware of this kind. 2. : a 19th century earthenware modeled in naturalistic shapes and glazed in lively colors
Where it came from: Majolica (pronounced mah-joll-ick-ah, with an accent on the joll), as we think of it today, is a fairly recent invention, having been created in 1851 by Herbert Minton and Leon Arnoux, of the famous Minton company in Great Britain. What it is: By definition, majolica (with a J) is soft-paste earthenware that has been fired to the biscuit stage, then coated with an opaque lead or tin (or both) glaze, which is allowed to dry. After this preliminary glaze dries, the decoration is painted on with bright, colorful metal-oxide glazes
The name majolica was derived from Majorca, the port from which majolica originally was traded. Italian majolica and italian ceramics are world renowned because of their master craftsmanship and durability. Italy has a long-standing tradition in the production of ceramics and pottery dating back to the 13th century. During the Renaissance, a small town in Umbria called Deruta, made use of the special clay from the Umbrian hills to establish itself as the center for the production of majolica and italian pottery.
1 Victorian majolica, earthenware pottery decorated with brightly colored lead glazes best known for naturalistic/whimsical style. 2  Tin-glazed pottery, decorated earthenware pottery with an opaque white glaze. 3  Maiolica, a type of tin-glazed pottery, as above, made in Italy. Majolica may refer to: 1  Victorian majolica, earthenware pottery decorated with brightly colored lead glazes best known for naturalistic/whimsical style.
Definition: Majolica (noun) is a type of pottery in which an earthenware clay body (usually a red earthenware) is covered with an opaque white glaze (traditionally a lead glaze including tin), then painted with stains or glazes and fired. Also Known As: Faience and delft are terms for very similar types of pottery, the only real difference being where it was produced and the style of the painting. Alternate Spellings: maiolica. Examples: Majolica is often ascribed to have a delicate but strongly-colored and relaxed ambiance.