In its simplest form the symbol for Hamsa is the hand. It is talismanic symbol that they believed would protect them from harm against the evil forces and bring them goodness, abundance, fertility, luck and good health. Hamsa is an icon used by man as a defence, in his struggle against the forces of evil. 
The Hamsa (Hand of Fatima). Added over 5 years ago. By Linda Heaphy. The Hamsa, also known as the Humes hand, the Hand of Fatima and the Hand of Miriam is a popular symbol found throughout the Middle East and northern Africa, particularly within the Islamic and Jewish faiths. It is one of the national symbols of Algeria and appears in its emblem. 
The Hamsa Hand is an ancient Middle Eastern amulet symbolizing the Hand of God. In all faiths it is a protective sign. It brings it’s owner happiness, luck, health, and good fortune. The hamsa hand has a wide variety of different spellings which includes hamesh, hamsa, chamsa, and khamsa. It is also identified as the Hand of Miriam, Aaron and Moses’s sister, and the Hand of Fatima. The hamsa hand has two main styles.
Hamsa Hand Tattoo meaning – you might not know, but the hamsa word means “ FIVE “. It means the five fingers from your hand (or any other hand), or the five senses people have. It comes from Hebrew language. In Middle East such hamsa hands are popular amulets among people. 
In Jewish culture, the hamsa is called the Hand of Miriam; in Muslim culture, the Hand of Fatima. The Fatima amulet is called a Khamsa in Muslim world, from the Arabic word for five, and is seen as protection against the evil eye. The amulet consists of five spread fingers, often with an eye on the hand. 
The hamsa hand sometimes includes an eye symbol, which is thought to protect against the evil eye. It is often worn as a pendant on a necklace but also is found on key chains, house decorations, baby carriages, and other jewelry items. The hamsa hand has a wide variety of different spellings which includes hamesh, hamsa, chamsa, and khamsa. It is also identified as the Hand of Miriam, Aaron and Moses’s sister, and the Hand of Fatima. The hamsa hand has two main styles.
The name “hamsa” comes from the Hebrew word “hamesh,” which means five. “Hamsa” refers to the fact that there are five fingers on the talisman, though some also believe it represents the five books of the Torah. Sometimes it is called the Hand of Miriam, after Moses’ sister. By Ariela Pelaia. A hamsa is an amulet shaped like a hand, with three extended fingers in the middle and a curved thumb or pinky finger on either side. It is thought to protect against the “evil eye” and is a popular motif in both Jewish and Middle Eastern jewelry
In its simplest form the symbol for Hamsa is the hand. It is talismanic symbol that they believed would protect them from harm against the evil forces and bring them goodness, abundance, fertility, luck and good health. Hamsa is an icon used by man as a defence, in his struggle against the forces of evil. Hamsa and Number FIVE Arabs call this icon khamse Hand.
The Hamsa Hand and the Hand of Fatima have become popular good luck symbols worldwide. They are common symbols in both Jewish and Muslim communities. In Jewish communities it is called the Hamsa Hand or the Hand of Miriam. In Muslim communities it is called the Hand of Fatima or the Khamsa. Hamsa is the Hebrew word for five. Likewise Khamsa is the Arabic word for five. The Hamsa hand and the Hand of Fatima are equally best known for the power to protect the owner from the evil eye and bring happiness to the holder