The Integumentary system is the organ system that protects human body from damage. It consists of skin and its appendages, which include hair, nails, and sweat glands etc. It forms about 16 percent of the weight of human body. The Integumentary system has a variety of functions. 1  It serves as a waterproof cushion that protects deeper tissues. 2  It excretes wastes and regulates body temperature. 3  It is the attachment site for different types of sensory receptors to detect pain, sensation, pressure, and
Overview. The skin covers the entire external surface of the human body and is the principal site of interaction with the surrounding world. It serves as a protective barrier that prevents internal tissues from exposure to trauma, ultraviolet (UV) radiation, temperature extremes, toxins, and bacteria. The definitive multi-layered skin is present at birth, but skin is a dynamic organ that undergoes continuous changes throughout life as outer layers are shed and replaced by inner layers. Skin also varies in thickness among anatomic location, sex, and age of the individual.
M.J.Thornton@bradford.ac.uk. Oestrogens have significant effects on different cell types important in skin physiology, including the epidermal keratinocytes, dermal fibroblasts and melanocytes. In addition, they can also modulate skin appendages such as the hair follicle, the sebaceous gland and the apocrine glands. Oestrogens may also have important modulatory roles in events such as skin ageing, pigmentation, hair growth, sebum production and skin cancer. 
The skin is home to a variety of glands of which the main function is to synthesise substances which, depending on their nature, cool down the organism, protect the skin or make it more supple, lubricate the hair, or eliminate mineral elements or cholesterol. There are two types of sweat glands: eccrine (from the Greek ex, out of, and krinein, to secrete) and apocrine (from the Greek apo, far from). The former are the more numerous (2 to 5 million). They form coiled secretory portion at the dermis-hypodermis junction and the secreting duct opens as pores in the skin.
Skin functions include protection of the deeper tissue from chemicals, bacteria, bumps, and drying; regulation of body temperature through radiation and sweating; and synthesis of defensive proteins and vitamin D. The cutaneous sensory receptors are located in the skin. 1 Melanin, a pigment produced by melanocytes, protects the nuclei of epithelial cells from damaging rays of the sun (Figure 4.1). 2  Dermis The dermis is composed of dense connective tissue. 3  It is the site of blood vessels, nerves, and epidermal appendages.
The integumentary system is the organ system that protects the body from various kinds of damage, such as loss of water or abrasion from outside. The system comprises the skin and its appendages (including hair, scales, feathers, hooves, and nails). The integumentary system has a variety of functions; it may serve to waterproof, cushion, and protect the deeper tissues, excrete wastes, and regulate temperature, and is the attachment site for sensory receptors to detect pain, sensation, pressure, and temperature.
Fat, nothing but fat. Each hair of the body, which has much the same biological machinery as the hair on the head, has a sebaceous gland attached to it. They look like a group of cells, the sebocytes, the function of which is to produce lipids which are the constituents of sebum. The sebum is transferred by the sebocytes into the duct of the sebaceous gland and is then secreted onto the surface of the skin where, with sweat, it helps form the hydrolipidic film. There are two types of sweat glands: eccrine (from the Greek ex, out of, and krinein, to secrete) and apocrine (from the Greek apo, far from). The former are the more numerous (2 to 5 million). They form coiled secretory portion at the dermis-hypodermis junction and the secreting duct opens as pores in the skin.
1 Condition of skin• If you rub the skin, it stimulates cell division = callous• If you rub the skin too hard, the stratum basale tears away from the basement membrane, and causes a gap, which fills with fluid: BLISTER.• The epidermis then dies because it’s too far away from nutrients. 1 It fuses with the cell membrane and it come out of cells and function as a intercellular cement or sealing agent.• This sealing effect is first evolutionary adaptation to terrestrial life.8/5/2012 1212413114 12. 2  13. 3  Stratum Lucidum • more prominent in thick skin. 4  Cellular organells and nuclei are not prominent.
The skin is the largest organ in the body. In humans, it accounts for about 12 to 15 percent of total body weight and covers 1.5-2m 2 of surface area. The integumentary system has a variety of functions; it may serve to waterproof, cushion, and protect the deeper tissues, excrete wastes, and regulate temperature, and is the attachment site for sensory receptors to detect pain, sensation, pressure, and temperature.
the flexible tissue (integument) enclosing the body of vertebrate animals. In humans and other mammals, the skin operates a complex organ of numerous structures (sometimes called the integumentary system) serving vital protective and metabolic functions. It contains two main layers of cells: a thin outer layer, the epidermis, and a thicker inner layer, the dermis. 