Many people are aware that garlic and curry will cause body odor that can persist for days. But there are other foods that can also cause odor such as: cumin, onions, and paprika, multi-vitamins, coffee and even cinnamon. Cigarettes can cause odor that the smoker is usually unaware of as their nose becomes desensitized to the smell. Constipation can often cause body odor, if you suspect this to be a culprit, increase your fiber intake daily and get some exercise or just take a walk. Foods high in choline, including eggs, beans, chicken, some cheeses, fish and many other foods can give the body an odor that is often called fish odor syndrome.
Garlic is LIKELY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth. Garlic has been used safely in research for up to 7 years. When taken by mouth, garlic can cause bad breath, a burning sensation in the mouth or stomach, heartburn, gas, nausea, vomiting, body odor, and diarrhea. These side effects are often worse with raw garlic. Garlic may also increase the risk of bleeding
Customer Question. The last 4 months my body odor smells like onions and garlic and i dont eat that much of them. my whole body smells even when i have a bowel movement it smells too..how can i get rid of it. Submitted: 5 years ago. Category: Medical
Sometimes its not just a matter of brushing your teeth to get rid of the smell of garlic. Actually the smell of garlic in your breath even after you have brushed your teeth after eating, it comes from your stomach. To get rid of the garlic smell, try one of the following methods 1, 2 1  : Try drinking some green tea. 2  Drink lemonade, or eat a lemon. 3  This helps sometimes. 4  Use home made lemonade because store-bought lemonades tend to have very few actual lemons in them. Sometimes its not just a matter of brushing your teeth to get rid of the smell of garlic. Actually the smell of garlic in your breath even after you have brushed your teeth after eating, it comes from your stomach. To get rid of the garlic smell, try one of the following methods 1, 2 :
Thus, you can only reduce garlic smell but cannot remove it completely. Basically, the smell of garlic appears in your breath and even sweat because it contains a sulfur compound (allyl methyl sulfide) that does not break down during the process of digestion. 
Garlic contains sulfur compounds that permeate the skin, leading to body odor. Photo Credit garlic image by timur1970 from Fotolia.com. Perspiration itself is nearly odorless, according to the Mayo Clinic. Unpleasant body odor generally arises when sweat and body oils interact with bacteria or sulfur compounds. A garlic-like body odor may occur as a side effect of certain drugs and supplements. Rarely, it may signal an underlying medical condition. Consult your health care provider if you sweat excessively or if you suddenly develop an intense form of body odor. Certain sulfur-based medications, including dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), can cause body odor and bad breath similar to garlic. The health information website Drugs.com notes that this side effect may persist for up to 72 hours.
6. What you eat affects your body odor. Foods that tend to make you sweat more, such as hot peppers or other spicy foods, might also contribute to body odor. And the aroma of foods such as onions or garlic can be carried in the sweat, making you smell bad. Drinks with caffeine or alcohol may also cause you to sweat more.
Because everyone has a different way to operate their metabolisms, some people do have garlic smell bolder than others after eating garlic. Garlic not only brings many benefits to our health, but also provide us bad body odor. Swallowing gloves of garlic don’t cause bad smell as eating garlic. · Start swallowing 1-2 gloves of garlic a day. It’s good that you eat garlic only for the sake of your health. 