Spanish Meaning: The name Dante is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Dante is: Enduring. The poet Dante Alighieri wrote The Divine Comedy with its graphic description of medieval Hell known as 'Dante's Inferno. In Italian the meaning of the name Dante is: A, the Italian form of Durand meaning enduring. Famous bearer: The poet Dante Alighieri wrote 'The Divine Comedy' with its graphic description of medieval Hell known as 'Dante's Inferno. Latin Meaning:
Meaning of Dante. Italian name. In Italian, the name Dante means-A diminutive of Durante, the Italian form of Durand meaning enduring. Famous bearer: The poet Dante Alighieri wrote The Divine Comedy with its graphic description of medieval Hell known as Dantes Inferno... Other origins for the name Dante include-Italian, Jamaican, Spanish.The name Dante is most often used as a boy name or male name.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Dante. Dante is a contracted form of the Italian name Durante which means ‘steadfast, enduring’ from the Latin durus meaning ‘hard, firm’. Children's Books on the Baby Name Dante. Dante's Divine Comedy: As Told for Young People (Dante Alighieri / Joseph Tusiani) - This is a retelling of Dante's Divine Comedy written especially for young people by poet, novelist and translator Joseph Tusiani.
Italian Name Meaning-A diminutive of Durante, the Italian form of Durand meaning enduring. Famous bearer: The poet Dante Alighieri wrote The Divine Comedy with its graphic description of medieval Hell known as Dantes Inferno... Other origins for the name Dante include-Italian, Jamaican, Spanish.The name Dante is most often used as a boy name or male name.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Dante and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Dante and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Dante Name Meaning. The meaning of Dante is “Lasting”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
This name is a squeeze form of name “Durante”, which means “Lasting and Steadfast” and derives from the Latin dūrans means “Enduring”. Dante Alighieri the writer, who wrote The Divine Comedy as well as the medieval text The New Life to express his lifelong love for Beatrice. The romantic associations of the name thus made it popular in the Middle Ages. Dante Name also appears in following Origin(s): Italian, Latin, English, Spanish.
Italian Meaning: The name Dante is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Dante is: A, the Italian form of Durand meaning enduring. Famous bearer: The poet Dante Alighieri wrote 'The Divine Comedy' with its graphic description of medieval Hell known as 'Dante's Inferno. Latin Meaning: The name Dante is a Lati
What does Dante mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Dante is of Latin origin. The meaning of Dante is lasting, enduring. It is also of Italian origin, where its meaning is steadfast. View the Dante Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Dante has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Dante to other names. Dante is a diminutive (nickname) of Durante. Some famous bearers of this name include: Dante Alighieri, Dante Rossetti, Dante Hall.
[ 2 syll. dan-te, da-nte ] The baby boy name Dante is pronounced D AA NTey- †. Dante's origin is Latin, and its use, English, German, and Italian. The name means 'enduring, steadfast'. It is derived from the word durare meaning 'to endure, to withstand'. Durante (Latin) is an older form of Dante. The name is known from the Italian poet Dante Alighieri (1265-1321) who wrote The Divine Comedy, as well as the medieval text The New Life (1295) to express his lifelong love for Beatrice. Dante is known as the 'il Sommo Poeta' (the Supreme Poet) in Italian. 
It is of Spanish, Italian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Dante is lasting, enduring. Historical: Dante Alighieri, considered one of the great poets of all time, wrote The Divine Comedy, notable for the graphic description of the medieval version of Hell known as Dante's Inferno. Dante was actually his nickname; his full name was Durante. Dante (#314) is the most contemporarily stylish baby name here, with this name going through a resurgence in popularity. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Dante and associated names.