Because it's not the heat of the sun that burns the skin but the sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays. UV rays can damage the skin at all times of day, all year round, even in the middle of winter. And a baby's thinner, more delicate skin is especially vulnerable.
Try to keep your baby in the shade as much as you can, under trees, an umbrella, a canopy, or a sun tent (NICE 2011, Paller et al 2011) . If your baby isn't mobile yet, she’ll be happy to lie and kick in the shade. If your baby is crawling or walking, encourage her to sit and play in the shade if it's very hot.
While your baby’s tiny, it's best to keep her out of direct sunlight completely. Once she's six months or older, and wants to crawl and play outside, head for the shade and protect her delicate skin with a sun hat, loose-fitting clothes and sunscreen.
Sunburn can cause pain, fever, and dehydration. And just one sunburn during childhood raises the risk of melanoma (the most deadly type of skin cancer) as well as wrinkles later in life. Keep your baby completely out of the sun as much as possible before 6 months of age.
To treat mild sunburn: 1  Take your baby out of the sun. 2  Bathe your baby in cool (not cold) water. 3  Put aloe vera gel or a cool compress on the burn. 4  To make a cool compress, soak a cloth in cool water. 5  Then wring it out before gently pressing to your baby’s skin.
You may be surprised to learn that shade provides only partial protection against UV rays. Without sunscreen or other protection, even a baby in the shade can get sunburned. If you're longing to spend your day at a beach or park, an outdoor sun tent with built-in UV protection can keep your baby cool and protected.
Pick a sunscreen with a label that says: 1  It’s broad spectrum. 2  This means it blocks two kinds of UV rays, called UVA rays and UVB rays. 3  Most of the sun that we come in contact with comes from UVA rays. 4  These can damage your baby’s skin. 5  UVB rays can harm your baby’s skin and eyes and can weaken her immune system.
The worst time for your baby (and you, for that matter) to be outdoors is between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., when the sun does the most harm to skin, says Eric Siegel, M.D., a dermatologist in Millburn, New Jersey. Plan outdoor excursions for before or after this peak period.