Holders of driving licences from other countries. If you are not from any of the above countries, (for example The United States), and you hold a national driving licence or an international driving permit from your own country, you may drive in Ireland for the duration of your temporary visit (up to 12 months). If you exchanged an Irish driving licence in a recognised state for a driving licence issued by that state, you must submit that licence to the NDLS when applying for an Irish driving licence on your return.
(Redirected from Driving licence in Ireland). In Ireland, the driving licence is the official document which authorises its holder to operate various types of motor vehicle on roads to which the public have access. Since 29 October 2013 they are issued by the National Driver Licence Service (NDLS). 
Under a new European Union Directive, professional bus, coach and lorry drivers need to hold a Driver CPC in addition to a vocational driving licence. Any drivers of lorries over 3.5 tonnes and minibuses with 9 seats or more must usually obtain a Driver CPC. See exceptions below. To get the full Driver CPC qualification, drivers will need to pass all four parts. If they want to get a vocational licence, but will not be driving for a living, they will only need to take and pass part one and part three.
Driver CPC Its official-All professional truck and bus drivers in Ireland need one. Find out why CPC.IE is the best and most convenient place to do your CPC courses wherever you are in Ireland. Transport Manager CPC The Transport Manager CPC provides in depth traing for anyone wishing to upskill, start or manage a haulage business or Bus Passenger Business. It is an internatially recognised fomral qualification. Please click HERE for more details or HERE for the Transport Manager FAQ.
Drivers that pass a vocational driving test since 9 Sep 08 for PCV, and 9 Sep 09 for LGV are required to sit the Initial CPC to gain a Driver Qualification card which will also be valid for 5 years and will be required to attend 35 hours (5 days) of Periodic training to renew their card. Attendance at 35 hours (5 days) of accredited Periodic Driver CPC training is needed to acquire a card. The card is valid for 5 years and within that time a further 35 hours of attendance on CPC courses is required to renew the card.
Gain an internationally recognised qualification by completing a Transport CPC Manager's course. Find out how Ireland's most qualified trainer can help you upskill, change career or save your business a small fortune. Driver CPC Its official-All professional truck and bus drivers in Ireland need one. Find out why CPC.IE is the best and most convenient place to do your CPC courses wherever you are in Ireland. Instant Online Booking! Click HERE to book online, please phone 1890-374837 or email us on info@cpc.ie to book your CPC course... With 30 convenient locations nationwide and dozens of dates to choose from, CPC.IE is the most convenient and cost effective CPC provider
Driver CPC is a Certificate of Professional Competence issued to drivers who are entitled to hold one. It was first introduced across the EU in 2008 for professional bus drivers and 2009 for professional truck drivers. Driver CPC certification is not required for drivers of vehicles used: 1  For non-commercial purposes, eg driving as a volunteer; drivers of emergency or rescue vehicles eg Gardai, Defence forces, Ambulance and Irish Prison service.
The Driver Certificate of Professional Competence (Driver CPC) is a qualification for professional bus, coach and lorry drivers. To get the full Driver CPC qualification, drivers will need to pass all four parts. If they want to get a vocational licence, but will not be driving for a living, they will only need to take and pass part one and part three.
Our Current Driver CPC modules Module 1 Module 3 Module 5 Module 7 Module 9 O licence undertakings – the drivers’ role Safe and roadworthy vehicles Reducing road risk Safety in the transport environment Eco-driving and fuel efficiency UK roads are one of the most highly regulated work places. Attendance at 35 hours (5 days) of accredited Periodic Driver CPC training is needed to acquire a card. The card is valid for 5 years and within that time a further 35 hours of attendance on CPC courses is required to renew the card.