1 If strep throat is likely, a test called a rapid strep test (or quick strep) may be done before a throat culture. 2  With a rapid strep test, results are ready in 10 minutes instead of 1 to 2 days with a throat culture. 1 Find the cause of a sore throat. 2  Most sore throat infections are caused by a virus. 3  A throat culture shows the difference between a bacterial infection and a viral infection. 4  Finding the organism that is causing the infection can guide treatment.
A culture is a sample of tissue or fluid taken from the body that can be evaluated in the laboratory to detect and identify infections, as well as determine sensitivity to antibiotics. Cultures are obtained to assist the provider in determining the type of infection and in directing the antibiotic choice. Skin and Wound Culture. Skin and/or wound cultures are taken and used to detect and identify germs (such as a bacteria, fungus, or virus) that may be growing on or within the tissue and skin. These samples help find the cause of an infection in a sore, burn, or surgical wound.
A throat swab culture, or throat culture, is a test commonly used to diagnose bacterial infections in the throat. These infections can include strep throat, pneumonia, tonsillitis, whooping cough, and meningitis. For instance, the presence of group A streptococcus bacteria in your throat is a key sign that you may have strep throat. If you have a sore throat and your physician suspects that you may have strep throat or another bacterial infection, he or she may order a throat swab culture.
Normal (negative). No infection (bacteria or fungi) grows in the culture. A negative throat culture may mean that the cause of your infection is a virus, rather than bacteria or fungus. Some viruses that cause throat infections include: 1  Enterovirus. 2  Epstein-Barr virus. 
The purpose of a throat swab culture is to detect the presence of organisms in the throat that could cause infection. For instance, the presence of group A streptococcus bacteria in your throat is a key sign that you may have strep throat. If you have a sore throat and your physician suspects that you may have strep throat or another bacterial infection, he or she may order a throat swab culture.
A throat culture is a test to check for a bacterial or fungal infection in the throat. A sample swabbed from the throat is put in a special cup (culture) that allows infections to grow. If an infection grows, the culture is positive. The type of infection is found using a microscope, chemical tests, or both. 1 Find the cause of a sore throat. 2  Most sore throat infections are caused by a virus. 3  A throat culture shows the difference between a bacterial infection and a viral infection. 4  Finding the organism that is causing the infection can guide treatment.
A throat culture may be done to: 1  Find the cause of a sore throat. 2  Most sore throat infections are caused by a virus. 3  A throat culture shows the difference between a bacterial infection and a viral infection. 4  Finding the organism that is causing the infection can guide treatment. 1 Find the cause of a sore throat. 2  Most sore throat infections are caused by a virus. 3  A throat culture shows the difference between a bacterial infection and a viral infection. 4  Finding the organism that is causing the infection can guide treatment.
Throat cultures are done usually when you have sore throat. A throat culture test will determine whether the sore throat is the result of viral infection or bacterial infection. Identifying the type of organism is the biggest key to working out a treatment. A throat culture is also done to identify carriers. Reasons. 
A throat culture may be done to investigate the cause of a sore throat. Most sore throats are caused by viral infections. However, in some cases the cause of a sore throat may be unclear and a throat culture can be used to determine if the infection is bacterial. Identifying the responsible organism can guide treatment. A throat culture is a laboratory diagnostic test that evaluates for the presence of a bacterial or fungal infection in the throat.