Depending on physician orders, DuoDerm dressings can be used on stage 1, 2, 3 and 4 bed sores. The length of time a DuoDerm patch may be left on a wound is determined by the amount of moisture in the wound. Under normal conditions, DuoDerm can be left on the wound for 3-4 days. Because DuoDerm essentially creates a moisture barrier, they should not be used on people with infected bed sores. Under normal circumstances, wounds covered with DuoDerm are likely to develop a strong odor after several days. The odor is consider to be a normal part of of the product.
by Rosenfeld Injury Lawyers. DuoDerm is the brand name for a commonly used hydrocolloid dressing manufactured by ConvaTec that is used to treat bed sores (or similarly referred to as: pressure sores, pressure ulcers or decubitus ulcers). Because DuoDerm essentially creates a moisture barrier, they should not be used on people with infected bed sores. Under normal circumstances, wounds covered with DuoDerm are likely to develop a strong odor after several days. The odor is consider to be a normal part of of the product.
One of the advantages to using DuoDerm is that, unlike other dressings, it can be placed on wet wounds and wet surrounding skin and will remain in place due to the product’s ‘wet tact’. Because DuoDerm essentially creates a moisture barrier, they should not be used on people with infected bed sores. Under normal circumstances, wounds covered with DuoDerm are likely to develop a strong odor after several days. The odor is consider to be a normal part of of the product.
Duoderm is a hydrocolloid (it interacts with the wound exudates or drains to form a gel with water) dressing marketed by Convatec. This latex free dressing has a triple hydrocolloid matrix with a viral and bacteria barrier. Because duoderm is a hydrocolloid dressing, bacteria and other contaminants cannot permeate it. Duoderm has an autolyte debridement effect (the ability to clean up the wound). It is waterproof dressing so a patient can bathe or shower with it.
Advantages. There are many advantages to using duoderm dressing. Because duoderm is a hydrocolloid dressing, bacteria and other contaminants cannot permeate it. Duoderm has an autolyte debridement effect (the ability to clean up the wound). It is waterproof dressing so a patient can bathe or shower with it.
DuoDERM ® CGF ® Sterile Dressing. DuoDERM CGF dressing is a hydrocolloid, moisture-retentive wound dressing used for partial and full-thickness wounds with exudate. It incorporates a unique ConvaTec hydrocolloid formulation that distinguishes it from other hydrocolloid dressings. DuoDERM ® CGF ® dressing is indicated for use on dermal ulcers including full-thickness wounds, pressure ulcers (Stage II-IV), leg ulcers, superficial wounds, partial thickness burns and donor sites.
DuoDerm is a brand name for a form of dressing called a hydrocolloid dressing. Used on a variety of wounds and skin conditions, it contains a gel-forming agent in an adhesive compound combined with a flexible, water-resistant outer layer. Because DuoDerm is designed to be used on severe skin traumas, it is made to be easily removable. To remove a dressing, simply press down on the skin and carefully lift one edge of the dressing. Keep lifting gently until all the adhesive is free, then gently peel way going in the direction of the hair to minimize pain.
Duoderm is a skin dressing that promotes healing of wounds. Duoderm provides a moist environment to the wound, this characteristic under the dressing cause epithellalization (the re-growth of skin over a wound) but no maceration (to make soft). Because duoderm is a hydrocolloid dressing, bacteria and other contaminants cannot permeate it. Duoderm has an autolyte debridement effect (the ability to clean up the wound). It is waterproof dressing so a patient can bathe or shower with it.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A hydrocolloid dressing (trade names include Comfeel Plus, Duoderm, Granuflex, Ultec, and 3M Tegaderm Hydrocolloid) is an opaque dressing for wounds. A hydrocolloid dressing is biodegradeable, non-breathable, and adheres to the skin, so no separate taping is needed. 
Description. Duoderm Extra Thin, formerly Granuflex Extra Thin, is one of the the Granuflex range of hydroactive dressings. It consists of a semipermeable polyurethane film, which is impermeable to exudate and micro-organisms, coated with a thin layer of an adhesive similar to that used on Granuflex. 