Start at 2:00 ... 375 degrees. Place roast in oven and cook 1 hour. Turn ... 300 degrees. The temperatures given are for sea level cooking. For high ... way, the roast beef will be a ... and perfect every time. over medium-high heat. Cook roast until evenly ... per pound. Check temperature with instant-read thermometer; ... serving platter; reserve cooking liquid. Cover roast ... Note: A boneless beef rib eye roast ... and the green onion.
Internal Description. Beef-Lamb-Veal Roasts-Steaks-Chops. For roasts of lamb, beef, or veal: place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the steak will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly.
The proper beef roast cook times and the correct beef cooking oven temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various beef roasts can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef roasts. There are even a few beef roasts, especially some of the tougher roasts from the round or chuck, that are best when cooked with high heat at the start (to sear the outside of the meat and seal in the juices) and then cooked at a lower temperature to finish the roast.
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. 
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast. There are even a few beef roasts, especially some of the tougher roasts from the round or chuck, that are best when cooked with high heat at the start (to sear the outside of the meat and seal in the juices) and then cooked at a lower temperature to finish the roast.
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. When roasting beef it is important to select the proper cut of roast beef to produce moist and tender meat when the roast beef is cooked to the desired doneness. Using the proper beef cooking times and temperatures is critical to the end results.
Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. Continue roasting the meat until the internal temperature has reached 5 or 10 degrees below the desired doneness. When roasting beef it is important to select the proper cut of roast beef to produce moist and tender meat when the roast beef is cooked to the desired doneness. Using the proper beef cooking times and temperatures is critical to the end results.
However, when you are roasting shoulder, round or rump roasts, the doneness temperatures should be adjusted 5 degrees higher; for best results, cooking beyond 145 degrees is not recommended. For narrower-shaped cuts of beef, such as eye of round, roast at 170 degrees for 2 hours per pound. In general, roasts cooked using the slow-low method will follow the doneness temperature guidelines of 125 for rare, 130-135 for medium-rare and 140 for medium; that is particularly true of roasts from the rib or loin, especially the tenderloin.
To Bake, Oven Roast. Preheat oven to 325°F. Remove meat from wrapper. Place Cook's Corned Beef, with juices, fat side up, in baking pan or casserole dish. Add 3/4 inch of water and contents of Cook's spice packet for extra flavor if desired. Cover tightly with a lid or foil. Bake at 325°F for 2 1/2 to 3 hours or until fork tender and an internal temperature of at least 160°F is reached. Maintain a medium heat setting. Remove meat from wrapper. Wrap Cook's Corned Beef, with juices, fat side up, in foil, adding contents of Cook's spice packet for extra flavor if desired. Grill over INDIRECT heat for 2 1/2 to 3 hours