1 A churidar salwar is a type of Indian trouser worn by both men and women. 2  It has a distinctive design that sets it apart from other pants like salwars or pajamas. 3  It is usually fastened using an adjustable drawstring and is loose and baggy at the top before tapering down into a tight-fit at the bottom. 1 The churidar pajama is usually worn with a long kameez or kurta and a matching dupatta. 2  This outfit has its origins in the north of India, though nowadays churidars are haute fashion items worn all around the world by women of all ages.
Best Answer: Churidar Salwar Kameez is one of the most preferred variations of the usual Indian salwar kameez. Here a woman wears a ‘churidar’ in the place of a ’salwar’. The churidar is a slimmer adaptation of the ’salwar’ emphasizing the ankles and knees. This looks best on tall ladies, stressing their long legs.
Report Abuse. Churidar Salwar Kameez are tightly fitting trousers and are often referred to as Moghul Breeches. While stitching these are cut wide at the top and they narrow down as they reach ankle. This style is preferred more because it emphasis the contours of the leg. Here a woman wears a ‘churidar’ in the place of a ’salwar’. The churidar is a slimmer adaptation of the ’salwar’ emphasizing the ankles and knees. This looks best on tall ladies, stressing their long legs.
The word churidar is from Hindi and made its way into English only in the 20th century. Earlier, tight fitting churidar-like pants worn in India were referred to by the British as Moghul breeches, long-drawers, or mosquito drawers. Stretch is important when pants are closefitting. They are also longer than the leg and sometimes finish with a tightly fitting buttoned cuff at the ankle. The excess length falls into folds and appears like a set of bangles resting on the ankle (hence 'churidar'; 'churi': bangle, 'dar': like).
There are different churidar and salwar styles available. When comparing the popularity, the churidar is preferred to the salwar. Another difference that can be seen is in the pleats. Salwar has pleats on the upper portion whereas this is not normally the case with the Churidar. Summary. 1  Salwar is a traditional dress whereas churidar is its modern variant. 2  Churidar is more tightly fitted at the thighs, hips and ankles when compared to the salwar. The churidar looks like leggings. On the other hand, Salwar is considered to be a loose pajama-like dress. Another difference that can be seen between Salwar and Churidar is that the latter is longer. The ends have to be crinkled to fit in at the ankles. The creases that develop when the churidar is tucked in the ankles resemble bangles or churis and thus the name churid
Exquisitely Beautiful Churidar Salwar Suits. 1  A churidar salwar is a type of Indian trouser worn by both men and women. 2  It has a distinctive design that sets it apart from other pants like salwars or pajamas. 1 The churidar pajama is usually worn with a long kameez or kurta and a matching dupatta. 2  This outfit has its origins in the north of India, though nowadays churidars are haute fashion items worn all around the world by women of all ages.
The churidar is usually worn with a kameez (tunic) by women or a kurta (a loose overshirt) by men, or they can form part of a bodice and skirt ensemble. Ancient form of Shalwar Kameez worn during Gupta Empire. Stretch is important when pants are closefitting. They are also longer than the leg and sometimes finish with a tightly fitting buttoned cuff at the ankle. The excess length falls into folds and appears like a set of bangles resting on the ankle (hence 'churidar'; 'churi': bangle, 'dar': like).
Salwar vs Churidar. It is generally believed that salwar has paved the way for churidar in due course of time. In short it can be said that churidar is the result of desire. It gives a special appearance to the one who wears it. One of the big differences between a salwar and a churidar is the traditional touch. Salwar has more of traditional touch than churidar. In short it can be said that there is a big difference between them when it comes to their making. Salwar has become the modern salwar kameez today. Another aspect in which salwar and churidar differ is the length of the pants. The length of churdiar is more when compared to the length of salwar.