A collective noun is a word to group a plural noun for people or  things.    The word 'her' is a pronoun, a word that takes the  place on a noun for a female, one fem … ale. There is  no collective noun of one person. Yes, the noun 'bevy' is a collective noun, used for groups of people or things, most commonly for groups of birds on the ground.
Collective nouns denote a group of people, objects, ideas, or animals as a single concept. Though the collective noun refers to more than one in a group, the noun itself is considered a single thing. However, they can be used as either singular of plural. It all depends on the sentence. Tying to decide which form to use can get confusing because you have to use the correct verb and pronoun forms, too. Examples of Collective Nouns. The singular verb and pronoun form is used is if they are acting in unison. For example: The class listens [singular verb form] carefully to its [singular pronoun] teacher’s instructions. (Here the class is a unit acting together as one.
A collective noun is a noun that can be singular in form whilst referring to a group of people or things. Collective nouns are sometimes confused with mass nouns. Some collective nouns can stand alone, such as Britain has an army, but if the collective noun army is used to mean something other than an organized military force, you can say things like an army of women or an army of ants, and even an army of one.
A collective noun is a word to group a plural noun for people or  things.    The word 'her' is a pronoun, a word that takes the  place on a noun for a female, one fem … ale. There is  no collective noun of one person. 3 people found this useful. Notyouraveragedummy ... The noun 'collection' is a common noun that can be used as a collective noun. Example: common noun: We took up a collection for the hurricane victims fund.collective noun: A … collection of leaves had blocked the gutter. 2
| Login. Collective noun is the name we give to a group of nouns to refer to them as one entity. The most common method of doing this is by using words like group or bunch that can be applicable to most of the nouns in the language today. 
The noun 'band' is a standard collective noun for: The noun 'band' is a collective noun when used for a group of people or things. It is not a collective noun when used as a synonym for a 'strip', as in watch band or rubber band. 1  a band of coatimundi. 2  a band of coyotes. The noun 'collection' is a common noun that can be used as a collective noun. Example: common noun: We took up a collection for the hurricane victims fund.collective noun: A … collection of leaves had blocked the gutter. 2 people found this useful. Notyouraveragedummy ...
Most collective nouns in everyday speech are mundane and are not specific to one specific kind, such as the word group, which may apply to people in the phrase a group of people, but may also correctly refer to dogs in the phrase a group of dogs. Other collective nouns are specific to one kind, especially terms of venery, which are words for specific groups of animals.
A collective noun is a word used  to group people or things taken together as one whole in a  descriptive way. Collective nouns are an informal part of language.    examples: a crowd of people, a herd of goats, a  bouquet of flowers; a crew of workers. Yes, the noun 'bevy' is a collective noun, used for groups of people or things, most commonly for groups of birds on the ground.
The noun 'band' is a standard collective noun for:    a band of coatimundi  a band of coyotes  a band of gorillas  a band of jackdaws  a band of jays  a band of men …  a band of mongooses  a band of musicians  a band of pirates  a band of plovers  a band of robbers  a band of thieves  . Yes, the noun 'bevy' is a collective noun, used for groups of people or things, most commonly for groups of birds on the ground.
A collective noun is the word used to represent a group of people, animals, or things. Here are some examples of collective nouns: There are lots of collective nouns. Below are some examples of the most common ones. Words used to describe a specific group of things (usually animals) are called terms of venery. They are also collective nouns. Examples: USING THE WRONG COLLECTIVE NOUN: A USEFUL LITERARY TECHNIQUE. Some collective nouns are quite versatile. For example, you can say: The most versatile collective noun is group.