Pre-heat oven to 375 degrees first. Then in a large heavy, ovenproof skillet, heat olive oil over medium-high heat until almost smoking. Place the steaks in the hot pan and cook until well seared on 1 side, about 3 minutes. Turn the steaks over, there should be a nice crust on top. Transfer the pan to the oven. Roast for 10 to 12 minutes or until the steaks are cooked medium-rare. 
3. Immediately place steaks in the middle of the hot, dry pan. Cook 1 to 2 minutes without moving; turn steaks with tongs, and cook another 1 to 2 minutes. 4. Transfer the pan with the seared steaks to the hot oven. Roast in the center of the oven until the steaks are cooked to your liking, about 3 to 5 minutes. Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness: 1  Rare — 125 degrees F (52 degrees C).
1 Add the oil to the pan. 2  Once the pan is very hot, add the steaks to the pan and do not move them for 3 minutes. 3  Flip the steaks over and continue to cook them for three minutes. 4  Place the pan in the oven and let the steaks finish cooking for 4-6 minutes for a rare steak or 6-8 minutes for medium rare steaks. Step two is when you finish cooking the steak in your oven. Searing does three things for your filet mignon. It adds color, texture, and flavor to your steak. Once your steak has been seared, you pop it into the oven and let it finish cooking. While searing is a good way to cook a filet, the oven helps it cook more evenly
Sear untouched for at least 3 minutes, up to 6 minutes for a 2-inch thick steak. 4 Flip the steaks and cook for another 2-5 minutes, depending on how thick the steak is and how rare or well done you like your meat. You can use the finger test to test the doneness of your steak. 3 Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a cast iron pan on high heat for 1 minute. Swirl to coat the pan. Put the steaks in the hot pan and immediately turn the heat down to medium to medium high (depending on your stovetop, medium on a high BTU gas range is about medium high on most electric ranges).
Pan Searing. Pan searing is a stove top cooking method in which the steaks are seared, or cooked on very high heat, then allowed to rest so that the juices disperse through the meat. To pan sear a filet mignon, you'll need a good cut of filet mignon, about 2 tablespoons of olive oil, and a heavy cast iron skillet. Heat the cast iron skillet and olive oil over medium-high heat, then add the steaks. Cook for about 5 minutes each side, flipped the steaks over and moving them around a bit in the piping hot oil so they don't stick to the pan.
1 Preheat your oven to 375 degrees. 2  Season both sides of the steaks with salt and pepper. 3  Wrap one strip of bacon around each filet mignon securing it with a toothpick. 4  Place a steel pan that is not a non-stick pan over a medium high flame. Step two is when you finish cooking the steak in your oven. Searing does three things for your filet mignon. It adds color, texture, and flavor to your steak. Once your steak has been seared, you pop it into the oven and let it finish cooking. While searing is a good way to cook a filet, the oven helps it cook more evenly
You can pan fry your steak, you can grill it, and nothing smells as good as a steak on a grill, but to get the best flavor from your filet mignon without having to deal with the whole grill thing, cooking your filet mignon in an oven is the thing to do. Step two is when you finish cooking the steak in your oven. Searing does three things for your filet mignon. It adds color, texture, and flavor to your steak. Once your steak has been seared, you pop it into the oven and let it finish cooking. While searing is a good way to cook a filet, the oven helps it cook more evenly
In an oven safe pan (I love my 10 inch cast iron) over medium high heat melt 1 T of butter or use oil. When hot, sear both sides of the filets for 2-3 minutes. I start with “good side up” then sear, flip, sear and final flip before going to the oven. Transfer to your preheated oven. For medium-rare about 15 minutes to get an internal temp of about 145.
Cooking the Filet. 1  Philosophically, high heat = great meat. 2  Cook the filets at high temperature to get a great sear on the outside that is crunchy, tasty, and great looking. 3  Control the doneness (from rare to well done) with the length of time you leave the filets in the oven – Not the temperature. 1 Cook the filets at high temperature to get a great sear on the outside that is crunchy, tasty, and great looking. 2