Kohli and Jaworski (1990) defined market orientation as the organization-wide generation of market intelligence, dissemination of the intelligence across departments and organization-wide responsiveness to it. The two most prominent conceptualizations of market orientation are those given by Kohli and Jaworski (1990) and Narver and Slater (1990). While Kohli and Jaworski (1990) consider market orientation as the implementation of the marketing concept, Narver and Slater (1990) consider it to be an organisational culture.
4 Kohli and Jaworski (1990) 11 use the term “market orientation” to mean the implementation of the marketing concept, which is viewed retrospectively as an idealistic business philosophy short of practical value. The Internet technology is creating a dual trading arena where traditional market actors have changing roles and new actors are emerging. To cope with this increased market complexity, a distinction is made between a cultural and an instrumental definition of the Market Orientation (MO) concept.
Sales Orientation. A sales orientated company's focus is simple; make the product, and then sell it to the target market. This type of orientation involves the organisation making what they think the customer needs or likes without relevant research. However as we know sales usually aren't this simple.
1 The objective of this chapter is to introduce the concept of market orientation presented as an alternative to the traditional marketing concept. The Internet technology is creating a dual trading arena where traditional market actors have changing roles and new actors are emerging. To cope with this increased market complexity, a distinction is made between a cultural and an instrumental definition of the Market Orientation (MO) concept.
The Marketing Concept represents the major change in today s company orientation that provides the foundation to achieve competitive advantage. This philosophy is the foundation of consultative selling. The Marketing Concept has evolved into a fifth and more refined company orientation: The Societal Marketing Concept. 
Marketing Management. Marketing orientation is defined as the implementation or completion of a marketing concept that essentially caters to the customers. The term is otherwise known as marketing concept or consumer focus. With marketing orientation, a business revolves its strategic decisions around the wants and needs of the target market, including potential customers. Marketing orientation has three common alternatives which can be adopted by a company and these are sales orientation, product orientation, and production orientation. Product Orientation. As the term clearly implies, a business organization that makes use of product orientation primarily focuses on product quality.
Market orientation perspectives include the decision-making perspective (Shapiro, 1988), market intelligence perspective (Kohli and Jaworski, 1990), culturally based behavioural perspective (Narver and Slater, 1990), strategic perspective (Ruekert, 1992) and customer orientation perspective (Deshpande et al., 1993). The two most prominent conceptualizations of market orientation are those given by Kohli and Jaworski (1990) and Narver and Slater (1990). While Kohli and Jaworski (1990) consider market orientation as the implementation of the marketing concept, Narver and Slater (1990) consider it to be an organisational culture.
The traditional marketing concept is basically customer-oriented, while the extended market orientation concept is oriented towards customers, and also towards the other key market actors: competitors, distributors, influencers and other stakeholders, be they offline or online. The Internet technology is creating a dual trading arena where traditional market actors have changing roles and new actors are emerging. To cope with this increased market complexity, a distinction is made between a cultural and an instrumental definition of the Market Orientation (MO) concept.