If you’re an Apple Music member or iTunes Match subscriber, removing music from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch also removes it from your iCloud Music Library. If you delete music on one device, it also deletes from your other devices. Learn how to delete media from your iCloud Music Library. Learn how to delete or remove content from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. You can delete content that is saved on your device. A download icon next to purchased content (in all apps except the Music app) means that it is not saved to your device. Music. Movies, TV shows, and music videos. Podcasts.
In this video I show you how to easily delete songs from your iPhone, iPod, or iPad without connecting to iTunes. All you need to do is access your song list and swipe your finger from the left to the right on the song you want to delete and then press the RED DELETE button! This will remove the song from your iOS device. 
Once they are on your computer, you can either change the sync settings to not sync so much music back onto your iPhone, (backup first), or you can delete the songs directly on your iPhone. Sync with iTunes-iPhone. Playlists-iPhone. Remove a song from iPhone. Tap Songs, swipe the song, then tap Delete. The song is deleted from iPhone, but not from your iTunes library on your Mac or PC, or from iCloud. Take care, Nubz. Level 1 (0 points). Thanks Nubz. I've been busy but have worked time to remove songs everyday since I received your reply.
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. 1  In the Music app, find the name of the song, album, or playlist that you want to remove, and tap the More Options icon. 2  Tap Remove Download to remove the item for offline listening. 3  Tap Remove from My Music to delete the item completely, from your library on all of your devices. If you're not an iTunes Match subscriber or an Apple Music member, you don’t have access to iCloud Music Library, but you can delete content from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch or your Mac or PC. You can also hide content.
If you're an iTunes Match subscriber or an Apple Music member, you can delete media from your iCloud Music Library. When you delete an item from iCloud Music Library, it also deletes from any iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch that uses iCloud Music Library with the same Apple ID. If you're not an iTunes Match subscriber or an Apple Music member, you don’t have access to iCloud Music Library, but you can delete content from your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch or your Mac or PC. You can also hide content.
Easy way to quickly delete all music from iPhone and iPad without using iTunes. Especially helps when you have iTunes match and you had previously synced all the music to your device and realised that you don't listen to a lot of them and need more space :). This method can also be used delete other data that you see in the Usage screen. Hope this help
Feb 18, 2012 - 48 Comments. If you want to delete all music from an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, you can handle the entire music removal process directly on the iOS device itself, you don’t need to sync to iTunes or do anything fancy. If you launch the Music app after you’ve deleted all songs from the iPhone or iPad, you’ll discover a “No Content” message signifying the device is now completely empty of music.
You can now delete songs directly from the Music app on your iPad, iPhone, or iPod touch. The music removal action is achieved directly on the iOS device without having to re-sync to iTunes, allowing you to rapidly clear out music or songs you don’t want stored on the device. How to Delete a Song with a Swipe in iOS Music App. Using the song removal trick is very easy and intuitive, working the same on all iOS devices including the iPhone and iPad: 1  Launch the Music app and access the music library as usual. 2  Tap through to any song, album, or the general music library list