You can convert your traditional IRA to a Roth IRA by: 1  Rollover – You receive a distribution from a traditional IRA and contribute it to a Roth IRA within 60 days after the distribution (the distribution check is payable to you); 
Should you wish to convert your Roth IRA back to a Traditional IRA, the process is known as recharacterization. The deadline to recharacterize Roth IRA conversion contributions to a Traditional IRA is generally October 15 if you file your federal income tax return (or file for an extension) on time. Anyone can convert their eligible IRA assets to a Roth IRA regardless of income or marital status. Prior to 2010, only those account owners who had a modified adjusted gross income below $100,000 were eligible to convert. Despite its advantages, Roth may not be the preferred option for all investors.
1 Traditional IRA aggregation rule: If you have made nondeductible contributions to your traditional IRA in the past (hopefully, recorded on IRS Form 8606), you can't pick and choose which portion of the traditional IRA money you want to convert to a Roth. 
However, low-income periods can be a good time to convert to a Roth IRA. If you don't have any [other] taxable income, [consider] converting an amount lower than your standard deduction and exemptions, says Steven Elwell, vice president of financial planning firm Schroeder, Braxton & Vogt in Amherst, New York. Even if you're well into retirement, a conversion to a Roth IRA may make sense. Lockwood's firm has an 84-year-old client who is in the enviable position of not needing all his IRA money. Rather than passing on a traditional IRA, he is looking into converting it now as a gift to his children.
Roth IRA Conversion Taxes. When you convert from a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA you pay income tax on the contributions. The taxable amount that is converted is added to your income taxes and your regular income rate is applied to your total income. The IRS rules have changed and there is no longer an income cap in place. With the cap removed high income earners can now convert as long as they pay the appropriate tax on the conversion. There is no 10% early withdrawal penalty if the funds move from the Traditional IRA to the Roth IRA in a 60 day window.
You can generally recharacterize all or a portion of what you converted. If you want, assets that you recharacterize to a traditional IRA can be reconverted to a Roth IRA in the next tax year after the tax year you initially convert, or 30 days after the recharacterization, whichever is later. 
You would like to convert a $100,000 traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. But if you do this, part of the conversion will be taxed at the 25% rate. Your better choice may be to convert an amount that will leave you in the 15% bracket, and do additional conversions in later years. Current as of November 14, 2013. It can make sense to convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA even after retirement. Many people believe it doesn’t make sense to convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA late in life. In reality, many retirees have a longer life expectancy than you might expect.
1. You might save on taxes in the long run. When you convert some or all of the money in your traditional IRA to a Roth, you have to pay income tax on the amount that year. Even so, converting could be smart if you end up in a higher marginal tax bracket in later years or if tax rates rise overall. 