Haiku, with its traditional Japanese form: the first line has 5 syllables, the second has 7, and the third has 5, for a total of 17 syllables. Before you know it, you’re done with one and on to the next.
Definition of Haiku 1) An unrhymed Japanese poem recording the essence of a moment. Nature is combined with human nature. It usually consists of three lines of 5/7/5 (5 kana in the first line, 7 kana in the second line, and 5 kana in the third line) totaling seventeen kana.
That’s right, we’re talking about haiku. Haiku, with its traditional Japanese form: the first line has 5 syllables, the second has 7, and the third has 5, for a total of 17 syllables. Before you know it, you’re done with one and on to the next.
The Japanese most of the time make them about seasons of the  year.    A Haiku poem is a Japanese poetry form with the first line with 5  syllables and the second with 7 syllables and the third with 5  syllables. + 35 others found this useful.
A haiku uses just a few words to capture a moment and create a picture in the reader's mind. It is like a tiny window into a scene much larger than itself. Traditionally, haiku is written in three lines, with five syllables in the first line, seven syllables in the second line, and five syllables in the third line.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7. 1 2 3 4 5. Most often, haiku poems are about seasons or nature, though you can write your own haiku about anything you like. If you don’t want to write about nature, and would prefer to write haiku about candy or sports, that is perfectly okay. One more thing to keep in mind is that the last line of a haiku usually makes an observation. That is, the third line points out something about the subject you are writing about.
Steps for Writing a Haiku. 1  You should have a strong idea of what a haiku is and what it should look like. 2  Therefore, read haiku for at least one week before attempting to write a haiku of your own. 3  The most renowned haiku poets are Matsuo Basho, Yosa Buson, Fukuda Chiyo-ni, Kobayashi Issa, and Masaoka Shiki.