The liquorice plant is a herbaceous perennial legume native to southern Europe, India, and parts of Asia. It is not botanically related to anise, star anise, or fennel, which are sources of similar flavouring compounds. The word liquorice is derived (via the Old French licoresse) from the Greek γλυκύρριζα (glukurrhiza), meaning sweet root, from γλυκύς (glukus), sweet + ῥίζα (rhiza), root, the name provided by Dioscorides.
Licorice is more than just a sweet treat. Along with being a sweet treat, licorice might also be good for your health. Licorice comes from root of the low-growing Glycyrrhiza glabra plant, which grows in parts of Greece and Turkey. The plant has been used throughout history for a host of medicinal purposes. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. If you are referring to natural licorice and not the candy in US stores, it comes from the root of the plant Glycyrrhiza glabra. It also does not taste the same as the candy which is flavored by anise instead
Liquorice, or licorice, (/ˈlɪkᵊrɪʃ/ LIK-(ə-)rish or /ˈlɪkᵊrɪs/ LIK-(ə-)ris) is the root of Glycyrrhiza glabra from which a sweet flavour can be extracted. The word liquorice is derived (via the Old French licoresse) from the Greek γλυκύρριζα (glukurrhiza), meaning sweet root, from γλυκύς (glukus), sweet + ῥίζα (rhiza), root, the name provided by Dioscorides.
Much of the sweetness in liquorice comes from glycyrrhizin, which has a sweet taste, 30–50 times the sweetness of sugar. The sweetness is very different from sugar, being less instant, tart, and lasting longer. The isoflavene glabrene and the isoflavane glabridin, found in the roots of liquorice, are phytoestrogens. The word liquorice is derived (via the Old French licoresse) from the Greek γλυκύρριζα (glukurrhiza), meaning sweet root, from γλυκύς (glukus), sweet + ῥίζα (rhiza), root, the name provided by Dioscorides.
The sweetness in licorice comes from glycyrrhizin, a compound with pharmaceutical effects, that is more than 30x sweeter than sucrose. The licorice plant, an herbaceous perennial and legume, grows from three to seven feet and the taproot can reach a depth of four feet. The licorice plant is late blossoming, with purple and white flowers and maroon seed pods. The root is ready to harvest after three to five years
Licorice Extract from the licorice plant is used to flavor candy licorice only. The candy such as Red Vines Black Licorice Twists have carbohydrates in them because they are … made of Molasses, Wheat Flour, Corn Syrup, Caramel Coloring, Licorice Extract, Salt, and Anise. If you are referring to natural licorice and not the candy in US stores, it comes from the root of the plant Glycyrrhiza glabra. It also does not taste the same as the candy which is flavored by anise instead
Overview. Most people likely think of licorice as a sweet, chewy treat that is black or red. However, in candy, licorice flavoring -- which comes from the sweet root of the licorice plant, Glycyrrhiza glabra -- is only used in black licorice. Licorice powder is also used in tobacco products, teas and herbal supplements. 
Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis). 