Evergreen regions. Coniferous forests are made up mainly of cone-bearing or coniferous trees, such as spruces, hemlocks, pines and firs. The leaves of these trees are either small and needle-like or scale-like and most stay green all year around (evergreen). All are softwoods able to survive cold termperatures and acidic soil. Unusually for coniferous trees they are deciduous, that is they shed their leaves in winter. Coniferous trees such as cypresses, cedars and redwoods are found in warmer regions. Life on the forest floor. Even evergreen trees eventually shed their leaves and grow new ones.
A pine forest is an example of a temperate coniferous forest. Map of temperate coniferous forest ecoregions of the world. Temperate coniferous forest is a terrestrial biome found in temperate regions of the world with warm summers and cool winters and adequate rainfall to sustain a forest. Temperate evergreen forests are common in the coastal areas of regions that have mild winters and heavy rainfall, or inland in drier climates or mountain areas. Coniferous forests can be found in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Asia. Many species of tree inhabit these forests including cedar, cypress, Douglas fir, fir, juniper, kauri, pine, podocarpus, spruce, redwood and yew
Temperate Coniferous Forest. Temperate evergreen forests are found predominantly in areas with warm summers and cool winters, and vary enormously in their kinds of plant life. In some, needleleaf trees dominate, while others are home primarily to broadleaf evergreen trees or a mix of both tree types. 
One type of coniferous forest, the northern boreal forest, is found in 50° to 60°N latitudes. Another type, temperate coniferous forests, grows in lower latitudes of North America, Europe, and Asia, in the high elevations of mountains. Some of the more common conifers are spruces, pines, and firs. Precipitation in coniferous forests varies from 300 to 900 mm annually, with some temperate coniferous forests receiving up to 2,000 mm. The amount of precipitation depends on the forest location. In the northern boreal forests, the winters are long, cold and dry, while the short summers are moderately warm and moist
LOCATION: Taiga, also known as coniferous or boreal forest, is the largest terrestrial biome on earth. It extends in a broad band across North America, Europe, and Asia to the southern border of the arctic tundra. 
Coniferous forest. The coniferous forests of temperate regions undergo warm summers and cool winters, unlike their tropical counterparts. The species aren't exclusively conifers, there are usually a few broadleaf varieties too. 
Mammals of the northern forests. Mammals found in the coniferous region include moose, deer, reindeer or caribou, mice and squirrels. Predators include wolves, lynxes, bears, foxes and wolverines. Wolverines are small, fierce carnivores that belong to the weasel and stoat family.
A coniferous forest contains evergreen trees that bear cones. Elegant pines grow in this biome, along with spruce, fir, and tamarack. In much of the northern forest, the conifers mingle with deciduous trees, particularly aspen, birch, sugar maple, and basswood. Foundations of today's coniferous forest. Coniferous Forest Biome. Wind whispers in the fragrant needles, and the heavy branches create a cathedral effect. This is the coniferous forest, the north country loved by many Minnesotans. It is a place where the vast deciduous forest of the North American continent gives way to needled trees.