1 Heat oven to 400째 F. Pierce each sweet potato several times with the tines of a fork. 2  Place the sweet potatoes on a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil. 3  Bake until tender, about 45 minutes. 4  Make a slit in the top of each sweet potato. Directions. 1  Heat oven to 400째 F. Pierce each sweet potato several times with the tines of a fork. 2  Place the sweet potatoes on a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil. 3  Bake until tender, about 45 minutes. 4  Make a slit in the top of each sweet potato. 5  Top with 1 tablespoon of butter and season with the salt and pepper
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Brush scrubbed sweet potatoes with oil to coat well. Season sweet potatoes generously, using 1 to 2 tablespoons of the seasoning mix depending on size of sweet potato. Set sweet potatoes on cookie sheet and bake in preheated oven until soft in the center, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. 
1 If you prefer crispy skinned sweet potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then unwrap your sweep potato and transfer it to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400 째F (204 째C) for 20 minutes. 
The Japanese Sweet, which may also be referred to as a Japanese yam, an Oriental, Kotobuki, Satsuma Imo, or Satsumaimo, is a variety of potato that is common in Japan and is now grown in the U.S. as well as many other regions of the world. 
Answers. Best Answer: just like any sweet potato, put 1 in the microwave try 1 minute at a time until you see how long it took usually 5 min for med-big let set in mic for a minute before testing...2) put in 350 oven wrapped in foil or crusted with salt same as baked potoes. Source(s): 30 yrs working chef. Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: just like any sweet potato, put 1 in the microwave try 1 minute at a time until you see how long it took usually 5 min for med-big let set in mic for a minute before testing...2) put in 350 oven wrapped in foil or crusted with salt same as baked potoes.
1 Bake until very soft when squeezed, 45 minutes to 1 hour. 2  While potatoes bake, stir together butter, miso, and scallion until combined. 3  Slit hot potatoes lengthwise and, using oven mitts, push in sides to puff up potato. 4  Serve with some scallion butter in center of each and with additional scallion butter on the side. 1 Prick potatoes all over with a fork and put on a foil-lined large baking sheet. 2  Bake until very soft when squeezed, 45 minutes to 1 hour. 3  While potatoes bake, stir together butter, miso, and scallion until combined. 4  Slit hot potatoes lengthwise and, using oven mitts, push in sides to puff up potato
Bring to boiling. Add sweet potatoes. Cover the pan and cook sweet potatoes for 10 to 12 minutes or until just tender on the outside but resistant in the center when pierced with a knife. For soft, tender sweet potatoes, cook for 25 to 30 minutes. 