Peat Moss Uses. Gardeners use peat moss mainly as a soil amendment or ingredient in potting soil. It has an acid pH, so it’s ideal for acid loving plants, such as blueberries and camellias. For plants that like a more alkaline soil, compost may be a better choice. It also holds onto nutrients so that they aren’t rinsed out of the soil when you water the plant. Peat moss alone does not make a good potting medium. It must be mixed with other ingredients to make up between one-third to two-thirds of the total volume of the mix.
Peat and peat moss are both natural, organic materials that improve soil and protect plants without harsh and toxic chemicals. However, peat and peat moss are not suitable substitutes for fertilizers and you should always use the appropriate type of and proper amount of fertilizer for your particular plant.
Peat moss first became available to gardeners in the mid-1900s and since then it has revolutionized the way we grow plants. It has a remarkable ability to manage water efficiently and hold on to nutrients that would otherwise leach out of the soil. It also holds onto nutrients so that they aren’t rinsed out of the soil when you water the plant. Peat moss alone does not make a good potting medium. It must be mixed with other ingredients to make up between one-third to two-thirds of the total volume of the mix.
Peat is a brown material with a soil-like composition that is generally found growing in acidic and boggy soils. Peat consists of decaying vegetable matter and -- when added to soil -- enriches the area for better plant life. However, peat and peat moss are not suitable substitutes for fertilizers and you should always use the appropriate type of and proper amount of fertilizer for your particular plant.
Peat moss is used as a soil conditioner that, when mixed into soil in a garden or a container, will improve the soil's structure. Peat moss lightens heavy soils, adds weight and structure to lighter, sandier soils, helps it to retain moisture longer and improves the soil's ability to support root growth and expansion. Differentiation. Peat moss is a base ingredient of potting soils and soilless potting mixes and is usually not a standalone product for plant growth. Potting soils have peat moss as a main ingredient and are ready to use right out of the bag.
Sphagnum moss can be an essential tool when planting succulents. It is commonly called peat moss, but that isn’t what you want. Peat moss or sphagnum peat are dead, decayed moss. You may have seen bags of peat moss meant to be used as a soil conditioner. The stuff we are interested in for our succulent plants is long fibered sphagnum moss.
Peat moss is a soil amendment made from partially decomposed sphagnum moss. It is absorbent like a sponge, and although it does not contain nutrients, it holds nutrients present in the soil until plants need them. Improve Compost. Use peat moss to improve your compost. By mixing an 1 inch of peat moss into every 4 inches of compost, you help the compost form into a nutrient-dense, crumbly, easy-to-spread fertilizer. Use this fertilizer for your lawn, garden, houseplants, and any other type of plant you grow.
Condition Garden Soil. Add peat moss to the soil of a garden to condition the soil before planting. Peat moss is ideal for improving the texture of the soil, and when added to garden soil it will stop nutrient runoff from occurring by holding water and nutrients in. Dig 1 inch of peat moss into 6 inches of soil by hand, being careful not to damage plant roots. Improve Compost. Use peat moss to improve your compost. By mixing an 1 inch of peat moss into every 4 inches of compost, you help the compost form into a nutrient-dense, crumbly, easy-to-spread fertilizer. Use this fertilizer for your lawn, garden, houseplants, and any other type of plant you grow.
Peat moss is mined, which involves scraping off the top layer of living sphagnum moss. The sphagnum peat bog above the mined product is a habitat for plants like sundews, butterwort and bog rosemary, as well as rare and endangered animals like dragonflies, frogs and birds, not to mention the living moss itself. 