The mantle is a layer of the Earth between the crust and the core. The upper mantle starts below the crust and goes down to a depth of around 200 miles to the boundary with the lower mantle. The temperature of the mantle ranges from 900 degrees Fahrenheit near the crust to as high as 7000 degrees near the core. The center of the earth is the core and it is solid, kind of like the pit in a peach. The outer layer of the Earth is called the crust and is thin, like the skin of the peach. In between the two, in the meat of the peach, is the mantle, which can further be divided into the upper and
3. mantle-the layer of the earth between the crust and the core. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. geosphere, lithosphere-the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle. lower mantle-the deeper part of the mantle. (2900 km) thick, between the crust and the core. 4. an outgrowth of the body wall in mollusks and brachiopods that lines the inner surface of the shell valves and secretes a shell-forming substance. 5. an incombustible hood that becomes incandescent and gives off a brilliant light when placed around a flame.
The interior of Earth, similar to the other terrestrial planets, is chemically divided into layers. The mantle is a layer between the crust and the outer core. Earth's mantle is a silicate rocky shell with an average thickness of 2,886 kilometres (1,793 mi). The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The mantle encloses the hot core rich in iron and nickel, which makes up about 15% of Earth's volume.
The mantle lies between the core below and the crust above. The terrestrial planets (Earth, Venus, Mars and Mercury), Earth's Moon, two of Jupiter 's moons (Io and Europa) and the asteroid Vesta each have a mantle made of silicate rock. The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The mantle encloses the hot core rich in iron and nickel, which makes up about 15
Mantle of the Earth. the shell of the “solid” earth, located between the earth’s crust and its core. It occupies 83 percent of the earth (excluding the atmosphere) by volume and 67 percent by mass. At the base of the mantle is a layer less than 100 km thick in which the velocities of seismic waves do not increase with depth or even decrease slightly.
Definition. Mantle: is the part of the earth between the core and the the crust is the MANTLE. It is about 1,800 miles(2,900 km) thick and makes up nearly 80 percent of the Earth's total volume.The mantle is made up of magma and rock. Hawaiian Translation: ‘Ahu Honua.
The thickness of the upper mantle is between 200 and 250 miles. The entire mantle is about 1800 miles thick, which means the lower mantle makes up the bulk of this part of the Earth. The temperature of the mantle near the crust ranges from 900 to 1600 degrees Fahrenheit. It gets hotter at greater depths. The center of the earth is the core and it is solid, kind of like the pit in a peach. The outer layer of the Earth is called the crust and is thin, like the skin of the peach. In between the two, in the meat of the peach, is the mantle, which can further be divided into the upper and lower mantle.
There is no question that the earth’s crust originated from the mantle; the process of differentiation of the mantle is still continuing today. There is a hypothesis that the core of the earth is also growing at the expense of the mantle. At the base of the mantle is a layer less than 100 km thick in which the velocities of seismic waves do not increase with depth or even decrease slightly.
She accepted/assumed the mantle of leadership. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 4. technical: the middle layer of the Earth that is between the top crust and the inner core. mantle /ˈmaentl̟/ ˈmæntl̟. verb; mantles; mantled. mantling. /mantle/. ˈmaentl̟. ˈmæntl̟; verb; mantles. Mantled'mantling learner s DEFINITION. of mantle [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 4. technical: the middle layer of the Earth that is between the top crust and the inner core. mantle /ˈmaentl̟/ ˈmæntl̟. verb; mantles; mantled. mantling. /mantle/. ˈmaentl̟. ˈmæntl̟; verb; mantles. mantled mantling
Noun. 1. lower mantle-the deeper part of the mantle. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. mantle-the layer of the earth between the crust and the core. 1  Facebook