They're also sometimes called petit mal seizures. Absence seizures are most common in children and typically don't cause any long-term problems. Absence seizures usually occur when a child is 4 to 12 years old. Your child may have 10, 50, or even 100 absence seizures in a given day. Sometimes absence seizures can happen so subtly and so quickly that you never even notice them. 
Children with juvenile absence epilepsy begin having absence seizures near or after puberty, usually between the ages of 10 and 17, with a peak age of onset at around 12 years old. They usually have normal intelligence. They have no abnormalities on their neurological exam that might suggest a focal brain problem. These often begin near puberty, but can begin earlier or later. Myoclonic seizures are usually not seen, although some children may have twitching or jerking movements with their absence seizures. About 10% to 15% of children with childhood absence epilepsy will have one or more episodes of absence status epilepticus.
The seizures from childhood absence epilepsy usually stop two to five years after they begin. Usually, once the child has been free of seizures for two to three years, her anti-epileptic medications can be gradually discontinued. The beginning and end of the staring spell are not as clear-cut as in typical absence seizures, and the child is often confused after the seizure. The seizure usually lasts five to 10 seconds and may include mild eyelid twitching, tonic or autonomic symptoms, or automatisms; the child may fall down.
Childhood absence epilepsy usually begins when the child is between four and eight years old, with a peak age of onset at five or six years. It is unusual for childhood absence epilepsy to begin after age 11. These often begin near puberty, but can begin earlier or later. Myoclonic seizures are usually not seen, although some children may have twitching or jerking movements with their absence seizures. About 10% to 15% of children with childhood absence epilepsy will have one or more episodes of absence status epilepticus.
Like other kinds of seizures, they are caused by abnormal activity in a person’s brain. You may also hear people call absence seizures petit mal (“PUH-tee mahl”) seizures, although that name is not common anymore. There are two types of absence seizures: 1  Simple absence seizures: During a simple absence seizure, a person usually just stares into space for less than 10 seconds. 2  Complex absence seizures: During a complex absence seizure, a person will make some kind of movement in addition to staring into space. 
More common in children than in adults, absence seizures almost always start between ages 4 and 12 years, and rarely do they begin after age 20. Absence seizures are characterized by a brief impairment of consciousness, which usually lasts no more than a few seconds. 
Diagnosis and Treatment. Typically, this type of seizure lasts between 10 and 30 seconds. The person, most often a child aged 5 to 15, abruptly stops whatever he's doing (talking, walking) and appears to stare into space.. Absence seizures rarely cause a true convulsion in which the person falls down or collapses
In most studies, about 20% of children with absence seizures begin having them after age 10. The syndrome may be more common than we realize, because children and their families do not always realize that a child is having absence seizures, especially if he is not having very many per day. These often begin near puberty, but can begin earlier or later. Myoclonic seizures are usually not seen, although some children may have twitching or jerking movements with their absence seizures. About 10% to 15% of children with childhood absence epilepsy will have one or more episodes of absence status epilepticus.