Nine weeks post-surgery, my ankle is in pretty good shape. I have minimal swelling, use a fancy ankle brace, and exercise the soreness right out of me with resistance bands. Learn from my experience things that doctors don't get around to telling you. 
Simply put, surgically repaired broken ankles take months to recover. You can get back to a mostly normal life at 3 or 4 months post-surgery, but you will still require more time and patience before that ankle feels “good” again. The severity of the fracture will directly impact recovery time. In general, a bone will require at least 6 weeks to heal. Five ligaments and a tendon help hold your ankle together, as well, and these can all be damaged during a fracture.
Lisa Vickers MD, an orthopedic surgeon at the TriHealth Orthopedic and Spine Institute, answers a Local 12 viewer question about how long it takes to recover from Open Reduction Internal Fixation (ORIF) surgery. 
If your doctor didn’t already tell you how long your ankle needs to heal, note that you should expect to cater to your ankle’s needs for the next year or so. However, you can expect to see the following from your broken ankle recovery time: If the ankle was a simple break, you should expect to be healed in a minimum of three months. However, if you smoke, it’s important to note that healing will generally take longer. If there were complications in your broken ankle (for example, other bones were dislocated or there were several breaks), you’re looking at a healing time of six months to a year.
Broken Ankle Recovery Time. When someone breaks an ankle the broken ankle recovery time can vary. This all depends on the severity of the injury and what caused it. For an average type of broken ankle, it can take up to six weeks to fully heal. But in more severe cases it can take months and surgery may also have to be done to correct the problem. It is important to keep the ankle elevated and to rest the ankle for a period of time. This is the best case scenario when a person suffers with a broken ankle. The broken ankle recovery time for this type of injury is around six weeks. The doctor can place the ankle in a split or cast and the healing can begin.
I have been in a cast for nearly six weeks after having ORIF and have been cut on both sides of my ankle and have had plates and a lot of screws fixed in. Also suffered dislocation as well which I had to have a plate in also. I am due to go back next week to have cast removed. Broken Ankle. I am so pleased to read your story. After having read so many disheartening ones full of doom and gloom I was about to stop reading anymore. I broke my ankle 8 weeks ago, was in a cast for only 2 weeks and then non weight bearing for a further 4 weeks. I have a plate and 9 pins. Last week I started seeing the physio and also started walking around with both feet on the ground! Sometimes in the house I only use 1 crutch
Recovering. It takes about six to 12 weeks for a broken ankle to heal, but it may take longer to regain full movement and return to all of your normal activities. Swelling can sometimes take a few years to improve. Ask friends or family to go shopping for you, as you won't be able to do this yourself. Most people will stay in hospital for one or two days after surgery. A plaster cast will be placed over the ankle to protect it before you go home. It takes about six to 12 weeks for a broken ankle to heal, but it may take longer to regain full movement and return to all of your normal activities.
My ankle fracture recovery sucess story. I am 4-1/2 months into recovery from dislocation and trameleor fracture of my ankle (broke in three places plus some bone fragments that couldn't be pinned back in), and have a plate and 10 pins holding it all together. Broken Ankle. I am so pleased to read your story. After having read so many disheartening ones full of doom and gloom I was about to stop reading anymore. I broke my ankle 8 weeks ago, was in a cast for only 2 weeks and then non weight bearing for a further 4 weeks. I have a plate and 9 pins. Last week I started seeing the physio and also started walking around with both feet on the ground! Sometimes in the house I only use 1 crutch