The Chinese Exclusion Act was the first law implemented to prevent a specific ethnic group from immigrating to the United States. It was finally repealed by the Magnuson Act on December 17, 1943. One of the critics of the Chinese Exclusion Act was the anti-slavery/anti-imperialist Republican Senator George Frisbie Hoar of Massachusetts who described the Act as nothing less than the legalization of racial discrimination..
Impact. The Chinese Exclusion Act had a ripple effect on the United States' legal history. It was followed by the Geary Act of 1892 which extended the provisions of the Exclusion Act for another ten years. In 1902 the ban against the immigration of Chinese laborers was made permanen
It was also the first law to impose restrictions on the basis of skill, a legacy that persists in current policy. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 prohibited immigration of all Chinese laborers, either skilled or unskilled, providing specific exemptions for merchants, teachers, students and officials. Figure 2 presents the pattern of Chinese immigration from 1882 to 1930 6. Chinese immigration dropped off dramatically after the passage of the first exclusion act in 1882 and again after the 1884 amendment, the Geary Act of 1892, the Ju Toy Supreme Court decision in 1905, and the Immigration Act of 1924.
The Chinese Exclusion Act, signed into law on May 6, 1882, by President Chester A. Arthur, effectively halted Chinese immigration for ten years and prohibited Chinese from becoming US citizens. 1 PBS Online. 2  New Perspectives on the West: Text of the Chinese Exclusion Act. 3  University of California Berkley, California Historical Society, Bancroft Library, and the Ethnic Studies Library. 4  The Chinese in California, 1850–1925.
The Chinese Exclusion Act was the first major law restricting immigration to the United States. It was enacted in response to economic fears, especially on the West Coast, where native-born Americans attributed unemployment and declining wages to Chinese workers whom they also viewed as racially inferior. 1 PBS Online. 2  New Perspectives on the West: Text of the Chinese Exclusion Act. 3  University of California Berkley, California Historical Society, Bancroft Library, and the Ethnic Studies Library. 4  The Chinese in California, 1850–1925.
The Chinese Exclusion Act foreshadowed the immigration-restriction acts of the 1920s, culminating in the National Origins Act of 1929, which capped overall immigration to the United States at 150,000 per year and barred Asian immigration. 1 PBS Online. 2  New Perspectives on the West: Text of the Chinese Exclusion Act. 3  University of California Berkley, California Historical Society, Bancroft Library, and the Ethnic Studies Library. 4  The Chinese in California, 1850–1925.
The Exclusion Act caused much distress, not only for the Chinese but also for the Caucasians, because the entire American economy was harmed. The Major Impacts of the Exclusion Act The Chinese Exclusion Act was a bold yet cowardly law. The aim of this paper is to demonstrate the Exclusion Act’s impact on the Chinese people as well as on indigenous Americans. First, the background concerning the Act will be examined and how it came into existence.
Also, the Chinese Exclusion Act negatively impacted the entire society of America, not just the Chinamen; the economic health of the nation dwindled; wage labor quickly became the most common form of employment, as opposed to the slavery, indentured servitude, and apprenticeship that took place in years prior. The aim of this paper is to demonstrate the Exclusion Act’s impact on the Chinese people as well as on indigenous Americans. First, the background concerning the Act will be examined and how it came into existence.
Abstract The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 made a profound impact on American society, affecting the targeted Chinese people as well as Caucasians. Because much of what happens in the past influences the present and future, it is vital to understand the motives for the Act and how it affects others. The aim of this paper is to demonstrate the Exclusion Act’s impact on the Chinese people as well as on indigenous Americans. First, the background concerning the Act will be examined and how it came into existence.
The Chinese Exclusion Act was a United States federal law signed by President Chester A. Arthur on May 6, 1882. It was one of the most significant restrictions on free immigration in US history, prohibiting all immigration of Chinese laborers. The act followed revisions made in 1880 to the US-China Burlingame Treaty of 1868, revisions that allowed the US to suspend Chinese immigration. One of the critics of the Chinese Exclusion Act was the anti-slavery/anti-imperialist Republican Senator George Frisbie Hoar of Massachusetts who described the Act as nothing less than the legalization of racial discrimination..