This expression did not originate with television. It has a much longer history, dating possibly to the 17th century. From Wikipedia : The phrase speaks with a forked tongue means to say one thing and mean another or, to be hypocritical, or act in a duplicitous manner. Speaking with forked tongue doesn't usually mean schizophrenic or even just wildly inconsistent about everything. – Andrew Leach♦ Oct 31 '14 at 8:15. I will edit and include the quote in its entirety because without it, your answer is open to misinterpretation.
speak with (a) forked tongue. to make false promises or to speak in a way which is not honest The minister is speaking with a forked tongue, promising support he will never deliver. See also: forked, speak, tongue, with. 1  Facebook
Reptiles smell using the tip of their tongue, and a forked tongue allows them to sense from which direction a smell is coming. Sensing from both sides of the head and following trails based on chemical cues is called tropotaxis. This form of chemical sampling allows these animals to sense non-volatile chemicals, which cannot be detected by simply using the olfactory system. This increased ability to sense chemicals has allowed for heightened abilities to identify prey, recognize kin, choose mates, locate shelters, follow trails, and more.
A forked tongue is a tongue split into two distinct tines at the tip; this is a feature common to many species of reptiles. This form of chemical sampling allows these animals to sense non-volatile chemicals, which cannot be detected by simply using the olfactory system. This increased ability to sense chemicals has allowed for heightened abilities to identify prey, recognize kin, choose mates, locate shelters, follow trails, and more.
5 Answers 5. active oldest votes. up vote 9 down vote accepted. The phrase speaks with a forked tongue means to say one thing and mean another or, to be hypocritical, or act in a duplicitous manner. Speaking with forked tongue doesn't usually mean schizophrenic or even just wildly inconsistent about everything. – Andrew Leach♦ Oct 31 '14 at 8:15. I will edit and include the quote in its entirety because without it, your answer is open to misinterpretation.
There are appearances of the phrase forked tongue in English literature, either in reference to actual snakes' tongues, or as a metaphor for untruthfulness, such as a sermon by Lancelot Andrewes, who died in 1626: And he hath the art of cleaving. This form of chemical sampling allows these animals to sense non-volatile chemicals, which cannot be detected by simply using the olfactory system. This increased ability to sense chemicals has allowed for heightened abilities to identify prey, recognize kin, choose mates, locate shelters, follow trails, and more.
Definition of FORKED TONGUE. : intent to mislead or deceive —usually used in the phrase to speak with forked tongue. 
Forked tongues have evolved in these Squamate reptiles (lizards and snakes) for various purposes. The advantage to having a forked tongue is that more surface area is available for the chemicals to contact and the potential for tropotaxis. This form of chemical sampling allows these animals to sense non-volatile chemicals, which cannot be detected by simply using the olfactory system. This increased ability to sense chemicals has allowed for heightened abilities to identify prey, recognize kin, choose mates, locate shelters, follow trails, and more.
Forked tongue. A forked tongue is a tongue split into two distinct tines at the tip; this is a feature common to many species of reptiles. Reptiles smell using the tip of their tongue, and a forked tongue allows them to sense from which direction a smell is coming