Average Engineer Salaries. The average salary for engineer jobs is $66,000. Average engineer salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term engineer anywhere in the job listing. 
The annual salary for someone with the job title Engineer I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. May require a bachelor's degree in engineering and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job.
Job Description for Systems Engineer, IT. Read More... A systems engineer (IT) is in charge of creating computer systems for clients and a system to debug systems with glitches or problems. Systems engineers (IT) also are in charge of creating the most efficient program for each client; in some cases, they will work on robotic machinery and computer chips. 
Salary Outlook. According to the BLS, mechanical engineers earned a median salary of $82,100 in 2013. The best-paid earned about $123,340, while the lowest-paid earned less than $52,550. Industries that pay well include oil and gas extraction as well as information services. With an average salary of $85,930 in 2013, mechanical engineers are filling their coffers at a higher rate than a number of other technology jobs. Computer programmers, by comparison, make $80,930. The gap is wider for computer support specialists, who earn an average annual salary of $64,160. Still, some technology jobs, like information security analysts ($91,210) and IT managers ($132,570), earn more than mechanical engineer
In the 2012 Engineering Income and Salary Survey, conducted by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), we look at the state of salaries and the job market in the field of engineering. Over 12,000 engineers from the U.S. responded to the online salary survey between April 1, 2011 and March 31, 2012, providing insights into salaries and job market.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Engineer I in the United States is $61,948, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Engineer I in the United States are expected to make less than $61,948. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. May require a bachelor's degree in engineering and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job.
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Engineering category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Engineering jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. If you are unsure how much your Engineering job pays you can choose to either browse all Engineering salaries below or you can search all Engineering salaries. Other related categories you may wish to browse are IT -- All jobs and Construction and Installation jobs. jobs in. industry.
A Mechanical Engineer earns an average salary of $66,437 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. 
Related job categories: IT -- All, Construction and Installation. Browse Engineering jobs by salary range: , $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or. Search by: Keyword Category. Search. Jobs by Salary Ranges: Click a salary category to find jobs in your target salary range. If you are unsure how much your Engineering job pays you can choose to either browse all Engineering salaries below or you can search all Engineering salaries. Other related categories you may wish to browse are IT -- All jobs and Construction and Installation jobs. jobs in. industry.