Nuclear energy has no place in a safe, clean, sustainable future. Nuclear energy is both expensive and dangerous. And just because nuclear pollution is invisible doesn’t mean it’s clean. Renewable energy is better for the environment, the economy, and doesn’t come with the risk of a nuclear meltdown. Greenpeace got its start protesting nuclear weapons testing back in 1971. We’ve been fighting against nuclear weapons and nuclear power ever since. High profile disasters in Chernobyl, Ukraine in 1986 and Fukushima, Japan in 2011 have raised public awareness of the dangers of nuclear power.
Nuclear power is neither good nor bad. The way nuclear power is  produced (Safety) can be good or bad, though. Nuclear power can be  generated by small power plants, creates … no air pollution, and is  safe when done right. On one side, it's believed that nuclear energy is bad because of the potentially massive fallout associated with nuclear accidents.
Nuclear Energy. Nuclear energy is a rare form of energy. It is the energy stored in the center or the nucleus of an atom. After we bombard the nucleus into two parts, two different elements are formed along with the emission of high energy. The process generally followed is called fission. 
Nuclear Energy’s True Costs. Nuclear energy isn’t just bad for the environment, it’s bad for our economy. Nuclear power plants are expensive to build, prompting Wall Street to call new nuclear a “bet the farm” risk. Every nuclear plant under construction in the U.S. is well behind schedule and at least $1 billion over budget. Greenpeace got its start protesting nuclear weapons testing back in 1971. We’ve been fighting against nuclear weapons and nuclear power ever since. High profile disasters in Chernobyl, Ukraine in 1986 and Fukushima, Japan in 2011 have raised public awareness of the dangers of nuclear power.
Nuclear power could cause a meltdown any day at any time which could cause many casualties and the radiation of the meltdown could also cause thyroid cancer in far places. Also the underground pipes have been leaking radioactive waste for many years and is contaminating the ground water at different sites. Report Post. The only harmful thing about nuclear energy is that the process of getting uranium pollutes the earth!!!! Uranium energy can be dangerous if the people working at the power plant aren't taught well enough to handle it.
Nuclear power is used by many nations to produce electricity. Nuclear power plants are put up for mechanical power of sea vessels. Nuclear power is useful to the needs of the people and the nations to operate but then there are also bad effects of nuclear power. Nuclear power is hazardous to the environment. The use of substances in nuclear plants such as uranium can be dangerous because of its radioactive characteristics. Once these substances flow into the water, there is a great danger of water poisoning which may damage the seawater creatures and marine species. It’s difficult to store nuclear power
Nuclear energy--- as in, nuclear power plants--- have quite a few bad effects. 1) Carbon Dioxide. Building and running nuclear power plants omits a lot of Carbon Dioxide int … o the air. (Too much Carbon Dioxide could lead to global warming) 2) Low-level Radiation. On one side, it's believed that nuclear energy is bad because of the potentially massive fallout associated with nuclear accidents.
Nuclear power generation and its usage are not found to be creating any problems regarding the global warming. Nuclear power is generated from the Uranium and Plutonium fission. The Uranium in nature consists of two isotopes as U-235 and U-238. U-235 is used for nuclear power generation and is unstable atom decay to give away some energized particles. The emitted particles are known to have drastic impact on the human body. Nuclear energy power generation will not stop our relying on oil supply from the Middle ‚East. There is an argument by the nuclear energy generating scientists that this energy will decrease our oil usage.
On the other hand, nuclear energy is very clean and produces a lot more energy when compared to a fossil fuel plant of the same size. The risks of an accident are small and get smaller as technology is allowed to advance. It's also argued that nuclear energy can allow the U.S. to reduce its dependence on foreign oil. On one side, it's believed that nuclear energy is bad because of the potentially massive fallout associated with nuclear accidents.
The nuclear energy industry is making the government officials to concentrate on the investment on the nuclear energy generation. The scientists say that nuclear energy will save us from economic and environmental problems. Nuclear energy power generation will not stop our relying on oil supply from the Middle ‚East. There is an argument by the nuclear energy generating scientists that this energy will decrease our oil usage.