The “call me back” codes of MTN,Cell C,Vodacom,8ta (Telkon) and Virgin Mobile South Africa “CALL ME BACK” arelisted below : MTN please call me back. 5 per day maximum. 
First-off, let’s try to explain this “please call-me/call-back service. Explanation: Call-back/Please call-me is a service which allows subscribers to send some sort of an SMS (using a USSD code) requesting people (from any cellular network) to call them back. It is free and now you can even personalise it (i.e add your name or any custom text). But just like everything free, humans tend to be abusive, hence MTN allows its subscribers to block please call me requests.
Vodacom is South Africa’s biggest cell phone network provider by subscription and is part of UK multinational Vodafone, which is one of the top eight operators on the African continent. Makate claims to have invented the “Please Call Me” service while working as a trainee accountant at Vodacom. This allows a subscriber who doesn’t have enough units to text another subscriber to call him or her back. In fact, as was held in the “Please Call Me” case, there was seen to be a contract which had clearly been breached in bad faith, but one which could ultimately not be enforced against Vodacom. Or at least not yet.
At it's simplest, you can send a Vodacom Please Call me by dialing *140*vodacomnumber# to send a free SMS message to a Vodacom Subscriber who hopefully has some airtime to get in touch with you. You can customize your Please Call Me settings by dialing *140#. A USSD menu will pop up with the following options: The option to change your name will let you change your own, custom 10 character name / message once a day and the Disable/Enable Advert option will stop you from receiving adverts in Vodacom Please Call Mes that are sent to you.
All you have to do is dial *140*cellphone number# (where ‘cellphone number’ is the friend’s phone you want to contact) and a Please Call Me SMS will automatically be delivered to the relevant person at no cost to you. 
It usually consists of a number that start with a * and end with a #. Customers on prepaid, for example, often use USSD codes to load airtime: Let’s take MTN as an example: Load airtime voucher: (*141*VoucherPIN#). check balances: (*141#). send a please call me: (*121*CellphoneNumber#). So, here is a list of USSD codes for all the mobile networks in South Afica. I will update this list so, yet again, please feel free to provide input regarding errors, ommissions and anything else. 
Note: Only call backs coming from MTN numbers and those you send to others will be free of advertising. That’s it, a short, but complete guide to everything you should know about the MTN please call me service. It is free and now you can even personalise it (i.e add your name or any custom text). But just like everything free, humans tend to be abusive, hence MTN allows its subscribers to block please call me requests.
Anyway, back to the ‘how to’ at hand, because I’m getting a little off the track here. In order to send a Please Call Me to another person, you simply need to dial *140* phonenumber # where phonenumber is the number of the person that you wish to make contact with. (And don’t forget the control character # at the end.). And that’s that.
The call me back codes of MTN,Cell C,Vodacom,8ta (Telkon) and Virgin Mobile South Africa are: MTN PLEASE Call back. 
How to personalise a call-back on Vodacom. To personalise your call-back means to add your name or any other word you’d like the person you are sending a call-back to see. – Dial *140#. – choose option ‘4’ (add name to call me massages). – You will be prompted to enter your name, do so and press OK on your phone. Please note: