There were bells on a hill. But I never heard them ringing. No, I never heard them at all. Till there was you. There were birds in the sky. But I never saw them winging. No, I never saw them at all. Till there was you. 
[Verse]. There were bells on a hill. But I never heard them ringing. No, I never heard them at all. Till there was you. There were birds in the sky. But I never saw them winging. No, I never saw them at all. 
TILL THERE WAS YOU-A marvelous version of Meredith Wilson's Broadway song, originally released on the WITH THE BEATLES album in 1963.  1 Till There Was You by The Beatles (iTunes). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License. TILL THERE WAS YOU-A marvelous version of Meredith Wilson's Broadway song, originally released on the WITH THE BEATLES album in 1963. Music. Category. License.
Till There Was You is a song by Meredith Willson, then covered by The Beatles. Written in 1957 for the musical play The Music Man. The song is sung by librarian Marian Paroo (Barbara Cook on Broadway, Shirley Jones in the film) to Professor Harold Hill (portrayed by Robert Preston) toward the end of Act Two. 
The Beatles' version was included on their albums With The Beatles (UK release, 1963) and Meet The Beatles! (US release, 1964). The song was the only Broadway tune that the Beatles ever recorded. Till There Was You was a minor hit in the UK for Peggy Lee in March 1961.
Beatles – Till There Was You lyrics. There were bells on a hill, But I never heard them ringing. No I never heard them at all. Till there was you. There were birds in the sky, But I never saw them winging. No I never saw them at all. Till there was you. Then there was music, and wonderful roses. They tell me, In sweet fragrant meadows. Of dawn, And you. There was love all around, But I never heard it singing.
Submit Corrections Cancel. There were bells on a hill. But I never heard them ringing. No, I never heard them at all. Till there was you. There were birds in the sky. But I never saw them winging. No, I never saw them at all. Till there was you. 184 You Know My Name (Look Up The Number). Till There Was You is track #19 on the album The Beatles: Mono Box Set. It was written by Meredith Willson. Till There Was You is track #19 on the album The Beatles: Mono Box Set.
In this song the beatles say yes there were beautiful things in the world like birds, music, and all of the other beautiful things that mother nature provides, but it wasn't until love hits that you realize these things and truely appreciate them. fabi_jara on September 04, 2002 Link. No Replies Log in to reply. shows the true depth of someone's feelings when they're in love. you begin to realize all the beautiful things around you after you've found someone beautiful. 'there was love all around, but i never heard it singing. no i never heard it at all, til there was you'. nessa4488 on November 27, 2004 Link. No Replies Log in to reply. There was an error