Your speed,  throughout, is 10 metres per second and so that is your average  speed.    But your average velocity is the total displacement vector divided  by the total time. This is   100*sqrt(2) metres due NE/20 sec = 7.07 metres per second due North  East.
The average speed of an object is the total distance traveled by the object divided by the elapsed time to cover that distance. It's a scalar quantity which means it is defined only by magnitude. A related concept, average velocity, is a vector quantity. A vector quantity is defined by magnitude and direction.
Determine the average speed and the average velocity. The physics teacher walked a distance of 12 meters in 24 seconds; thus, her average speed was 0.50 m/s. However, since her displacement is 0 meters, her average velocity is 0 m/s.
Introduction-Average Speed in Action. You and your friend decided to take your brand-new red sports car out for a spin. Your car is capable of speeds up to 220 mph. You drove 45 miles in 1.25 hours. At the end of your trip, your friend tells you that your average speed during the trip is 36 miles per hour.
No. The average speed is the average of the magnitude of the  velocity but not the magnitude of the average of the velocity.    This is because for vectors |A +  B| … |A| + |B|.    Suppose you travel 100 metres due East at 10 metres per second and  then 100 metres due North also at 10 metres per second.
Average speed = total distance / time. So, if we know Jimmie Johnson drove 500 miles and I tell you it took 3.14 hours, we can calculate his average speed. Average speed = 500 miles / 3.14 hours = 159 miles/hour. Remember, for the speed, it doesn't matter that he was driving in a big circle.
Average Speed. The average speed of an object tells you the (average) rate at which it covers distance. If a car's average speed is 65 miles per hour, this means that the car's position will change (on the average) by 65 miles each hour. Average speed is a rate. In kinematics, a rate is always a quantity divided by the time taken to get that quantity (the elapsed time).