A sentence fragment is a group of words that lacks one or more of these three things. While there are many ways to end up with a fragment, almost every fragment is simply a result of one of the following three problems: 1  It is missing a subject. 2  It is missing a verb.
Sentence Fragments. Sentence fragments happen by treating a dependent clause or other incomplete thought as a complete sentence. You can usually fix this error by combining it with another sentence to make a complete thought or by removing the dependent marker.
You can correct a fragment two ways: 1) adding the necessary main clause or 2) connecting the fragment to a main clause already in the passage. Whether you add or connect, you must use the right punctuation. Some fragments, for example, will require a comma if you connect them at the beginning of a main clause.
A subordinate clause contains a subordinate conjunction, a subject, and a verb. Because this type of clause does not express a complete thought, it cannot stand alone as a complete sentence. Read this example: Flooring the accelerator, Juan wove through the heavy traffic.
Sentences that omit the subject are fragments and can be fixed by inserting a noun. For example, the fragment Always leaves her backpack behind is a fragment that does not specify who leaves her backpack behind. Adding the noun Jenny gives you a complete sentence: Jenny always leaves her backpack behind..
Unfinished thoughts A very common type of fragment is the unfinished thought fragment. While other kinds of fragments require you to add something--a subject, or a verb, or both--you can often fix unfinished thought fragments simply by joining them to a preceding or following sentence.
Know the most common types of fragments and how to fix them. Fragments result if you punctuate certain word groups as if they are complete sentences. The most common of these word groups are the following: subordinate clauses, participle phrases, infinitive phrases, afterthoughts, verb phrases, and appositives.
Fixing Afterthought Fragments You can fix an afterthought fragment one of two ways. One option is to insert the missing subject and verb so that you have a main clause. This option works best when you have for example and for instance as the transitions beginning the fragment.
A main clause contains an independent subject and verb and expresses a complete thought. Once you have a main clause, you can then add other grammatical elements, but you must have the main clause as the base of the sentence. Read the main clause below, then the additions to it: Victor sneezed repeatedly.
A fragment occurs whenever you do these three things: 1  You begin a group of words with a capital letter. 2  You conclude this group of words with an end mark—either a period 3  [ . You neglect to insert a main clause somewhere between the capital letter at the beginning and the end mark concluding the word group.