Basalt a mafic extrusive rock, is the most widespread of all igneous rocks, and comprises more than 90% of all volcanic rocks. Because of its relatively low silica content, basalt lava has a comparatively low viscosity, and forms thin flows that can travel long distances. It is also found as intrusive dikes and sills. 
Basalt is a type of volcanic igneous rock that forms outside of the earth and is used for different purposes in construction. Discover how basalt is used as a major component of asphalt for roads with help from a science tutor and field biologist in this free video on basalt and chemistry. So, basalt is a type of volcanic rock. It's also an extrusive volcanic rock which simply means that it formed outside of the earth. So, it cools, it gets ejected or it goes out into the surface of the earth and cools in air.
Basalt is an extrusive igneous rock, sometimes porphyritic, and is often both fine-grained and dense. Basalt in the tops of subaerial lava flows and cinders will often be highly vesiculated, imparting a lightweight frothy texture to the rock. 
Today, we're going to discuss what exactly basalt is. So, basalt is a type of igneous rock, igneous rocks are rocks formed from volcanoes and volcanic eruptions. So, basalt is a type of volcanic rock. It's also an extrusive volcanic rock which simply means that it formed outside of the earth. So, it cools, it gets ejected or it goes out into the surface of the earth and cools in air.
Basalt is a fine-grained, hard rock that forms when bits of lava shoot out of volcanoes, so it's one kind of igneous rock. When the lava cools quickly, it turns into basalt. Usually basalt is black or gray. Basalt is a mixture of feldspar and pyroxene, a rock made mainly of silica and oxygen.
Rockhound. Basalt is an igneous rock that forms from the relatively rapid solidification of basaltic lavas; that is, those magmas that are relatively high in iron and magnesium, and low in silica and aluminum. These features give basalt its dark color and higher relative density when compared to silicate igneous rocks. 
A. Basalt is a common extrusive volcanic rock. An inert rock found worldwide, basalt is the generic term for solidified volcanic lava. Safe and abundant, basalt rock has long been known for its thermal properties, strength and durability. We offer basalt fibers in a 100 percent mineral, continuous-filament form. 
/bəˈsɔːlt/ , /ˈbaesɒlt/ , /ˈbæsɒlt/ , ˈbaesɔːlt /ˈbæsɔːlt/) or ˈbeɪsɔːlt is a common (extrusive) igneous volcanic rock formed from the rapid cooling of basaltic lava exposed at or very near the surface of a planet. Or moon flood basalt describes the formation in a series of lava. basalt flows By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.