The Australian gold rushes were periods of significant immigration of workers, both more locally and from overseas, to areas which had discoveries of gold deposits. A number of gold finds occurred in Australia prior to 1851, but only the gold found from 1851 onwards created gold rushes. The first substantiated find of gold in Tasmania reported to have been made by a Mr Riva of Launceston, who is stated to have traced gold in slate rocks in the vicinity of The Den (formerly known as Lefroy or Nine Mile Springs) near George Town in 1849.
If you want to explore more recent gold mining history, visit the vast Super Pit Mine, which produces about 800,000 ounces of gold a year. At 3.5 kilometres long and 1.5 kilometres wide, it's as deep as Uluru is high and about the same circumference. This area is also rich in natural bounty. Its historic buildings and colourful pubs are the legacy of more than a hundred years of gold rush history. Kalgoorlie was born in the gold rush of the 1880s, when hordes of fortunes-seekers from across the country descended on the region. It was a heady but tough period for the early diggers, with lawlessness and disease rife
Discover gold fields and ghost towns, history and high adventure in the heart of Western Australia's wild west. If you love old westerns, you'll feel right in your element in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia's largest goldfields city. Its historic buildings and colourful pubs are the legacy of more than a hundred years of gold rush history. Kalgoorlie was born in the gold rush of the 1880s, when hordes of fortunes-seekers from across the country descended on the region. It was a heady but tough period for the early diggers, with lawlessness and disease rife
The Pipeline Challenge will start in Kalgoorlie located 594 km east of Perth. Made famous in the late 1800’s when prospectors Paddy Hannan, Tom Flanagan, and Dan O’Shea discovered gold, the rest is history. Kalgoorlie is still the main producer of gold in Australia and as a nation we rank 3rd in world gold production behind South Africa and the United States. Over five days teams of 2-5 riders will trace the pipeline from Kalgoorlie, through Coolgardie, Southern Cross, Merredin and Northam to finally arrive in the Perth hills. The Pipeline Challenge aims to raise awareness and money for young people dealing with issues such as mental health, homelessness and abuse.
There are plenty of taxis in town to get you to any of the tourist spots that are outside the CBD. If you're only visiting Kalgoorlie for a short time most of the attractions in Kalgoorlie are within walking distance of the city centre. A taxi would be useful to go to the lookout at the Superpit. From Esperance [edit]. The Coolgardie-Esperance Hwy runs 397km north from Esperance to Coolgardie, from where you can drive the last 38km of the Great Eastern Hwy into Boulder. If you want go directly to Kalgoorlie, you can bypass Coolgardie by taking the Goldfields Hwy via Kambalda.
This Kalgoorlie mountain biking and cycling map displays tourism business locations in your chosen region, area, city or township. Click on a Kalgoorlie map location icon to display more information. Kalgoorlie Mountain Biking and Cycling. Kalgoorlie offers a great selection of mountain biking and cycling attractions and activities. Enjoy the great outdoors and superb local scenery on a mountain bike trail or cycling track around Kalgoorlie. more. Select Mountain Biking and Cycling in Kalgoorlie, Esperance, Western Australia, Australia, from the list below. Alternatively select a different area
The Kalgoorlie Region. Kalgoorlie is in the Eastern Goldfields Province of the Yilgarn Craton. The gold mining of the area has had a very large effect on the environment because the surrounding area was scoured for the wood used in the smelting furnaces. It is in the centre of the Roe Palaeodrainage. This drainage system flowed to the east into the Eucla Basin. There is some evidence that the palaeodrainage system predates the separation from Antarctica. If this is the case, the south-trending valleys and their extensions south of the Jarrahwood Axis in the area around Esperence, could be the remnants of palaeoriver valleys flowing from Antarctica to Australia. The following is a timetable for the formation of the Kalgoorlie section of the Yilgarn Crato