Surface mount parabolic 2X4 F28T5 light fixture will reduce glare in office lighting situations. It's become a common standard for lighting offices and commercial buildings that need a higher light output. 2x2 foot fluorescent parabolic T8 retrofit kit with ballast is a complete set of components that allow you to convert a parabolic 2x2 foot fixture to a 2 lamp F17T8 2x2 reflector configuration. It's an easy retrofit that maintains your current lighting.
Featuring a white color, this Troffer uses three 32-Watt T8 lamps (not included). This high performance parabolic luminaire is for use in open area applications and offices where optical control, visual comfort and light cut-off are important. 1  Electronic ballast. 2  White color. 
parabolic light fixture. Follow parabolic light fixture to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow parabolic light fixture to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following parabolic light fixture in your eBay Feed
20 PAR cans. A parabolic aluminized reflector lamp (also PARCAN light, PARcan, or simply PAR) is a type of electric lamp that is widely used in commercial, residential, and transportation illumination. This article covers only their use in stage lighting. The lamps and their fixtures are widely used in theatre, concerts and motion picture production when a substantial amount of flat lighting is required for a scene.
Parabolic 2x4 24-cell office light fixtures for 4 - T8 lamps will reduce glare in office lighting situations. This is a higher louver cell count for those that want more glare reduction. 2x2 foot fluorescent parabolic T8 retrofit kit with ballast is a complete set of components that allow you to convert a parabolic 2x2 foot fixture to a 2 lamp F17T8 2x2 reflector configuration. It's an easy retrofit that maintains your current lighting.
Parabolic light fixtures are the standard for glare reduction in office lighting. The deep cell parabolic grid conceals the light at critical viewing angles. These are ready for T5 or T8 lamps with an electronic ballast which are standard in the fixture. 2x2 foot fluorescent parabolic T8 retrofit kit with ballast is a complete set of components that allow you to convert a parabolic 2x2 foot fixture to a 2 lamp F17T8 2x2 reflector configuration. It's an easy retrofit that maintains your current lighting.
Price: $121.50. Parabolic 2X4 grid light fixtures for 4 - T8 lamps will reduce glare in office lighting situations. Using four F32T8, it will reduce the number of light fixtures you will need in the space. Your cart is empty. We sell many USA made products.
Parabolic 2X4 24-Cell Office Light Fixture. Price: $121.50. Parabolic 2x4 24-cell office light fixtures for 4 - T8 lamps will reduce glare in office lighting situations. This is a higher louver cell count for those that want more glare reduction. Parabolic 2X4 grid light fixtures for 4 - T8 lamps will reduce glare in office lighting situations. Using four F32T8, it will reduce the number of light fixtures you will need in the space. Your cart is empty. We sell many USA made products.
Surface mount parabolic 2x4 light fixtures with 2 lamps are the standard for glare reduction in office lighting. The deep cell parabolic grid conceals the light at critical viewing angles. 2x2 foot fluorescent parabolic T8 retrofit kit with ballast is a complete set of components that allow you to convert a parabolic 2x2 foot fixture to a 2 lamp F17T8 2x2 reflector configuration. It's an easy retrofit that maintains your current lighting.