Bacardi Breezer, Breezer for short, is a fruit wine –based alcopop with 4.4 % alcohol in Australia, 4%/5% Canada, in Europe, 6.6% in the United Kingdom, and 4.8% in India. In India, Bacardi Breezer was the first entrant in the ready to drink category and is currently the market leader in its segment. In Thailand Breezers are actually wine coolers but still give the appearance that they contain fruits. A new fruit wine–based variant has been released, called Breezer Spritzer.
They say Bacardi Breezer is a lady's drink as it contains very lil alcohol....if u have a bottle or 2, it shouldnt make u drowsy...maybe more of that will....but it depends on your drinking capacity... arlette4u_2003 · 8 years ago. It is a rum based alcopop 4% alcohol in US. Anything with alchohol content can cause drowsiness. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bacardi_Bre...
Breezer Light Sport aircraft exhibited at the Sun 'n Fun show at Lakeland Linder Airport, Florida, in 2011. The cockpit, located over the wings, has a large hinged canopy and fixed separate windscreen. One significant modification of the Breezer prototype after its first year of test flying was the incorporation of a steerable nosewheel in place of a castoring type. The Breezer obtained German certification in the Summer of 2001.
First flown in December 1999, the Breezer is the first product of what until 2006, when Breezer Aircraft gmbh was formed, was named the Aerostyle Ultraleicht Flugzeuge; it is therefore often known as the Aerostyle Breezer. It is a conventionally laid out low wing ultralight, seating two side-by-side. One significant modification of the Breezer prototype after its first year of test flying was the incorporation of a steerable nosewheel in place of a castoring type. The Breezer obtained German certification in the Summer of 2001.
Joe Breeze lives and rides in the bicycling paradise of Fairfax, California. Nestled beneath Mount Tamalpais, this little town is known as the birthplace of mountain biking and the home of the Repack Downhill. With miles of world-class single track, it is also an ideal setting for Breezer product testing. 
Breezer. These hats combine varieties of fabrics and colors with mesh to create the newest design and style, sought after in the headwear business. Great for all outdoor activites. 
Breezer Bikes. Breezer Bicycles are the highest quality commuter bikes available today. We are pleased to offer the complete selection of Breezer cycles in our store. Once you ride one of these award winning bicycles, you will see why Breezer is leading the way in the 2-wheeled commuter world. Read about the history of this amazing company.
The drink is particularly popular in India, Europe (especially the UK), Israel, Canada, and Australia, and is also available in China. In India, Bacardi Breezer was the first entrant in the ready to drink category and is currently the market leader in its segment. In Thailand Breezers are actually wine coolers but still give the appearance that they contain fruits. A new fruit wine–based variant has been released, called Breezer Spritzer.
The Breezer is a low-wing, single-engine ultralight aircraft, seating two side-by side. One significant modification of the Breezer prototype after its first year of test flying was the incorporation of a steerable nosewheel in place of a castoring type. The Breezer obtained German certification in the Summer of 2001.
Breezer is an alcoholic drink, much adored by people often still under the drinking age. It is a mix of Bacardi Rum with lemon or another fruit juice. In some chat channels, where the majority of visitors belongs to the breezer-addicts, it is 'cool' to talk BrEeZaH. It is a bit comparable to 1337-sp33k and can be identified by the use of capitals and other characters in places where they don't belong, and replacing characters with same sounding ones. Beeing a BrEeZaH-person is often considered being lame, by people who have more than 1 brain cell.