Set a daily or lifetime budget for ads. We make it easy to stay within your budget. If you want to pay a specific amount per day, like $5, just choose “Per day” in the Budget option and enter your budget amount. Facebook will never charge you more than that amount each day your ad runs.*. You can also set a lifetime budget for your ad. 
The minimum daily budget for any ad set is $1.00 USD and must be at least 2 times your cost per click (CPC) bid. For example, if you have a $1.00 CPC, your daily budget must be at least $2.00. Your budget, the type of bidding you choose (Cost Per Click or Cost Per Impression), the audiences you target (a broad audience vs. an audience with very specific interests, behaviors and demographics) and many other factors will determine how many people see or click on your ad within your budget.
There are two ways in which Facebook allows you to bid for ads: cost per click (CPC) or cost per 1,000 ad views (CPM). When setting up your ad campaign, you can choose which option you want. In the United States, the average click costs advertisers $0.24 and the average CPM cost $0.66. However, these numbers varied greatly from advertiser to advertiser based on a number of factors. One Factor Is Type Of Business. In today’s article we are going to discuss how much Facebook advertising will cost your business. (If you don’t know much about Facebook advertising see our full guide on the topic here). Want $50 in free advertising on Bing! – Click Here.
Sponsored Stories: 400 clicks to Facebook page – $200 ($.50 per click). Promoted Posts: 20,000 views – $100 ($5 per 1,000 views). It takes a lot of work to keep the cost-per-click down, as the advertiser needs to constantly be updating their ads to keep the cost low. Facebook increases the cost of ads based on (a) targeting, (b) bids and (c) engagement. The more targeted your ads are, the more expensive they become. If you were to target ads to all Facebook users (all 1.06 billion), then you would pay just pennies.
5% of 100 = 5 sales x $25 profit = $125. Now you simply need to decide what a good ROI on your facebook ads cost might be. Let’s say a 50% ROI sounds good which leaves us with an advertising budget of only $62.50 per 100 clicks… or $0.625 per click. So that’s the maximum you should be willing to spend. 
The cost of Facebook ads depends on a few factors, but generally ranges from $.05 – $5 per click. Facebook increases the cost of ads based on (a) targeting, (b) bids and (c) engagement. The more targeted your ads are, the more expensive they become. If you were to target ads to all Facebook users (all 1.06 billion), then you would pay just pennies.
The Minimum Spend For Facebook Advertising. The minimum daily advertising spend on Facebook is a $1.00 per day. The minimum cost per click is 1 cent, however, you are unlikely to see any clicks if you bid that low. In today’s article we are going to discuss how much Facebook advertising will cost your business. (If you don’t know much about Facebook advertising see our full guide on the topic here). Want $50 in free advertising on Bing! – Click Here.
Facebook Advertising Costs Also on the Upswing. Globally, Facebook ads cost 21 cents per click in the fourth quarter of 2013 when purchased on a cost-per-click basis. The average cost-per-click for Facebook ads (when purchased on a per-click basis) increased 24% in 2013, world-wide. (this is not a surprise. Popularity always increases costs. The same thing happened with Google and Yahoo! PPC ads, back in the day).
In Q3 of 2012 the average CPC was $0.62 USD. Check out the graphs below to see how the average CPC changed from Q2 2013 - Q3 2013. The report findings are based on 200 billion Facebook Ads. The default pricing option that Facebook sets for your ad is a “cost per click” (CPC) bid. This is a good option for when you’re first starting out, as the click through rate (CTR) for Facebook Ads is lower and paying for clicks is ultimately cheaper than if you were to pay for the same number of impressions (CPM). CPL is only available if you choose “Page Likes” as your “Ad result”.: CPC (cost-per-click): If you use cost-per-click pricing, you only pay when someone clicks on your Facebook Ad. CPM (cost-per-mille): With cost-per-impression you pay when Facebook shows your ad 1000 times. (Impressions are the number of times your ad is shown to a user on Facebook