Switzerland is a lovely country. Languages are not a problem since most people speak at least 3 languages including English. The Swiss are generally very cosmopolitan in nature. If I have any criticism of the country it is that it is almost too perfect. Everything runs like clockwork and is very efficient.
Switzerland is one of the most prosperous countries in the world. The key sectors of the economy are financial services, engineering and tourism. Other well known sectors include the production of chocolate and cheese.
Switzerland is a very small country with a small population, and it actually has very few natural resources, Saadia Zahidi, Senior Director of the World Economic Forum, tells The Huffington Post.
About Switzerland. Switzerland lies in the south west of Europe, entirely land locked by Germany, France, Italy, Austria and Liechtenstein and is home to a climate which varies largely across the small country, a result of the topography which rises and falls across the land.
Best Answer: Hi there. Switzerland is a beautiful country (and I should know-I live here!) The Currency is the Swiss Franc, whose value is around 1.1 Dollars to a Franc. A Franc is made of 100 Centimes (aka Rappen, in German). There are notes of 10, 20, 50, 100, 200 and 1000 Francs.
switzerland is located within a temperate climatic zone. In the west and northwest the influence of the temperate Atlantic climate is felt more strongly, in the east the influence of the continental climate.
Zurich, along with Geneva, is one of the richest cities in the world and their financial status in Global markets have lead Switzerland to being one of the worlds richest countries. Zurich, Switzerland. in the far west of Switzerland and it’s the second most populated city in Switzerland after Zurich.
Weather in winter in Switzerland is usually sunny in the Mountains and cold/dry in the low-lying areas (note that low-lying in Switzerland is still a fair 400 m/1300 ft above sea level) The Swiss Economy is strong-ish, and is faring better than some other Western economies in the current Financial Crisis.