Kutani ware (九谷焼, Kutani-yaki) is a style of Japanese porcelain first established by Gotō Saijirō, a member of the Maeda clan, who set up a kiln in the village of Kutani (now part of the city of Kaga) on the order of Maeda Toshiharu, ruler of the Kaga domain. Kutani Porcelains from this early period are specifically called Ko-Kutani and are extremely rare. The production of this ware continued for about 50–60 years. Kokutani enjoyed popularity for the next few decades until the Kutani suddenly closed down in 1730.
A memorial to Gotō has been erected near an old Kutani ware kiln in the city of Kaga. The style of producing Kutani was named a traditional craft in 1975. There are now several hundred companies which produce Kutani ware. Kutani Porcelains from this early period are specifically called Ko-Kutani and are extremely rare. The production of this ware continued for about 50–60 years. Kokutani enjoyed popularity for the next few decades until the Kutani suddenly closed down in 1730.
The history of Kanazawa Kutani-ware starts in 1807 when ceramist Mokubei Aoki was invited to Kanazawa by the Kaga Clan from Kyoto. After his establishment of a kiln in Mount Kasuga, Kanazawa Kutani-ware developed sporadically, each distinctive period reflecting the atmosphere of the times in which it was produced. 
Kutani ware china. Kutani ware dates to the Edo period (circa 1655). Kutani means Nine Valleys in the Kaga province. The production of these fine decorative ceramics was enhanced when magnetite was discovered in a gold mine in the Kutani village region (near the city of Kaga, Japan). The Kutani kiln was reestablished in the 1820s and Kutani ware was once again produced and distributed. During the Meiji era (circa 1868), significant amounts of Kutani ware was exported to foreign countries.
Satsuma ware (薩摩焼 satsuma yaki) is a style of Japanese earthenware originally from the Satsuma region of what is today southern Kyūshū. 
Well, for one thing since Satsuman style Kutani ware is frequently referred to simply as Satsuma style Kutani (c.f., Jan-Erik Nilsson's and Bouvier’s Kutani sites), a keyword search for “Satsuma” will include results that are not Satsuma-yaki. Hence, ceramic ware (primarily porcelain, yet sometimes also pottery) that resembles styles associated with Kutani (some of which are similar to the 1867 Satsuma style) are now referred to as Kutani. Kutani has become a generic term used for ceramic ware made in the tradition originating in mid 15th Century Kutani.
The history of Kutani ware goes back to the beginning of the Edo period (1655). It is said that Kutani began when Maeda Toshiharu, the first lord of the Daishouji feudal clan (a feudal branch of Kaga) discovered magnetite in a gold mine located in the Kutani territory, which he owned. Following this discovery he built a Kiln there. The kiln in Kutani was suddenly shut down about 1730, and the reason is still not clear. The pottery made during this period (1655 - 1730) was later given the name of Kokutani and it is highly valued as being representative of Japanese painted porcelain.
It is said of Kutani ware that, 'It cannot exist without its images'. Kutani developed from Kokutani (old Kutani), which differed from other works with its use of powerful, bold, and magnificent designs using five main colours: green, yellow, red, purple and deep blue. There are various styles. The kiln in Kutani was suddenly shut down about 1730, and the reason is still not clear. The pottery made during this period (1655 - 1730) was later given the name of Kokutani and it is highly valued as being representative of Japanese painted porcelain.
Among them, Shoza Kutani did much to establish the reputation of Kutani ware in the second half of the 19th century. Even today, when the name Kutani ware is mentioned, many people immediately think of the Shoza Kutani style that pays attention to details and makes free use of brilliant, elegant coloring. China-making in Kutani dates back around 340 years to the middle of the 17th century. As part of a policy to encourage local industry, a kiln to make colored porcelain was established at Kutani village, now in Ishikawa Prefecture, when high-quality china clay was discovered there.