Khat, to include all parts of the plant presently classified botanically as catha edulis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; any extract from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seed or extracts. Khat contains a monoamine alkaloid called cathinone, an amphetamine-like stimulant, which is said to cause excitement, loss of appetite and euphoria.
The Effects of Khat. Khat is a stimulant, the effects are rather like ephedra or amphetamine and include euphoria, increased alertness and excitement, ability to concentrate, confidence, friendliness, contentment and flow of ideas. Users feel alert, relaxed and more talkative. It also reduces appetite. 
Khat is a flowering shrub that can be found in parts of East Africa and southern parts of the Arabian Peninsula. In many parts of the world, this plant is considered an illegal substance because of its cathinone and cathine content. The cathinone and cathine content of khat leaves are known mild stimulants but their recreational use or consumption is still illegal or very much regulated in many countries around the world. These substances are said be highly addictive as it targets the pleasure center of the brain.
Khat is a plant. The leaf and stem are used as a recreational drug and as medicine. As a recreational drug, the leaves and stem are chewed by people in East Africa and the Arabian countries to elevate mood (as a euphoriant). Khat can cause many side effects including mood changes, increased alertness, excessive talkativeness, hyperactivity, excitement, aggressiveness, anxiety, elevated blood pressure, manic behavior, paranoia, and psychoses. Trouble sleeping (insomnia), loss of energy (malaise), and lack of concentration usually follow.
Khat is a stimulant. For centuries, khat, the fresh young leaves of the Catha edulis shrub, have been consumed where the plant is cultivated, primarily in East Africa and the Arabian peninsula. There, chewing khat predates the use of coffee and is used in a similar social contex
Khat is a flowering evergreen shrub native to East Africa. Fresh leaves have been chewed by Africans to take advantage of their stimulant properties for centuries, and khat is also exported to other regions of the world. 
Definition of KHAT. : a shrub (Catha edulis) of the staff-tree family cultivated in the Middle East and Africa for its leaves and buds that are the source of a habituating stimulant when chewed or used as a tea; also: its leaves and buds. khat also qat or kat \ˈkaet\. ˈkät
Khat (Qat) is a mildly narcotic plant that has been chewed and enjoyed socially for centuries in the Horn of Africa. It has widespread use in Somalia, Somaliland, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea and parts of Kenya. 
Catha edulis (khat, qat) is a flowering plant native to the Horn of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. Among communities from these areas, khat chewing has a history as a social custom dating back thousands of years. Khat contains a monoamine alkaloid called cathinone, an amphetamine-like stimulant, which is said to cause excitement, loss of appetite and euphoria.