(HealthCastle.com) A diet with iron rich foods along with iron supplements is often recommended for women with iron deficiency anemia. Absorption of iron from food is often influenced by multiple factors. One important factor being the form of iron. Heme Iron, found in animal sources, is highly available for absorption. Non-heme iron on the other hand, found in vegetable sources, is less available.
In general, to treat anemia, focus should be placed on foods that are good sources of iron, copper, zinc, folic acid, vitamin B12 and protein. Some of the tips you may try to avoid anemia, that is from food. 4. vegetables. Vegetables such as spinach, lettuce, beet, broccoli, celery and kale are iron-rich, energy-filled vegetables that treat anemia effectively. These vegetables are not only rich in iron but also Vitamin B-12 and folic acid, energy-boosting nutrients that the body needs to heal from anemia.
Iron from plant sources, or non-heme iron, is not as efficiently absorbed by your body but is still effective for raising hemoglobin. Good food sources include iron-fortified breakfast cereals, legumes, tofu, spinach, blackstrap molasses and raisins. Food sources of folate, or folic acid as it is also called, include green leafy vegetables, liver, rice, wheat germ, fortified cereals, peanuts, broccoli and liver. Alcohol impairs folate absorption, so reduce or avoid its consumption to improve folate status.
To treat your anemia, your doctor may suggest eating more meat—especially red meat (such as beef or liver), as well as chicken, turkey, pork, fish, and shellfish. Nonmeat foods that are good sources of iron include: 1  Spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables. 2  Tofu. 3  Peas; lentils; white, red, and baked beans; soybeans; and chickpeas. 4  Dried fruits, such as prunes, raisins, and apricots. 5  Prune juice.
Low levels of vitamin B12 can lead to pernicious anemia. This type of anemia often is treated with vitamin B12 supplements. Good food sources of vitamin B12 include: 1  Breakfast cereals with added vitamin B12. 2  Meats such as beef, liver, poultry, and fish. Nonmeat foods that are good sources of iron include: 1  Spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables. 2  Tofu. 3  Peas; lentils; white, red, and baked beans; soybeans; and chickpeas. 4  Dried fruits, such as prunes, raisins, and apricots. 5  Prune juice.
Iron from plants is known as nonheme iron, and is found in certain vegetables and in iron-fortified foods such as breakfast cereals. Heme iron is better absorbed by the body than nonheme iron. The following foods are good sources of heme iron (from animal sources): 1  Chicken liver. 2  Oysters. 3  Clams. 4  Beef liver. Factors that can reduce the body's iron levels include: 1  Blood loss (caused by ulcers, some cancers, and other conditions; and, in women, during monthly periods). 2  An iron-poor diet. 3  An increase in the body's need for iron (for instance, during pregnancy).
Iron-Rich Foods. Very good sources of heme iron, with 3.5 milligrams or more per serving, include: 1  3 ounces of beef or chicken liver. 2  3 ounces of clams, mollusks, or mussels. 3  3 ounces of oysters. Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1
• Eat foods that are good sources of iron: Lean, red meats; green, leafy vegetables; beef liver; poultry; fish; wheat germ; oysters; dried fruit; and iron-fortified cereals. • Eat foods high in vitamin C, such as citrus fruits, tomatoes, and strawberries. Vitamin C helps your body absorb iron from plant foods. 