Tombs of Ancient Egypt. Ancient. is known for its magnificent and beautiful tombs. The most well known are within the pyramids in the Valley of the Kings or the tombs from the Age of the Pyramids (during the Old Kingdom, 2650 to 2150 B.C. spanning from 3 rd to 6 th Dynasty). While these elaborate tombs were quite ornate, the bodies of people from the lower castes met with humbler end
Pyramids & Tombs. When a pharaoh died he was buried in a tomb designed to protect his body forever. This tomb was called a pyramid. The theory behind the tomb was that if a pharaoh s body were destroyed, his Ka (soul) would have nowhere to go and would die. If his Ka died, he would not be able to be united with the sun. The largest, and most famous, pyramid is the Great Pyramid located in the Giza plateau, near Cairo. This pyramid was built for the pharaoh Khufu (Cheops). Over two million blocks of limestone were used, and it took over twenty years to build. The base of the Great Pyramid covers the size of almost ten football fields.
The Giza Pyramids, built to endure an eternity, have done just that. The monumental tombs are relics of Egypt's Old Kingdom era and were constructed some 4,500 years ago. Egypt's pharaohs expected to become gods in the afterlife. All three of Giza's famed pyramids and their elaborate burial complexes were built during a frenetic period of construction, from roughly 2550 to 2490 B.C. The pyramids were built by Pharaohs Khufu (tallest), Khafre (background), and Menkaure (front).
The Egyptian Pyramids. The monumental pyramids of Ancient Egypt are perhaps the most famous tombs in the world. The origins of the pyramids were mastabas, Arabic for “benches,” which were mud or brick rectangular structures built over graves during Ancient Egypt’s First Dynasty (c. 2925–c. 2775 B.C.). The Step Pyramid of Djoser, a pyramid built by this pharaoh in the Third Dynasty (c. 2650-2575 B.C.), was the first mastaba to be made of stone and to take on the distinctive pyramid shape. The most famous of the Egyptian pyramids are the three massive tombs of the Fourth Dynasty (c. 2575–2465 B.C.). These monumental pyramids built for the pharaohs Khufu, Khafre and Menkaure housed the royal mummies and their worldly effects thought to protect and be used by the kings in their afterlife
In ancient Egypt, pyramids were built during the time of the Old Kingdom. Pyramids were tombs, royal tombs, where the ancient Egyptians buried their kings. The first pyramid was the Step Pyramid. It was built about 5,000 years ago! You could see it for miles! Beautifully Decorated: Most pyramids were huge. 