The Labrador Retriever Club have for many years published an annual book of hip scores for the breed. These have proven an invaluable resource for those choosing a sire as they provide statistics showing mean hip scores for the tested progeny of sires. 
They will score this x-ray with each hip of the two hips scoring between 0 (lowest) and 53 (highest). So if both hips are scored the total that dog achieves will be between a TOTAL of 0 and 106 (2 x 53). Currently the breed average for a total of both hips sits at around 16. So dogs around or under this score have average or better than average hips to give a guide. the score can also be shown sometimes as two numbers, left hip/right hip-so, something like 5/4 (total of 9 - good) or maybe 33/21 (total of 54 - poor). 
Hip Scores. A hip score is a measure of evidence of hip dysplasia (abnormal development). Scores for each hip are added together to get an overall hip score for a dog. Scores range from 0 to 106, with the lower the score the better. The advice to breeders is to ideally breed only from dogs which score below the breed average. More information on the BVA/KC Hip Dysplasia scheme. 
Breed Hip Scores. These are the average breed hip scores as of January 1st, as published by the British Veterinary Association (BVA). Dogs are x-rayed at Vertica. The x-ray picture is sent to the BVA, where a panel of experts examine the pictures, take various measurements and arrive at a score for each hip. The hip score can be any number from 0-106.Lower is better. Dogs should only be bred from if their hip score is well below the breed average. So, for example, a score of 20 would be acceptable for a Clumber Spaniel, but unacceptable for a German Shepherd Dog.
Since hip scoring, in it’s present form started in 1984, a record has been kept of all Labradors hip scores and a running average (More correctly called “The Mean”) has been kept. This is known as the Breed Mean Score, or the BMS for short. At present this is 15 total. 
So if both hips are scored the total that dog achieves will be between a TOTAL of 0 and 106 (2 x 53). Currently the breed average for a total of both hips sits at around 16. So dogs around or under this score have average or better than average hips to give a guide. The score can also be shown sometimes as two numbers, left hip/right hip-so, something like 5/4 (total of 9 - good) or maybe 33/21 (total of 54 - poor). 
The minimum hip score is 0 and the maximum is 106 (53 for each hip). The lower the score the less the degree of hip dysplasia present. An average (or mean) score is calculated for all breeds scored under the scheme and advice for breeders is to use only breeding stock with scores well below the breed mean score. Our cost for Canine Hip Score is £138.50 - as a complete package for breeders-This includes the general anaesthetic, taking of the x-rays and the BVA/KC fee (£58.50). Correct for 2015.
Labrador Hip Score. Their Labrador hip score is hugely important for owners as, of course, Labradors are a breed of dog that are prone to hip problems such as hip dysplasia. This condition can lead to the dog suffering from severe arthritis and becoming lame. One way to assess the state of health o f a Lab's hips is through ‘hip scoring’. From statistics gained in 2005 for various dog breeds it was found that the average Labrador hip score was 12, which compared favourably with breeds such as the Newfoundland which recorded a score of 21 and the Bull Mastiff which registered at 23.