The franchise agreement is good for 15 years and is renewable. The total initial investment, however, is a low-end estimate minimum of $1.4 million to achieve a grand opening and may reach as high as $3 million. Culver’s offers third-party financial assistance and extensive training: 16 weeks at corporate headquarters. The ongoing royalty is 6% and the franchise term is good for 10 years and is renewable. There is also third party financing available for some of the startup costs, the equipment, and the inventory that you’ll need to flash freeze.
We hire smile makers. Our company's mission statement is  We Hand out Smiles! if you are extremely outgoing, friendly, love to smile, and make people smile, then this job is for you. Twistee Treat is a fast growing ice cream company. We are looking for dynamic individuals who...
The original Twistee Treat concept was founded in 1983 in Fort Myers, FL and the original company was selling franchises throughout the southeast United States. In 1989, after establishing about three dozen franchise locations, the organization filed for bankruptcy protection. The ongoing royalty is 6% and the franchise term is good for 10 years and is renewable. There is also third party financing available for some of the startup costs, the equipment, and the inventory that you’ll need to flash freeze.
If you’ve ever dreamed of making a smooth move in the real estate game, now may be the time to snatch up your very own soft serve structure. Two former Twistee Treat ice-cream-cone-shaped stands are currently up for sale. With interest rates low and interest in ice cream high, this could be an opportune time to acquire a highly desirable dairy destination. Back in the 1990’s, Twistee Treat was a rapidly expanding franchise, pumping out 28-foot-tall by 20-foot-wide fiberglass buildings. In a not-quite-mass-production freezing frenzy, an estimated 90 of these oddly-shaped stores were established. 
(hit refresh to get the most recent version of this page; click on photos for larger images) Twistee Treat buildings are 28 feet tall and 20 feet wide fiberglass ice cream cones topped with cherries. The design was created by Robert G. Skip Skinner who built the first location in North Fort Myers in 1982. 
It’s what’s in the Cone! The Twistee Treat cone shaped building and ice cream have been around since 1983. The 20’ high and 20’ wide fiberglass cone buildings have housed America’s favorite Twistee Treat ice cream. Twistee Treat’s long history of serving up the best ice cream experience is legendary! The Twistee Treat cone buildings will soon dot America’s landscape again, reminding us of how great ice cream can be. Twistee Treat ice cream makes you smile. Twistee Treat ice cream is real homemade ice cream. Its rich smooth flavors take you back to a simpler time. The menu indulges in ice cream, cones, cups and shakes. The banana splits are the best in the land.
The outcome was to sell the patents and trademarks of the organization and over the years these have traded hands to a number of different investors. The end result was the formation of a new company, called Twistee Treat USA, which began operating in 2010. The ongoing royalty is 6% and the franchise term is good for 10 years and is renewable. There is also third party financing available for some of the startup costs, the equipment, and the inventory that you’ll need to flash freeze.
Twistee treat also offers Malts, Shakes, Sundaes, and Slushes! Scope for Investment The Twistee Treat business plan has been carefully modeled to make it a perfect investment for the private investor, set up along the lines described on our Business Models page. The banana splits are the best in the USA. Twistee treat also offers Malts, Shakes, Sundaes, and Slushes! Scope for Investment.
The 20’ high and 20’ wide fiberglass cone buildings have housed America’s favorite Twistee Treat ice cream. Twistee Treat’s long history of serving up the best ice cream experience is legendary! The Twistee Treat cone buildings will soon dot America’s landscape again, reminding us of how great ice cream can be. Twistee Treat ice cream makes you smile. Our philosophy is old fashioned – turn every guest into a fan. The banana splits are the best in the USA. Twistee treat also offers Malts, Shakes, Sundaes, and Slushes! Scope for Investment. The Twistee Treat business plan has been carefully modeled to make it a perfect investment for the private investor, set up along the lines described on our Business Models page.