Debug support file (Power CTrace). TRC is a file extension for a debug file used by Oracle database software. TRC stands for TRaCe. TRC files contain an event log describing what transactions have occurred within the database. TRC files are typically used when diagnosing errors or for debugging the database. TRC files can be opened by most text editors. 
Notes about the TRC file extension: The TRC file type is primarily associated with 'a-squared' by Emsi Software GmbH. a-squared Anti-Malware is Anti-Trojan, Anti-Spyware, Anti-Wurm and Anti-Dialer all in one.
While we do not yet have a description of the TRC file format and what it is normally used for, we do know which programs are known to open these files. See the list of programs recommended by our users below. Program has been verified to work with TRC files. Every day, thousands of users submit information to us about which programs they use to open certain types of files. Our users primarily use the above programs to open
A typical Oracle XA TRC file contains information like shown in the following. A TRC file is produced when MS DTC attempts to perform an XA operation with your Oracle database and the Oracle XA operation reports an error. The TRC files are the means by which Oracle reports additional error information.
up vote 2 down vote. The .trc files are safe to delete. .trc files generated by SQL Server in process of saving events to a physical file without using the Profiler client tool. Server-side tracing is enabled and controlled by using SQL Server system-supplied stored procedures and functions. up vote 3 down vote favorite. We've noticed a lot of .trc files in our SQL data folder (\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL.1\MSSQL\Data) on our server. The date range for these files spans over one day and the total file size of all files together is about 21 gigs.
SUMMARY. Under some circumstances your Oracle database may produce .trc files when used with Microsoft Transaction Server. This document describes what TRC files are, why TRC files produce, and what you can do to eliminate TRC files. A TRC file is produced when MS DTC attempts to perform an XA operation with your Oracle database and the Oracle XA operation reports an error. The TRC files are the means by which Oracle reports additional error information.
In the case that your TRC file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit TRC file extensions. If your PC opens the TRC file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. In other words, Windows is associating TRC file extensions with the wrong software program. TRC File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your TRC file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your TRC file.
Deletion of SQL Profiler Trace files (.trc). up vote 3 down vote favorite. We've noticed a lot of .trc files in our SQL data folder (\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL.1\MSSQL\Data) on our server. The date range for these files spans over one day and the total file size of all files together is about 21 gigs.
Author: Oracle Corporation. The TRC file extension is used to refer to trace files in Oracle database management software programs. Oracle trace files are used to contain diagnostic data generated within the management program. 
In the following table, you can find a list of programs that can open files with .trc extension.This list is created by collecting extension information reported by users through the 'send report' option of FileTypesMan utility. 