The melanin in the skin is produced by melanocytes, which are found in the basal layer of the epidermis. Although, in general, human beings possess a similar concentration of melanocytes in their skin, the melanocytes in some individuals and ethnic groups produce variable amounts of melanin. There are two types of eumelanin—brown eumelanin and black eumelanin. Pheomelanin is a cysteine-containing red polymer of benzothiazine units largely responsible for red hair, among other pigmentation. Neuromelanin is found in the brain, though its function remains obscure.
Skin color is due primarily to the presence of a pigment called melanin, which is controlled by at least 6 genes. Both light and dark complexioned people have melanin. However, two forms are produced--pheomelanin, which is red to yellow in color, and eumelanin, which is dark brown to black. Melanin is normally located in the epidermis, or outer skin layer. It is produced at the base of the epidermis by specialized cells called melanocytes. These cells have photosensitive receptors, similar to those in the eye, that detect ultraviolet radiation from the sun and other sources.
Also called pigment, melanin is a substance that gives the skin and hair its natural color. It also gives color to the iris of the eye, feathers, and scales. In humans, those with darker skin have higher amounts of melanin. By contrast, those with less pigment have lighter or more fair skin coloring. Melanin, sometimes referred to as a chemical, is formed as part of the process of metabolizing an amino acid called tyrosine. In the skin, melanin is formed by cells called melanocytes. Certain medical conditions, such as albinism, are associated with the lack of melanin. Albinism is a condition marked by the absence of a normal amount of pigment in the body. Animals, humans, and even plants can have albinism. Albinism exists in a number of variations.
Skin Color and Where It Comes from. Melanin is a pigment that is produced by specialized skin cells called keratinocytes. How much you have and how it's distributed determines your skin's tone. The more melanin you have, the darker your skin will be
The type, combination of types, and  amount of melanin determine your skin color, … both naturally and  with sun exposure. Freckles and moles are caused by high localized  concentrations of melanin, for example.   Pigment coloration is also found in human hair, skin, and eye  color. Pigment color can be a dark brown to black color. Melanin's  function is to protect the skin and other structures from UV  radiation. Melanogenesis happens when an organism is exposed to UV radiation. The UV radiation causes the skin to darken (or tan). Melanin effectively absorbs light, and the pigment is able to deplete most (99%) of UV rays that are absorbed.
It also  gives color to your skin, hair, and irise … s. Melanin is a pigment  which gives characteristic color to skin. Its main role is to  absorb harmful UV radiations and protect our skin cells from  damage. It determines the color of your skin. Melanin colors  hair, skin, eyes, feathers, etc. Melanogenesis happens when an organism is exposed to UV radiation. The UV radiation causes the skin to darken (or tan). Melanin effectively absorbs light, and the pigment is able to deplete most (99%) of UV rays that are absorbed.
This range of colors comes from the amount and type of a pigment called melanin found in the skin. There are two types of melanin--eumelanin and pheomelanin. In general, the more eumelanin in your skin, the darker your skin will be. People who make more pheomelanin than eumelanin tend to have lighter skin with freckles. Like many other traits, the amount and kind of pigment in your skin is controlled by genes.
Melanin is produced by cells called melanocytes in a process called melanogenesis. Melanin is made within small membrane–bound packages called melanosomes. As they become full of melanin, they move into the slender arms of melanocytes, from where they are transferred to the keratinocytes. 
The pigment is produced in a specialized group of cells known as melanocytes. There are three basic types of melanin: eumelanin, pheomelanin, and neuromelanin. The most common type of melanin is eumelanin. There are two types of eumelanin—brown eumelanin and black eumelanin. Pheomelanin is a cysteine-containing red polymer of benzothiazine units largely responsible for red hair, among other pigmentation. Neuromelanin is found in the brain, though its function remains obscure.