Histamine. Histamine is a chemical the immune system uses to help protect the body's cells against infection. The immune system is the body's natural defence against illness and infection. If the immune system detects a harmful foreign object, such as bacteria or a virus, it will release histamine into nearby cells
Histamine is secreted by basophils and mast cells as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. The basophils and mast cells are found in nearby connective tissue. This histamine release causes capillaries to become more permeable to white blood cells and other proteins, which proceed to target and attack foreign bodies in the affected tissue. Aside from humans, histamine is found in virtually all animals.
Histamine intolerance is not actually an allergy to histamine. It is actually not an allergy at all despite its similar symptoms. The symptoms are so similar because allergic reactions always involve the release of histamine in the body. Histamine tends to have a bad reputation because it is released during allergic reactions, causing a runny nose, watery eyes, decreased breathing ability, hives, and other typical allergy symptoms that no one enjoys. In reality, though, histamine plays a crucial role in many bodily processes.
As part of an immune response to foreign pathogens, histamine is produced by basophils and by mast cells found in nearby connective tissues. Histamine increases the permeability of the capillaries to white blood cells and some proteins, to allow them to engage pathogens in the infected tissues. Histamine base, obtained as a mineral oil mull, melts at 83-84 °C. Hydrochloride and phosphorus salts form white hygroscopic crystals and are easily dissolved in water or ethanol, but not in ether. In aqueous solution, histamine exists in two tautomeric forms: Nπ-H-histamine and Nτ-H-histamine.
Sites of histamine release. 1  Much of the histamine in the body is produced by the granules in mast cells and basophils as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. 2  Another important site where histamine is stored and released is in the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the stomach. 1 Histamine is also made in the brain where it acts as a neurotransmitter or chemical messenger that carries signals between nerv
Histamine in Foods. There are many foods that contain histamine or cause the body to release histamine when ingested. These types of reactions are food intolerances, and are different from food allergy in that the immune system is not involved in the reaction. The symptoms, however, can be the same as a food allergy.
To answer that question, first you have to know what histamines are. In the most basic sense, histamines are chemicals produced during any allergic response. When an allergen triggers the immune system, mast cells (a type of white blood cells) release histamines as part of the inflammatory immune reaction. 
Histamine is an organic nitrogenous compound involved in local immune responses as well as regulating physiological function in the gut and acting as a neurotransmitter. Histamine is involved in the inflammatory response and has a central role as a mediator of pruritus. Histamine base, obtained as a mineral oil mull, melts at 83-84 °C. Hydrochloride and phosphorus salts form white hygroscopic crystals and are easily dissolved in water or ethanol, but not in ether. In aqueous solution, histamine exists in two tautomeric forms: Nπ-H-histamine and Nτ-H-histamine.
1 Much of the histamine in the body is produced by the granules in mast cells and basophils as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. 1 Histamine is also made in the brain where it acts as a neurotransmitter or chemical messenger that carries signals between nerves. 2  Another important site where histamine is stored and released is in the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the stomach.