Over time, spices will lose their potency and not flavor your food as intended. As a general rule, whole spices will stay fresh for about 4 years, ground spices for about 3 to 4 years and dried leafy herbs for 1 to 3 years. To find out storage times for specific herbs and spices, you can consult our Keep It or Toss It database. 
Stored in an airtight container, in a cool, dry place, spices retain their potency longer than you'd think  as long as 4 years for whole spices, 2 to 3 years for ground spices, and 1 to 3 years for leafy herbs, depending on the herb. Whole peppercorns, nutmegs and cinnamon sticks hold on to their flavor for ages. 
Unopened dried spices have a shelf life of up to two or three years, depending on the specific spice and whether it is a whole spice or a ground spice. A rule of thumb is that whole spices (such as peppercorns, cinnamon sticks, and cloves) have the longest life. Ground herbs and spices are generally more fragile. Whole spices last twice as long as ground spices. In general, whole spices will last for two years while ground spices should be used within six to nine months for maximum flavor.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: So long as you store them properly, below is a guideline: How Long to Keep Spices: Once spices are ground, their delicate flavor components begin to degrade. Some people say you should replace your spices every 6 months while the government's guideline for freshness dating is 2 years. A good rule of thumb is one year for ground spices and two years for whole spices. A good, simple test is to open the jar and smell the spice
She says that whole spices last 3-4 years and that ground spices last 2-3 years.﻿ Two spice companies had different shelf life guidelines. McCormick says that herbs last 1-3 years, ground spices last 2-3 years and whole spices last 3-4 years. Frontier says that whole herbs and spices last 1-3 years and that ground ones last 1-2 years. By the way, some spice companies put “best by” dates on the bottom of their containers.
• Ground spices (nutmeg, cinnamon, turmeric): 2 to 3 years. • Herbs (basil, oregano, parsley): 1 to 3 years. • Seasoning blends: 1 to 2 years. • Whole spices (cloves, peppercorns, cinnamon sticks): 4 years. • Seeds: 4 years (except for poppy and sesame seeds, which should be discarded after 2 years). • Extracts: 4 years (except for vanilla, which will last forever). And as McCormick notes, if a certain bottle of spice originates from Baltimore, it's at least 15 years old, and if you have Schilling brand spices, they're at least seven years old. If you don't buy McCormick brand spices, there are a couple of things you can do to see if a spice is still good.
Stored in an airtight container [like our glass jars and bottles], these dry ingredients will be usable for a long time. Expert opinions vary, but, if you average all the opinions out, here’s approximately how long you should keep “Old Spice[s]” on your spice shelf: * Herbs – 1-3 years. * Spices – Whole 2-4 years. 
So exactly how long do spices last? As a general rule, whole spices will stay fresh for about 4 years, ground spices for about 2 to 3 years and dried herbs for 1 to 3 years. Here are some tips for maximizing the shelf life of spices: • Store spices in a cool, dark cupboard, away from direct heat or sunlight; keep tightly closed when not in use.