In most cases, aspergillosis is caused by a type of mold called Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus mold can often be found on dead leaves, compost piles and other decaying vegetable matter, stored grain, and even foods and spices. The mold spores may be carried indoors on shoes and clothing and can grow on carpeting. 
Aspergillosis. Aspergillosis is an infection caused by Aspergillus, a common mold (a type of fungus) that lives indoors and outdoors. Most people breathe in Aspergillus spores every day without getting sick. 
Allergic aspergillosis is a condition that occurs when people inhale the microscopic spores of aspergillus, causing an immune response in the body that can include a high fever, asthma attacks, and coughing up blood and mucus. 
Aspergillus is the most common household mold. There are over 185 species of Aspergillus and 22 species are known to cause human illness. Aspergillus fumigatus is the most isolated species followed by Aspergillus flavus. They can be found in almost any home or office. 
Aspergillosis is the group of diseases caused by Aspergillus. The most common subtype among paranasal sinus infections associated with aspergillosis is A. fumigatus. The symptoms include fever, cough, chest pain, or breathlessness, which also occur in many other illnesses, so diagnosis can be difficult. Aspergillus (/ˌaespərˈdʒɪləs/) ˌæspərˈdʒɪləs is a genus consisting of a few hundred mold species found in various climates. worldwide
Aspergillus grows in the same type of environment as the other four mold families. It is the most common of the black mold group. It feeds on many of the same materials as the rest of the common indoor mold group. There are three categories of Aspergillus. Stachybotrys, or black mold, is commonly recognized as the most dangerous of the mold species Stachybotrys chartarum. Spores from this particular mold produce mycotoxins, which are toxic to humans if inhaled, eaten, or touched.
1 Two of the better-known toxic molds include Stachybotrys chartarum (black mold), which can cause everything from headaches to cancer, and Aspergillus, which can cause severe lung infections, or progress to whole-body infections. 2  Mold is particularly dangerous for infants and children. The color of a mold generally has to do with the spores it produces, and has no bearing on whether it is dangerous or not. There are some white molds that grow on walls and other surfaces that can be just as bad as the harmful black molds.. Mycotoxin poisoning by Stachybotrys is referred to as stachybotryotoxicosis.
Aspergillus niger is the most abundant species of Aspergillus in nature as it can grow on a large variety of substances. Aspergillus niger can even grow in environments with very little nutrients available. In houses it is often found growing on damp walls. Aspergillus niger is black on the surface and white or yellow underneath. Aspergillus flavus produces the carcinogenic mycotoxin, aflatoxin which often contaminates foods such as nuts. After Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus is the second most common Aspergillus mold to infect humans. The surface of Aspergillus flavus is yellow-green in color and it is gold or red brown underneath. Aspergillus fumigatus causes infection in humans more often than any other Aspergillus specie
Aspergillus niger or A. niger is a fungus and one of the most common species of the genus Aspergillus. A. niger causes black mold of onions and ornamental plants. Infection of onion seedlings by A. niger can become systemic, manifesting only when conditions are conducive. A. niger causes a common postharvest disease of onions, in which the black conidia can be observed between the scales of the bulb.