Easy Afritada. Easy Afritada is another version of pork afritada. This recipe will guide you on how to prepare your favorite pork afritada with ease and confidence. My secret for a good afritada recipe, and for any other meat recipes, is the quality of the meat. I see to it that I use the freshest possible meat available
1 Warm the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in the same pan over medium heat. 2  Add onion and garlic and cook for 1-2 minutes. 3  Then add chicken and brown it slightly. 4  Add the tomato puree, pineapple syrup, soy sauce, and bay leaves. 5  Bring to a boil, cover and simmer for about 20 minutes, or until the chicken is almost tender. Instructions. 1  In a big pan over medium heat, heat 4 tablespoons of oil. 2  Warm the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in the same pan over medium heat. 3  Add potatoes, yellow bell pepper, carrots, and pineapple chunks and continue to cook for 5-6 minutes, or until the potatoes are cooked.
What is Afritada – Afritada is the basic Filipino tomato based stew. That’s chicken in tomato sauce with potato, carrots and bell pepper. What is Mechado – Mechado is usually a beef stew cooked with a thick layer of fat in the meat and has soy sauce in its tomato sauce. 
1 In a pot, heat about 2 tablespoons of oil over medium heat. 2  Add onions and garlic and cook, stirring regularly, until aromatic. 3  Add tomatoes and cook, mashing regularly with back of spoon, until softened and release juices. 4  Add fish sauce and cook for about 1 to 2 minutes. 5  Add chicken and water and bring to a boil. 1 Add chicken and cook, turning on sides once or twice, until lightly browned but not cooked through. 2  Remove from pan and drain on paper towels. 3  In a pot, heat about 2 tablespoons of oil over medium heat. 4
In Philippine cuisine there are several dishes that use tomato sauce based ingredients and Afritada is definitely one of them. Chicken Afritada. There are two types of Afritada, pork and chicken, and chicken is the easier version to cook. That is why I often prepare this dish rather than the pork counterpart. 
1 Add onion and garlic and cook for 1-2 minutes. 2  Then add chicken and brown it slightly. 3  Add the tomato puree, pineapple syrup, soy sauce, and bay leaves. 4  Bring to a boil, cover and simmer for about 20 minutes, or until the chicken is almost tender. 5  Stir occasionally. Instructions. 1  In a big pan over medium heat, heat 4 tablespoons of oil. 2  Warm the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in the same pan over medium heat. 3  Add potatoes, yellow bell pepper, carrots, and pineapple chunks and continue to cook for 5-6 minutes, or until the potatoes are cooked.
*** You can also boil the chicken and use the chicken stock instead of water.***. 1  Heat cooking oil in a pan or wok. 2  Saute potatoes, carrots and bell pepper. 3  Using the same pan, saute garlic & onion. 4  Add the chicken***. 5  Add the fish sauce and cook for 3 minutes. 6  Add water when it starts to dry up. 7  Add the tomato sauce. 8  Add all the vegetables. 9  Remove 1 Using the same pan, saute garlic & onion. 2  Add the chicken***. 3  Simmer for 10-15 minutes or until tender. ( 4 requires occasional stirring). 5  Add the fish sauce and cook for 3 minutes. 6  Add water when it starts to dry up. 7  Bring to a boil.
There is also Pork Afritada, and a combinations of both chicken and pork. What is consistent in this recipe are the potatoes, bell pepper, and tomato sauce. The tomato sauce is what makes this dish special, great and favorite of many-so get the best tomato sauce when cooking Afritada. 
Chicken Afritada is a stew of pan-fried chicken pieces and tomato sauce with some potatoes and bellpeppers. It was most probably adapted from a Spanish/latin dish called pollo guisado (sauteed chicken) which has olives in it. It is also comparable to the Italian’s pollo alla cacciatore or chicken cacciatore. 