Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: document management system (Noun). A computer system or set of computer programs used to track and store electronic documents and/or images of paper documents. Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: Document management system. A document management system is a computer system used to track and store electronic documents. It is usually also capable of keeping track of the different versions modified by different users. The term has some overlap with the concepts of content management system
A Document Management System (DMS) is a system (based on computer programs in the case of the management of digital documents) used to track, manage and store documents and reduce paper. Documents stored in a document management system — such as procedures, work instructions, and policy statements—provide evidence of documents under control.
The elements of a document management system. An effective document management solution specifies the following: What kinds of documents and other content can be created in an organization. What template to use for each kind of document. Summary: Learn about the elements of a document management solution and the document management planning process in SharePoint 2013. This article contains a high-level description of the various elements of a document management solution that is based o
Show more usage examples... Our document management team was working around the clock to make sure that everything went smoothly and nicely for our company. 2 people found this helpful. Just recently we have moved most, if not all, of our documents to our document retrieval system, also known as document management. Definition. Coordination and control of the flow (storage, retrieval, processing, printing, routing, and distribution) of electronic and paper documents in a secure and efficient manner, to ensure that they are accessible to authorized personnel as and when required.
While many EDM systems store documents in their native file format (Microsoft Word or Excel, PDF), some web-based document management systems are beginning to store content in the form of html. These policy management systems require content to be imported into the system. Documents stored in a document management system — such as procedures, work instructions, and policy statements—provide evidence of documents under control.
Definition. Electronic system designed to organized and manage documents. These documents are usually organized with software, which provides the user with the ability to access, modify, and centrally store the documents. Document management systems handle tedious tasks such as archiving, distribution, and creation of documents. An example of a document management system is the online banking section of a bank's website that allows users to manage and access their monthly banking statements. 
The earliest electronic document management (EDM) systems managed either proprietary file types, or a limited number of file formats. Many of these systems later became known as document imaging systems, because they focused on the capture, storage, indexing and retrieval of image file formats. Documents stored in a document management system — such as procedures, work instructions, and policy statements—provide evidence of documents under control.
Document management systems are becoming more important as it becomes increasingly obvious that the paperless office is an ideal that may never be achieved. Instead, document management systems strive to create systems that can handle paper and electronic documents together. PREVIOUSdocument flip. 
A document management system may support multiple versions of a document and may be able to combine text fragments written by different authors. It often includes a workflow component that routes documents to the appropriate users. See workflow and document imaging. document management system. Software that manages documents for electronic publishing. It generally supports a large variety of document formats and provides extensive access control and searching capabilities across LANs and WANs.