Font Size. A. A. A. When doctors test for fecal occult blood they are testing for the presence of microscopic or invisible blood in the stool, or feces. Fecal occult blood can be a sign of a problem in your digestive system, such as a growth, or polyp, or cancer in the colon or rectum. 
The fecal occult blood test (FOBT) is a lab test used to check stool samples for hidden (occult) blood. Occult blood in the stool may indicate colon cancer or polyps in the colon or rectum — though not all cancers or polyps bleed.
(December 2008). Fecal occult blood (FOB) refers to blood in the feces that is not visibly apparent (unlike other types of blood in stool such as melena or hematochezia). A fecal occult blood test (FOBT) checks for hidden (occult) blood in the stool (feces). Newer tests look for globin, DNA, or other blood factors including transferrin, while conventional stool guaiac tests look for heme. Fecal occult blood (FOB) refers to blood in the feces that is not visibly apparent (unlike other types of blood in stool such as melena or hematochezia
The guaiac-based fecal occult blood test (gFOBT) detects blood in the stool through a chemical reaction. This test cannot tell if the blood is from the colon or from other parts of the digestive tract (such as the stomach). If this test is positive, a colonoscopy will be needed to find the reason for the bleeding. 
The main use for the fecal occult blood test (FOBT) or the fecal immunochemical test (FIT) is as a screen for early colon cancer. Most cases of colon cancer begin with the development of benign intestinal polyps. Benign polyps are relatively common in people over the age of 50. 
A fecal occult blood test is done primarily to detect colon cancer in people without intestinal symptoms. Cancers of the colon are common and frequently produce fecal occult blood long before they cause other symptoms such as abdominal pain, rectal bleeding, or changes in bowel habits. Fecal occult blood usually is a result of slow (often intermittent) bleeding from inside the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. The slow bleed does not change the color of the stool or result in visible bright red blood.
1 Fecal occult blood test (FOBT). 2  For this test, you put tiny samples of your stool on a special card or cloth and send it to a lab. 3  The lab uses chemicals to find blood that can't be seen with the naked eye. 4  With some test kits, you can add the chemicals yourself at home. 1 Fecal immunochemical test (FIT), also called an immunochemical fecal occult blood test (iFOBT). 2  For this test, you take a sample with a brush and dab it onto a special card. 3  This test may be easier to do at home than the FOBT.
A stool test is one of many tests used to look for colorectal cancer. These tests may find cancer early, when treatment works better. Colorectal cancer affects the large intestine (colon) and the rectum. There are three kinds of stool tests: 1  Fecal occult blood test (FOBT). 2  For this test, you put tiny samples of your stool on a special card or cloth and send it to a lab. 3  The lab uses chemicals to find blood that can't be seen with the naked eye. 1 Fecal immunochemical test (FIT), also called an immunochemical fecal occult blood test (iFOBT). 2  For this test, you take a sample with a brush and dab it onto a special card. 3  This test may be easier to do at home than the FOBT.
Typically, occult blood is passed in such small amounts that it can be detected only through the chemicals used in a fecal occult blood test. If blood is detected through a fecal occult blood test, additional tests may be needed to determine the source of the bleeding. The fecal occult blood test can only detect the presence or absence of blood — it doesn't indicate potential sources of bleeding. 1  Why it's done. Occult blood in the stool may indicate colon cancer or polyps in the colon or rectum — though not all cancers or polyps bleed.