Lung Cancer. Cancer that forms in tissues of the lung, usually in the cells lining air passages. The two main types are small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. These types are diagnosed based on how the cells look under a microscope. 
Lungfish are best known for retaining characteristics primitive within the Osteichthyes, including the ability to breathe air, and structures primitive within Sarcopterygii, including the presence of lobed fins with a well-developed internal skeleton. Today, lungfish live only in Africa, South America and Australia. 
The most common symptoms of lung cancer are: 1  A cough that does not go away or gets worse. 2  Chest pain that is often worse with deep breathing, coughing, or laughing. 3  Hoarseness. 4  Weight loss and loss of appetite. 5  Coughing up blood or rust-colored sputum (spit or phlegm). 6  Shortness of breath. 7  Feeling tired or weak. 
People who smoke cigarettes are 15 to 30 times more likely to get lung cancer or die from lung cancer than people who do not smoke. Even smoking a few cigarettes a day or smoking occasionally increases the risk of lung cancer. Cigarette smoking is the number one risk factor for lung cancer. In the United States, cigarette smoking is linked to about 90% of lung cancers. Using other tobacco products such as cigars or pipes also increases the risk for lung cancer. Tobacco smoke is a toxic mix of more than 7,000 chemicals
The human lungs are a pair of large, spongy organs optimized for gas exchange between our blood and the air. Our bodies require oxygen in order to survive. The lungs provide us with that vital oxygen while also removing carbon dioxide before it can reach hazardous levels. Alveoli are the functional units of the lungs that permit gas exchange between the air in the lungs and the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. Alveoli are found in small clusters called alveolar sacs at the end of the terminal bronchiole.
Smoking and lung cancer. By far the biggest cause of lung cancer is smoking. Although some people who have never smoked get lung cancer, smoking causes more than 8 out of 10 cases (86%). The more cigarettes you smoke, the more likely you are to get lung cancer. But the length of time you have been a smoker is also important. Starting smoking at a young age also greatly increases the risk.
The tissue of the lungs can be affected by a number of diseases, including pneumonia and lung cancer. Chronic diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema can be related to smoking or exposure to harmful substances. Diseases such as bronchitis can also affect the respiratory tract. The lobes are further divided into bronchopulmonary segments and lobules. The tissues of the lungs have a unique blood supply, receiving deoxygenated blood sent from the heart for the purposes of receiving oxygen (the pulmonary circulation) and a separate blood supply of oxygenated blood (the bronchial circulation).
People who quit smoking have a lower risk of lung cancer than if they had continued to smoke, but their risk is higher than the risk for people who never smoked. Quitting smoking at any age can lower the risk of lung cancer. Cigarette smoking can cause cancer almost anywhere in the body. Cigarette smoking is the number one risk factor for lung cancer. In the United States, cigarette smoking is linked to about 90% of lung cancers. Using other tobacco products such as cigars or pipes also increases the risk for lung cancer. Tobacco smoke is a toxic mix of more than 7,000 chemicals
The lungs are the primary organs of respiration in humans and many other animals. Humans have two lungs, a right lung and a left lung. They are situated within the thoracic cavity of the chest. The right lung is bigger than the left lung, as the left lung shares space in the chest with the heart. The lungs together weigh approximately 1.3 kilograms (2.9 lb), with the right lung weighing more than the left. The lobes are further divided into bronchopulmonary segments and lobules. The tissues of the lungs have a unique blood supply, receiving deoxygenated blood sent from the heart for the purposes of receiving oxygen (the pulmonary circulation) and a separate blood supply of oxygenated blood (the bronchial circulation).