Recovering from hip replacement. After the operation, you will be lying flat on your back and may have a pillow between your legs to keep your hip in the correct position. The nursing staff will monitor your condition and you will have a large dressing on your leg to protect the wound. You will be given an appointment to check up on your progress, usually 6-12 weeks after your hip replacement. The surgeon will want to see you a year later to check that everything is OK, and every five years after that to X-ray your hip and make sure it is not beginning to loosen.
The physical therapist will check your progress daily and will keep your surgeon informed. Progress. The usual hospital stay for hip replacement is 3 to 5 days, and full recovery typically takes 3 to 6 months. To protect your hip, you will often be asked not to sit past a 90-degree angle after surgery. If this is the case, you will be provided the necessary tools to assist during this process. 
It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. About Bonesmart.org. Once a patient no longer needs walking aids and can walk around the house without pain--in addition to being able to walk two blocks around the house without pain or resting--all of these are considered signs of short-term recovery. The average short-term recovery time for a total hip replacement is 4 to 6 weeks. Long-term recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery
For most people it is safe to have sex about 4 to 6 weeks after a hip replacement. Talk to your doctor about how and when it is safe. And ask your physical therapist or occupational therapist about positions that will not put your new hip joint at risk. What we know today about the long-term outcomes of hip replacement surgery comes from studies of joints that were replaced 10 to 20 years ago or longer. People who have hip replacement surgery today may expect the artificial joint to last longer than joints replaced 10 to 20 years ago.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may recover in 6 to 8 months; while others may require a longer recovery time. More Hip Articles & FAQs. Perhaps the most common questions patients have about hip replacement are regarding the recovery process and recovery time. There is no definite answer, as each individual’s situation differs significantly from anyone else’s, but typically patients return to normal activity within 3-6 months.
Usually, people do not spend more than 3 to 5 days in the hospital after hip replacement surgery. Full recovery from the surgery takes about 3 to 6 months, depending on the type of surgery, your overall health, and the success of your rehabilitation. It is important to get instructions from your doctor before leaving the hospital and to follow them carefully once you get home. It describes what a hip replacement is, who should have it, and alternatives to surgery. If surgery is required, it explains what the surgery involves, recovery, and rehabilitation. If you have further questions, you may wish to discuss them with your health care provider.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. Adapted by MNT from original media release. Rate this article (click stars to rate). Contributing factors to recovery from hip replacement. There are a number of contributing factors that influence recovery time. Josephine Fox, a moderator at the BoneSmart.org hip replacement forums and nurse of over fifty years, says that a positive attitude is everything.