If you have multiple GALs in your organization, only one GAL is displayed in the Outlook Address Book on a client computer. This address list displays as Global Address List, even if you specified a different name when you created it in Exchange Server 2007. Topic Last Modified: 2007-01-31. A global address list (GAL) is a directory that contains entries for every group, user, and contact within an organization's implementation of Microsoft Exchange Server. GALs are displayed in the Microsoft Outlook Address Book on a client computer.
1 Global Address List (GAL) (recommended) To display this address book, you must use a Microsoft Exchange Server account. 2  The GAL contains the names and e-mail addresses of everyone in your organization. 3  The GAL is automatically configured with an Exchange account. Note: We recommend using the Global Address List as your default address book. If you open the Microsoft Office Outlook Address Book and do not see the name or e-mail address you are looking for, you might need to choose another address book from the Address Book list.
1 Right-click the selected contacts, and then click Add to Personal Address Book or Add to Contacts. 2  On the File menu, click Import and Export. 3  Click Import from another program or file, and then click Next. 4  In the Select file type to import from list, click Personal Address Book or Contacts, and then click Next. 1 On the File menu, click Import and Export. 2  Click Import from another program or file, and then click Next. 3
To make changes to the Address Book, see Make changes to entries in the Address Book. When you open the Address Book for the first time, the default address book is displayed. If you have a Microsoft Exchange account, the default address book is usually your Global Address List. For IMAP, POP3, and other types of e-mail accounts, it is usually an Outlook Address Book. Add or remove an address book. The Outlook Address Book is a collection of address books or address lists, created from your Outlook contact folders. You can use the Address Book to look up and select names, e-mail addresses, and distribution lists when you address e-mail messages.
Exchange features full support for the Microsoft Outlook email client. Often, Outlook contacts are stored on the Exchange server as a Global Address List (GAL) that contains all the contact information for everyone in your business. To export the GAL to Microsoft Excel, you first need to move it to a Contacts folder in Outlook. Step 8. Click on the Global Address List (GAL) or any other contacts you want add to the Contacts folder. Right-click the GAL and other contacts, and then click Add to Contacts.. Step 9. Click File, then click Import and Export.. Click Next.. Select Contacts and click Next again.
Default Global Address List This address list contains all mail-enabled users, contacts, groups, or rooms in the organization. During setup, Exchange creates various default address lists. The most familiar address list is the GAL. By default, the GAL contains all recipients in an Exchange organization. 
The following types of address books can be displayed in the Address Book: Global Address List To display this address book, you must use a Microsoft Exchange Server account. The Global Address List contains the names and e-mail addresses of everyone in your organization. Add or remove an address book. The Outlook Address Book is a collection of address books or address lists, created from your Outlook contact folders. You can use the Address Book to look up and select names, e-mail addresses, and distribution lists when you address e-mail messages.
When you add someone from the Global Address List (GAL) to your contacts, you can personalize that person’s contact information on your computer without changing anything in the GAL. On the Navigation Bar, click People. 
Service: Exchange. Note: We recommend using the Global Address List as your default address book. If you open the Microsoft Office Outlook Address Book and do not see the name or e-mail address you are looking for, you might need to choose another address book from the Address Book list.