Breeding Chinchillas. Most females mature at about 7 months of age and may be put into breeding at this time. Males should be placed into breeding when they are approximately 7 or 8 months old. Chinchillas should be placed into breeding before they turn 2 years old for optimum ability to breed. A chinchilla s gestation period is 111 days
Overseas the average breeding chinchilla will weigh over 650 grams for a male and 700+ grams for a female. In New Zealand breeders should try to get breeding chinchillas as big, and healthy, as possible but over 550 grams for males and over 600 grams for females. It is widely accepted that most chinchillas have stopped growing and have matured to a point where they are capable of bearing young successfully and well by 12 months of age, though in the case of some mutations, namely Velvets, they may not mature until 18 months of age.
Age to breed. The age a chinchilla should begin breeding, or be added to a breeding program is a hot topic among chinchilla owners, breeders, rescuers, and anyone else who wants to put their two cents worth in. It is widely accepted that most chinchillas have stopped growing and have matured to a point where they are capable of bearing young successfully and well by 12 months of age, though in the case of some mutations, namely Velvets, they may not mature until 18 months of age.
While young chinchillas are sexually mature at a young age the females should not be bred until they are at least 8-9 months old. It is actually best to wait until they are at least one year old as they are still growing themselves until then! Birth Weight The average weight of a newborn chinchilla is 30 - 60 grams (1 - 2 ounces). Kits in the lower range can be a challenge to keep alive and should be watched closely. Weaning Age Aim to wean your kits at 8 weeks of age.
For example, most chinchillas are capable of breeding at around the age of 5 months. In human terms, this would be early teens or even preteen, an age bracket in which mating is definitely not recommended. Most breeders will wait until both male and female are around 9 months of age. Some will wait even a bit longer. What You Need To Know Before Breeding Chinchillas. Breeding chinchillas involves a lot more than simple putting a male and female together in the same cage.
Chinchillas can reach sexual maturity as young as 4 – 5 months of age. However, females should not be exposed to a breeding situation until they are at least one year plus and you are confident that they have reached full size. 
If the female is not in heat you certainly can (and should) let them have supervised play time together. On the other end of the age issue is the fact that if a chinchilla has not reproduced by the time it is 2 years old, it probably never will. Breeding Life Healthy chinchillas in captivity live for up to 17 years. Until they are about 10 years old they can be in breeding. Birth Weight The average weight of a newborn chinchilla is 30 - 60 grams (1 - 2 ounces). Kits in the lower range can be a challenge to keep alive and should be watched closely. Weaning Age Aim to wean your kits at 8 weeks of age.
Breeding & Babies. Breeding & Mating. Chinchillas become sexually mature when they are around eight months old. They mate seasonally based upon the light cycle. In the northern hemisphere, mating season takes place from about November until May. 
A Basic Guide to Chinchilla Breeding. Chinchillas have no specific mating season and breed any time in the year. Unlike most members of the rodent family, they have a longer conception period of 111 days (approximately 4 months).