Garnet is a very popular gemstone, and is the most well-known dark red gemstone. Red Garnet gemstones (Almandine and Pyrope) are very affordable and faceted into all types of jewerly, including necklaces, rings, bracelets, and earrings. Round cabochons of red Garnet are also popular and used in rings and bracelets. 1 Rhodolite-Rose-red form of Garnet with a light color or more purplish color than typical Garnet gemstones. 2  It is usually an intermediary variety between Pyrope and Almandine, though more closely towards Pyrope in composition. 3  Star Garnet-Form of Almandine Garnet that exhibits asterism in the form of a four-rayed star.
Garnet, a naturally inert mineral, is a sharp, angular, twelve-sided crystal (officially a rhombic dodecahedron), with a hardness of between 7.5 and 8.5 on the Mohs scale (where diamonds, which serve as the benchmark for hardness, rank as a 10). 
The garnet Mineral Group. Garnet is not a single mineral, but a group contains closely related, isomorphous minerals that form a series with each other. The Garnet members form intermediary minerals between each member, and may even intergrow within a single crystal
Garnet is not a single mineral, but describes a group of several closely related minerals. Garnets come in a variety of colors and have many different varieties. However, the most widely-known color of Garnet gemstones is dark red. When the term Garnet is used, it is usually connotative of the dark red form; other color Garnets are usually given more descriptive gemstone terms. 1 Rhodolite-Rose-red form of Garnet with a light color or more purplish color than typical Garnet gemstones. 2  It is usually an intermediary variety between Pyrope and Almandine, though more closely towards Pyrope in composition. 3  Star Garnet-Form of Almandine Garnet that exhibits asterism in the form of a four-rayed star.
Garnet is the name used for a large group of rock-forming minerals. These minerals share a common crystal structure and a generalized chemical composition of A 3 B 2 (SiO 4) 3. In that composition A can be Ca, Mg, Fe 2+ or Mn 2+ , and B can be Al, Fe 3+ , Mn 3+ , V 3+ or Cr 3+ . Garnet often occurs as an accessory mineral in igneous rocks such as granite. Many people are familiar with almandine garnet because it is sometimes seen as dark red crystals in the igneous rocks used as granite countertops.
The most commonly encountered minerals in the garnet group include almandine, pyrope, spessartine, andradite, grossular, and uvarovite. They all have a vitreous luster, a transparent-to-translucent diaphaneity, a brittle tenacity, and a lack of cleavage. Garnet often occurs as an accessory mineral in igneous rocks such as granite. Many people are familiar with almandine garnet because it is sometimes seen as dark red crystals in the igneous rocks used as granite countertops.
Garnet is a name of Middle English origin, derived from the dark red gemstone, which was in turn named for the pomegranate that the garnet crystals resemble. The surname Garnett comes from an Old English occupational surname referring to a seller of hinges. It is both a surname and a given name. 
When thinking of garnet, most people think of red gemstones. Garnet most commonly occurs in red, and the origin of the name garnet lies in this deep red hue. The name garnet comes from the Medieval Latin word, granatum, which is an adjective meaning dark-red. Different types of garnet occur in different locations. The following shows the type of garnet and place where it is usually found: Pyrope: China, Madagascar, Myanmar (Burma), South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and the USA. Pyrope (rhodolite) : Brazil, India, Sri Lanka, Thailand
Pure crystals of garnet are still used as gemstones. The gemstone varieties occur in shades of green, red, yellow, and orange. In the US it is known as the birthstone for January. It is the state mineral of Connecticut, New York's gemstone, and star garnet (garnet with rutile asterisms) is the state gemstone of Idaho. The different species are pyrope, almandine, spessartine, grossular (varieties of which are hessonite or cinnamon-stone and tsavorite), uvarovite and andradite. The garnets make up two solid solution series: pyrope-almandine-spessartine and uvarovite-grossular-andradite.