Wethered Male Goats. Mamas lounging with their kids. In this picture the kids are spread out a bit, whereas often the kids will be in piles with their sister or brothers all pressed up against mom. The sad reality is that we don't need or want the boys as much as the girls. 
Visit us on FaceBookfor current news. WETHERING YOUR GOATS. Many goat producers routinely wether (castrate) their buck kids with little thought as to why they do this extra work. A common belief amongst breeders is that this procedure is a necessary step in raising goats. 
Best Answer: You spelled it incorrectly. The way you spelled it means weathered, as in weathered by the sun, wind and rain. A wethered goat is a castrated male goat. A buck is a male goat. A doe is a female goat. A buckling is a young male goat. A doeling is a young female goat. A kid is a baby goat of either sex. ~Garnet Permaculture homesteading/farming over 20 years Raising meat goats since 1999 P.S. Not picking on you about your spelling. I'm the worst speller ever.
Many goat owners live in fear that their wethered goats or bucks will, sometime in their lives, develop obstruction because of urinary calculi. Many of us feel helpless because of the potential problem. 
If your goat is truly a wether, it cannot breed a doe. Goats, like many other animals, mount each other to demonstrate dominance.  However, if your goat was banded to wethe … r him, there is a chance that it was not done properly. What is a female billy goat called There is no such thing as a billy goat or a nannie goat. A female is a doe (nannie). A male is a buck (billie). A baby is a kid. And a casterated boy (not intact) is a wether.
Hay and roughage (grasses and bushes) should make up the majority of a wether's diet, as with all goats. The hay will keep their rumen (stomachs) healthy and functioning properly. Goats should have wide rumens -- that is not fat, that is a healthy stomach. Fat is stored on the rump, along the spine, and on the chest. 
To turn it into a wether-ie a castrated male, so that it can't impregnate female goats, does, also once a goat is wethered it is less like to get the buck taint to its meat. 2 people found this useful. Edit. What is a female billy goat called There is no such thing as a billy goat or a nannie goat. A female is a doe (nannie). A male is a buck (billie). A baby is a kid. And a casterated boy (not intact) is a wether.
Does and wethers (neutered males) do not develop a smell like bucks do. It is bucks and their smell that have given all goats a bad rap for smelling. If you keep your buck with your does (not recommended) the buck smell will get on the does, and if you milk the does, it can get in their milk. IMPORTANT: We very strongly recommend that bucks be housed separate from your does. This is the only way you can have control over your breeding. If you run the buck with the does, you will have no idea when your does are going to kid.
I don't know what to weather a goat is, but a wether is a castrated male sheep. To wether a goat is to castrate it. To get someone's goat is to deliberately provoke that person to an angry, ill considered response.   The expression is to let someone (or something) get your goat. …  Letting someone or something get your goat means reacting in anger to provocation instead of keeping your temper.
You can only wether a goat when it is a kid. You can either use rings and a wethering tool or a type of tool that cuts through the cord of the testicles with out breaking the … skin. With the rings, place a ring on the points of the wethering tool. What is a female billy goat called There is no such thing as a billy goat or a nannie goat. A female is a doe (nannie). A male is a buck (billie). A baby is a kid. And a casterated boy (not intact) is a wether.