The magazine's survey indicates that a midrange wood deck addition that costs $10,350 in the Mid-Atlantic region of the U.S. will recoup about 70 percent of its value at resale on the national average. In the same study, a composite deck addition that cost $15,579 recouped 62.8 percent on the national average. The more elaborate your deck design and the choice of materials will increase the cost of the deck, so keep those factors in mind. The cost of a professionally built pressured-treated wood deck starts at about $15 per square foot, including materials. The cost for an elaborately built deck using costly hardwoods or composite materials can run about $35 per square foot
Tell your provider how much the new deck cost to build so that insurance coverage can be added to your policy. If the replacement value for your home is $200,000 and the deck cost $3,000, the policy will be increased to reflect the replacement cost of the new deck. The same holds true for any addition you make to your house whether it be a new garage, dormers or an additional room built on to your home. The more elaborate your deck design and the choice of materials will increase the cost of the deck, so keep those factors in mind. The cost of a professionally built pressured-treated wood deck starts at about $15 per square foot, including materials. The cost for an elaborately built deck using costly hardwoods or composite materials can run about $35 per square foot
Decking Prices. Once you determine what kind of decking materials you'll need to build the structure, it's time to get down to price. While the average cost to build a deck averages between $4,000 and $10,000, that doesn't account for the materials. Here is the average cost of each decking material, broken down by average price range per board: It's important to know what board sizes you'll need to purchase for your deck. In addition to the deck itself, there's also the cost to purchase a permit. You will have to pay a fee for the contractor to acquire the necessary permit and the cost varies from city to city. You may also have see an increase in your homeowners insurance premium because of the new structural addition to your home.
1 Hiring someone to do the work for you makes your total cost in the range of $3,500. 2  You can buy the materials for a 12-foot-square redwood deck off the second floor, with a flight of steps leading to the ground, for about $6,000 and build it yourself. Here's a look at what they cost. For basic designs using the least expensive lumber, you can expect to pay from about $6 to $8 per square foot of deck area. Even if you choose top-of-the-line redwood lumber or want a hot tub, material costs are still reasonable, anywhere from $20 to $35 per square foot.
1 Doing it yourself, you can build an 8x10-foot ground-level deck from treated lumber for about $500 in materials. 2  Having a contractor build it for you raises the price to $1,500. 3  You could build a treated-lumber raised deck, say 10x16 feet, for about $1,500 in materials. Here's a look at what they cost. For basic designs using the least expensive lumber, you can expect to pay from about $6 to $8 per square foot of deck area. Even if you choose top-of-the-line redwood lumber or want a hot tub, material costs are still reasonable, anywhere from $20 to $35 per square foot.
In the total materials cost section include expenses not only for decking boards, which are normally 35% - 65% of total materials expenditures, but gross amount spent on concrete, posts, hangers, railing and other components while building a deck. Type of decking is an essential factor in determining the cost of building a deck. Particular materials not only vary in purchase price, but labor cost will be different when using a specific product due to simplicity or complexity of working with a certain type of decking materials.
A low-frills patio or deck is pretty cheap. Everyone's definition of cheap is different, but decks can be had for as low as $1,000, according to Jessica Piha, a spokeswoman for Porch.com, a website that helps homeowners find the right contractor. But the average deck costs $8,300, Piha says. And how much is a cheap patio? The cost to install a 200-square-foot concrete patio is about $740 to $840 on average, according to HomeWyse.com, an online reference for home projects.
1 Wood is the most traditional, common and easily available material for decks; it is typically easier to work with than composite materials. 2  Composite deck installation can cost $25-$70 or more a square foot (8,000 -$22,400 for 16'x20). 1
Decks are less expensive than most other home additions. And because decks are so popular, they also make homes more marketable and valuable. Here's a look at what they cost. For basic designs using the least expensive lumber, you can expect to pay from about $6 to $8 per square foot of deck area. Even if you choose top-of-the-line redwood lumber or want a hot tub, material costs are still reasonable, anywhere from $20 to $35 per square foot.