Barynya, which literally means landlady, is a traditional Russian folk dance that combines chastushka (a traditional folk poem that is often in the form of satire) with spirited dancing. The dancing usually has no set choreography and consists mostly of fancy stomping and squatting. While most foreigners identify traditional Russian dance with the stomping and and knee bending characteristic of Eastern Slavic dance styles, many forget about traditions of dance that originated from Turkic, Uralic, Mongolic and Caucasian peoples who are also native to Russia.
The History of Russian Ballet. 17th Century. Ballet in Russia was created by foreigners and yet it is most definitely Russian. In the 17th century ballet was introduced into Russia by the second Romanov ruler Tsar Alexis Mikhailovich (1629-1676, reigned from 1645) for his wedding festivities. 
There are many different kinds of Ukranian dance. One type dance is 'The dance of the Ukraine' which was originally a mixture of Polish, Russian, and even English mix (Ukraine at one time was part of Russia). It was not as graceful as the Russian country dance. The above according to F.C. Notts Book Stage and Fancy Dancing(1891) is the position at the Commencement. 
Hopak (Ukrainian: гопа́к, [ɦoˈpɑk]), also referred to as Gopak or Cossack dance, is a Ukrainian dance. It is performed most often as a solitary concert dance by amateur and professional Ukrainian dance ensembles, as well as other performers of folk dances. The Hopak is often popularly referred to as the  National Dance of Ukraine .
Report Abuse. Russian gopak Ukrainian folk dance originating as a male dance among the Zaporozhian Cossacks but later danced by couples, male soloists, and mixed groups of dancers. In western Ukraine, as the hopak-kolo, it is danced in a closed circle. The hopak has no fixed pattern of steps. Men competitively improvise steps, high leaps, squatting kicks, and turns; women dance simple steps, sway, clap, or circle. Changes of step do not necessarily correspond with the musical metre (2/4).
If a Husky Russkie is celebrating a victory for Glorious Mother Russia, he is 90% likely to be doing this dance. It's commonly known as the Cossack Dance, but this is one of those cases of mislabeling by foreigners. In Ukraine, Cossack Dance or Kazatsky, is another name for the Ukrainian Hopak stage dance. The squat-and-kick move is properly called prisyadka (knee-bending) and is just one part of the dance, but it's the only part known to most non-Russians. It's one of the more difficult parts of the dance, requiring good balance and substantial leg muscle strength, but of course Mother Russia Makes You Strong
Kazachok is a Ukrainian folk dance sometimes confused with it. If this is not enough, Norwegians pride themselves by stating that russian folklore actually learned this from them ! The squat is essential in the Norwegian male dance ''halling'' . Fun fact: There is a martial art based on Hopak dancing. The squat-and-kick move is properly called prisyadka (knee-bending) and is just one part of the dance, but it's the only part known to most non-Russians. It's one of the more difficult parts of the dance, requiring good balance and substantial leg muscle strength, but of course Mother Russia Makes You Stro