Click on each shelf cubby to get a closer look. We use things made from rocks and minerals every day. It is estimated that every person in the United States will use more than three million pounds of rocks, minerals and metals during their lifetime.
1 For example, Granite is a rock made of the minerals: quartz, mica, and other minerals. 2  Students will know that rocks and minerals are found in the earth's crust. 3  Students will realize that rocks and minerals are used to produce many important materials.
We have made use of rocks and minerals from the very beginning of time. If you look at how we named the eras of human development, STONE AGE, COPPER AGE, BRONZE AGE and IRON AGE, it is obvious how important rocks and minerals have been to us all.
1 Students will realize that rocks and minerals are used to produce many important materials. 2  Concrete is an important material that is used in the foundations of houses and in sidewalks. 3  Concrete is made of aggregate, sand, and limestone. 4  Bricks are widely used for building and for decoration.
Based on current consumption, it is estimated that you-and every other person in the United States-will use more than a million pounds of rocks, minerals and metals during your lifetime including: 1  800 pounds of lead-Primarily used in the construction of batteries.
There is little we do that does not involve rocks and minerals and the metals we extract from them. Sadly, people seldom stop to think about them. There are thousands of known minerals. We thought you might be interested in learning how a few of them affect you every day.
Feldspar is a rock-forming mineral. It is important industrially in making glass, ceramics, enamelware and soaps. It is also used in making bonding material for abrasive wheels, cements, fertilizer, tarred roofing materials and as a sizing or filler in textiles and paper.
We use things made from rocks and minerals every day. If something doesn't come from a plant or an animal, it has to be mined. According to the Mineral Information Institute, it is estimated that in a lifetime, a person living in North America will use up the following quantity of rocks and minerals: