Wolf Habitat and Distribution. Wolves are very diverse animals, which is why they have a habitat that is very spread out around the world. It isn’t true that they only live in very thick forests and come out at night. Wolves have been identified in many areas that you may not ever imagine them being able to survive. It is common for the habitat of a pack of wolves to overlap with that of other packs. Generally this is very peaceful with the different packs avoiding each other. However, when the size of the habitat is reduced and when food is hard to find they can become more aggressive towards each other.
Wolves require large areas of contiguous habitat that can include forests and mountainous terrain, and Mexican gray wolves can thrive in desert and brush in the southwest. Suitable habitat must have sufficient access to prey, protection from excessive persecution, and areas for denning and taking shelter. Gray wolves were once common throughout all of North America, but were exterminated in most areas of the United States by the mid 1930s. Today, their range has been reduced to Canada, Alaska, the Great Lakes, northern Rockies and Pacific Northwest.
Habitat and Range. Wolves can thrive in a diversity of habitats from the tundra to woodlands, forests, grasslands and deserts. Today, gray wolves have populations in Alaska, northern Michigan, northern Wisconsin, western Montana, northern Idaho, northeast Oregon and the Yellowstone area of Wyoming. Size: Wolves vary in size depending on where they live. Wolves in the north are usually larger than those in the south. The average size of a wolf's body is 3-5 feet long. Their tails are usually 1-2
Red wolves are very adaptive to different types of ecosystems and can live in a variety of areas such as forests, coastal prairies, and sometimes swamps. They have a secretive nature and require adequate cover, so they prefer areas with brush, shrubs, or trees. 
The gray wolf is a habitat generalist, and can occur in deserts, grasslands, forests and arctic tundras. Habitat use by gray wolves is strongly correlated with the abundance of prey, snow conditions, absence or low livestock densities, road densities, human presence and topography. The gray wolf or grey wolf (Canis lupus) also known as the timber wolf, or western wolf, is a canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America and Eurasia. It is the largest extant member of its family, with males averaging 43–45 kg (95–99 lb), and females 36–38.5 kg (79–85 lb).
The gray wolves habitat needs to be a very large area that is all wildland. They also need a large number of prey in this area so they can hunt. Theses wolves can survive in many different areas. These areas include deserts, forests, mountains, tundras, and plains. There are many other creatures that share the habitat with the gray wolf. One of those creatures is elk. Wolves prey on elk. Another animal that shares the wolves habitat is rabbits.
Habits & habitat. Wolves are found in North America, Europe, Asia and North Africa. They tend to live in the remote wilderness, though red wolves prefer to live in swamps, coastal prairies and forests. The most common type of wolf is the gray wolf, or timber wolf. Adult grey wolves are 4 to 6.56 feet (120 to 200centimeters) long and weigh about 40 to 175 pounds (18 to 79 kilograms). Just like its name, the gray wolf typically has thick gray fur, although pure white or all black variations exist.
The Natural Habitat of Wolves. A snowy gray wolf keeps an eye out for prey. ruhender Wolf image by stefanie3 from Fotolia.com. Wolves are members of the canine family, but they’re not exactly domesticated like your average German shepherd. Though numerous subspecies of wolves exist, scientists and researchers have recognized four distinct species: gray wolves, eastern timber wolves, Ethiopian wolves and red wolves. The eastern timber wolf has long been classified as a subspecies of the gray wolf; however, a 2012 genetic study by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in the journal North American Fauna has suggested the eastern timber wolf is its own distinct species.
A wolf can live in many places such as a forest, swampy areas, deserts, artic areas and tundras, so it depends on which wolf you are talking about. The Grey Wolf lives in many areas around the world, mostly cold tundras or forests. Arctic wolves live in the Arctic Circle. It is also known as the buffalo wolf or the Eastern Timber Wolf. These wolves, once, dominated and claimed the vast stretches of continental U.S.A., especially, the western United States and southern Canada as their habitat. Today, Minnesota, Michigan, and Wisconsin serve