Podiatry. Podiatry or podiatric medicine is a branch of medicine devoted to the study of diagnosis, medical and surgical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle, and lower extremity. The term podiatry came into use in the early 20th century in the United States and is now used worldwide with countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia. A Doctor of Podiatric Medicine, is a medical specialist who diagnoses and treats conditions affecting the foot, ankle, and structures of the leg.
Podiatrists are the most qualified doctors to care for your feet. They complete four years of training in a podiatric medical school and three years of hospital residency training. This training is similar to that of other doctors. Podiatrists can specialize in many fields, including surgery, sports medicine, wound care, pediatrics (children), and diabetic care.
Podiatrist. A podiatrist, also known as a podiatric physician, or 'foot doctor', is a medical professional, a physician devoted to the study and medical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle and lower extremity. The preparatory education of most podiatrists includes four years of undergraduate work, followed by four years in an accredited podiatric medical school, followed by a three or four year hospital-based surgical residency. Podiatrists are licensed in all 50 states.
The level and scope of the practice of podiatry vary among countries. According to the American Association of Colleges of Podiatric Medicine, a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) is a medical specialist who diagnoses and treats conditions affecting the foot, ankle, and structures of the leg. The Australian Podiatry Council has defined the scope of podiatry in Australia as: Podiatry deals with the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of medical and surgical conditions of the feet and lower limbs.
The term podiatry came into use in the early 20th century in the United States and is now used worldwide, including countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia. The term chiropody is still used in Ontario, Canada, which is currently reviewing a transition to a more comprehensive podiatry model of foot care. The Australian Podiatry Council has defined the scope of podiatry in Australia as: Podiatry deals with the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of medical and surgical conditions of the feet and lower limbs.
For the sake of clarity, throughout this website, the term podiatrist is used in the sense that has been traditional for 50 years now, and in the sense it is used in the entirety of the United States and in the majority of Canada--to describe a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine, or D.P.M.. Podiatric Medicine is the health care specialty that provides comprehensive medical treatment of the foot. What is a Podiatrist? Throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, most people know that a Podiatrist is the term for an individual with a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (D.P.M.) degree.
A podiatrist is a doctor of podiatric medicine (DPM), also known as a podiatric physician or surgeon. Podiatrists diagnose and treat conditions of the foot, ankle, and related structures of the leg. They complete four years of training in a podiatric medical school and three years of hospital residency training. This training is similar to that of other doctors. Podiatrists can specialize in many fields, including surgery, sports medicine, wound care, pediatrics (children), and diabetic care.
Many individuals have ailments of the lower legs, ankles, and the feet that often need the attention of a doctor. This type of doctor is a podiatrist often termed a chiropodist and known to many as a “foot doctor”. Their specialty is studying, diagnosing, and treating problems and conditions of these types of ailments. Prevention is another area of their specialty. Other issues and conditions that a podiatrist deals with are some of the following: • Any type of pain involving the bones of the lower legs, ankles, or feet. • Any discomfort or condition of the connective tissues or soft tissues. • Different types of arthritic problems.