One cup of shredded green leaf lettuce contains 133 micrograms of vitamin A, which is 15 percent of the 900 micrograms men need each day and 19 percent of the 700 micrograms women should have on a daily basis. Leaf lettuce is the star in salads, and salads are perhaps one of the most nutritious foods, provided that they're not drowning in high-fat salad dressing and topped with unhealthy ingredients such as bacon.
Read More. You can get extra folate by eating the foods high in it, such as, raw spinach, orange, romaine lettuce, peanut butter, nonfat milk, and raisin bran cereal. Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin, which means the vitamin goes into our fat cells and the body does not excrete it. Also for vitamin K, foods such as broccoli, spinach, lettuce, cabbage, and cheese are high in it.
However, in terms of nutrient density, none are healthier than Romaine. How to Reap the Health Benefits of Romaine Lettuce. There are plenty of other green leafs which are even healthier such as spinach, kale, arugula, radicchio, endive etc, but for common lettuce types, romaine is king. Leafy greens in general are likely the number one food you can eat to regularly help improve your health. The vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients and fiber found in romaine lettuce are especially good for the prevention or alleviation of many common health complaints. As with other dark leafy greens, the antioxidants contained within romaine lettuce are believed to help prevent cancer.
vitamin. Vitamin E foods would be sunflower seeds(unsalted), leafy green vegetables, nuts, avocados, and foods made with corn oil. Also for vitamin K, foods such as broccoli, spinach, lettuce, cabbage, and cheese are high in it.
Vegetables that are highest in Vitamin K include spinach, kale, parsley, swiss chard, Brussels sprouts, lettuce, broccoli and turnip greens. If you want to eat larger amounts, be consistent with how much you eat day to day, so that your medication can be monitored correctly via your blood tests. Also for vitamin K, foods such as broccoli, spinach, lettuce, cabbage, and cheese are high in it.
There are two types of vitamins: water soluble and fat soluble. Water soluble vitamins include vitamins B1, B2, B3, B6, B12, vitamin C, biotin and folate. They are not stored in large amounts in the body, and any extra is lost through your urine. Fat soluble vitamins include vitamins A, D, E and K and they can be stored in your body. High amounts of fat soluble vitamins are not recommended, as these can cause health problems.
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Romaine lettuce is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. Start with romaine lettuce for a salad guaranteed to be packed with nutrients. The vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients and fiber found in romaine lettuce are especially good for the prevention or alleviation of many common health complaints.
Romaine lettuce is super rich in beta-carotene, with approximately 4,094 international unit (IU) of vitamin A in one cup, says the USDA. One cup of iceberg lettuce, however, only contains 361 IU of vitamin A. Vitamin A, a fat-soluble vitamin, is important for your vision, immune system, and reproductive system. Winner: Romaine. Vitamin K. Romaine lettuce provides 48 micrograms of vitamin K in a one-cup serving while iceberg lettuce only provides 17 mcg, says ODS. Vitamin K helps your blood to clot appropriately and regulate insulin.
Vitamin A (Fat soluble): wheat grass, apricots, romaine lettuce, cantaloupe, mangoes, carrots, raw & juiced, nectarines, collard greens, peaches, hot chili peppers, leaf lettuce, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, spinach, red peppers, yams, tuna, turnip, beet greens, butternut squash, fish & eggs. Vitamin K (Fat Soluble): Green leafy vegetables including spinach, kale, cauliflower, broccoli & wheat grass. Vitamin K2 high-fat dairy products from grass-fed cows, liver and other organs, as well as egg yolks.
General Nutrition. Romaine lettuce has everything to recommend it. A 1-cup serving of shredded romaine has 4 percent of the daily value of fiber but only 8 calories, negligible amounts of fat, saturated fat and sodium and no cholesterol, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Minerals. Romaine is also a good source of calcium, iron and potassium. A cup delivers 6 percent of the DRI for calcium and 3 percent of the DRIs for