I guess it depends on how salty the meat has gotten during the curing process. After that, cook the Eisbein covered in Water with one onion, two carrots, two bay leaves, and 10 peppercorns for about 2 hours or until the meat comes easily off the bone. That is it for the Eisbein. Serve it with Sauerkraut and Potato dumplings and not to forget some medium Loewensenf or Thomysenf. 
Similar to a Polish dish called golanka, eisbein begins with the cut of meat from which it takes its name. Meaning “ice leg” in German, eisbein refers to the leg bone of the ham hock that is used in preparing this dish. The ham hock is a piece of pork that comes from below the ham and above the feet, similar to the ankle or wrist joint, so it is sometimes referred to as the pork knuckle. The name of the recipe sounds a little misleading, because you still prepare the eisbein the traditional way by boiling in a saucepan on the stove. Once the meat is done simmering is when you place it in a 425 degree oven for 10-15 minutes. This makes the skin brown and crispy.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Eisbein is a German dish prepared using a ham hock — often one that has been pickled or cured — typically served with mashed potatoes or sauerkraut. The ham hock is usually cooked slowly, boiled in water to which various vegetables and herbs are added. The name of the recipe sounds a little misleading, because you still prepare the eisbein the traditional way by boiling in a saucepan on the stove. Once the meat is done simmering is when you place it in a 425 degree oven for 10-15 minutes. This makes the skin brown and crispy.
Eisbein is usually sold already cured and sometimes smoked, and then used in simple dishes, for example in Berlin served with pease pudding. In Germany, Eisbein is very commonly served with boiled or mashed potatoes or sauerkraut, and with mustard. Eisbein (help·info) is a German culinary dish of pickled ham hock, usually boiled. In parts of Germany it is known as Schweinshaxe, and it is usually grille
Copyright Mzansi Cook 2012 -2015. 12:05:2011 | New recipe-Superlicious Eisbein. By Dawn Shibambu. Eisbein served with sauerkraut & rice. Eisbein is a very delicious part of pork. Most butcheries, delis and supermarkets sell quality eisbein. Some prefer to eat it with crispy skin or what is known as crackling. You can purchase canned sauerkraut from your local supermarket. 
EISBEIN. Eisbein is a pork cut of german origin, and refers to the shank section, which can be fresh, but is usually pickled and smoked. 1 pork shank / Eisbein per person. The trick of cooking eisbein is to boil it in plenty of water, as you would cook ham or corned beef. When it's meltingly tender, you could roast it in a very hot oven, brushing it with a mixture of honey or brown sugar and butter. This will caramelise it nicely. Serve Eisbein with sauerkraut and boiled potatoes. Note: The name Eisbein is Nordic in origin and means pork knuckle. In Swedish this is islaeggor and in the Norwegian it is called islegg
Eisbein is a German dish prepared using a ham hock — often one that has been pickled or cured — typically served with mashed potatoes or sauerkraut. The name of the recipe sounds a little misleading, because you still prepare the eisbein the traditional way by boiling in a saucepan on the stove. Once the meat is done simmering is when you place it in a 425 degree oven for 10-15 minutes. This makes the skin brown and crispy.
Eisbein, meaning ice leg, is the German name for a culinary dish involving the lower part of hams hocks. It is also known as Hachse, Hechse, Haxe, Haemsche hämsche Or. Stelze In Swiss, german it is known As. gnagi Unsmoked and crispy skin. about Eisbein. What you want to get is an unsmoked pork Hock, or pork shank with the bone in. You may have to order it from the butcher special or you can order them from the German Deli they should weigh close to 3 lbs each! Next you brine them overnight in a brine of 1 qt. water to 2 tblsp Salt.