Misoprostol is a medication used to start labor, induce abortions, prevent and treat stomach ulcers, and treat postpartum bleeding due to insufficient contraction of the uterus. For abortions it is used with mifepristone or methotrexate. It is a synthetic prostaglandin E1 (PGE 1). 
This medication guide provides information about the Mifeprex brand of mifepristone. Korlym is another brand of mifepristone that is not covered in this medication guide. Mifeprex is used to end an early pregnancy that is not further along than 49 days (7 weeks) after the first day of your last menstrual period. MIFEPREX MUST NOT BE USED IN AN ATTEMPT TO END PREGNANCY BEYOND 7 WEEKS. Do not use Mifeprex if you do not intend to end your pregnancy. This medication guide provides information about the Korlym brand of mifepristone. Mifeprex is another brand of mifepristone that is not covered in this medication guide. Korlym blocks the actions of a hormone called cortisol, which can reduce certain side effects caused by excess cortisol in the body.
Mifepristone (or RU-486) is a synthetic, steroidal antiprogestogen and antiglucocorticoid pharmaceutical drug. Mifepristone is sold in the United States by Danco Laboratories as Mifeprex and is U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved to terminate intrauterine pregnancies of up to 49 days gestation.
Mifeprex is used, together with another medication called misoprostol, to end an early pregnancy (within 49 days of the start of a woman's last menstrual period). 
Abortion pill is the popular name for using 2 medicines to end a pregnancy – mifepristone and misoprostol. In general, it's used up to 63 days — 9 weeks — after the first day of a woman's last period. (A few states have laws that limit the use of the abortion pill to 49 days.) Women who need an abortion and are more than 9 weeks pregnant can have an in-clinic abortion.
Mifepristone was the first antiprogestin to be developed and it has been evaluated extensively for its use as an abortifacient. The original target for the research group was the discovery and development of compounds with antiglucocorticoid properties. Mifepristone is sold in the United States by Danco Laboratories as Mifeprex and is U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved to terminate intrauterine pregnancies of up to 49 days gestation.
Uses of This Medicine. Mifepristone is used to end a pregnancy that is less than 49 days in duration. It works by stopping the supply of hormones that maintains the interior of the uterus. Without these hormones, the uterus cannot support the pregnancy and the contents of the uterus are expelled. 
Drug Safety and Availability. Mifepristone is a drug that blocks a hormone called progesterone that is needed for pregnancy to continue. Mifepristone, when used together with another medicine called misoprostol, is used to end an early pregnancy (49 days or less since your last menstrual period began). Yes, mifepristone has also been approved in the United Kingdom, Sweden and other countries.
Medical Abortion (brand name Mifeprex) is a form of early abortion caused by the combination of two medications, mifepristone and misoprostol that is an option for women who are 8 weeks pregnant or less. Also known as RU486 or medication abortion. During the first appointment at the clinic you receive the mifepristone pill to take orally. Then 24 to 72 hours later, in the privacy of your own home, you take the the second medication, misoprostol. Misoprostol causes contractions resulting in a miscarriage