1 At this temperature, they will last for about six months. 2  When storing pumpkins, don't stack them. 3  When the skins of pumpkins touch, it can cause bruising and rotting. 4  Immediately remove and throw out any pumpkins that show signs of decay. 1 If you don't want to cut the pumpkins, you can simply let the vine die back and pick them at your leisure. 2  Most people want them before that time, though. 3  Another sign that a pumpkin is ready to be harvested is that the stem starts to crack. 4  When harvesting, wear gloves because the stem can be very prickly.
Harvested pumpkins have a long shelf life when placed in a cool, dry area. Humidity shortens storage lifespan, and shelf life also decreases as temperature increases. Ripe, unblemished pumpkins last for up to three months if in a room that's between 50 and 55 degrees Fahrenheit. If you place pumpkins in average humidity of 50 to 60 percent in cool room at 45 to 50 degrees, they can be stored for three to six months. 
If your pumpkins mature a few weeks sooner than you'd like, you may be able to leave them on the vine until you need them. Proper storage can also keep them plump and healthy if you must harvest the pumpkins promptly. Determining when to harvest and when to store on the vine ensures your pumpkins look good all through the autumn season.
A pumpkin plant's days to maturity depends on the variety. Look at the seed pack. It can range from 85 to 160 days so, for example, if you want pumpkins by Halloween, count back this many days. In the U.S., most folks plant between late May and late June to get pumpkins mature in time for Halloween. Hi Audra, You can prolong growing a bit but pumpkins will ripen between 70 and 120 days so use this as a guide. If you live in the South, you'd want to plant pumpkins in early July in the South to ripen
Curing and Storage. A properly cured pumpkin stores better than an uncured fruit. Store the pumpkin at 80 to 85 F, in a dry location away from bright sunlight for one week. This curing process allows any minor damage to the rind to heal over, so the fruit doesn't rot. Proper storage can also keep them plump and healthy if you must harvest the pumpkins promptly. Determining when to harvest and when to store on the vine ensures your pumpkins look good all through the autumn season.
Prompt harvest once the pumpkins reach optimum maturity is best, but you can leave the pumpkins on the vine in the garden longer, if necessary. The length of time they are left on the vine depends on the weather. Proper storage can also keep them plump and healthy if you must harvest the pumpkins promptly. Determining when to harvest and when to store on the vine ensures your pumpkins look good all through the autumn season.
Vine length will depend on the variety of pumpkin that you are growing. Some larger ones can grow more than 30 feet long. Leaf size sounds about right. When the pumpkin(s) are about grapefruit size, many gardeners prune the main vine so that it is about 10 to 15 feet beyond the last fruit that one wants to grow on it. Hi Audra, You can prolong growing a bit but pumpkins will ripen between 70 and 120 days so use this as a guide. If you live in the South, you'd want to plant pumpkins in early July in the South to ripen in time for Halloween.
Best Answer: It will depend on the type of pumpkin. Some have longer storage life than others. Some can last a couple of months while others can last up to six months. Storage life will highly depend on storage condition and the particular climate you live in. Storing pumpkins in a cool, dry, airy place and off the ground (a rack) will last longer than if not. Pumpkins are a form of winter squash and will keep most of the winter in a cool dark place. We used to keep them in straw bed in our cellar when I lived in Massachusetts. Just make sure you don't cut off the stem or cut them in any way and they should last a long time.
It will depend on the type of pumpkin. Some have longer storage life than others. Some can last a couple of months while others can last up to six months. Storage life will highly depend on storage condition and the particular climate you live in. Cooler means longer. Drier means longer. If it is on the ground, it will be attacked by fungii. A dry board is simple and will keep it up off the ground. It will last for months. Warm temperatures and higher humidity will shorten the time. Any break in the skin will shorten the time. I wonder how long you need it to last. As soon as you cut it, it will last less than 1 week