If you’re interested in earning a college degree but aren’t ready for the time and financial commitment of a bachelor’s degree, consider an associate’s degree. You can finish your criminal justice degree online in less than 20 months, and you don’t have to put your life on hold to do it. An Associate’s degree in Criminal Justice provides the industry knowledge and respected credentials potential employers seek. Earn your Associate of Arts in Criminal Justice degree online from Florida Tech in less than 20 months!
Bachelors Degree in Criminal Justice. 1  Traditional. 2  3 to 3 and 1/2 years with a maxed-out class load – super-full-time: at or above 16 credits. 3  4 years is the norm – usually full time: 12 credits or more. 4  4 and 1/2 to 5 and 1/2 years, or more – usually part time: below 12 credits. 5  Online. 1 2 years is the norm – usually full time: 12 credits or more. 2  2 and 1/2 years, or more – usually part time: below 12 credits. 3  Online. 4  1 to 2 years depending on the school – usually one cannot manipulate the program to go faster or slower – but, there are exceptions to this general rule.
Associate: There are three types of Associate degrees you can earn if you want to work in criminal justice – Associate of Arts, Associate of Science or Associate of Applied Science. These degrees require 65 credit hours, which can take up to two years to earn. If you want a PhD in criminal justice, it can take up to seven years to earn the required 90 credit hours. Featured Doctoral Program: Ph.D. in Criminal Justice – General (Advanced): Walden University.
Associate's Degree – Criminal Justice Jobs. A person can earn an associate's degree in criminal justice in just two years. Many universities will allow you to transfer credits as long as they were earned from an accredited school. It will just take you two more years to earn your bachelor's degree. … Read More. Transfer An associate degree in criminal justice is a career-oriented program meant to prepare you for entry-level positions in a range of criminal … Read More. Criminal Justice Degree – ECPI University. Earn your Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice in 2.5 years with our accelerated schedule.
These criminal justice degree credit hours are a combination of the 63-64 credit hours as required in the first two years as a criminal justice major (or an equivalent from another college) and the 64-67 semester credit hours required in the junior and senior years at Ferris State. 
Number of credits for a AA/AS Degree The number of credits that are required to complete an associate's degree will depend upon the state mandate and your program of study. T … ypically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. How much longer would depend on the credit load carried each semester. Typically, an associates degree takes between 60 and 64 credits to complete depending on the specific school, program of study, and state mandates.
You will be guided through the program by faculty who have careers within the criminal justice system. The associate's degree in criminal justice prepares you for a career in various criminal justice fields, including law enforcement, paralegal work, transportation security, private security, and computer forensics. Focus areas in the Associate of Science (A.S.) Criminal Justice degree include: criminal justice, criminal justice ethics, criminal courts, corrections, crimology, and juvenile justice.
Learn more about the associates degree in criminal justice & how you can graduate in 18 months, Total Program Credits: 90 Credits. Transfer An associate degree in criminal justice is a career-oriented program meant to prepare you for entry-level positions in a range of criminal … Read More. Criminal Justice Degree – ECPI University. Earn your Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice in 2.5 years with our accelerated schedule.
Master: If you want a Master of Arts or a Master of Criminal Justice, you’ll need to earn 30 credit hours after receiving your Bachelor degree. Many people work on their Master degree while they’re working in the field, which means it can take between two and three years to finish a Master’s program. If you want a PhD in criminal justice, it can take up to seven years to earn the required 90 credit hours. Featured Doctoral Program: Ph.D. in Criminal Justice – General (Advanced): Walden University.
To work in the criminal justice field, you can earn either a Bachelor of Arts of a Bachelor of Science. You’ll need a total of 120 to 128 credits to get a Bachelor degree, which can usually be earned in about four years. Some people start with their Associate degree and then decide to earn a Bachelor degree later on. If you want a PhD in criminal justice, it can take up to seven years to earn the required 90 credit hours. Featured Doctoral Program: Ph.D. in Criminal Justice – General (Advanced): Walden University.