Chronic Inflammation of the Neck of the Uterus, with Ulceration of the Vagina. B. C. WREN, M.D. Boston Med Surg J 1856; 54:336-338 May 29, 1856 DOI: 10.1056/NEJM185605290541703. This article is available in PDF format only. Open the PDF. 
surgical neck of humerus the constricted part of the humerus just below the tuberosities. neck of tooth the narrowed part of a tooth between the crown and the root; called also cervix dentis and collum dentis. uterine neck (neck of uterus) cervix uteri. webbed neck a thick skin fold on the side of the neck, from the mastoid region to the acromion. Called also pterygium colli. wry neck torticolli
The symptoms of inflammation of the uterus are variable according to its type. Acute Endometritis is a type of this ailment where the symptoms are slight fever, loss of appetite, headache, general debility, itching propensity in the vagina, acute pain in the back and lower portion of the abdomen and pelvis. Water Treatments can also treat inflammation of the uterus. The treatment with a hot leg bath could help if the inflammation is caused by exposure to cold during menstruation. After three days the process may be replaced by a hot hipbath. Mixing hot and cold water in the bath may prove advantageous in case of pain.
The cervix (or neck of the uterus) is the link between the uterus and the vagina (or birth canal) and is found at the top of the vagina. It is a firm, smooth, rounded structure with a central opening which: 1  dilates (opens up) during labour. 2  allows menstrual blood to flow through it during your periods. 
Alteration in diet can also treat inflammation of the uterus. The diet should aim at increasing general vigour when in the chronic state. Changing the diet to fruit juices like orange, apples, grapes, pears, pineapple, peaches, melon and even cucumber and carrot juices could also prove helpful. Water Treatments can also treat inflammation of the uterus. The treatment with a hot leg bath could help if the inflammation is caused by exposure to cold during menstruation. After three days the process may be replaced by a hot hipbath. Mixing hot and cold water in the bath may prove advantageous in case of pain.
neck of uterus. Synonyms: cervix of uterus. The definition information for neck of uterus is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 
The cervix or cervix uteri (Latin: neck of the uterus) is the lower part of the uterus in the human female reproductive system. 
Infections are caused by germs such as bacteria and viruses and lead to inflammation of the neck of the womb (cervix). Inflammation of your cervix is called cervicitis. The most common symptom in women with cervicitis is vaginal discharge. The cervix is the lower part of your womb (uterus) which extends slightly into the top of your vagina. The cervix is often called the neck of the womb. A narrow passage called the cervical canal (or endocervical canal) goes from your vagina to the inside of your womb.
Inflammation of the Uterus The uterus, often called the womb, is the most delicate organ of woman. It is liable to disorders of various kinds. Inflammation of this organ is common occurrence in women. It may be acute or chronic. When it affects the muscular coat and substance of the uterus, it is termed metritis. Endometritis may be confined to the lining membrane of the cervix or neck of the uterus or it may attack the lining membrane of the entire organ. Commonly it is called catarrh of uterus. Symptoms. The symptoms of acute endometriosis are slight fever, headache, general debility, loss of appetite, pain in the back and lower part of the abdomen and pelvis, and itching tendency in the vagina.
Inflammation of the neck of the womb (cervix), called cervicitis, can also be caused by other conditions. These include: 1  Allergies-for, example to condoms or to spermicides. 2  Irritation-for example, from tampons. The cervix is the lower part of your womb (uterus) which extends slightly into the top of your vagina. The cervix is often called the neck of the womb. A narrow passage called the cervical canal (or endocervical canal) goes from your vagina to the inside of your womb.