In their successful defense of Amina Lawal, lawyers used the notion of extended pregnancy (dormant foetus), arguing that under Sharia law, a five year interval is possible between human conception and birth. Ambassador A.A. Agada of the Embassy of Nigeria in Washington D.C., U.S., was more forthcoming in recognizing the case of Amina and stated on 29 August 2003: the Embassy wishes to inform that Malama Amina Lawal has three levels of courts of appeal before the final determination of her case.
Amina, painted by E.Emokpae (b.1934-d.1984). Amina (also Aminatu; d. 1610) was a Hausa Muslim Warrior Queen of Zazzau (now Zaria), in what is now north central Nigeria. She is the subject of many legends, but is widely believed by historians to have been a real ruler, though contemporary evidence about her is limited. Amina holding the dagger did not shock Martha, rather it was that Amina held it exactly as a warrior would. As an adult, she refused to marry like Elizabeth the First of England for the fear of losing power. She helped Zazzau (Zaria) become the center of trade and to gain more land.
The first comes from the Arabic female name Amina(h) from “amina” (أمن) meaning “feel safe”. The second is also Arabic in origin, from the masculine name Amin (امين) meaning “truthful, honest, trustworth First appearing in the year 2000, Amina has only climbed a couple hundred spots on the Top 1000 list. What’s interesting about this Arabic name is that it doesn’t have a particularly Eastern exotic sound to it; rather, this one is simple and straight-forward both in spelling and pronunciation.
Amina /am-i-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ah-MEEN-ah. It is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Amina is honest, faithful. Mother of the prophet Muhammad. How popular is Amina? Amina is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2236 out of 4276, Top 52%) and also a somewhat popular surname for both adults and children (#85643 out of 150436, Top 57%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Amina for girls
Amina Lawal Kurami (born 1972) is a Nigerian woman. On March 22, 2002, an Islamic Sharia court (in Funtua, Nigeria in the northern state of Katsina) sentenced her to death by stoning for adultery and for conceiving a child out of wedlock. Ambassador A.A. Agada of the Embassy of Nigeria in Washington D.C., U.S., was more forthcoming in recognizing the case of Amina and stated on 29 August 2003: the Embassy wishes to inform that Malama Amina Lawal has three levels of courts of appeal before the final determination of her case.
The first comes from the Arabic female name Amina(h) from “amina” (أمن) meaning “feel safe”. The second is also Arabic in origin, from the masculine name Amin (امين) meaning “truthful, honest, trustworthy”. Both source names are borne by important figures within the Islamic fa First appearing in the year 2000, Amina has only climbed a couple hundred spots on the Top 1000 list. What’s interesting about this Arabic name is that it doesn’t have a particularly Eastern exotic sound to it; rather, this one is simple and straight-forward both in spelling and pronunciation.
Amina Buddafly net worth: $300 Thousand. Amina Buddafly net worth: Amina Buddafly is an American R&B singer and reality television personality who has a net worth of $300 thousand. Amina Buddafly, also known as Aminata Schmahl, is one half of the R&B duo known as Black Buddafly. 
Who is Amina Buddafly? Amina Buddafly is a singer, songwriter, producer and cast member on “Love & Hip Hop: New York,” the fourth installment of the popular Vh1 reality series. Amina Buddafly is one of several new ladies on “Love & Hip Hop: New York,” which premieres on Oct. 28, and she joins Tara Wallace and Erica Jean.
African Meaning: The name Amina is an African baby name. In African the meaning of the name Amina is: Trustworthy. Arabic Meaning: The name Amina is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Amina is: Trustworthy. American Meaning: The name Amina is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Amina is: Trustworthy. Muslim Meaning: The name Amina is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Amina is: Trustworthy. Reliable. Faithful. 