Magpie geese are unmistakable birds with their black and white plumage and yellowish legs. The feet are only partially webbed, although the Magpie Goose will feed on vegetable matter in the water as well as on land. Males are larger than females. Unlike true geese, the moult is gradual, and there is no flightless period. Other Paleogene birds sometimes considered magpie-geese are the genera Geranopsis from the Hordwell Formation Late Eocene to the Early Oligocene of England and Anserpica from the Late Oligocene of Billy-Crechy (Créchy). france
Magpie Goose. The Magpie Goose has a black neck and head, with a characteristic knob on the crown (larger in males), which increases in size with age. The underparts are white, with contrasting black edges on the underwing. The bill, legs and feet are orange. Females are slightly smaller than males. Identification. The Magpie Goose has a black neck and head, with a characteristic knob on the crown (larger in males), which increases in size with age. The underparts are white, with contrasting black edges on the underwing. The bill, legs and feet are orange. Females are slightly smaller than males.
The magpie goose (Anseranas semipalmata) is a waterbird species found in coastal northern Australia and savannah in southern New Guinea. It is a unique member of the order Anseriformes, and arranged in a family and genus distinct from all other living waterfowl. Other Paleogene birds sometimes considered magpie-geese are the genera Geranopsis from the Hordwell Formation Late Eocene to the Early Oligocene of England and Anserpica from the Late Oligocene of Billy-Crechy (Créchy). france
Magpie geese are long-lived, with lifespans of up to 30 years. The species was first described from the Hawkesbury River (NSW) by famed English ornithologist, John Latham, who gave it the species name 'semipalmata', referring to the feet, which are only partially webbed. Anseranas semipalmata. In the wet season, Magpie Geese form large colonies whose honking sounds carry across the water. Floating nests are constructed and the birds mate-one male and one or two females. By the middle of the wet season, the males are incubating 4-15 (but typically 8) eggs.
Unless you live in Australia you are unlikely to get your hands on magpie geese, and from the questions you asked you aren't ready for Magpie geese, but good luck all the same. ~gd Backyard ducks and geese. Amprolium medicated feed is SAFE for waterfowl! Your money, your waterfowl, your Choice. 