Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial. 
ULO is an Odelo Group brand, a leading maker of rear and signal lights. All products manufactured by the company are guaranteed to be crafted from original parts that precisely fit over a wide variety of vehicle makes. You can also choose from at least three variations, including manual, heated, and electrical mirrors, depending on your vehicle's specification. Purchase a ULO mirror glass replacement as well in case you have a cracked mirror in your vehicle to gain clearer driving view.
1 Mammals, by definition, are warm-blooded vertebrates that nurse their young and are more or less covered with hair. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
ulo-, 1 prefix meaning scar or cicatrix: ulodermatitis, uloid, ulotomy. 2 prefix meaning gums or gingivae: ulocase, ulorrhagia, ulotripsis. Also ule- . 
A ULO mirror can give you a wider field of view, as well as greater proportion and clarity. All mirrors from this brand are adjustable and adhere to OEM guidelines strictly. You can also choose from at least three variations, including manual, heated, and electrical mirrors, depending on your vehicle's specification. Purchase a ULO mirror glass replacement as well in case you have a cracked mirror in your vehicle to gain clearer driving view.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. 
That's why installing ULO automotive lights are extremely important if you don't want to risk your safety on the road. As the manufacturer of aftermarket road safety devices, you can be assured that you're in safe hands when equipped with the brand's mirrors and lights. The brand's lighting products only emit accurate color precision to avoid confusion on the road. You can also choose from at least three variations, including manual, heated, and electrical mirrors, depending on your vehicle's specification. Purchase a ULO mirror glass replacement as well in case you have a cracked mirror in your vehicle to gain clearer driving view.