Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that is released in the synaptic cleft and goes over the sarcolemma down the tubule and promotes the release of calcium from the sarcoreticulum which then binds to proteins on actin which exposes binding spots for myosin to attach to and powerstroke causing muscle contraction. The result of this binding of acetylcholine to the acetylcholine receptor is opening of sodium channels and influx of sodium cations into the muscle cell, causing the resting potential of that muscle cell to begin to depolarize.
In summary, excite the muscle cell. In a little more detailed summary, acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that reversibly binds to and stimulates the muscarinic acetylcholi … ne receptors on the post-synaptic region of the sarcolemma of the skeletal muscle, called the motor end plate. The result of this binding of acetylcholine to the acetylcholine receptor is opening of sodium channels and influx of sodium cations into the muscle cell, causing the resting potential of that muscle cell to begin to depolarize.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter in brain... it sends electrical signals to all parts from brain... it stimulates the work to be done by specific part of body... acetylcholine is produced at synapse region of brain.... It's a neurotransmitter in humans in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetylcholi...
This is because a number of high fat foods are rich sources of choline ,which is a precursor, needed to make acetylcholine. To maintain optimal brain processing speed, and avoid attention deficit disorder you will have to provide the nutrients your body needs to do its chemical processing. 
Best Answer: Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter in the nervous system (both peripheral and central systems). See link for additional info. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetylcholi... It's a neurotransmitter in humans in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system see
Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter. Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that allows communication between cells in your brain. Acetylcholine is also the neurotransmitter that controls the contraction of skeletal muscle, the muscle the moves your body as opposed to the muscles of your heart and digestive system. Acetylcholine is produced from the essential nutrient choline that you must obtain in your diet. Eat foods rich in choline to maintain a healthy level of acetylcholine in your body.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.