Tuberculosis (TB) is an infection caused by slow-growing bacteria that grow best in areas of the body that have lots of blood and oxygen. That's why it is most often found in the lungs. This is called pulmonary TB. But TB can also spread to other parts of the body, which is called extrapulmonary TB. 
A: Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
A. Tuberculosis is not a hereditary disease. It is an infectious disease. Any person can get afflicted with TB. Whenever, a patient having active tuberculosis coughs or sneezes in an open manner, bacteria causing TB come out in the aerosol. This aerosol can infect any person who happens to inhale it.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria that are spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. In most cases, TB is treatable and curable; however, persons with TB can die if they do not get proper treatment. TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, speaks, or sings. These bacteria can float in the air for several hours, depending on the environment.
It is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. There are two other types of Myco bacteria, causing TB, but are not so common in Sri Lanka. TB mainly affects the lungs (80%). Other organs which can fall victim to this bacterium include the brain, bones, spine, lymph nodes, eye and skin etc (20%) . Some patients with lung TB, however, do not produce bacteria-containing sputum and such are not infective to others. Therefore sputum examination is not only a reliable diagnostic tool, but also important to design and plan preventive measures.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. Not everyone infected with TB bacteria becomes sick. Treatment for TB Disease. TB bacteria become active (multiplying in the body) if the immune system can't stop them from growing. When TB bacteria are active, this is called TB disease. TB disease will make a person sick.
Treatment. TB is a treatable and curable disease. Active, drug-sensitive TB disease is treated with a standard six-month course of four antimicrobial drugs that are provided with information, supervision and support to the patient by a health worker or trained volunteer. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. A person needs to inhale only a few of these germs to become infected.
Tuberculosis is a treatable and curable disease. However, drug treatment requires that a number of antibiotics be taken for a prolonged period of time, usually six to nine months. Some cases of tuberculosis are caused by mycobacteria that are resistant to the commonly used anti-tuberculous drugs. What is Tuberculosis? Tuberculosis is an infectious disease of humans and animals. The most common cause of human disease is the bacteria (mycobacteria) called Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis). In 1995, almost 23,000 human cases were reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).