Jaundice is a yellow discoloration of the skin, mucous membranes, and the whites of the eyes caused by increased amounts of bilirubin in the blood. Jaundice is a sign of an underlying disease process. Bilirubin is a by-product of the daily natural breakdown and destruction of red blood cells in the body. The hemoglobin molecule that is released into the blood by this process is split, with the heme portion undergoing a chemical conversion to bilirubin.
Jaundice is a symptom that occurs due to excessive amounts of bilirubin in the blood. The causes for jaundice are several. Bilirubin is a buildup of old RBCs that have been processed by the liver. Bilirubin that fails to escape is seen as yellow pigmentation of the skin. Neonatal jaundice is relatively normal; bruises turn yellow when they heal; malaria, hepatitis, hemolytic anemia, pancreatic cancer and cirrhosis are serious causes of jaundice. 1  Hypercarotenemia.
The excess bilirubin causes the skin, eyes, and mucus membranes in the mouth to turn a yellowish color. Because bilirubin is processed by the liver, the symptoms of jaundice may indicate damage to the liver in adults. If the cause is not identified and treated, it can lead to liver failure.
Jaundice may be caused by several different disease processes. It is helpful to understand the different causes of jaundice by identifying the problems that disrupt the normal bilirubin metabolism and/or excretion. Pre-hepatic (before bile is made in the liver). Post-hepatic (after bile has been made in the liver). Jaundice in these cases, also termed obstructive jaundice, is caused by conditions which interrupt the normal drainage of conjugated bilirubin in the form of bile from the liver into the intestines. Causes of obstructive jaundice include: 1  gallstones in the bile ducts, 2  cancer (pancreatic and gallbladder /bile duct carcinoma), 3  strictures of the bile ducts, 4  cholangitis, 5  congenital malformations, 6  pancreatitis, 7  parasites, 8  pregnancy, and. 9  newborn jaundice
Jaundice, also referred to as icterus, is the yellow staining of the skin and sclerae (the whites of the eyes) by abnormally high blood levels of the bile pigment, bilirubin. The yellowing extends to other tissues and body fluids and also may turn the urine dark. Jaundice is a yellowish discoloration of the skin, mucous membranes and of the white of the eyes caused by elevated levels of the chemical bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinemia). The term jaundice is derived from the French word jaune, which means yellow.
Jaundice. Jaundice is an umbrella term that covers yellow skin due to excess bilirubin. The exact causes of jaundice are many. Bilirubin is the collection of old red blood cells that have been processed by the liver. Bilirubin can build up if the liver is diseased, damaged or overwhelmed or if there are problems with the biliary duct.
Jaundice is the medical term that describes yellowing of the skin and eyes. This condition forms when there is too much bilirubin in your system. Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is formed by the breakdown of dead red blood cells in the liver. Normally, the liver gets rid of bilirubin along with old red blood cells. Jaundice may indicate a serious problem with the function of your liver, gallbladder, or pancreas. Find an internist near you ». If you only have yellow skin, it’s more likely due to having too much beta-carotene in your system. Beta-carotene is an antioxidant found in carrots and pumpkins. An excess of this antioxidant is not a cause of jaundice.
Jaundice, also referred to as icterus, is the yellow staining of the skin and sclerae (the whites of the eyes) by abnormally high blood levels of the bile pigment, bilirubin. The yellowing extends to other tissues and body fluids and also may turn the urine dark. 
In this article. Jaundice can occur in babies, children, and adults. Jaundice is not an illness in itself, but a medical condition in which too much bilirubin -- a compound produced by the breakdown of hemoglobin from red blood cells -- is circulating in the blood. Because bilirubin is processed by the liver, the symptoms of jaundice may indicate damage to the liver in adults. If the cause is not identified and treated, it can lead to liver failure.