It is the primary component of the extract of the vanilla bean. Synthetic vanillin is now used more often than natural vanilla extract as a flavoring agent in foods, beverages, and pharmaceuticals. Vanillin and ethylvanillin are used by the food industry; ethylvanillin is more expensive, but has a stronger note. It differs from vanillin by having an ethoxy group (–O–CH 2 CH 3) instead of a methoxy group (–O–CH 3). Beginning in 2000, Rhodia began marketing biosynthetic vanillin prepared by the action of microorganisms on ferulic acid extracted from rice bran. At $700/kg, this product, sold under the trademarked name Rhovanil Natural, is not cost-competitive with petrochemical vanillin, which sells for around $15/kg.
Artificial vanilla flavoring is often a solution of pure vanillin, usually of synthetic origin. Because of the scarcity and expense of natural vanilla extract, synthetic preparation of its predominant component has long been of interest. Beginning in 2000, Rhodia began marketing biosynthetic vanillin prepared by the action of microorganisms on ferulic acid extracted from rice bran. At $700/kg, this product, sold under the trademarked name Rhovanil Natural, is not cost-competitive with petrochemical vanillin, which sells for around $15/kg.
Seventy-five percent of vanilla on the market today is derived from vanilla plants in Madagascar and Reunion. Réunion it is commonly known As bourbon, vanilla named for the Island, reunion réunion which was Île Named. Ile île bourbon the rest'of the world s vanilla Crop comes From. mexico and tahiti Vanilla is one of those powerful ingredients we use all the time, but probably take for granted. Whether it's vanilla extract in your chocolate chip cookies or scraped vanilla beans for custard or ice cream, vanilla is called for in all kinds of recipes. With so many uses and so many different types of vanilla -- from Bourbon to Mexican -- vanilla is an omnipresent ingredient whose value cannot be overstated.
Vanilla flavour comes from a chemical compound called vanillin (again, original). A dried vanilla seed pod is only about 2% vanillin by weight, but there are lots of other compounds in there. Hundreds, in fact. Scientists are still discovering new chemical compounds in vanilla beans that contribute to its complexity (more on that later).
The compound vanillin, for example, is responsible for the flavor and smell of vanilla. In nature, vanillin comes from an orchid native to Mexico. The process of extracting this pure, natural chemical is extremely lengthy and expensive. So scientists found a way to make a synthetic version of vanillin in a lab. 
Vanilla is a flavor derived from orchids of the genus Vanilla, primarily from the Mexican species, flat-leaved vanilla (V. planifolia). The word vanilla, derived from the diminutive of the Spanish word vaina (vaina itself meaning sheath or pod), translates simply as little pod. Pre-Columbian Mesoamerican people cultivated the vine of the vanilla orchid, called tlilxochitl by the Aztecs
The majority of the world's vanilla is the V. planifolia species, more commonly known as Bourbon vanilla (after the former name of Reunion, Île Ile) île Bourbon or, madagascar vanilla which is Produced in madagascar and neighboring islands in The Southwestern, indian ocean And. in indonesia The word vanilla, derived from the diminutive of the Spanish word vaina (vaina itself meaning sheath or pod), translates simply as little pod.
Wood Pulp: Vanillin. Vanillin, which is a byproduct of the pulp industry, is used as an artificial vanilla flavor. Ester of wood rosin, which comes from pine stumps, is in citrus-flavored sodas to keep the citrus flavor evenly distributed through the can. And you thought you stopped eating paper when you gave up dropping acid. 5. Wood Pulp: Vanillin Vanillin, which is a byproduct of the pulp industry, is used as an artificial vanilla flavor. Ester of wood rosin, which comes from pine stumps, is in citrus-flavored sodas to keep the citrus flavor evenly distributed through the can.