The normal level of ALT is the bloodstream is 5 to 45 U/L (units per liter). This range can slightly vary depending where you take the blood test. If the blood test shows elevated ALT levels outside the normal range, even a small amount, fatty liver and other liver disorders might be the cause. High ALT levels in fatty liver and Elevated ALT levels. High ALT levels in fatty liver or elevated ALT levels in fatty liver (also called Alanine Transaminase and SGPT) in a fatty liver blood test can be a sign of a the severity of fatty liver disease from mild to serious.
^ Back to top. Normally, levels of ALT in the blood are low. Very high levels of ALT (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. In acute hepatitis, ALT levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal. AST and ALT are considered to be two of the most important tests to detect liver injury, although ALT is more specific to the liver than is AST. Sometimes AST is compared directly to ALT and an AST/ALT ratio is calculated.
A. The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit
Although levels of ALT and AST can be extremely elevated (exceeding 2,000 U per L in cases of hepatocyte injury and necrosis related to drugs, toxins, ischemia, and hepatitis), elevations less than five times the upper limit of normal (i.e., about 250 U per L and below) are much more common in primary care medicine. 
High levels of ALT may be caused by: 1  Liver damage from conditions such as hepatitis or cirrhosis. 2  Lead poisoning. 3  Exposure to carbon tetrachloride. 4  Decay of a large tumor (necrosis). 5  Many medicines, such as statins, antibiotics, chemotherapy, aspirin, narcotics, and barbiturates. 6  Mononucleosis. 
AST and ALT are considered to be two of the most important tests to detect liver injury, although ALT is more specific than AST. AST compared directly to ALT yields an AST/ALT ratio, which distinguishes between different causes of liver damage. The ratio is less useful in scenarios where the liver enzymes are not elevated, or where multiple conditions co-exist.In most types of liver disease, the ALT level is higher than AST and the AST/ALT ratio is a value less than 1.0.
Normal levels of AST and ALT may slightly vary depending on the individual laboratory's reference values. Typically the range for normal AST is reported between 10 to 40 units per liter and ALT between 7 to 56 units per liter. Mild elevations are generally considered to be 2-3 times higher than the normal range.
The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test is typically used to detect liver injury. It is often ordered in conjunction with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or as part of a liver panel to screen for and/or help diagnose liver disease. AST and ALT are considered to be two of the most important tests to detect liver injury, although ALT is more specific to the liver than is AST. Sometimes AST is compared directly to ALT and an AST/ALT ratio is calculated.
Very high levels of AST (more than 10 times the highest normal level) are usually due to acute hepatitis, often due to a virus infection. In acute hepatitis, AST levels usually stay high for about 1–2 months but can take as long as 3–6 months to return to normal. The ratio is less useful in scenarios where the liver enzymes are not elevated, or where multiple conditions co-exist.In most types of liver disease, the ALT level is higher than AST and the AST/ALT ratio is a value less than 1.0.