A lei (nā lei is the plural in the Hawaiian language) may be composed of a pattern or series of just about anything, but most commonly consists of fresh natural foliage such as flowers, leaves, vines, fern fronds, and seeds. The most popular concept of a lei in Hawaiian culture is a wreath of flowers presented upon arriving or leaving as a symbol of affection. This concept was popularized through tourism between the Hawaiian Islands and the continental United States in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Traditionally, Chinese given names have one or two characters, and are written AFTER the family name. Sometimes the first character of a Chinese given name is a generation name, a name shared by all members of a particular generation within an extended family. Males are often given names which are linked to strength and firmness and females to names associated with beauty and flowers. Chinese children are never named after a famous person or an elder in the family as this is considered offensive.
From a tourist's standpoint, the lei is a symbol of welcome, as indeed it is to the locals, though that isn't the lei's only meaning. Before the invention of planes, travelers arrived by boat and got quite a greeting: hula dancers, music, photographers and, of course, lei presenters. 
Lei is a garland or wreath. More loosely defined, a lei is any series of objects strung together with the intent to be worn. The most popular concept of a lei in Hawaiian culture is a wreath of flowers presented upon arriving or leaving as a symbol of affection. This concept was popularized through tourism between the Hawaiian Islands and the continental United States in the 19th and 20th centuries.
John and I were greeted with beautiful fragrant Hawaiian Flower Leis at the Honolulu Airport. Hawaii Discount offers a variety of Lei Greetings such as Superior Leis, Deluxe Leis, Standard Leis, Ti Leis, KuKui Nut Leis and Candy Leis. Green Maile Ti Leaf Leis – Ti Leaf Leis symbolize admiration, appreciation and respect. Ti leaf leis are often used as gifts for weddings, graduations, anniversaries and memorials. Kukui Nuts Leis – The Kukui nut lei was once a symbol of royalty. These brown leis are given to show respect or appreciation.
New broom sweeps clean. (English proverb). Walls have mice, mice [have] ears. (Afghanistan proverb). Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble. (Arabic proverb). Once a horse is old, ticks and flies flock to it. (Corsican proverb). 
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13157 in baby name popularity for boys with 5 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Lei Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lei has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lei to other names. Males are often given names which are linked to strength and firmness and females to names associated with beauty and flowers. Chinese children are never named after a famous person or an elder in the family as this is considered offensive.
Leis is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Leis. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Leis Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Leis has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Leis to other names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Leis in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Leis in Nautical Flags page.
When a person gives someone a lei, it symbolizes their affection towards the other. Leis are commonly presented when someone is arriving and leaving, so…. When a person gives someone a lei, it symbolizes their affection towards the other. Leis are commonly presented when someone is arriving and leaving, so it’s no surprise that leis are given to graduates as they are leaving school and arriving to this new stage of life. 
[ 1 syll. lei, le-i ] The baby girl name Lei is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced Liy- †. Lei's language of origin is Hawaiian. It is predominantly used in Chinese and Hawaiian. The meaning of Lei is 'a garland of flowers'. Lei is a shortening of the English Leilani. A form of Lei is the Chinese and Hawaiian shortening Lei. Lei is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names