A horse is unable to flex the hock without flexing the stifle and hip joints. Potential problems. Upward fixation of the Patella: Also referred to as an uncontrollable locking of the stifle. The hind limb is locked in extention and the hock can not be flexed. This can start intermittently during forward motion. This can also progress to the point of the joint being stuck and a horse hopping on 3 legs. Some Simple Signs of Trouble. It is not uncommon for stifle or hock problems to show some similar signs when trying to determine which joint is involved. It is my experience it is best to watch a horse from the side and from behind when lameness is suspected.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The stifle joint in a cow is very much like your knee.. It is a complex structure and is subject to many problems. The stifle is found on the cow's hind legs. 
I have a cow that has come up lame today which what appears to be a stifle injury. I had a vet come out to farm and he agreed. Wanted to get your opinion on how about treating this injury so that the cow can come back as much as she can. She is a BC Marathon PB Angus bred to Bodacious so I want to make sure I see her calve out and raise her calf without problems. Please provide me your insight or experiences in handling this injury. Thanks. I have currently placed her on the smallest flattest pasture on the place where she doesnt have to walk very far for both hay/grass and water. We can only hope for the best. If there is anything else I can be doing, please share.
Stifle injuries in cattle. Ducharme NG(1). Author information: (1)Large Animal Clinic, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA. Lameness of the hindlimbs originating from the stifle joint may be difficult to diagnose and treat. This article describes anatomic considerations and the diagnostic procedures necessary to accurately evaluate the bovine stifle joint. The emphasis is toward obtaining a diagnosis based on physical examination and simple diagnostic procedures in field situation.
The stifle joint in a horse is very much like your knee.. It is a complex structure and is subject to many problems. The stifle is found on the horse's hind legs. Just an interesting note about the horse's forelimb knee.. It works more like a human wrist. Communication from the patella or kneecap is sent to the femur through the femoral-patella joint. The stifle is made up of these two joints. A thin capsule surrounds the entire stifle joint that has a specialized fluid to help with shock absorption and lubrication.
Stifle joint problems (OCD, arthritis, cruciate ligament) are also a main source of stifle problems. The stifle is a complex joint that carries a lot of weight. There are two thick pieces of C-shaped fibro cartilage that act as shock absorbers. They are located between the femur and the tibia. Communication from the patella or kneecap is sent to the femur through the femoral-patella joint. The stifle is made up of these two joints. A thin capsule surrounds the entire stifle joint that has a specialized fluid to help with shock absorption and lubrication.
Lameness is an abnormal gait or stance of an animal that is the result of dysfunction of the locomotor system. In the horse, it is most commonly caused by pain, but can be due to neurologic or mechanical dysfunction. Lameness is a common veterinary problem in racehorses, sport horses, and pleasure horses. 
The stifle joint (often simply stifle) is a complex joint in the hind limbs of quadruped mammals such as the sheep, horse or dog. It is the equivalent of the human knee and is often the largest synovial joint in the animal's body. The stifle joint joins three bones: the femur, patella, and tibia. Caudal to the joint, in the dog for example, are the two fabellae, which lie in the two tendons of origin of gastrocnemius. Fourth, there is often a small sesamoid bone in the tendon of origin of popliteus in many species. Humans possess only the patella.
It is located cranially to the joint and sits in the trochlear groove of the femur. It guides the patellar ligament of the quadriceps over the knee joint to its point of insertion on the tibia. Caudal to the joint, in the dog for example, are the two fabellae, which lie in the two tendons of origin of gastrocnemius. Fourth, there is often a small sesamoid bone in the tendon of origin of popliteus in many species. Humans possess only the patella.
Rupture of Cranial Cruciate Ligament of the Stifle. Definition: Tearing or disruption of the cranial cruciate ligament as a result of twisting or rotary movement. Incidence: Not uncommon. Seen more in older bulls and in heavy cows, especially when first put out on pasture after being restricted. Often cows are in late pregnancy