She was excited when Starbucks first rolled out chai, but was soon disappointed. The Chai Tea Latte is far too sweet for her (there are 42 grams of sugar, or 10.5 teaspoons, in a 16 oz grande) , and includes flavors that she hasn’t seen in chai. Chai in the West has become synonymous with the overly sweet, oddly spicy blend that Starbucks sells as a Chai Tea Latte. But in India, chai takes on different flavor profiles, snack accompaniments, and even drinking vessels depending on the region or city or town.
chai classic. shared ingredient(s) with chai classic latte. black tea, black pepper, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, star anise. A robust blend of black tea, cinnamon, cardamom, black pepper and spices.
Marko Goodwin. Definition: In North America, ' chai ' usually refers to ' masala chai ,' a type of spiced, milky tea from India and Pakistan. In North America, chai spices are becoming popular flavors in tea chocolates and other confections, and the dirty chai is becoming a popular tea-espresso drink. Other North American variations on chai include iced chai and unconventionally flavored chai, like peppermint chai and chocolate chai.
Directions. Prep. Ready In. 1  Pour boiling water over tea bag in a mug; let steep 4 to 6 minutes. 2  Remove and discard tea bag. 3  Stir honey and sugar into tea to dissolve. 4  Stir milk through tea to serve. 
classic chai spices. Often referred to as “masala,” meaning “mixed spice” in Hindi, this black tea-based blend combines the sweet allure of fresh-ground cinnamon with the spice of citrusy cardamom and a hint of zesty black pepper. Steeped in 5,000 years of Indian history, chai is a black tea blend that’s part sweet, part spicy, and totally unexpected. It’s where fresh-ground cinnamon and sweet vanilla glaze join the zesty bite of ginger snaps and pumpkin spice to create a delicious twist on flavors you already know and love. Get Coupon.
Directions. For the chai: In a 48-ounce French press coffee maker, combine the coffee, cardamom, cinnamon, ground ginger, allspice, grated ginger, pepper, cloves, salt and water. Place the lid on the coffee press with the plunger extended. Let the mixture brew for 4 minutes. Press down the plunger. 
How to Make Chai Latte. Chai lattes are a delicious take on traditional chai tea. Similar to a latte made with espresso, the chai latte combines frothy milk with a concentrated brew of spiced tea. 
However, elsewhere in the world, ordering a 'chai' (rather than a 'masala chai,' or ' spice tea ') can result in a totally different cup of tea. This is because 'chai' is the word for 'tea' in Hindi and many other languages in India and the surrounding countries. In North America, chai spices are becoming popular flavors in tea chocolates and other confections, and the dirty chai is becoming a popular tea-espresso drink. Other North American variations on chai include iced chai and unconventionally flavored chai, like peppermint chai and chocolate chai.
How to drink the chai. The way tea is slurped and the cup one drinks it from also varies across India. Patrick Shaw, an American who travelled around northern India to try chais and write Chai Pilgrimage, particularly enjoys the taste of chai in small clay cups, which are typically discarded after use. Chai in the West has become synonymous with the overly sweet, oddly spicy blend that Starbucks sells as a Chai Tea Latte. But in India, chai takes on different flavor profiles, snack accompaniments, and even drinking vessels depending on the region or city or town.
Directions. 1  Place the tea bags, cinnamon, ginger and allspice in the coffee filter of a drip coffeemaker. 2  Add water; brew according to manufacturer's directions. 3  Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, combine the milk, brown sugar and creamer. 4  Cook and stir over medium heat until heated through and sugar is dissolved. 1