Reproduction sponges. REPRODUCTION IN SPONGES. (Girish Chandra). Sponges reproduce both asexually and sexually and they also possess the power of regeneration due which it is almost impossible to kill a sponge. Their sexual reproduction is similar to higher animals even though their body organization is primitive type. ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION. Regeneration. 
Porifera. - Sponges reproduce by both asexual and sexual means. Most poriferans that reproduce by sexual means are hermaphroditic and produce eggs and sperm at different times. Sperm are frequently broadcast into the water column. Sponges that reproduce asexually produce buds or, more often, gemmules, which are packets of several cells of various types inside a protective covering. Fresh water sponges of the Spongillidae often produce gemmules prior to winter. These then develop into adult sponges beginning the following spring.
Sponges can reproduce asexually and sexually. Asexual reproduction occurs when a bud on the side of the parent sponge develops into a small sponge. Most sponge that reproduce sexually are hermaphrodites(this means that one sponge produces both eggs and sperm). Pierry Alejandra · 6 months ago. 
Some sponges have sexes, but most are hermaphrodites, or are sexless. A sponge can reproduce asexually through budding. However, most  sponges reproduce sexually by releasing sperm cells into the water  to fertilize ova. Sponges are reproduced asexually by process of budding, which have great power of regeneration and sexually sponges are produced by gametes formation method.
Sponges are also able to reproduce asexually through budding. This is when a small piece of sponge is broken off but is still able to survive and grow into another sponge. Sponges are also able to repair damages to their bodies. 
Reproduction. Pieces of sponge are able to regenerate into whole new sponges. Asexual reproduction occurs by budding or by fragmentation. The buds may remain attached to the parent or separate from it, and each bud develops into a new individual. 
It can reproduce either sexually or asexually. Sponges can reproduce sexually and asexually. When using asexual reproduction, the sponges simply use a process called Budding. … To reproduce sexually, sponges make the sperm at a certain time of year. Sponges are reproduced asexually by process of budding, which have great power of regeneration and sexually sponges are produced by gametes formation method.