Reference Range. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) is an enzyme found primarily in the liver and kidney. It was originally referred to as serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT). Normally, a low level of ALT exists in the serum. ALT is increased with liver damage and is used to screen for and/or monitor liver disease. 
^ Back to top. Normally, levels of ALT in the blood are low. Very high levels of ALT (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. In acute hepatitis, ALT levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal. 
191 Followers. A. The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. 
The normal level of ALT is the bloodstream is 5 to 45 U/L (units per liter). This range can slightly vary depending where you take the blood test. If the blood test shows elevated ALT levels outside the normal range, even a small amount, fatty liver and other liver disorders might be the cause. High ALT levels in fatty liver and Elevated ALT levels. High ALT levels in fatty liver or elevated ALT levels in fatty liver (also called Alanine Transaminase and SGPT) in a fatty liver blood test can be a sign of a the severity of fatty liver disease from mild to serious.
Normal blood test results for typical liver function tests include: 1  ALT. 7 to 55 units per liter (U/L). 2  AST. 8 to 48 U/L. 3  ALP. 45 to 115 U/L. 4  Albumin. 5  3.5 to 5.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL). 6  Total protein. 7  6.3 to 7.9 g/dL. 8  Bilirubin. 9  0.1 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). 
Normal levels of AST and ALT may slightly vary depending on the individual laboratory's reference values. Typically the range for normal AST is reported between 10 to 40 units per liter and ALT between 7 to 56 units per liter. Mild elevations are generally considered to be 2-3 times higher than the normal range.
High values. High levels of ALT may be caused by: 1  Liver damage from conditions such as hepatitis or cirrhosis. 2  Lead poisoning. 3  Exposure to carbon tetrachloride. 4  Decay of a large tumor (necrosis). 5  Many medicines, such as statins, antibiotics, chemotherapy, aspirin, narcotics, and barbiturates. 6  Mononucleosi
1 Read 68 Stories. 2  Share Your Story. 3  The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 4  The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is about 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. 1 The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 2