Computing Dictionary. Definition: (Or span, region, button, extent) An area within the content of a hypertext node (e.g. a web page) which is the source or destination of a link. A source anchor may be a word, phrase, image, or possibly the whole node. A destination anchor may be a whole node or some position within the node. Typically, clicking with the mouse on a source anchor causes the link to be followed and the anchor at the opposite end of the link to be displayed
: a heavy device that is attached to a boat or ship by a rope or chain and that is thrown into the water to hold the boat or ship in place. : a person or thing that provides strength and support. : a large store that attracts customers and other businesses to an area (such as a shopping mall). Definition of ANCHOR for Kids. 1. : a heavy device attached to a ship by a cable or chain and used to hold the ship in place when thrown overboard. 2
Full Definition of ANCHOR. 1. : a device usually of metal attached to a ship or boat by a cable and cast overboard to hold it in a particular place by means of a fluke that digs into the bottom. 2. : a reliable or principal support: mainstay. Definition of ANCHOR for Kids. 1. : a heavy device attached to a ship by a cable or chain and used to hold the ship in place when thrown overboard. 2
anchor. O.E. ancor, borrowed 9c. from L. ancora, from or cognate with Gk. ankyra anchor, hook (see ankle). A very early borrowing and said to be the only L. nautical term used in the Gmc. languages. The-ch-spelling emerged late 16c., in imitation of a misspelling of the L. word. The fig. sense of that which gives stability or security is from 1382.
Translations for 'anchor'. 1  British English: anchor An anchor is a heavy hooked object at the end of a chain that is dropped from a boat into the water to make the boat stay in one place.ˈaeŋkə ˈæŋKə.  noun
More example sentences. Synonyms. ‘ 1 I hope to be an anchor to bring the stability to look at the economic and political coverage of the paper,’ he said. 2  In the midst of all these changes and uncertainties, the key role of leadership is to provide an anchor that can offer some degree of stability.oun. 1 A heavy object attached to a cable or chain and used to moor a ship to the sea bottom, typically having a metal shank with a pair of curved, barbed flukes at one end: the boat, no longer held fast by its anchor, swung wildly [as modifier]: an anchor chain.
&nbsp. Dream Dictionary. Definition: Seeing an anchor in your dream, can have a positive meaning, if it is coupled with a good feeling. It indicates that you reached stability in your life and that you are proud of your strong convictions.efinition: (Or span, region, button, extent) An area within the content of a hypertext node (e.g. a web page) which is the source or destination of a link. A source anchor may be a word, phrase, image, or possibly the whole node.
1 They rigged two mooring legs on the ship's fantail, consisting of anchors, chain and heavy cable attached to two buoys. 2  In addition to knitting, Johnson and a group of three women and one brave man meet several times a week in an empty space near the forecastle, the area of the ship where the anchor chains are stowed.oun. 1 A heavy object attached to a cable or chain and used to moor a ship to the sea bottom, typically having a metal shank with a pair of curved, barbed flukes at one end: the boat, no longer held fast by its anchor, swung wildly [as modifier]: an anchor chain.