Directions. 1  Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat. 2  Add ground beef and sausage and cook until both are browned. 3  Set aside. 4  Heat butter and olive oil in a stock pot over medium heat. 5  Add onion and garlic and saute until softened; do not let brown. 6  Add tomato sauce and paste.
1 Heat butter and olive oil in a stock pot over medium heat. 2  Add onion and garlic and saute until softened; do not let brown. 3  Add tomato sauce and paste. 4  Add 44 ounces of water (2 cans each of the tomato sauce and paste filled with water). 5  Stir and then add all remaining ingredients except pasta and cheese.
Blend in the other ingredients and the cheese, stirring until the cheese has melted. The sauce can be used immediately or kept warm over very low heat until ready to use. Rich and Creamy Alfredo Sauce. This creamy white sauce is very rich with lots of butter, Parmesan cheese, and heavy cream.
1 Saute for approximately 10 minutes. 2  Add salt and pepper to taste. 3  Add the diced onion/s to the skillet and stir together with the chicken pieces for approximately 5 minutes. 4  Add 2 cups of water and let simmer on medium high heat until the onions caramelize and create a sauce.
White Pizza Sauces. A traditional Pizza Bianca, also called Pizza Blanca or White Pizza, generally has no sauce, just a covering of some garlic, olive oil and herbs, often topped with mozzarella cheese and whatever other toppings you prefer. But you can also put a creamy white sauce, like an Alfredo or bechamel sauce, on your pizza.
1 Add ground beef and sausage and cook until both are browned. 2  Set aside. 3  Heat butter and olive oil in a stock pot over medium heat. 4  Add onion and garlic and saute until softened; do not let brown. 5  Add tomato sauce and paste. 6  Add 44 ounces of water (2 cans each of the tomato sauce and paste filled with water).
1 Set aside. 2  Heat butter and olive oil in a stock pot over medium heat. 3  Add onion and garlic and saute until softened; do not let brown. 4  Add tomato sauce and paste. 5  Add 44 ounces of water (2 cans each of the tomato sauce and paste filled with water).
1 Add salt and pepper to taste. 2  Add the diced onion/s to the skillet and stir together with the chicken pieces for approximately 5 minutes. 3  Add 2 cups of water and let simmer on medium high heat until the onions caramelize and create a sauce.