Example 1: Given a normal distribution of values for which the mean is 70 and the standard deviation is 4.5. Find: a) the probability that a value is between 65 and 80, inclusive. b) the probability that a value is greater than or equal to 75. 
The normal random variable of a standard normal distribution is called a standard score or a z-score. Every normal random variable X can be transformed into a z score via the following equation: z = (X - μ) / σ. where X is a normal random variable, μ is the mean of X, and σ is the standard deviation of X. Or you may want to know the probability that a standard normal random variable lies between two given values. These probabilities are easy to compute from a normal distribution table. Here's how. 1  a) = 1 - P(Z. 2  Suppose, for example, that we want to know the probability that a z-score will be greater than 3.00.
Standard Normal Distribution Table. This is the bell-shaped curve of the Standard Normal Distribution. It is a Normal Distribution with mean 0 and standard deviation 1. It shows you the percent of population: 1  between 0 and Z (option 0 to Z). 2  less than Z (option Up to Z). 3  greater than Z (option Z onwards)
The standard normal distribution is a normal distribution with a mean of zero and standard deviation of 1. The standard normal distribution is centered at zero and the degree to which a given measurement deviates from the mean is given by the standard deviation. In this case, because the mean is zero and the standard deviation is 1, the Z value is the number of standard deviation units away from the mean, and the area is the probability of observing a value less than that particular Z value.
A standard normal distribution table shows a cumulative probability associated with a particular z-score. Table rows show the whole number and tenths place of the z-score. Table columns show the hundredths place. The cumulative probability (often from minus infinity to the z-score) appears in the cell of the table. Or you may want to know the probability that a standard normal random variable lies between two given values. These probabilities are easy to compute from a normal distribution table. Here's how. 1  a) = 1 - P(Z. 2  Suppose, for example, that we want to know the probability that a z-score will be greater than 3.00.
A random variable X whose distribution has the shape of a normal curve is called a normal random variable. Normal Curve. This random variable X is said to be normally distributed with mean μ and standard deviation σ if its probability distribution is given by. `f(X)=1/(sigmasqrt(2pi))e^(-(x-mu)^2 /2\ sigma^2`. The new distribution of the normal random variable Z with mean `0` and variance `1` (or standard deviation `1`) is called a standard normal distribution. Standardizing the distribution like this makes it much easier to calculate probabilities.
For the standard normal distribution, 68% of the observations lie within 1 standard deviation of the mean; 95% lie within two standard deviation of the mean; and 99.9% lie within 3 standard deviations of the mean. To this point, we have been using X to denote the variable of interest (e.g., X=BMI, X=height, X=weight). In this case, because the mean is zero and the standard deviation is 1, the Z value is the number of standard deviation units away from the mean, and the area is the probability of observing a value less than that particular Z value.
Clearly, given a normal distribution, most outcomes will be within 3 standard deviations of the mean. To find the probability associated with a normal random variable, use a graphing calculator, an online normal distribution calculator, or a normal distribution table. 1 The total area under the normal curve is equal to 1. 2  The probability that a normal random variable X equals any particular value is 0. 3  The probability that X is greater than a equals the area under the normal curve bounded by a and plus infinity (as indicated by the non-shaded area in the figure below).
For example, a section of the standard normal table is reproduced below. To find the cumulative probability of a z-score equal to -1.31, cross-reference the row of the table containing -1.3 with the column containing 0.01. The table shows that the probability that a standard normal random variable will be less than -1.31 is 0.0951; that is, P(Z. Or you may want to know the probability that a standard normal random variable lies between two given values. These probabilities are easy to compute from a normal distribution table. Here's how. 1  a) = 1 - P(Z. 2  Suppose, for example, that we want to know the probability that a z-score will be greater than 3.00.