The FCDA have produced their 'biomass equation' which shows that cannabis biomass is the most efficient (and potentially the cheapest and most reliable) way to produce energy. It is estimated that up to 90% of the energy produced by the use of fossil fuels could be produced from biomass. Go to the Index. 'Efficacious' means effective, or productive as regards the desired effect. This is particularly concerned with cannabis biomass (explained soon). Cannabis is versatile because it has so many uses. It's uses can be traced back to thousands of years before Christ.
Marijuana, the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States, is taken from the leaves and flowering tops of the Cannabis sativa plant. It also comes in a more concentrated, resinous form, called hashish, and as a sticky black liquid called hash oil. While marijuana is most often smoked, it can also be ingested. The drug can be ingested alone or cooked into food, most notoriously in hash brownies.. In addition, it can be used to brew tea or bhang, a highly potent beverage originating from India.
Since withdrawal from alcohol and serious drug use often prompts the same symptoms as other medical conditions that marijuana is used to treat (anxiety, depression, pain, nausea, and sleeplessness,) it is logical that responsible use of marijuana could also help with addiction recovery. However, many studies have found that medical marijuana is not addictive, or as harmful, as other drugs such as alcohol and opiates. Additionally, several studies have shown that marijuana can be an effective treatment for recovery from other substances.
Marijuana as Medicine Many people believe that marijuana can be used as medicine to treat certain illnesses. Canada and several states in the U.S. have passed laws in recent years to specifically allow sick people to use marijuana for medicinal purposes. 
Risks of Marijuana Use. Though you may have heard otherwise, marijuana can be addictive: Nearly 10% of people who use it become dependent on it. It isn’t clear whether marijuana is a gateway drug that makes people more likely to try harder drugs like cocaine and heroin. The amount of THC in marijuana has gone up in recent years. 
Marijuana refers to the dried leaves, flowers, stems, and seeds from the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa. The plant contains the mind-altering chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other related compounds. Extracts with high amounts of THC can also be made from the cannabis plant (see  Marijuana Extracts ). Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States (SAMHSA, 2014). Its use is widespread among young people. 
Again, combining other drugs with marijuana can be extremely dangerous. Smoking a joint that has been dipped in embalming fluid or formaldehyde has effects similar to those of a joint laced with PCP-a drug that causes hallucinations, euphoria, and often times, panic or rage. While marijuana is most often smoked, it can also be ingested. The drug can be ingested alone or cooked into food, most notoriously in hash brownies.. In addition, it can be used to brew tea or bhang, a highly potent beverage originating from India.
Studies have found that medical marijuana rich in CBD and THC are effective in seizure control, but they rely on anecdotal data. While cannabis has been used to treat epilepsy for centuries, data from double-blind randomized, controlled trials of CBD or THC in epilepsy is lacking. As medical professionals it is important that we further the evidence of whether CBD in cannabis is an effective antiepileptic therapy.. Another article in the series reviews the current evidence on CBD use to treat neurological disorders such as anxiety, schizophrenia and addiction, as well as epilepsy.
Regular medicinal use of marijuana is a fairly new practice. For that reason, its effects on people who are weakened because of age or illness are still relatively unknown. Older people and those suffering from diseases such as cancer or AIDS could be more vulnerable to the drug’s harmful effects. Continued research may lead to more medications. Because the marijuana plant contains chemicals that may help treat a range of illnesses or symptoms, many people argue that it should be legal for medical purposes. In fact, a growing number of states have legalized marijuana for medical use.