Definition. Gland: Anterior Pituitary Location of the Target Cells: Cartilage, bone, skeletal muscles, liver, and other body tissues Function: Stimulates secretion of hormones that stimulate body growth and metabolism. 
Identify the releasing organ, target organ/cell and the physiologic action on the target cell of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Releasing organ: Hypothalamus Target organ/cell: Anterior pituitary Physiologic action: Stimulates release of FSH in females and LH in males. Identify the releasing organ, target organ/cell and the physiologic action on the target cell of DHEA (androgens). Releasing organ: Adrenal cortex Target organ/cell: reproductive organs Physiologic action: stimulate growth of pubic and axillary hair, development of sweat glands and promote sex drive.
The pituitary gland is often portrayed as the master gland of the body. Such praise is justified in the sense that the anterior and posterior pituitary secrete a battery of hormones that collectively influence all cells and affect virtually all physiologic processes. In the case of TSH, the target organ is the thyroid gland. Clearly, robust control systems must be in place to prevent over or under-secretion of hypothalamic and anterior pituitary hormones.
Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue. 
The pituitary gland may be king, but the power behind the throne is clearly the hypothalamus. As alluded to in the last section, some of the neurons within the hypothalamus-neurosecretory neurons-secrete hormones that strictly control secretion of hormones from the anterior pituitary. In the case of TSH, the target organ is the thyroid gland. Clearly, robust control systems must be in place to prevent over or under-secretion of hypothalamic and anterior pituitary hormones.
1 Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is a hypothalamic peptide that stimulates both the synthesis and secretion of growth hormone. 2  Somatostatin (SS) is a peptide produced by several tissues in the body, including the hypothalamus. 1 Somatostatin (SS) is a peptide produced by several tissues in the body, including the hypothalamus. 2  Somatostatin inhibits growth hormone release in response to GHRH and to other stimulatory factors such as low blood glucose concentration.
Identify the, Releasing organ, target organ/cell and the physiologic action on the target cell of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Releasing organ: Hypothalamus Target organ/cell: Anterior pituitary Physiologic action: stimulates release of ACTH. Identify the releasing organ, target organ/cell and the physiologic action on the target cell of DHEA (androgens). Releasing organ: Adrenal cortex Target organ/cell: reproductive organs Physiologic action: stimulate growth of pubic and axillary hair, development of sweat glands and promote sex drive.
Prolactin is a single-chain protein hormone closely related to growth hormone. It is secreted by so-called lactotrophs in the anterior pituitary. It is also synthesized and secreted by a broad range of other cells in the body, most prominently various immune cells, the brain and the decidua of the pregnant uterus. Prolactin is synthesized as a prohormone.
Identify the releasing organ, target organ/cell and the physiologic action on the target cell of prolactin-releasing hormone (PRH). Releasing organ: Hypothalamus Target organ/cell: Anterior pituitary Physiologic action: stimulates release of prolactin hormone. Identify the releasing organ, target organ/cell and the physiologic action on the target cell of DHEA (androgens). Releasing organ: Adrenal cortex Target organ/cell: reproductive organs Physiologic action: stimulate growth of pubic and axillary hair, development of sweat glands and promote sex drive.
1 Indirect effects are mediated primarily by a insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) , a hormone that is secreted from the liver and other tissues in response to growth hormone. 2  A majority of the growth promoting effects of growth hormone is actually due to IGF-I acting on its target cells. 1 Somatostatin (SS) is a peptide produced by several tissues in the body, including the hypothalamus. 2  Somatostatin inhibits growth hormone release in response to GHRH and to other stimulatory factors such as low blood glucose concentration.