The new requirements of HR 1268 prohibit any federal agency from accepting a state-issued driver ' s license or ID card for any official purpose unless it has been issued according to the new requirements.
The law applies most directly to drivers ' licenses and non-driver photo ID cards state motor vehicle agencies issue, but the definition it uses for identification cards covers any identification document issued by a state or local government solely for the purpose of identification.
Most Americans have more daily contact with their state and local governments than with the federal government. Fairfax County is required to enforce and administer various codes and ordinances as stipulated in the Code of Virginia as well as County Code of Fairfax County.
Yes, your ability to legally operate a government vehicle is dependent on the fact that you are legally licensed by your state. A government drivers license only signifies tha … t you are qualified (by the government) to operate certain types of vehicles-nothing more. If your state driving privileges are suspended or revoked you may not operate a vehicle with only a government drivers license. 1 person found this useful.
A driver's license or state ID is considered the primary form of identification in the United States. A United States driver's license is an official government-issued ID that authorizes the bearer to operate a motor vehicle.
The law prohibits any federal agency from accepting a person ' s state-issued driver ' s license or identification card for any official purpose unless the state meets the requirements of the new law.
Unlike other countries, the United States federal government does not issue a national driver's license or identification card. Each of the 50 U.S. States issue their own drivers licenses and state IDs, and they can be used anywhere in the United States, Canada, and even abroad in certain countries. Download the U.S. Drivers License Application Guide and learn how to apply for a U.S. Driver's License application.
Thus, states will almost certainly have to comply with the standards. The law applies to drivers ' licenses and identification cards, which it defines as an identification document issued by a state or local government solely for the purpose of identification.