Arc Trainers RULE! My old gym used to have them. I'm an avid spinner and cyclist and the arc trainer is the only cardio machine that I could get a good workout on. IT was just way too tough to get my HR up on the elliptical. Arc trainers are much more challenging and you will really notice the work in your thighs and butt. 
The arc trainer is a stationary, cardiovascular exercise machine. When you change the incline, you change the workout. The lower inclines resemble a cross-country ski motion, the midlevel inclines mimic an elliptical trainer and the higher inclines compare with stair climbing. 
The Arc Trainer is part of the fitness equipment line offered by Cybex International. Cybex describes the trainer as neither an elliptical nor a stepper. The technology uses a distinctive low-impact motion that engages large muscle groups, such as the thighs, to increase strength and burn calories. Models. The Arc Trainer comes in two models: total body and lower body. Both provide movement that keeps the toe in front of the knee at all times. Cybex claims that this biomechanically correct pathway will reduce stress on the knees. Both machines also provide a full range of motion that enhances the knee and hip muscl
The difference is the same side arm and leg movement. With treadmills or an elliptical, when one leg moves up, the opposite arm moves forward. With an Arc Trainer, as the left leg move downward the left arm moves with it. According to the company website, this improves posture and puts less strain on the back. Models. The Arc Trainer comes in two models: total body and lower body. Both provide movement that keeps the toe in front of the knee at all times. Cybex claims that this biomechanically correct pathway will reduce stress on the knees. Both machines also provide a full range of motion that enhances the knee and hip muscles
Cybex 600A Arc Trainer-The refurbished Cybex 600a with moving handlebars for upper body exercise provides a true full body workout. Voted ‘Product of the Year’ two years in a row when it came out in 2004. 
The motion of an Arc Trainer is more like a stepping / skiing type motion. Cybex will point out the flaws of a traditional elliptical machine with the stress that it places on knees, hips, and ankles. The full club model offers a more solid fame, offers more elevation, and has a higher level of resistance over what the previous home model offered. For 2014, Cybex has come out with the 525 Arc Trainer.
The Arc Trainer is adjustable for incline and resistance and has a variable stride rate. Resistance settings are proportional to body-weight such that the same amount of relative work is performed by a 110 lb female and a 250 lb male when the same resistance level is selected. There are two versions of the Arc Trainer, a lower body version and a total body version. The Total Body Arc Trainer uses a same side forward pattern of motion where the arm and leg on the same side move together. This movement pattern allows the user to transfer work to their upper body without simultaneously increasing the work rate of the legs.
1 “I’ve also noticed good changes in my lower body as I exercise on the Arc Trainer. 2  There’s a lot of tone and a lot of muscle conditioning.”. “ 3 Arc Trainer kept me feeling loose and fit so I was able to get a higher-intensity workout.”. “ 4 Easy on the knees, easy on the back, easy on the eyes because it’s tough on fat!”. 
The Arc Trainer is adjustable for incline and resistance and has a variable stride rate. Resistance settings are proportional to body-weight such that the same amount of relative work is performed by a 110 lb female and a 250 lb male when the same resistance level is selected. There are two versions of the Arc Trainer, a lower body version and a total body version. The Arc Trainer is a stationary, non-impact exercise machine, and is a registered trademark of Cybex International, Inc. The Arc Trainer is manufactured in Owatonna MN.