Clear Coating the Guitar Body. The final step to staining your guitar body is applying a clear coat of lacquer. Also known as polyurethane, this product provides a protective layer and adds shine. After the stain is completely dry, you can apply the clear coat. Use a high-quality paint brush. Dip the brush in the polyurethane and apply a coat all over the guitar body. Allow the coating to dry for four hours.
1 Apply the stain. 2  Make sure the stain, gel stain or dye stain is applied evenly. 3  Rub into the grain, going with the grain for an awesome effect. 4  Use bleached 100% cotton cloth to stain if you are using an oil stain, and rub into the grain of the guitar body. 1 Wipe the end of the cloth gently against tissue paper until it is almost dry. 2  Rub the cloth on the spotted area of the guitar body. 3  Re-apply the stain to the guitar body. 4  If using an oil stain the process merely needs to be repeated. 5  Or use normal stain, finishing by rubbing with tung oil.
We are merely providing some tips to help you finish your guitar body. It's also a good idea to try any finishes on a piece of scrap wood before you work on your guitar project. 1  Use Masking tape to cover your neck pocket and edges. 2  This will prevent any problems with attaching the guitar neck at a later point. 1 Wipe down your Guitar Body to remove any particles etc. 2  You may want to hang the guitar in your finish room using an old hanger or hook of some sort. 3  Apply your finish of choice (Stain, Paint, etc). 4  In our example we use a See Thru Transparent White Stain
4. Smooth the guitar's body. After using coarse-grit sandpaper to remove the finish, you'll want to smooth out the wood using progressively finer grains of sandpaper. Work the entire body over with medium-grit sandpaper (such as 120-grit), and then go over it again using fine-grit sandpaper (such as 200-grit). Use an orbital sander to remove the bulk of the finish. Fit an orbital sander with coarse-grit sandpaper and work over the entire guitar body using smooth, circular strokes. This technique should allow you to remove most of the lacquer and paint on the guitar's body. You may be tempted to use paint stripper.
1 This will prevent any problems with attaching the guitar neck at a later point. 2  Wipe down your Guitar Body to remove any particles etc. 3  You may want to hang the guitar in your finish room using an old hanger or hook of some sort. 4  Apply your finish of choice (Stain, Paint, etc). 1 Wipe down your Guitar Body to remove any particles etc. 2  You may want to hang the guitar in your finish room using an old hanger or hook of some sort. 3  Apply your finish of choice (Stain, Paint, etc). 4  In our example we use a See Thru Transparent White Stain
Staining the Guitar Body. Staining the guitar body is a similar process to applying pre-stain. If you use pre-stain, you may find that it makes the wood stain appear a shade or two lighter. Consider testing both on a wood scrap before use. Dip a clean cotton cloth in the wood stain. Apply it to the wood surface, along the grain. Also known as polyurethane, this product provides a protective layer and adds shine. After the stain is completely dry, you can apply the clear coat. Use a high-quality paint brush. Dip the brush in the polyurethane and apply a coat all over the guitar body. Allow the coating to dry for four hours.
1 You may want to hang the guitar in your finish room using an old hanger or hook of some sort. 2  Apply your finish of choice (Stain, Paint, etc). 3  In our example we use a See Thru Transparent White Stain. 4  The Tele style body below that you will see has approximately 10 coats of white stain on it. 1 Wipe down your Guitar Body to remove any particles etc. 2  You may want to hang the guitar in your finish room using an old hanger or hook of some sort. 3  Apply your finish of choice (Stain, Paint, etc). 4  In our example we use a See Thru Transparent White Stain
8. If using a stain, wipe on the stain. First, wet the guitar body with a little bit of moisture to ease the application of the stain and prevent blemishes. Apply the stain following manufacturer instructions, and apply as many coats as needed to achieve the look you're after. Use an orbital sander to remove the bulk of the finish. Fit an orbital sander with coarse-grit sandpaper and work over the entire guitar body using smooth, circular strokes. This technique should allow you to remove most of the lacquer and paint on the guitar's body. You may be tempted to use paint stripper.
1 Apply pre-stain liberally to the guitar body. 2  Apply the stain. 3  Make sure the stain, gel stain or dye stain is applied evenly. 4  Rub into the grain, going with the grain for an awesome effect. 5  Use bleached 100% cotton cloth to stain if you are using an oil stain, and rub into the grain of the guitar body. 1 Wipe the end of the cloth gently against tissue paper until it is almost dry. 2  Rub the cloth on the spotted area of the guitar body. 3  Re-apply the stain to the guitar body. 4  If using an oil stain the process merely needs to be repeated. 5  Or use normal stain, finishing by rubbing with tung oil.