Picture of the Biceps. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The biceps is a muscle on the front part of the upper arm. The biceps includes a “short head” and a “long head” that work as a single muscle. The biceps is attached to the arm bones by tough connective tissues called tendons. The tendons that connect the biceps muscle to the shoulder joint in two places are called the proximal biceps tendons. The tendon that attaches the biceps muscle to the forearm bones (radius and ulna) is called the distal biceps tendon
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: No. Only skeletal muscles are connected to bones. They don't attach directly to the bones, but are attached by tendons that emerge at the ends of the muscle groups or individual muscles. Smooth muscles are organ muscles, and cardiac muscle is specialized conductive muscle of the heart
Our bodies have different types of tissues that are used to connect all of our different parts. Bones are connected to other bones by special tissues called ligaments.. But when bones are connected to muscles, the special tissues are called tendons.. Tendons are very strong. When a muscle pulls, they pull too and they can move our bones. We have tendons in many parts of our bodies: wrists, elbows, thumbs, shoulders, knees, head, legs, and heels. Tendons almost always connect bone to muscle, but sometimes they connect muscle to other things, like an eyeball! 1  Share.
Tendons and Muscles. Tendons are similar to ligaments, except these tension-withstanding fibrous tissues attach muscle to bone. Tendons consist of densely packed collagen fibers. Muscles, either individually or in groups, are supported by fascia.
Confidence votes 2.4K. They attach to the facial bones, just as all the other muscles in the body attach to bone. They are there to act on the bones and cause movement. An exception to that would be the cardiac muscle, among a few others, but they don't occur on the face. Muscles are attached by tendons (with a few exceptions). The muscles are attached to the tendons by a musculo-tendonious junction. The tendons are a part of the muscle that ta … pers off to a strong tendon.
Ligaments and tendons are fibrous bands of connective tissue that attach to bone. Ligaments connect two or more bones together and help stabilize joints. Tendons attach muscle to bone. Tendons vary in size and are somewhat elastic and attach bones to muscles. Ligaments. The system of ligaments in the vertebral column, combined with the tendons and muscles, provides a natural brace to help protect the spine from injury. Tendons are similar to ligaments, except these tension-withstanding fibrous tissues attach muscle to bone. Tendons consist of densely packed collagen fibers. Muscles, either individually or in groups, are supported by fascia.