We create financial calculators – and nothing else. After 15 years we still get excited about new financial riddles and how to solve them. We have over 400 financial calculators at www.dinkytown.net. Our website is free for you to use and visit as often as you like. We also provide these financial calculators to license on your website or financial product. 
The name Dinkytown is of uncertain origin, although it was in definite use by 1948, when the Dinkytown Business Association formed. Stories regarding the origin of the name include. 1  The streetcars, called Dinkys, that used to provide transit throughout the area. 1 Marcy-Holmes Neighborhood Association Dinkytown is a commercial district, and one of the 5 character areas, of the Marcy-Holmes neighborhood. 2  Lileks.com -- University of Minnesota pages -- contains information and reminiscence about Dinkytown, by Star Tribune columnist James Lileks.
Dylan discovered the work of Woody Guthrie in Dinkytown. Dave Whitaker, who Dylan called one of the Svengali-type Beats on the scene, lent him Guthrie’s autobiography, Bound for Glory. Learning about Guthrie’s work and hearing the songs sent Dylan on a quest to New York City to meet the celebrated folksinger. At a listening station at the Wiesman exhibit called “The Minnesota Party Tape,” Dylan could be heard singing several folk songs, including one of Woody Guthrie’s. Sheehy said, “This tape is recorded in Dinkytown in a friend’s apartment. On it you hear Dylan goofing around and joking.
1 Official Website of the Dinkytown Business Alliance Current resources for the Dinkytown community (formerly the Dinkytown Business Association). 2  Marcy-Holmes Neighborhood Association Dinkytown is a commercial district, and one of the 5 character areas, of the Marcy-Holmes neighborhood. 1 Marcy-Holmes Neighborhood Association Dinkytown is a commercial district, and one of the 5 character areas, of the Marcy-Holmes neighborhood. 2  Lileks.com -- University of Minnesota pages -- contains information and reminiscence about Dinkytown, by Star Tribune columnist James Lileks.
Dinkytown – Minneapolis, MN. Dinkytown is located directly across from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities’ main campus and East of Highway 35W providing easy access to downtown Minneapolis. You can find everything from sororities and fraternities to trendy boutiques and diverse restaurants in Dinkytown. Aside from the usual chain restaurants, Dinkytown offers a variety of culturally diverse food options including Korean, Greek, Middle Eastern and Mexican cuisines. If you’re looking for the best breakfast in town, look no further than Al’s Breakfast.
The vote wouldn't include all of what many consider Dinkytown today. It would cover a smaller footprint limited to the older core buildings. But the area has been the focus of a long debate over how much new development should be allowed in an area of Minneapolis known for its old and quirky buildings and history. Steve Bergerson, photographer and researcher with Preserve Historic Dinkytown. In the 1920s and '30s, Dinkytown was the center of campus life and it's the second or third generation, Bergerson said. The Annie's Parlour [building] originally had a ballroom where students went on Saturday night to dance.. Bergerson's personal belief on the origin of the name Dinkytown dates back to the 1890s: There was a passenger station just a block away here at 14th and University from 1890 to 1901 and it was called Dinkytown, the Dinkytown station, he said
Dinkytown is a commercial district within the Marcy-Holmes residential neighborhood in Minneapolis, Minnesota. 1 Marcy-Holmes Neighborhood Association Dinkytown is a commercial district, and one of the 5 character areas, of the Marcy-Holmes neighborhood. 2  Lileks.com -- University of Minnesota pages -- contains information and reminiscence about Dinkytown, by Star Tribune columnist James Lileks.
“The Weisman is just steps away from Dinkytown, the small business and residential district that Dylan called home for 15 months between 1959 and 1960. These four square blocks of Minneapolis have played a pivotal part in the world of music,” Sheehy said. At a listening station at the Wiesman exhibit called “The Minnesota Party Tape,” Dylan could be heard singing several folk songs, including one of Woody Guthrie’s. Sheehy said, “This tape is recorded in Dinkytown in a friend’s apartment. On it you hear Dylan goofing around and joking.