If you are a New Zealand citizen with a child in your care who is an Australian citizen, the child may be eligible for Special Benefit. There are complex rules regarding the issuing of Australian citizenship to children born in Australia.
Australians visiting New Zealand. A citizen or permanent resident of Australia, including the territories of Coco (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island, is covered by the New Zealand/Australia Reciprocal Health Agreement if they: 1  are on a temporary visit (up to two years long) to New Zealand AND.
New Zealand citizens living in Australia are still entitled to other services such as subsidised health care (Medicare) and primary and secondary school education. For information on the reciprocal health care agreement between New Zealand and Australia, please visit this website.
The reciprocal agreement between Australia and New Zealand is for citizens and residents of those countries who are in the other country on a temporary stay. If you have moved to Australia, contact Medicare Australia to find out about enrolment.
If you are a Special Category Visa holder living in Australia you may qualify for a Social Security payment under the International Social Security Agreement between Australia and New Zealand, whatever date you entered Australia.
If you are entering Australia on a temporary visa or a temporary long stay visa and have UK citizenship then you are eligible to medicare for the duration of your visit under a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement (RHCA).
As a New Zealand citizen, you would be eligible for publicly funded health and disability services while in New Zealand, regardless of the time spent away from New Zealand. At your first visit to a health care provider you will need to show your New Zealand passport to demonstrate you are still a New Zealand citizen.
If your payments are put into an Australian bank account, you may have to pay tax on these payments in Australia. For more information contact the Australian tax authority. If your payments are put into a New Zealand bank account, you may need to pay tax on these payments in New Zealand and/or
If you are travelling to New Zealand and want to bring medicines with you, you can bring for your own personal use: 1  THREE months supply of a prescription medicine and/or. 2  SIX months supply of an oral contraceptive.