delouse verb [T]. › to ​remove lice (= a ​type of very ​small ​insect) from the ​body, ​hair, or ​clothing of a ​person or the ​fur of an ​animal. a start-up technology company with a value $1 billion or more from fundraising The PayPal group’s close ties with the current crop of unicorns — a collection of some of the most valuable technology start-ups ever seen — suggest its influence is undiminished.
As a cadet we would tow a field gun along Penarth Road to the Castle; ... by South Wales Echo (Cardiff, Wales). FAMILIES interested in World War One can. a soldier, take part in a battle and explore cuisine of the time. 
Medical Definition of DELOUSE. : to remove lice from. Full Definition of DELOUSE. transitive verb. : to remove lice from. See delouse defined for English-language learners. See delouse defined for kids.
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
How many is a billion? The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States. A billion in the United States is considerably. a start-up technology company with a value $1 billion or more from fundraising The PayPal group’s close ties with the current crop of unicorns — a collection of some of the most valuable technology start-ups ever seen — suggest its influence is undiminished.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of delouse from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: delouse (Verb). To remove lice. A veterinarian could delouse your dog. delouse (Verb). To apply insecticides or insect repellents in order to be sure that no lice or other parasites are present. During the Korean Conflict, US soldiers were deloused with DDT upon entering basic training.