Call signaling is a process that is used to set up a connection in a telephone network. Call signaling is used in voice over IP (VoIP) systems to establish connections between H.323 endpoints, or between an endpoint and a gatekeeper.
Signaling is used in the PSTN (public-switched telephone network) and in various Internet protocols to set up and terminate circuits, virtual circuits, sessions, and so on. Signals may be included in packets that travel the same network as data, or in a separate network. 
The GTP layer for the control plane (GTP-C) tunnels signaling messages between GSNs in the GPRS backbone network. The GTP-C enables several procedures to be performed through the GPRS backbone network, including path management, tunnel management, location management, and mobility management. 
In the public switched telephone network (PSTN), in-band signaling is the exchange of call control information within the same channel that the telephone call itself is using. An example is dual-tone multi-frequency signaling (DTMF), which is used on most telephone lines to customer premises. Out-of-band signaling is telecommunication signaling on a dedicated channel separate from that used for the telephone call.
In a VoIP network, call signaling is one of three major categories of communications traffic, the other two being call control and media communications. Call signaling is used in voice over IP (VoIP) systems to establish connections between H.323 endpoints, or between an endpoint and a gatekeeper.
In telecommunication, signaling (signalling in British English) has the following meanings: 1  the use of signals for controlling communications. 2  the information exchange concerning the establishment and control of a telecommunication circuit and the management of the network, in contrast to user information transfer. An example is dual-tone multi-frequency signaling (DTMF), which is used on most telephone lines to customer premises. Out-of-band signaling is telecommunication signaling on a dedicated channel separate from that used for the telephone call.
Loop-start signaling is a supervisory signaling technique that provides a way to indicate on-hook and off-hook conditions in a voice network. Loop-start signaling is used primarily when the telephone set is connected to a switch. This paper discusses the signaling techniques required to control voice transmission. These signaling techniques can be placed into one of three categories; supervision, addressing, or alerting. Supervision involves the detection of changes to the status of a loop or trunk. Once these changes are detected, the supervisory circuit generates a predetermined response
Call signaling using Q.931 (a connection protocol for digital networks, especially VoIP systems, in which messages are transmitted as octets) is done according to the ITU H.225.0 specification, which defines message formats for digital multimedia and VoIP communications. This was first published in March 2008. Call signaling is used in voice over IP (VoIP) systems to establish connections between H.323 endpoints, or between an endpoint and a gatekeeper.
The Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) is a network layer protocol that provides extended routing, flow control, segmentation, connection-orientation, and error correction facilities in Signaling System 7 telecommunications networks. The base SCCP specification is defined by the ITU-T, in recommendations Q.711 to Q.714, with additional information to implementors provided by Q.715 and Q.716. There are, however, regional variations defined by local standards bodies.