My cat, Bella, just loves to chew. Cardboard is her favorite, but if she can’t find cardboard, she’ll be glad to chew on paper. Envelopes, important notes, junk mail, to-do lists, magazines — you name it, she’s shredded it. Bella’s favorite target these days is the edge of a Trader Joe’s double-wide cardboard scratcher. 
Cats love to chew and scratch on things. My cat loves chewing on cardboard boxes and scratching on them it is normal for cats to be interested in that. If your that concerned ask your local veterinarian good luck!!! Ally C · 7 years ago. show more There is a cardboard box in my living room and a few weeks ago our cat started chewing on the edges of it. I figured it was some natural instinct thing (perhaps to clean his teeth) or something.
Chewing. Whether the cardboard is part of a box or not, a cat may just love chewing on it. Chewing is not solely a habit for canines, although it is significant rarer in felines. Some kitties take on the unusual behavior as a means of seeking comfort. Chewing isn't exclusive to cardboard and paper materials, however.
Cats often chew the edges of boxes. This may be somewhat similar to cats chewing on plastic bags (which can actually be quite dangerous). If your cat is chewing on a box, you should make sure that he is not eating too much of the cardboard. Cats should eat cat food, not cardboard boxes! It is quite common for cats to sit on paper and cardboard. When they sit on paper or cardboard, it is warmer than sitting on a tiled floor (or a granite kitchen countertop!). If you’d like to provide a place for your cat to play and hide, you can buy cat trees and cat beds that are somewhat like boxes.
Chewing and/or ripping paper is not that uncommon. It's usually based on boredom. If the cat has been examined thoroughly by the veterinarian and has no nutritional deficiencies or dental problems, then the behavior is probably self-soothing or a displacement. Don't let the cat continue to eat paper.
Some cats just like the texture of certain materials. Cardboard is very popular! In your case, your cat likes to chew the cardboard! Unless she seems to be tearing off large, chokable chunks of cardboard, I wouldn't be concerned about it. But be sure to offer her plenty of different, cat-safe toys that she can enjoy and play with
Report Abuse. Cats like paper and plastic bags because of the sound it makes. The ripping is similar to the sound of the cat and other animals in nature walking on leaves and stimulates the predator aspect of the cat. Pica is the act of eating non-food items. In less serious cases, cats may chew or suck on objects, but not actually swallow them. Common targets include yarn or string, fabric, wool, phone or electric cords, and plants.
Chewing cardboard, amongst other things, can be a sign of pica in cats. Basically, this is an eating disorder that could be a consequence of dietary deficiencies or cognitive dysfunction (old age, senility), and some others. 
My cardboard chewing cat is a tortie. She is very high strung-doesn't like to be petted much or picked up. She is very demanding and acts like a spoiled child sometimes. She is a sweetie though. I found her as a 5 week old kitten and she was the baby of the family for about a year until I found five kittens abandoned. 