From what I've seen they want either an RHIT or CCS. I plan on getting both. I have about a year left in my RHIT program. In my program we have a 6 month internship and a lot of people have been hired from it. The good thing about RHIT is you can do a lot of other jobs. 
Both the RHIT and CCS/CCS-P certifications are offered by AHIMA. The CCS certification shows that you are a master of medical coding. The RHIT certification will enable you to move beyond coding and into other health information jobs. In AHIMA's 2011 RHIT Job Survey, 46% of respondents also held the CCS or CCS-P credential and 12% of respondents planned to pursue the CCS credential. To sit for the more demanding CCS exam, candidates should have atleast three years of on-the-job experience.
² AHIMA and the Canadian Health Information Management Association (CHIMA) shall permit a graduate of a program in HIM at the associate or baccalaureate degree level to apply to write the appropriate certification examination consistent with the academic level achieved and given independently by the two associations. Applicants who are determined to be ineligible and submit an ineligible application or request withdrawal of their application, will receive a refund of the application fee minus a $75 processing fee.
Benefits of RHIT Certification. Whether you are certified as an RHIT, RHIA, CCA, CCS, etc., earning an AHIMA credential puts you in a special league, positioning you as a leader and role model in the health informatics and information management community. Investing in AHIMA certification is an investment in yourself and your long-term career. In AHIMA's 2011 RHIT Job Survey, 46% of respondents also held the CCS or CCS-P credential and 12% of respondents planned to pursue the CCS credential. To sit for the more demanding CCS exam, candidates should have atleast three years of on-the-job experience.
SUMMARY 14 CCA CCS CPC Entry Level Voluntary certification Common in physicians office Administered by AHIMA Administered by AHIMA Administered by AAPC 6 months experience coding or educational courses 2 yrs of hospital based coding Requires 2 yrs. 5. • Based upon job analysis standards and state-of-the-art test construction, the CCA designation has been a nationally accepted standard of achievement in the health information management (HIM) field since 2002. • More than 8,000 people have attained the certification since inception.
Registered Health Information Management Administrator (RHIA) certification requires you to complete a bachelor’s degree from a CAHIIM* accredited health information management program and to pass the certification exam. 
RHIT vs CCS Certification. Both the RHIT and CCS/CCS-P certifications are offered by AHIMA. The CCS certification shows that you are a master of medical coding. The RHIT certification will enable you to move beyond coding and into other health information jobs. 
Working as a critical link between care providers, payers, and patients, the RHIA: 1  Is an expert in managing patient health information and medical records, administering computer information systems, collecting and analyzing patient data, and using classification systems and medical terminologies. Applicants who are determined to be ineligible and submit an ineligible application or request withdrawal of their application, will receive a refund of the application fee minus a $75 processing fee.
Donna: The RHIT exam you take after completion of the two year program (HIT). CCS is more advanced and is not recommended to take unless you have 18months to two years experience. If you go to AHIMA website you can more about the differences. Good luck. 