While students should check with their local regulatory agency for state-specific requirements, most occupational therapy assistants pursue national certification to become a Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant (COTA) through the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT). The median base occupational therapy assistant salary across the United States is between $39,700 to $48,000, with the highest 10% earning more than $51,700. An occupational therapy assistant career is a great choice for caring individuals who enjoy helping people improve their lives and maintain their independence.
To become an occupational therapy assistant, some training and even certification is needed for those hoping to take in the best occupational therapy assistant salaries. The median base occupational therapy assistant salary across the United States is between $39,700 to $48,000, with the highest 10% earning more than $51,700. An occupational therapy assistant career is a great choice for caring individuals who enjoy helping people improve their lives and maintain their independence.
To be eligible for COTA certification, students must complete an accredited 1-year occupational therapy assistant certification program or any of a number of 2-year associate degree programs in occupational therapy. The median base occupational therapy assistant salary across the United States is between $39,700 to $48,000, with the highest 10% earning more than $51,700. An occupational therapy assistant career is a great choice for caring individuals who enjoy helping people improve their lives and maintain their independence.
Certified occupational therapy assistant jobs are becoming more plentiful, and could provide a high level of satisfaction. Those interested in how to become an occupational therapy assistant may also be interested in becoming an occupational therapist aide or occupational therapist. The median base occupational therapy assistant salary across the United States is between $39,700 to $48,000, with the highest 10% earning more than $51,700. An occupational therapy assistant career is a great choice for caring individuals who enjoy helping people improve their lives and maintain their independence.
Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant Education Requirements. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a certified occupational therapy assistant. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and certification to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Almost all programs to become an occupational therapy assistant lead to associate's degrees. Certification, licensing, or registration is mandated to work in most states. Some states utilize the certification exam offered by the National Board for Certifying Occupational Therapy for licensure.
If it is not, you will not be allowed to become certified. Find an accredited school in your state through the American Occupational Therapy Association. Become a certified Occupational Therapist Assistant through the National Board for Occupational Therapy. Through the board, you will have to apply for a certification to become a certified Occupational Therapist Assistant (COTA). You must fill out the application after you earn your accredited degree, and then take the exam and pay the fee. 
In 2011, the salary was $52,150 for an occupational therapy assistant and $74,970 for an OT, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. An occupational therapy assistant, or OTA, must have an associate degree and must be licensed in some states. Clinical field work is the part of the OTA’s education that helps her gain hands-on clinical skills and work experience. An OTA must graduate from an accredited program in order to be licensed and may also take an examination to become a certified occupational therapy assistant.
Most states require occupational therapy assistants to be licensed or registered. Licensure typically requires the completion of an accredited occupational therapy assistant education program, completion of all fieldwork requirements, and passing the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) exam. The How to Become One tab describes how to prepare for a job in the occupation. This tab can include information on training, education, work experience, licensing and certification, and important qualities that are required or helpful for entering or working
Earning Your Bachelor’s Degree. Your first step in becoming certified to practice Occupational Therapy is to get your Bachelor’s degree. There are a few different choices for majors that will assist in becoming a certified occupational therapist. Some of these choices include anthropology, sociology, and psychology. 
An occupational therapy (OT) assistant works under the direction of an occupational therapist to guide patients in prescribed therapeutic activities and exercises, often using specialized equipment, in order to help them achieve or recover their full, independent and healthy lifestyles in spite of injury or disability. While an occupational therapist may diagnose and prescribe certain treatments, occupational therapy assistants are mostly responsible for directly working with the patient to achieve the treatment goals.