Martensite hardness depends solely of the carbon content of the steel. Thehigher the carbon content, the higher the hardness.Martensite is very brittle and can not be used directly after quench for any application. Martensite brittleness can be reduced by applying a post-heat treatment known as-tempering.
Figure 1. Variation of hardness of martensite and bainite with carbon content. Water is one of the most efficient quenching media where maximum hardness is required, but it is liable to cause distortion and cracking of the article. Where hardness can be sacrificed, whale, cotton seed and mineral oils are used.
It should be noted that, in many steels, the martensite reaction does not go to completion on quenching, resulting in varying amounts of retained austenite which does not remain stable during the tempering process.
Martensite. Martensite is a body-centered tetragonal form of iron in which some carbon is dissolved. Martensite forms during quenching, when the face centered cubic lattice of austenite is distored into the body centered tetragonal structure without the loss of its contained carbon atoms into cementite and ferrite.
Hardness is a function of the Carbon content of the steel. Hardening of a steel requires a change in structure from the body-centered cubic structure found at room temperature to the face-centered cubic structure found in the Austenitic region. The steel is heated to Au
The prevalent Martensite is a somewhat unstable structure. When heated, the Carbon atoms diffuse from Martensite to form a carbide precipitate and the concurrent formation of Ferrite and Cementite, which is the stable form.
The martensite of quenched tool steel is exceedingly brittle and highly stressed. Consequently cracking and distortion of the object are liable to occur after quenching. Retained austenite is unstable and as it changes dimensions may alter, e.g. dies may alter 0,012 mm.
Martensite is a supersaturated solution of carbon in iron.Due to the high lattice distortion, martensite has high residual stresses.The high lattice distortion induces high hardness and strength to the steel.However, ductility is loss (martensite is too brittle) and a post heat treatment is necessary.
As the carbon content of the retained austenite is high, the martensite that forms is highly tetragonal and the resulting expansion cracks the steel because the matrix is not ductile enough to tolerate the expansion stresses.