Description. Computational Geosciences publishes high quality papers on mathematical modeling, simulation, numerical analysis, and other computational aspects of the geosciences. In particular the journal is focused on advanced numerical methods for the simulation of subsurface flow and transport, and associated aspects such as discretization, gridding, upscaling, optimization, data assimilation, uncertainty assessment, and high performance parallel and grid computing.
Papers treating similar topics but with applications to other fields in the geosciences, such as geomechanics, geophysics, oceanography, or meteorology, will also be considered. No pay charges for printed full colour illustrations of articles accepted as of 1 January 2008. 1  Covers mathematical modeling, simulation, data analysis, uncertainty, and high performance computing. 2  Focuses on quantitative aspects of models, mathematical and numerical methods.
The final published version (in pdf or html/xml format) cannot be used for this purpose. Acknowledgement needs to be given to the final publication and a link must be inserted to the published article on Springer's website, accompanied by the text The final publication is available at link.springer.com. No pay charges for printed full colour illustrations of articles accepted as of 1 January 2008. 1  Covers mathematical modeling, simulation, data analysis, uncertainty, and high performance computing. 2  Focuses on quantitative aspects of models, mathematical and numerical methods.
Computational Geosciences Inc. is a Vancouver based geophysics company that provides modeling, inversion, and geophysical/geological interpretation solutions to maximize the value of geophysical exploration surveys. We offer a broad suite of 1-3D data processing and inversion capabilities as well as survey design and exploration management services. Geophysical Trade Shows and Conferences. CGI attends a number of geophysics and mining trade shows and conferences each year.
Strategic Partnership. Computational Geosciences Inc. has entered into a strategic partnership with High Power Exploration Inc. (HPX) where HPX will provide geophysical data collection services to complement our data processing and inversion capabilities. CGI strives to deliver exceptional service and help our clients achieve their business objectives in the most effective and efficient way. Computational Geosiences Inc. is based in Vancouver, Canada, a hub for junior and major mineral exploration companies.
Announcements. A mobile app for the 2015 SIAM Conference on Mathematical & Computational Issues in the Geosciences (GS15) is available for download. Plug www.tripbuildermedia.com/apps/siam2015events into your mobile browser. The link will automatically detect the type of device and take you to the right place to download the app. New: Travel Awards to the 2015 SIAM Conference on Mathematical and Computational Issues in the Geosciences (GS15) for Graduate Students from Universities in Canada.
In particular the journal is focused on advanced numerical methods for the simulation of subsurface flow and transport, and associated aspects such as discretization, gridding, upscaling, optimization, data assimilation, uncertainty assessment, and high performance parallel and grid computing. No pay charges for printed full colour illustrations of articles accepted as of 1 January 2008. 1  Covers mathematical modeling, simulation, data analysis, uncertainty, and high performance computing. 2  Focuses on quantitative aspects of models, mathematical and numerical methods.
Computational Geosciences Inc. specializes in the inversion of electromagnetic data (ZTEM, VTEM, MEGATEM, HELITEM, SKYTEM, RESOLVE, DIGHEM, DCIP, CSEM, MT) and potential field data (Magnetics and Gravity). We offer a broad suite of 1-3D data processing and inversion capabilities as well as survey design and exploration management services. Geophysical Trade Shows and Conferences. CGI attends a number of geophysics and mining trade shows and conferences each year.
Computational Geosciences publishes high quality papers on mathematical modeling, simulation, numerical analysis, and other computational aspects of the geosciences. No pay charges for printed full colour illustrations of articles accepted as of 1 January 2008. 1  Covers mathematical modeling, simulation, data analysis, uncertainty, and high performance computing. 2  Focuses on quantitative aspects of models, mathematical and numerical methods.