You will be responsible for staffing, operating/securing and managing the sale for about 12 days (6/25 through 7/5) so a strong sense of Ownership, Commitment, and an Entrepreneurial spirit are needed for a successful sale. This is running your own business for 2 weeks, not an hourly paid job. It is up to the little guy to EARN more, by his hard work, drive and ambition. No one is forced to work for TNT for a 20% commission, they choose to. If a 20% commission seems too low, anyone can choose to do something else. If TNT can get people to work for a 10% commission, so much the better for them.
Most vendors operate on the edge of cities and on unincorporated land because many Texas cities, including Dallas and Fort Worth, ban the sale and use of fireworks. Still, Texas fireworks sales rose 20 percent in the past five years to $52 million in 2008. Nationally, fireworks sales hit $940 million last year. Fireworks vendors say they sell about 80 percent of their stock on July 3 and 4. The average sale is about $60, but some customers spend upward of $1,000 at a time. 
You take a significant percentage of the money from the fireworks sold and return the unsold merchandise back to our company for full credit. The average first-time stand operator makes $2,000-$5,000 or more, but this can be much more depending upon the location and management of the stand. Experienced operators who graduate to larger stands can earn much more! How Much Money Can You Earn. The average first-time stand operator makes $2,000-$5,000 or more, but this can be much more depending upon the location and management of the stand. Experienced operators who graduate to larger stands can earn much more!
We rent tents for firework stands all across the midwest. We have firework tent rentals in the Kansas City area, in Topeka KS, in lots of small towns in Missouri and Kansas, as well as, fireworks tent rentals across the state of Nebraska. If you need a fireworks tent be sure to order early as they are in high demand. Lincoln Tent Inc - 3900 Cornhusker Hwy Suite 1 - Lincoln, NE 68504 - (800) 567-4559. These 40 X 60 Festival Tents were used by non-profit groups for firework stands. A tent allows a group without commercial space a location for a sale or event.
If your lot has good visibility, high traffic count and adequate parking entrances, TNT® Fireworks could have the perfect seasonal income opportunity for you. From a vacant business-zoned lot to a busy parking lot, your property could become the site of a profitable TNT® Fireworks stand or tent for July 4th sales. Does your school, church, civic group or club need fundraising ideas? Thousands of non-profit groups nationwide use TNT® Fireworks stands and tents as their primary fundraising solution. Our program is a turnkey package that gives your organization the opportunity to earn profits during the summer selling season.
Average Fireworks Stand Operators salaries for job postings in Houston, TX are 13% higher than average Fireworks Stand Operators salaries for job postings nationwide. 
You are paid on a show by show basis. Typically, display companies will pay an operator a percentage of the actual show cost. So the bigger the show, the more money you make. I have made anywhere from $100 to well over $2000 for one show. But you have to remember that pyrotechnician salaries are not all profit. I always feed my crew, buy supplies, and pay the crew on the shows where it is practical.