(February 2012). In sociology and cultural studies, a subculture is a group of people within a culture that differentiates itself from the parent culture to which it belongs, often maintaining some of its founding principles. The study of subcultures often consists of the study of symbolism attached to clothing, music and other visible affectations by members of subcultures, and also of the ways in which these same symbols are interpreted by members of the dominant culture.
Edit Delete. ITT: Dat thread title. I figured that we might as well have some sort of mostly-objective definition of what makes a subculture what it is, because I find that the word is used too often without any connotation behind it. So, this could serve as a place for people to refer when they want to submit a “subculture” entry. 
A subculture is a cultural group that is within a larger culture  that differentiate themselves from the larger culture. There are  many subcultures in every society that in … clude groups like bikers,  hippies, and fans of specific music including heavy metal. 4 people found this useful. Different from the majority, which passively accepted commercially provided styles and meanings, and a 'subculture' which actively sought a minority style. In other words, subcultures are groups of individuals who, through a variety of methods, present themselves in opposition to the mainstream trends of their culture.
A deviant subculture is a subculture, which has values and norms that differ substantially from the majority of people in a society. When the structure of a neighborhood or community favors criminal activity, a criminal subculture is likely to develop, such as the Mafia in the 1930s or inner city gangs today. He argued that crime is a result of the fact that there is a lower-class subculture with different norms and values than the rest of society. These can be characterized by: 1  Trouble arising from frequent contact with teachers and police. 2  Toughness, which are those values placed on physical size and strength.
Subcultures are those groups that have values and norms that are distinct from those held by the majority. Let's examine a few subcultural theories and test our knowledge with a quiz. He argued that crime is a result of the fact that there is a lower-class subculture with different norms and values than the rest of society. These can be characterized by: 1  Trouble arising from frequent contact with teachers and police. 2  Toughness, which are those values placed on physical size and strength.
In short, a subculture is a group detaching itself from mainstream society, catering to certain people's ideologies and preferences. The punk movement is an excellent example of the rise and fall of a subculture.A subculture is a group of people with different ideologies and usually fashion and music tastes then that of the larger culture they are a part of. Many subcultures also detest the mainstream and commercialization.
This brings us to subculture, which to me means a group of people with unifying behaviors and beliefs that differentiate them from the hegemonic culture. It seems to me that in the 21st century everyone is involved in a subculture of some kind which differentiates them from the larger mainstream cultural group. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A subculture is a group of people with a culture (whether distinct or hidden) which makes them different from the larger culture that they belong to, known as the dominant culture. If a subculture is described as opposing the dominant culture, it may be described as a counterculture. As Ken Gelder notes, subcultures are social, with their own shared rules, values and rituals, but they can also seem self-involved—another thing that makes them different from countercultures.
However, there could be subcultures and countercultures within a mainstream culture. Subcultures share the main values of the mainstream culture, but they have their own characteristics which differentiate the subculture group from the rest. On the other hand, counterculture does not share the common culture and they go against it. Counterculture is a situation where a group of people go against the mainstream culture of a particular community. Usually, the members of a certain community are supposed to adhere to the socially accepted cultural and social behavioral patterns.