These are important in managing incontinence. Pelvic floor muscles are located between the legs running from the pubic bone at the front to the base of the spine at the back. They are sling shaped and hold the bladder and urethra in place. Urination takes place when the bladder contracts and the pelvic floor muscles relax to let urine out. 
Pelvic Anatomy. Pelvic floor muscles play an important role in bladder and bowel functions. As seen in the diagram, your pelvic floor musculature is located at the base of your pelvic region, controlling your bladder, bowels, and vaginal area. Problems can occur with pelvic floor muscles due to a number of reasons
The pelvic floor or pelvic diaphragm is composed of muscle fibers of the levator ani, the coccygeus muscle, and associated connective tissue which span the area underneath the pelvis. 
The pelvic floor muscles are located between your legs, and run from your pubic bone at the front to the base of your spine at the back. They are shaped like a sling and hold your pelvic organs (uterus, vagina, bowel and bladder) in place. 
Share. Your pelvic floor is a broad sling of muscles, ligaments and sheet-like tissues that stretch from your pubic bone at the front of your body, to the base of your spine at the back. The pelvic floor is sometimes compared to a trampoline, as it can stretch in response to weight, and bounce up again
They run from the pubic bone at the front, to the lower part of the tail bone at the back and from side to side between the sit bones. The pelvic floor muscles are positioned in layers in the floor of the pelvis. This position can make them vulnerable to strain and injury, especially in women. Pelvic floor exercises can help women alleviate some pelvic floor problems such as incontinence or prolapse symptoms. 1. The pelvic floor is shown right, located at the base or lower opening of the pelvis; the area in and around where you sit. Your pelvic floor is inside your body and cannot be viewed with the naked eye. The pelvic floor does not only consist only of pelvic muscle