pathological laughter. Uncontrolled laughter (occasionally accompanied by, or alternating with, uncontrolled crying), caused by pseudobulbar lesions of the brain. These lesions may result from lacunar strokes, multiple sclerosis, anoxic brain injury, and other forms of brain injury. 1  Facebook. A series of inarticulate sounds produced as an expression of emotion, usually happiness or mirth. The role of humor and laughter in promoting a positive attitude and health and in preventing the progress of some diseases has been documented esp. when it is combined with proven medical therapies.
The activity of laughing; the manifestation of mirth or joy, or, less commonly, sarcasm or scorn. Alternative medicine See Laughter club, Laughter therapy, Laughter yoga. A series of inarticulate sounds produced as an expression of emotion, usually happiness or mirth. The role of humor and laughter in promoting a positive attitude and health and in preventing the progress of some diseases has been documented esp. when it is combined with proven medical therapies.
Full Definition of RISIBLE. 1. a: capable of laughing b: disposed to laugh. 2. : arousing or provoking laughter; especially: laughable. 
Save. risible /ˈrɪzəbəl/ adjective. risible. /ˈrɪzəbəl/. adjective. Learner's definition of RISIBLE. [more risible; most risible] formal + disapproving. : deserving to be laughed at: very silly or unreasonable. a risible [=(more commonly) ridiculous ] title. The suggestion was downright risible. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of risible is a person or thing with the ability to laugh, is related to laughing or is funny. 1  An example of risible is a monkey capable of laughing. 2  An example of risible is the comedy of Tina Fey.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: risible (Adjective). Of or pertaining to laughter. risible (Adjective). Provoking laughter; ludicrous; ridiculous; humorously insignificant. risible (Adjective). Easily laughing; prone to laughter. Origin: From risible. 
Provoking laughter through being ludicrous: a risible scene of lovemaking in a tent. More example sentences. Synonyms. ‘ 1 I cannot imagine how any self-respecting female could possibly conceive of doing such a foolish thing, let alone begin to consider entertaining such risible notions myself,’ I replied curtly. Example sentences. 1  It is because their work is not so much literature as an insider's joke, and most serious readers don't read for risibility, but sensibility.
Example Sentences Including 'risible'. The risible is always a challenge to authority-Lucy knew that from her own schooldays-and the facetious simply did not arise. 
by Kate Woodford, As part of our occasional series on idioms used in or in relation to business, we look today at the important area of making projects happen – getting projects started, making progress with those projects and, as sometimes happens, failing to make progress. 