1 New research showed that curcumin, the active ingredient in the curry spice turmeric, possesses potent anti-inflammatory and anti-arthritic properties. 2  A highly bioavailable form of curcumin was more effective in alleviating rheumatoid arthritis (RA) symptoms than the NSAID drug Voltaren. If you want to give curcumin a try for RA, it is widely available in supplement form, but relatively high doses are required to achieve its therapeutic effects, and curcumin is generally not absorbed that well.
How turmeric can help in rheumatoid arthritis. Turmeric is emerging as a novel anti-arthritic non toxic herb to treat rheumatoid arthritis. The disorder of rheumatoid arthritis in rats is known as collagen induced arthritis which is similar in most contexts to the human rheumatoid arthritis. 6 Ways Turmeric Benefits in Rheumatoid Arthritis. 16 Comments. What it means: curcumin from turmeric helps in reduction of the inflammation in the joints and other tissues by preventing the release of inflammatory enzymes and cytokines in the body and by preventing their attack on the target tissue.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. New research showed that curcumin, the active ingredient in the curry spice turmeric, possesses potent anti-inflammatory and anti-arthritic properties. 2  A highly bioavailable form of curcumin was more effective in alleviating rheumatoid arthritis (RA) symptoms than the NSAID drug Voltaren. If you want to give curcumin a try for RA, it is widely available in supplement form, but relatively high doses are required to achieve its therapeutic effects, and curcumin is generally not absorbed that well.
Origin: A yellow-colored powder ground from the root of the turmeric plant. The turmeric plant grows in India and Indonesia and is related to the ginger family (it is a common ingredient in curries). Curcumin is a key chemical in turmeric. Claims: Reduces pain, inflammation and stiffness related to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA); treats bursitis. Known as a cleansing agent, turmeric often is used as a digestive aid in India. What we know: Traditionally used in Chinese and Indian Ayurvedic medicine to treat arthritis turmeric/curcumin blocks inflammatory cytokines and enzymes, including cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), the target of celecoxib (Celebrex).
Curcumin dose to use for rheumatoid arthritis. Since there are no clinical studies done on using curcumin for rheumatoid arthritis, an effective dose is not known. However, it is known that dose up to 8,000 mg daily (in divided dose) does not result in much side effects. Research studies on using curcumin for rheumatoid arthritis. Curcumin has always held hope as a natural substance that can treat many major diseases in human. From extensive lab and animal studies, curcumin has been shown to have anti-inflammatory, anticancer and antioxidant activities.
Turmeric and Rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms. More than 2 million Americans suffer from rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a condition in which the body's immune system attacks the joints, causing pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function.
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders. It is also used for headaches, bronchitis, colds, lung infections, fibromyalgia, leprosy, fever, menstrual problems, and cancer. 
Curcumin is the main active ingredient found in the spice Turmeric. Turmeric is a spice that adds flavours and gives it the bright yellow colour. It has been used for centuries by Ayurvedic medicine doctors to help relief inflammation common to arthritis sufferers. Research studies on using curcumin for rheumatoid arthritis. Curcumin has always held hope as a natural substance that can treat many major diseases in human. From extensive lab and animal studies, curcumin has been shown to have anti-inflammatory, anticancer and antioxidant activities.
How to Use Turmeric for Arthritis Pain. Turmeric may improve arthritis pain, stiffness and inflammation. Turmeric is a bright yellow herb that has been used in cooking, dyes and Ayurvedic medicine in India and China for 2,000 years.