John Douglas Torode (born 23 July 1965) is an Australian celebrity chef. He moved to the UK in the 1990s and began working at Conran Group 's restaurants. After first appearing on television on ITV1 's This Morning, he started presenting a revamped MasterChef on BBC One in 2005. In 2015, he presented John Torode's Argentina as part of the BBC Two series A Cook Abroad, looking specifically at the country's production, cooking and consumption of beef.
leaving him free for his relationship with actress Lisa Faulkner. 1  Faulkner and Torode went public with their romance in 2012. 2  They met while she was competing in Celebrity Masterchef in 2010. 3  He split from ex-wife Jessica, with whom he has two children, in 2011. 4  Faulkner split from husband Chris Hoghill in 2012. The pair, who have a son, eight, and a daughter, seven, had been married for seven years but ended their marriage 'by mutual consent' after breaking up in 2011. Romance: Lisa Faulkner and John Torode, who was yesterday granted a decree nisi ending his marriage. A year later Torode made public his relationship with 41-year-old Spooks star Faulkner, who he met while she was cooking her way to victory in 2010's Celebrity Masterchef. Faulkner has described her relationship with Torode, which blossomed after the pair split from their former partners, as 'really new, really lovely'
Born in Big Spring, Texas of Canadian parents, he lived the majority of his life in Canada and after completing high school in Edmonton, attended Royal Roads Military College in Victoria, BC and Royal Military College in Kingston, Ontario. John has been in the real estate business in Calgary since 1972. In 1973 he founded Torode Realty which he expanded into Edmonton in 1990. In 1995 Torode purchased Knowlton Realty with offices in Toronto and Vancouver. The brokerage business was sold in 2004. John has consolidated his businesses under Torode Realty Advisors, a company that syndicates commercial real estate projects. He personally allocates 100% of his time to sales, marketing and development. Over the past ten years, Torode has: 1  Sold over 100 major investment properties. 
According to various sources, John Torode's net worth has grown significantly in 2015. However, the numbers vary depending on the source. If you have current knowledge about John Torode's net worth, please feel free to share the information below. John Torode's net worth is estimated to be in the range of approximately $1137286617 in 2015, according to the users of vipfaq. John Torode's zodiac sign is Leo. The ruling planet of Leo is the Sun. Therefore, lucky days are Sundays and lucky numbers are: 1, 4, 10, 13, 19 and 22. Gold, Orange, White and Red are John Torode's lucky colors.
John Torode has been a familiar face as a several-time guest on The One Show, Alan Carr Chatty Man, The Graham Norton Show, Loose Women and ITV's This Morning. As a keen cyclist, John was also a guest on ITV4's 'The Cycle Show'. In 2015, he presented John Torode's Argentina as part of the BBC Two series A Cook Abroad, looking specifically at the country's production, cooking and consumption of beef.
MasterChef judge John Torode was granted a divorce from his wife Jessica yesterday, clearing the way for his romance with actress Lisa Faulkner. The pair, who have a son, eight, and a daughter, seven, had been married for seven years but ended their marriage 'by mutual consent' after breaking up in 2011. Romance: Lisa Faulkner and John Torode, who was yesterday granted a decree nisi ending his marriage. A year later Torode made public his relationship with 41-year-old Spooks star Faulkner, who he met while she was cooking her way to victory in 2010's Celebrity Masterchef. Faulkner has described her relationship with Torode, which blossomed after the pair split from their former partners, as 'really new, really lovely'
He presented the 2014 series 'John Torode's Australia'; the 10 episodes retrace the flavours of John Torode's childhood and the people that inspired his passion for food as he travels the country to go back in time. In 2015, he presented John Torode's Argentina as part of the BBC Two series A Cook Abroad, looking specifically at the country's production, cooking and consumption of beef.
By Mark Reynolds. Actress Lisa Faulker with chef John Torode [REX]. The uncontested decree nisi at the High Court leaves the 48-year-old restaurateur free to pursue his relationship with former celebrity show winner and actress Lisa Faulkner. 