Markup Language. A markup language is a computer language that uses tags to define elements within a document. It is human-readable, meaning markup files contain standard words, rather than typical programming syntax. While several markup languages exist, the two most popular are HTML and XML. XML is called the Extensible Markup Language since custom tags can be used to support a wide range of elements. Each XML file is saved in a standard text format, which makes it easy for software programs to parse or read the data.
xml short for extensible markup language xml is a specification developed by w3c starting with the recommendation on february 10 1998 xml is similar to html in that xml uses tags to markup a document allowing the browser to interpret the tags and display them on a page however unlike html xml language is unlimited extensible which allows self defining tags and can describe the content instead of only displaying a page s content
The Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a simple text-based format for representing structured information: documents, data, configuration, books, transactions, invoices, and much more. It was derived from an older standard format called SGML (ISO 8879), in order to be more suitable for Web use. 
eXtensible markup language. XML is a file extension for an Extensible Markup Language (XML) file format used to create common information formats and share both the format and the data on the World Wide Web, intranets, and elsewhere using standard ASCII text. XML is similar to HTML. XML is considered extensible because, unlike HTML, the markup symbols are unlimited and self-defining. XML is a simpler and easier-to-use subset of the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) standard for how to create a document structure.
Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format which is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is defined by the W3C 's XML 1.0 Specification and by several other related specifications, all of which are free open standards. Several schema systems exist to aid in the definition of XML-based languages, while many application programming interfaces (APIs) have been developed to aid the processing of XML data.
A markup language is a system for annotating a document in a way that is syntactically distinguishable from the text. The idea and terminology evolved from the  marking up  of paper manuscripts, i.e., the revision instructions by editors, traditionally written with a blue pencil on authors' manuscripts. XML (Extensible Markup Language) is a meta markup language that is now widely used. XML was developed by the World Wide Web Consortium, in a committee created and chaired by Jon Bosak. The main purpose of XML was to simplify SGML by focusing on a particular problem — documents on the Internet.
1 XSLT is a language with an XML-based syntax that is used to transform XML documents into other XML documents, HTML, or other, unstructured formats such as plain text or RTF. XSLT is very tightly coupled with XPath, which it uses to address components of the input XML document, mainly elements and attributes. Several schema systems exist to aid in the definition of XML-based languages, while many application programming interfaces (APIs) have been developed to aid the processing of XML data.
Thoughtworks Go. Extensible Markup Language (XML) is used to describe data. The XML standard is a flexible way to create information formats and electronically share structured data via the public Internet, as well as via corporate networks. XML code, a formal recommendation from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), is similar to Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). Both XML and HTML contain markup symbols to describe page or file contents.
Introduction. Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a simple, very flexible text format derived from SGML (ISO 8879). Originally designed to meet the challenges of large-scale electronic publishing, XML is also playing an increasingly important role in the exchange of a wide variety of data on the Web and elsewhere. 