Aa Aa Aa. The Law of Conservation of Mass dates from Antoine Lavoisier's 1789 discovery that mass is neither created nor destroyed in chemical reactions. In other words, the mass of any one element at the beginning of a reaction will equal the mass of that element at the end of the reaction.
The conservation of mass is a fundamental concept of physics along with the conservation of energy and the conservation of momentum. Within some problem domain, the amount of mass remains constant--mass is neither created nor destroyed.
The law of conservation of mass is a fundamental principle of physics. According to this law, matter can be neither created nor destroyed. In other words, the mass of an object or collection of objects never changes, no matter how the parts are rearranged.
The law of conservation of energy, a fundamental concept of physics, states that the total amount of energy remains constant in an isolated system. It implies that energy can neither be created nor destroyed, but can be change from one form to another.
The Law of Conservation of Energy states: Energy cannot be created or destroyed but merely change from one fo … rm to another. Einstein showed that matter is a form of energy. When a nuclear decay occurs there is a minuscule loss of mass that is transformed into energy.
In the law of conservation of mass (or matter), the mass in a system that is closed will be constant. This holds despite what occurs inside the system. If a candle is burned, the mass of the candle disappears. But the mass is still around in the form of combustion byproducts.
The law of conservation of mass means that if you start out with  100 grams of reactants, you will end up with 100 grams of products.  In addition, the number and types of a … toms in the reactants and  products will be the same.
Answer: The law of conservation of mass or of matter, also known as the Lomonosov-Lavoisier law, states that the mass of substances in a closed system will remain constant, no … matter what processes are acting inside the system.
The law of conservation of mass (from Lavoisier) states that mass can be neither created nor destroyed (but it may change its form into something that is not desired, such as heat with an engine) or that in a chemical reaction, the total mass of the reacting substances is equal to the total mass of products formed.