If this is a first time suboxone use count on minimum 24 hours. You may still get a buzz after only 12 hours but it wil … l be no where close to the full effect. Suboxone has a half life of 36 hours, so if you have taken 6mg in 36 hours your blood will still have 3 mg left which is still plenty to block opiates. In my experience 2mgs is the most suboxone you can have in your sytem if you want to feel any kind of buzz......additionally if you have been on suboxone for a long period time like the original respondent then it will take some time for you to feel the euphoria that your looking for from opiates....
So after a week of taking the medication, the drug is now approximately considered only 4% effective, which is already recognized as cleared from the system. This rate also indicates how long Suboxone can block opiates in the body. After 74 hours, it is possible that the body will start getting high once again. Suboxone is colored orange andis usually lemone-lime in flavor. One part of this is naloxone for every four parts of buprenorphine. 
naloxone has a short half life of only a few hours, the problem is that the buprenorphine is stronger than most opiates so your receptors will favor the bupe over the opiates … for atleast 12 hours. If you took an entire 8mg suboxone u cant get high for atleast 12 to 24 hrs depending on tolereance. In my experience 2mgs is the most suboxone you can have in your sytem if you want to feel any kind of buzz......additionally if you have been on suboxone for a long period time like the original respondent then it will take some time for you to feel the euphoria that your looking for from opiates....
You will know it is working when you will feel suppression from using the opioid. Coming back to how long does suboxone block opiates; the half life of this drug is 37 hours and is excreted out via urine. Having a half life of 37 hours means that when 37 hours are done, there will be only 50% amount left in the body. With every dosage there will be an increment of 50%. So if we do the math, the time for how long does suboxone block opiates is about a week! Same is the case with Suboxone. If you do not know that how long does it take for the suboxone to work, how to take it and how long does suboxone block opiates then you need to carry on reading this article without taking any doses of it. Taking risk in health is the dumbest thing a person can do, a healthy life is a happy life.
Depending on your tolerance of opiates, 8mg of Suboxone should block opiates for 24 hours, if not more. It also depends on how long you've been taking Suboxone. The longer you … take it, the longer it takes for the blocking effect to wear off. In my experience 2mgs is the most suboxone you can have in your sytem if you want to feel any kind of buzz......additionally if you have been on suboxone for a long period time like the original respondent then it will take some time for you to feel the euphoria that your looking for from opiates....
How Long Does Suboxone Block Opioids. We can help you find local opiate addiction treatment, call 800-584-3274 for a free referral. According to the Food and Drug Administration, Suboxone is a long acting drug that doctors can use in the maintenance phase of opioid detoxification. According to Reckitt Benckiser, the manufacturer of Suboxone, it has a total half life of 24 to 42 hours. This is how long it takes the Buprenorphine to exit the system. Naloxone on the other hand has a half life of 2 to 12 hours. This means that it takes the body between 48 to 84 hours to remove it from its system.
After 72 hours your blood will still contain 1.5 mg of suboxone which still will block opiates. Under 1 mg and your fine. If you have been using suboxone for atleast a week count on minimum 3 days. In my experience 2mgs is the most suboxone you can have in your sytem if you want to feel any kind of buzz......additionally if you have been on suboxone for a long period time like the original respondent then it will take some time for you to feel the euphoria that your looking for from opiates....
After 1 week you will have a little more than 1/32 of the drug in your system and by then it should no longer be effective. After 37 hours it will be only 50% as effective and only 25% as effective after 74 hours. After 1 week it will be less than 4% effective. Meaning that it will barely work. After 74 hours suboxone still works but only 1 quarter as well. You can start getting high then. Of course I DON’T recommend that you stop taking the drug to get high. Not only will you suffer 45 minutes of withdrawal once you stop taking the drug, but you will be on the road to self-destruction