DeAndre Cortez Way, the famous rapper with the stage name Soulja Boy, has an estimated net worth of $23 million. However, the actual Soulja Boy net worth is likely much more as he has a number of income streams and guards his financial information closely. His Beginnings. With the support of his father, Soulja Boy early access to a recording studio at a young age. 
Soulja Boy net worth: $25 Million. Soulja Boy net worth: Soulja Boy is an American rapper who has a net worth of $25 million. Soulja Boy was born DeAndre Cortez Way on July 28, 1990 in Chicago, Illinois. Soulja Boy took an early interest in rap music and at the age of fourteen, his father gave him a recording studio to pursue and practice his music. 
Soulja Boy's Car. Soulja Boy's Car. Soulja Boy has a black Bentley Mulsanne. The Mulsanne was discontinued briefly, and then went back into production in 2010. It is considered the most luxurious vehicle in the Bentley line, and each vehicle takes twelve weeks to make. 
He earned $7 million in 2010. His net worth today is $30 million. DeAndre Cortez Way was born in Chicago Illinois and moved to Atlanta when he was 6 years old. Growing up in ATL he fell in love with hip hop music and began recording at the age of 14. Soulja Boy Net Worth in 2014. He was once considered one of the biggest acts in Hip Hop music. With several chart topping singles, a multi platinum album and one of the most infectious songs of the last decade Soulja Boy made a huge impact on the industry at an early age.
Now you know all about Soulja Boy net worth. Soulja Boy net worth is $3 million in 2015. Soulja Boy is an great Rapper, record producer, entrepreneur, actor from Illinois, United States .This American Rapper, record producer, entrepreneur, actor started his carrier in 2005. His estimated salary per year is $363,000. 
The below financial data is gathered and compiled by TheRichest analysts team to give you a better understanding of Soulja Boy's net worth by breaking down the most relevant financial events such as yearly salaries, contracts, earn outs, endorsements, stock ownership and much more. Choose Year. American rapper and record producer, DeAndre Cortez “Soulja Boy Tell ‘Em” Way, has an estimated net worth of $23 million.
By Norty on Mar 7, 2014Aug 9, 2015 Posted in: Rappers. Soulja Boy is an American rapper, record producer, actor and entrepreneur with an estimated net worth of $23 million. Soulja Boy launched his career with the hit single “Crank That (Soulja Boy)”. DeAndre Cortez Way was born on July 28, 1990 in Chicago, Illinois. At the age of six, Soulja Boy became interested in rap
Soulja Boy net worth is $23 million as recorded by the Forbes. The young rapper was born in 1990 in Illinois. His passion in music began after his father owned a recording studio and gave it to him. He began practicing music and rapping in specific since then. 