None found. Exotoxins are toxic substances secreted by bacteria and released outside the cell. Whereas Endotoxins are bacterial toxins consisting of lipids that are located within a cell. Following are the few differences between exotoxin and endotoxin
Endotoxin vs Exotoxin. Toxigenesis is the process of producing toxins by pathogenic bacteria. It is one of main mechanisms of developing diseases by bacteria. Two kinds of toxins; i.e. endotoxins and exotoxins are produced, and those can be distinguished by their chemical nature. Endotoxins are lipopolysaccharides and exotoxins are proteins. Endotoxins. In gram negative bacteria, endotoxin exists in the outer membrane of the cell wall. Endotoxin vs Exotoxin. 1  Endotoxins are lipopolysaccharides, while exotoxins are soluble proteins produced by pathogenic bacteria. 2  Both gram negative and gram positive bacteria produce exotoxins while endotoxins are produced by gram negative bacteria.
Endotoxins generally act in the vicinity of bacterial growth or presence. Exotoxins are usually secreted by bacteria and act at a site removed from bacterial growth. However, in some cases, exotoxins are only released by lysis of the bacterial cell. Exotoxins are usually proteins, minimally polypeptides, that act enzymatically or through direct action with host cells and stimulate a variety of host responses.
EXOTOXINS. Exotoxins are heat labile proteins that are secreted by some species of bacteria and diffuse readily into the surrounding medium. In contrast to endotoxins, which are integral part of bacteria; exotoxins are actively synthesized and released. Exotoxins are produced by a variety of bacteria including gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. In some species, most strains produce the same exotoxin while in others only a subset of strains produces a particular exotoxin. They are antigenic and can be toxoided. Their activity can be neutralized by antitoxins.
Endotoxins: Definition: Endotoxins are lipopolysaccharides toxin produced by Gram Negative bacteria. The name endotoxin is derived from the fact that these toxins are generally cell bound and released only when the cell lyses. Basic properties and differences between Exotoxins and Endotoxins.
An example is Tetanus caused by Clostridium tetani. An endotoxin is part of the outer portion of the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria. They are released when the bacteria die and the cell wall breaks apart. They differ from exotoxins in that they are lipopolysaccharides not proteins.
endotoxin. a heat-stable toxin associated with the outer membranes of certain gram-negative bacteria, including Brucella, Neisseria, and Vibrio species. Endotoxins are not secreted but are released only when the cells are disrupted; they are less potent and less specific than the exotoxins; and they do not form toxoids. 
Exotoxins are protein toxins secreted by (+ or -) bacteria into the environment. Endotoxin is usually LPS (lipopolysaccharide), or another component of the cell membrane of Gram-negative bacteria. LPS creates a toxic immune response when released (by cell lysis) into an animal's body. An endotoxin is part of the outer portion of the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria. They are released when the bacteria die and the cell wall breaks apart. They differ from exotoxins in that they are lipopolysaccharides not proteins.
An exotoxin is a toxin secreted by bacteria. An exotoxin can cause damage to the host by destroying cells or disrupting normal cellular metabolism. They are highly potent and can cause major damage to the host. Exotoxins may be secreted, or, similar to endotoxins, may be released during lysis of the cell. Exotoxins are susceptible to antibodies produced by the immune system, but many exotoxins are so toxic that they may be fatal to the host before the immune system has a chance to mount defenses against them.