They are usually given by injection into the skin or muscle. After exposure vaccination is typically used along with rabies immunoglobulin. It is recommended that those who are at high risk of exposure be vaccinated before potential exposure. Vaccines are effective in humans and other animals. They may be safely used in all age groups. About 35 to 45 percent of people develop a brief period of redness and pain at the injection site. About 5 to 15 percent of people may have fever, headaches or nausea. After exposure to rabies there is no contraindication to its use. Most vaccines do not contain thimerosal.
Most Rabies Vaccines are to be administered intramuscular which is injected directly into a muscle tissue, usually in the thick muscles of a dog's thigh. However, in the United States, only an accredited veterinarian can administer a rabies vaccination-if you do this at home, your dog is presumed to be unvaccinated and could be impounded or euthanized if it bites someone. Some vets will give it in the muscle (IM) but it is debatable which is best.
Methods of administration. There are currently two main methods to administer vaccines: intranasally (into the nose) and by injection. Injectable vaccines: Injectable vaccines are given into the muscle (intramuscular) or under the skin (subcutaneous). Some vaccines can be given either way, others must only be given one way, e.g., some rabies vaccines can only be given in the muscle. 
Very young or small children may have the vaccine injected into the upper leg muscle. A nurse or other health provider will give you this medicine. You are at risk for exposure to the rabies virus if you work with animals or will be going to a country where rabies is common. Rabies vaccine is an active immunizing agent used to prevent infection caused by the rabies virus. The vaccine works by causing your body to produce its own protection (antibodies) against the rabies virus. Rabies vaccine is used in two ways. Rabies vaccine is given to persons who have been exposed (e.g., by a bite, scratch, or lick) to an animal that is known, or thought, to have rabies
1 Quite a few states allow an individuals to administer the rabies vaccine at home, if supervised by a veterinary professional. 2  The following states allow this: Idaho, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont. Rabies is a serious viral disease that can affect all mammals, including humans. The virus is transmitted by saliva, usually via bite, from any infected animal. Rabies in dogs was once a serious public health hazard, but in recent years is largely prevented through regular vaccination.
1 All 50 US States require a rabies vaccine and the vast majority require dog owners to have the vaccine administered either in a vet's office, at home but under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian, or by animal shelter workers, kennel owners, or other competent individuals who work with dogs professionally. Rabies is a serious viral disease that can affect all mammals, including humans. The virus is transmitted by saliva, usually via bite, from any infected animal. Rabies in dogs was once a serious public health hazard, but in recent years is largely prevented through regular vaccination.
The vaccine is adminstered subcutaneously, which is under the skin. However, in the United States, only an accredited veterinarian can administer a rabies vaccination-if you do this at home, your dog is presumed to be unvaccinated and could be impounded or euthanized if it bites someone. Some vets will give it in the muscle (IM) but it is debatable which is best.
Uses of This Medicine. Rabies vaccine is an active immunizing agent used to prevent infection caused by the rabies virus. The vaccine works by causing your body to produce its own protection (antibodies) against the rabies virus. Rabies vaccine is used in two ways. Rabies vaccine is given to persons who have been exposed (e.g., by a bite, scratch, or lick) to an animal that is known, or thought, to have rabies
A rabies vaccine is a vaccine used to prevent rabies. There are a number of available vaccines that are both safe and effective. They can be used to prevent rabies before and for a period of time after exposure to the virus such as by a dog or bat bite. The immunity that develops is long lasting after three doses. They may be safely used in all age groups. About 35 to 45 percent of people develop a brief period of redness and pain at the injection site. About 5 to 15 percent of people may have fever, headaches or nausea. After exposure to rabies there is no contraindication to its use. Most vaccines do not contain thimerosal.