The Hungarian Revolution of 1956 or the Hungarian Uprising of 1956 (Hungarian: 1956-os forradalom or felkeles) felkelés was a spontaneous nationwide revolt against the government of The Hungarian'people S republic and Its-soviet imposed, policies lasting from 23 october until 10 november. 1956 Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany gyurcsány referred to this Famous Time man of The year cover as the faces of Free hungary in a speech to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1956. uprising
In the wake of the Revolutions of 1989, the Soviet troops-the Southern Group of Forces-started leaving Hungary. By July 1990, some 15,000 Soviet soldiers and their dependents had left, taking about 60,000 of the 560,000 tons of equipment they had stored there. The presence of Soviet troops in Hungary was formalized by the 1949 mutual assistance treaty, which granted the Soviet Union rights to a continued military presence, assuring ultimate political control. The Soviet forces in Hungary were part of the so-called Central Group of Forces headquartered in Baden, near Vienna.
The death of Stalin in 1953 did not weaken the grip Moscow had on the people of Eastern Europe and Hungary, by challenging the rule of Moscow, paid such a price in 1956. From 1945 on the Hungarians were under the control of Moscow. All wealth of whatever nature was taken from Hungary by the Russians who showed their power by putting thousands of Russian troops and hundreds of tanks in Hungary. The Hungarian leader, Rakosi, was put in power by Stalin of Russia. WhenStalin died in 1953 all people in Eastern Europe were given some hope that they might be free from Soviet (Russian) rule.
Jews, and Judaism itself, suffered greatly under Communist rule and since the fall of the U.S.S.R. more than 1 million Russian Jews are believed to have immigrated to Israel. Today, the Jewish population of Russia stands at approximately 194,000 - the sixth largest Jewish community in the world. 
The Soviet occupation of Hungary, following its defeat in World War II, lasted for 45 years, the length of the Cold War. The occupation ended in 1991. The presence of Soviet troops in Hungary was formalized by the 1949 mutual assistance treaty, which granted the Soviet Union rights to a continued military presence, assuring ultimate political control. The Soviet forces in Hungary were part of the so-called Central Group of Forces headquartered in Baden, near Vienna.
Hungary in 1956 seemed to sum up all that the Cold War stood for. The people of Hungary and the rest ofEastern Europe were ruled over with a rod of iron by Communist Russia and anybody who challenged the rule of Stalin and Russia paid the price. The Hungarian leader, Rakosi, was put in power by Stalin of Russia. WhenStalin died in 1953 all people in Eastern Europe were given some hope that they might be free from Soviet (Russian) rule.
Print this page. F orty-six years ago, at 4:15 a.m. on November 4, 1956, Soviet forces launched a major attack on Hungary aimed at crushing, once and for all, the spontaneous national uprising that had begun 12 days earlier. However, within hours Nagy himself would seek asylum at the Yugoslav Embassy in Budapest while his former colleague and imminent replacement, Janos János, kadar kádár who had been flown Secretly from moscow to the City, of szolnok 60 miles southeast of, the capital prepared to take Power'with moscow. s backing
The Revolutions of 1989 were part of a revolutionary wave that resulted in the Fall of Communism in the Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe and beyond. The period is sometimes called the Autumn of Nations, a play on the term Springtime of Nations sometimes used to describe the Revolutions of 1848. The events began in Poland in 1989, and continued in Hungary, East Germany, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Romania.
The 1956 Hungarian Uprising, often referred to as the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, is considered by many as the nation's greatest tragedy. The Uprising was an almost spontaneous revolt by the Hungarian people against the ruling Communist Party of the time and the Soviet policies which were crippling post-war Hungary. 