The country once again became a British colony known as Southern Rhodesia. In the April 1980 elections, Robert Mugabe, head of the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU) won the majority and became the Prime Minister of Zimbabwe. The day marked the end of racial segregation after a protracted war of liberation that claimed many lives. In the ninety year span that Zimbabwe was a colony, it was administered by the British South African Company (BSAC) under the name Rhodesia and the Responsible Government under the name
Zambia gains independence from Britain. On 24 October, 1964 Northern Rhodesia (now known as Zambia) gained independence from Britain. Kenneth Kaunda, the country’s first president, proclaimed one-party rule at independence. . Their independence came four years after the famous speech “The winds of change” by British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. The country’s independence came ten months after the collapse of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, with Northern Rhodesia becoming the Republic of Zambia. The story of British occupation of the area dates back to 1851, when the first Scottish explorer, David Livingstone came to the country
The British Authorities officially granted independence to Zimbabwe on April 18, 1980. Majority of the countries of the world knew the country after its freedom. The United States of America was the first country to set up a delegation in Salisbury (Harare) on that day. 
South Rhodesia officially gained its independence from Britain on April 18, 1980 and became the Republic of Zimbabwe. 
On this date in 1964, Zambia gained independence from Britain. With a population of over 9 million, Zambia is located in Southern Africa, east of Angola. Zambia's history goes back to the debut of Homo sapiens: evidence of human habitation going back 100,000 years has been found at Kabwe, north of Lusaka. In the same year, Northern and Southern Rhodesia, now Zambia and Zimbabwe, were proclaimed a British sphere of influence. The territory was administered by Rhodes' British South Africa Company, which signed treaties with several African leaders and administered the region.
Answers. Best Answer: In 1965, Ian Smith, the prime minister of the British colony of Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) issued his famous Unilaterial Declaration of Independence. Britain responded with economic sanctions, the withdrawal of Her Majesty's ambassador to Rhodesia, and effective travel bans on Rhodesian leaders. 
Zimbabwe Independence Day. On this day in 1980, Southern-Rhodesia gained independence from the British, taking the name Zimbabwe. The day marked the end of racial segregation after a protracted war of liberation that claimed many lives. In the ninety year span that Zimbabwe was a colony, it was administered by the British South African Company (BSAC) under the name Rhodesia and the Responsible Government under the name Southern Rhodesia.
1970: Ian Smith declares Rhodesia a republic The Prime Minister of Rhodesia, Ian Smith, has declared his country a republic, cutting its last link with the British Crown. The new Rhodesian Republic, came into being at 2301BST yesterday, unrecognised by the rest of the world and barely noticed by Rhodesians themselves. 