The resulting mRNA is a single-stranded copy of the gene, which next must be translated into a protein molecule. During translation, which is the second major step in gene expression, the mRNA is read according to the genetic code, which relates the DNA sequence to the amino acid sequence in proteins (Figure 2). In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).
At the 5' end of a gene we find a promoter and often a CpG island. Both of these elements regulate the transcription of a gene. At the 3' end of a gene we find a stop sequence, and a signal for polyadenylation (AAUAAA). Transcription is the process of copying the genetic information in DNA into RNA. This is done by the enzyme RNA polymerase which binds to a region called a promoter found at the 5 end of a gene. The binding of RNA polymerase is tightly regulated by many proteins called transcription factors. 
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription. In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).
DNA to RNA Transcription. The DNA contains the master plan for the creation of the proteins and other molecules and systems of the cell, but the carrying out of the plan involves transfer of the relevant information to RNA in a process called transcription. The RNA to which the information is transcribed is messenger RNA (mRNA). The process associated with RNA polymerase is to unwind the DNA and build a strand of mRNA by placing on the growing mRNA molecule the base complementary to that on the template strand of the DNA
Science. In the following DNA sequence, transcribe into mRNA and translate into the appropriate amino acid sequence. TAC/TTC/AAA/CCG/CGT/GGG/ATT. Please explain how to do it (DNA to mRNA). Indicate an example of how a mutation could affect the characteristics of the protein. 
So in RNA the important base pairs are: adenine (A) pairs with uracil (U); guanine (G) pairs with cytosine (C). Transcription Transcription is the name given to the process where the information in a gene in a DNA strand is transferred to an RNA molecule. The coding strand and the template strand of DNA. The important thing to realise is that the genetic information is carried on only one of the two strands of the DNA. Messenger RNA contains the information to make just one single polypeptide chain-in other words for just one protein, or even just a part of a protein if it is made up of more than one polypeptide chain. Overall structure. DNA has two strands arranged in a double helix. RNA consists of a single strand.
In the mRNA, Uracil is substituted for thymine as the base complementary to adenine. Since the other strand of the DNA has bases complementary to the template strand, the mRNA has the same sequence of bases at the upper strand of DNA shown above (with U substituted for T) , which is called the coding strand. The DNA contains the master plan for the creation of the proteins and other molecules and systems of the cell, but the carrying out of the plan involves transfer of the relevant information to RNA in a process called transcription.
During transcription, a DNA sequence is read by an RNA polymerase, which produces a complementary, antiparallel RNA strand called a primary transcript. Transcription proceeds in the following general steps: 1  One or more sigma factor protein binds to the RNA polymerase holoenzyme, allowing it to bind to promoter DNA. The antisense strand of DNA is read by RNA polymerase from the 3' end to the 5' end during transcription (3' → 5'). The complementary RNA is created in the opposite direction, in the 5' → 3' direction, matching the sequence of the sense strand with the exception of switching uracil for thymine.
The structure of RNA The function of messenger RNA in the cell You will probably know that the sequence of bases in DNA carries the genetic code. Scattered along the DNA molecule are particularly important sequences of bases known as genes. Each gene is a coded description for making a particular protein. Messenger RNA contains the information to make just one single polypeptide chain-in other words for just one protein, or even just a part of a protein if it is made up of more than one polypeptide chain. Overall structure. DNA has two strands arranged in a double helix. RNA consists of a single strand.
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).