He is taking acyclovir instead of Valtrex because of the cost of Valtrex...he doesn't have insurance to cover the cost of $965 a month. That was another shock. This is SOOO confusing and I apologize for sounding so naive, uneducated....but all these questions seem to pop up. It could be $80/month or $10/month depending on her insurance. Acyclovir is much cheaper as a generic, even without insurance it's under $20/month with a prescription at most places. Read More. and I do have bouts where I have to force urination to an extent, and less frequently there is a slight burning.
1 Zovirax cream varies in cost according to the size and the pharmacy from which you purchase it. 2  It is usually packed in 2 to 50 gram tubes. 3  On average, the price can vary anywhere from $200 to $450 per tube without insurance. 4  However, if you have insurance, most policies bring the cost down to less than $100. 1 However, if you have insurance, most policies bring the cost down to less than $100. 2  According to PharmacyChecker.com, the prices of Zovirex can range anywhere from $15 to as much as $129 per tube. 3  One user on SteadyHealth.com stated that they paid $75 when their insurance kicked in. 4  Without insurance, CVS charged $400.
Choose Strength for: Acyclovir-Generic Version. The lowest prices for Acyclovir from online pharmacies and prescription discount cards! Before you buy Acyclovir, compare the best prices on Acyclovir from licensed, top-rated pharmacies in the U.S., Canada, and internationally. Find the lowest cost Acyclovir from the best pharmacy. Strength.
(if cost is an issue, switch to acyclovir instead of valtrex instead of ordering online from questionable places. you can get a round of acyclovir at walmart even without insurance for $4. they both work the same just you take the zovirax/acyclovir more often than valtrex. it should only cost you $4 for the acyclovir at walmart. the dose for that price is acyclovir 200mg, 5x/day, dispense 30. don't hesitate to ask the clinic to write out that prescription for you to get that price !!
Depending on how money is for you-you can get 30 200mg acyclovir tabs for $4 thru walmart and similar programs. You can take 4 pills 3x/day for 2 days at the very first sign of an impending cold sore (800mg 3x/day would be the actual dose). it should only cost you $4 for the acyclovir at walmart. the dose for that price is acyclovir 200mg, 5x/day, dispense 30. don't hesitate to ask the clinic to write out that prescription for you to get that price !!
acyclovir. ACYCLOVIR is an antiviral medicine. It is used to treat or prevent infections caused by certain kinds of viruses. Examples of these infections include herpes and shingles. This medicine will not cure herpes
Acyclovir is available as a generic, made by several companies, or under the brand name Zovirax, made by GlaxoSmithKline and available in tablet, capsule, and liquid form. Acyclovir is one of the oldest drugs used to treat herpes simplex viruses and remains the first line of treatment for these infections. A: Acyclovir (Zovirax) is an antiviral medication that can be used in the treatment of the herpes virus, including genital herpes, cold sores, and shingles. Acyclovir can also be used to help with the chicken pox virus.
Zovirax. ACYCLOVIR is an antiviral medicine. It is used to treat or prevent infections caused by certain kinds of viruses. Examples of these infections include herpes and shingles. This medicine will not cure herpes. 
COMMON BRAND NAME(S): Zovirax. USES: Acyclovir is used to treat infections caused by certain types of viruses. It treats cold sores around the mouth (caused by herpes simplex), shingles (caused by herpes zoster), and chickenpox. This medication is also used to treat outbreaks of genital herpes. In people with frequent outbreaks, acyclovir is used to help reduce the number of future episodes. Acyclovir is an antiviral drug.
A: Acyclovir (Zovirax) http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/acyclovir is a medication used to treat viral infections. The most common side effects associated with the oral form of Acyclovir are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, headache, and feeling tired (malaise). A: Acyclovir (Zovirax) is an antiviral medication that can be used in the treatment of the herpes virus, including genital herpes, cold sores, and shingles. Acyclovir can also be used to help with the chicken pox virus.