Once inside the host cell cytoplasm, the virus uses its own reverse transcriptase enzyme to produce DNA from its RNA genome, the reverse of the usual pattern, thus retro (backwards). Within the cell, reverse transcriptase creates a complementary strand of DNA from the retrovirus RNA and the RNA is degraded; this strand of DNA is known as cDNA (4). The cDNA is then replicated, and the two strands form a weak bond and go into the nucleus (5).
Retroviruses belong to the Retroviridae family of viruses. Their genetic material consists of ribonucleic acid (RNA), instead of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Viruses of this type also contain reverse transcriptase. Retroviruses are known to lead to certain types of cancers in both humans and animals, as well as a range of viral infections. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), the virus that causes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), is one example. 
Main » TERM » R ». Based on the biological term retrovirus, a computer retrovirus is one that actively seeks out an antivirus program on a computer system and attacks it. A retrovirus will attempt to disable and infect the antivirus software in order to avoid detection in the computer system. Also called anti-antivirus virus.
Antivirus Killer Virus or Retro Virus Based on the biological term retrovirus, a computer retrovirus is one that actively seeks out an antivirus program on a computer system and attacks it. 37. Antivirus Killer Virus or Retro Virus Based on the biological term retrovirus, a computer retrovirus is one that actively seeks out an antivirus program on a computer system and attacks it. A retrovirus will attempt to disable and infect the antivirus software in order to avoid detection in the computer system.
Retrovirus: A virus that is composed not of DNA but of RNA. Retroviruses have an enzyme, called reverse transcriptase, that gives them the unique property of transcribing their RNA into DNA after entering a cell. The retroviral DNA can then integrate into the chromosomal DNA of the host cell, to be expressed there. HIV is a retrovirus.
Retroviridae is a family of enveloped viruses that replicate in a host cell through the process of reverse transcription. A retrovirus is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA virus with a DNA intermediate and, as an obligate parasite, targets a host cell. Within the cell, reverse transcriptase creates a complementary strand of DNA from the retrovirus RNA and the RNA is degraded; this strand of DNA is known as cDNA (4). The cDNA is then replicated, and the two strands form a weak bond and go into the nucleus (5).
Report Abuse. type of RNA virus that, unlike other RNA viruses, reproduces by transcribing itself into DNA. An enzyme called reverse transcriptase allows a retrovirus's RNA to act as the template for this RNA-to-DNA transcription. The resultant DNA inserts itself into a cell's DNA and is reproduced along with the cell and its daughters. RNA viruses have reverse transcriptase making them a retrovirus. Example is HIV. A virus can either be DNA virus or RNA virus but not both... Mike · 9 years ago.