A pseudostratified epithelium is a type of epithelium that, though comprising only a single layer of cells, has its cell nuclei positioned in a manner suggestive of stratified epithelia. Pseudostratified epithelia function in secretion or absorption. If a specimen looks stratified but has cilia, then it is a pseudostratified ciliated epithelium, since stratified epithelia do not have cilia.
Ciliated versus Non-ciliated. There are actually two forms of pseudostratified columnar epithelium: ciliated and non-ciliated. Ciliated cells have 200-300 small hair-like protrusions, or cilia, on the luminal surface, while non-ciliated have a smooth apical side. Pseudostratified columnar epithelium, being thick cells, are useful in the processes of absorbing and secreting substances, as well as creating a barrier between the substance flowing through the cavity space and the underlying tissues.
Pseudostratified Columnar Epithelium. Pseudostratified columnar epithelium. Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is found lining the trachea, bronchi, male urethra, and a few other places. The slide you will examine is taken from the trachea. Use the low magnification image to identify the epithelial layer, then examine it at higher power
The term pseudostratified is derived from the appearance of this epithelium in section which conveys the erroneous (pseudo means false) impression that there is more than one layer of cells, when in fact this is a true simple epithelium since all the cells rest on the basal lamina. Pseudostratified epithelia function in secretion or absorption. If a specimen looks stratified but has cilia, then it is a pseudostratified ciliated epithelium, since stratified epithelia do not have cilia.
[Trachea, monkey; x-section, PTS]. The lumen of the trachea is lined by pseudostratified columnar epithelium. Note that all the surface cells have cilia at their free (apical) surface. (What function do these cilia serve in the trachea?) Mucus-secreting unicellular gland cells (goblet cells) are interspersed among the ciliated cells. 
Unlike the epithelium of the skin, a pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium appears to have multiple layers, but is actually only comprised of a single sheet of cells. The positioning of the nuclei within the individual columnar cells causes this illusion. Found most heavily along the respiratory tract, pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelial cells help trap and transport particles brought in through the nasal passages and lungs.
Pseudostratified epithelium is a type of epithelial tissue that at first glance appears to be stratified, but is actually only a single layer of cells. Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is located in the trachea, upper respiratory tract, and in the male reproductive system, particularly in the vas deferens and epididymis. Pseudostratified epithelial tissue typically, but not always, has goblet cells, which secrete mucin to produce mucus.
A pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a special type of simple epithelium that consists of a falsely-stratified single layer of epithelial cells resting on a basement membrane. Many, if not most, of the cells, are columnar. 
Ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium is the type of tissue that lines parts of the respiratory system, such as the nasal cavities and trachea. Epithelial tissues generally cover and protect various parts of the body. They can be different shapes, can be layered, and can even secrete mucus. Male sperm makes use of ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium in the epididymis. Nasal mucus helps keep bacteria and particles from entering the respiratory system. The trachea is lined with ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium.