Dam Square lies in the historical center of Amsterdam, approximately 750 meters south of the main transportation hub, Centraal Station, at the original location of the dam in the river Amstel. Dam Square just after the shooting, 1945. On 7 May 1945, two days after German capitulation, thousands of Dutch people were waiting for Canadian troops to arrive on the Dam square in Amsterdam.
Dam Square. 2339 Views. Dam Square is Amsterdam’s beating heart. Nowadays Dam Square In contrast with the old days it is now a very peaceful square which is home to scores of pigeons and street performers. Dam Square has had a turbulent history. Around 1270 a damn was constructed in this spot in the river Amstel. Protests and violence at Dam Square. In 1535 the square was the scene of the Anabaptists’ riots. Less than a century later the loot of the silver fleet was the reason for a revolt. The troubles that erupted because the employment benefits were decreased in 1935, also focused on this square.
Historic Sites, Best Attractions & Activities, Sightseeing: Make your way to Dam Square and enjoy the constant hustle and bustle. The square is home to many attractions, including the Royal Palace, National Monument, Madame Tussauds and others. The Dam is also home to many events, such as celebrations, fairs and memorials. As it's less than a kilometer from Centraal Station, you cannot miss it. Free Things to Do
Dam Square. The Dam, otherwise referred to as the Dam Square, is one of the most popular meeting points in Amsterdam and one of the most photogenic squares in Europe.
Dam Square (2005) with a view of the Royal Palace (left) and the Nieuwe Kerk (right). Dam Square, or simply the Dam (Dutch: de Dam), is a town square in Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands. Its notable buildings and frequent events make it one of the most well-known and important locations in the city and the country. Dam Square just after the shooting, 1945. On 7 May 1945, two days after German capitulation, thousands of Dutch people were waiting for Canadian troops to arrive on the Dam square in Amsterdam.
National Monument at Dam Square, Amsterdam, commemorating those who have died during World War II. Several times a year the square is the site of a funfair. From time to time there are other events as well, such as concerts, sports events or a used-books market. Usually the square is home to a number of living statues and other buskers. What to see at Dam Square. 1  Royal Palace. 2  When it was completed this neoclassical building was referred to as the Eighth Wonder of the World, but you’ll have to go inside to see why someone would think that.
Most tourist guides claim that Dam Square is the spot where Amsterdam was first settled, and where the city got its name: a dam in the river Amstel. What to see at Dam Square. 1  Royal Palace. 2  When it was completed this neoclassical building was referred to as the Eighth Wonder of the World, but you’ll have to go inside to see why someone would think that.
Dam square. The Dam is the very centre and heart of the city, and is the center of Amsterdam attractions. Although there are arguably prettier sights in Amsterdam. As an historical site however, it is fascinating and worth taking the time to appreciate.
As the site of the Royal Palace, Dam square often is the focus of events of national importance — as in the annual Remembrance Day (May 4) ceremonies which take place at the National Monument, commemorating those who died during the Second World War. What to see at Dam Square. 1  Royal Palace. 2  When it was completed this neoclassical building was referred to as the Eighth Wonder of the World, but you’ll have to go inside to see why someone would think that.
The palace was built as a city hall during the Dutch Golden Age in the 17th century. The building became the royal palace of King Louis Napoleon and later of the Dutch Royal House. It is situated on the west side of Dam Square in the centre of Amsterdam, opposite the War Memorial and next to the Nieuwe Kerk.