Baby names meanings search results: The name Ayla is a baby girl name. The name Ayla comes from the Hebrew origin. In Hebrew The meaning of the name Ayla is: Oak tree. In literature Ayla is the Cro-Magnon heroine of Jean Auel's 'Clan of rhe Cave Bear'. Similar Names: 
Well, My name is Ayla but It's Turkish so it means the light around the moon, or the moon's halo. beautiful fairy. awsome hot person indenpended. My names also ayla. my parents said it means oak tree or little bear or strong bear. its from the book clan of the cave bear. 
Ayla can also be seen as a variant of Hebrew name  Eilah  which means oak tree.. Ayla is sometimes falsely identified as a variant of feminine Arabic name  Aaliyah  meaning sublime or large. Aaliyah is actually the female form of  Aali  and is an unrelated name. Ayla also means with the moon as a word (ay + la where la is used for ile which means with in Turkish). However in the context of given names, its meaning is halo, and can be related to names Aylin (also deriving from ay), Tuelin, tülin Or. aylanur
Ayla is a common feminine given name in Turkish. In that language, it means  halo of light around the moon . Less commonly, it is also a name in other languages. Ayla also means with the moon as a word (ay + la where la is used for ile which means with in Turkish). However in the context of given names, its meaning is halo, and can be related to names Aylin (also deriving from ay), Tuelin, tülin Or. aylanur
The meaning of the name Ayla: Oak Tree. The origin of the name Ayla: Hebrew. People who like the name Ayla also like: Ava, Isla, Aria, Charlotte, Amelia, Olivia, Ella. Liam, Noah, Asher, Ethan, Owen, Declan, Aiden. Notes: Ayla, heroine in the Clan of the Cave Bear novels by Jean Auel, most likely after her surname.
The meaning of Ayla has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Ayla are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Oak tree. 2  English meaning: Oak tree. 3  Turkish meaning: Related to the moon. 
The name was coined by Jean M. Auel for the heroine of his novel The Clan of the Cave Bear (1980). In the novel, Ayla is the result of the Neanderthals' atttempts to pronounce the Cro-Magnon heroine's real name, which is not stated by the author. The popularity of the name in the USA stems from its origin in literature. Both the origin and meaning of the name Ayla is inherited by all variant forms. 
Ayla in Turkish means halo of light around the moon. The name may also be encountered in other Turkic languages as, for example, an Azeri name. Since Ayla is reserved for the feminine, it is usually synonymous with  moonlight , although it could also mean halo in general. Ayla also means with the moon as a word (ay + la where la is used for ile which means with in Turkish). However in the context of given names, its meaning is halo, and can be related to names Aylin (also deriving from ay), Tuelin, tülin Or. aylanur
Meaning of Ayla. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Ayla means-the oak tree. Other origins for the name Ayla include-Israeli, Hebrew.The name Ayla is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-the oak tree.
Ayla is an uncommon given name for females but a somewhat popular surname for all people (#124872 out of 150436, Top 83%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ayla for girls. Ayla entered the list in 1990 and reached its apex position of #250 in the U.S. in 2012, and is at #277 currently. 