Fibula is the third largest bone in the human body. Fibula along with Tibia forms the lower part of human leg as it is located on the lateral side of Tibia. It is relatively weak and thin as compared with Tibia. The average length of tibia is 40.50 CM. Humerus bone connects shoulder with elbow in human arm. It is a long bone which consists of three parts i.e. upper extremity of Humerus, body of Humerus and lower extremity of Humerus. Its average length is 18.50 Cm. Innominate bone is either of the two bones that form the sides of the pelvis, consisting of three fused components, the ilium, ischium, and pubis Nontechnical name hipbone. Sternum is the tenth largest bone in human body and its average length is 17.00 Cm. It is also called breastbone and it is found in both males and females with the same length. Sternum is a long, flat bone located in the center of the chest, serving as a support for the collarbone and rib
Humerus bone connects shoulder with elbow in human arm. It is a long bone which consists of three parts i.e. upper extremity of Humerus, body of Humerus and lower extremity of Humerus. Humerus forms the upper part of human arm and many important muscles are attached with it. The average length of tibia is 36.46 CM.
The average height being 156.20 cm. In females the length of right tibia ranges from 21.50 to 39.50, the average length of tibia is 32.19 cms.The length of left tibia ranges from 21.40 to 46.50, the average length of tibia is 32.144 cms. Table 3: Comparison of right and left side of tibia in females
Tibia is the second largest bone in the human body and no doubt the strongest bone of human body because it bears the body weight of person. It forms the inner-lower part of human leg. The average length of tibia is 43.03 CM. Its average length is 18.50 Cm. Innominate bone is either of the two bones that form the sides of the pelvis, consisting of three fused components, the ilium, ischium, and pubis Nontechnical name hipbone. Sternum is the tenth largest bone in human body and its average length is 17.00 Cm. It is also called breastbone and it is found in both males and females with the same length. Sternum is a long, flat bone located in the center of the chest, serving as a support for the collarbone and ribs
The lower leg lengths of each subject and the distances between the EDL tendon and the tibia and fibula of each specimen are shown in Table 1. The average length of 14 cadavers was 35.14 ± 2.10 cm. The average distances between the EDL tendon and the distal third of the tibia were 2.96 ± 0.46 cm (proximal), 1.85 ± 0.25 cm (middle), and 2.15 ± 0.30 cm (distal), respectively. 
(Table no 5) The stature estimated from percutaneous tibial length with the help of formulated multiplication factor was compared with stature estimated by regression formula, the average error was found to be 0.60 cm in male and 0.87 cm in female. In females the length of right tibia ranges from 21.50 to 39.50, the average length of tibia is 32.19 cms.The length of left tibia ranges from 21.40 to 46.50, the average length of tibia is 32.144 cms.
Methods: Height/length, armspan, arm length and tibia length were measured to the nearest 0.1 cm using standard procedures. The relations between armspan, arm length and tibia length with height in controls were investigated using linear regression. Comparison of armspan, arm length and tibia length as predictors of actual height of disabled and nondisabled children in Dharavi, Mumbai, India. A K Yousafzai, S M Filteau, S L Wirz and T J Cole. 1  1 Centre for International Child Health, Institute of Child Health, University College London, London, UK.
Tibia is the second largest bone in the human body and no doubt the strongest bone of human body because it bears the body weight of person. It forms the inner-lower part of human leg. The average length of tibia is 43.03 CM. Tibia is Latin word which means an ancient type of musical instrument. Shin bone and shank bone are other names of Tibia. It is a long bone which consists of three parts i.e. upper extremity of Humerus, body of Humerus and lower extremity of Humerus. Humerus forms the upper part of human arm and many important muscles are attached with it. The average length of tibia is 36.46 CM.
Best Answer: According to Frederic Martini, author of Human Anatomy, the average human female femur bone is 17 to 18 inches in length and 1 inch in diameter. This is slightly shorter than the average male's femur at 18 to 19 inches in length and 1.2 inches in diameter. 