Uses. Clindamycin is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. It is an antibiotic that works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for virus infections (e.g., common cold, flu). How to use clindamycin HCl. Take this medication by mouth with or without food, usually 4 times a day (every 6 hours), or as directed by your doctor. Take it with a full glass of water (8 ounces or 240 milliliters) unless your doctor directs you otherwise.
It is used to treat serious infections. Clindamycin may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this guide. What should I discuss with my veterinarian before giving Clindamycin to my pet: Do not use this medication if your pet is allergic to clindamycin or lincomycin (Bactramycin, L-Mycin, Lincocin). What is the most important information I should know about Clindamycin: Do not use this medication if your pet is allergic to clindamycin or lincomycin (Bactramycin, L-Mycin, Lincocin). Do not give clindamycin together with erythromycin (E-Mycin, E.E.S., Ery-Tab, and others).
Clindamycin is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. This includes middle ear infections, bone or joint infections, pelvic inflammatory disease, strep throat, pneumonia, and endocarditis among others. It is of the lincosamide class and works by blocks the making of protein. Clindamycin was first made in 1967. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medication needed in a basic health system. It is available as a generic medication and is not very expensive.
A: Clindamycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat serious infections caused by bacteria. Common side effects of clindamycin include changes in bowel habits, nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, joint pain, rash, and itching. A: Clindamycin is in a drug class called lincomycin antibiotics. Clindamycin is used to treat certain serious bacterial infections -- when infections cannot be treated by certain other antibiotics. Clindamycin is used to treat serious: respiratory tract infections; skin infections; blood infections; infections of female reproductive organs or other organs
Clindamycin is a prescription antibiotic. It is available in several different forms and is approved for a variety of different uses. Oral or injectable forms of clindamycin are approved to treat the following infections: Clindamycin lotions, gels, solution, or foams that are applied to the skin are approved for the treatment of acne. Some acne medications combine clindamycin with benzoyl peroxide, another acne treatment. The vaginal forms (creams and suppositories) are approved to treat bacterial vaginosis.
Clindamycin is a prescription antibiotic used in the treatment of serious infections such as soft tissue infections, dental infections, and bone infections. •. Give this medication the entire length of time prescribed by your veterinarian. Symptoms may get better before the infection is fully treated. What is the most important information I should know about Clindamycin: Do not use this medication if your pet is allergic to clindamycin or lincomycin (Bactramycin, L-Mycin, Lincocin). Do not give clindamycin together with erythromycin (E-Mycin, E.E.S., Ery-Tab, and others).
Clindamycin is the generic name of the prescription drug Cleocin, which is an antibiotic used to treat certain serious bacterial infections. Clindamycin belongs to a group of medicines known as lincosamide or lincomycin antibiotics. A: Clindamycin is in a drug class called lincomycin antibiotics. Clindamycin is used to treat certain serious bacterial infections -- when infections cannot be treated by certain other antibiotics. Clindamycin is used to treat serious: respiratory tract infections; skin infections; blood infections; infections of female reproductive organs or other organ
Uses of This Medicine. Clindamycin belongs to the family of medicines called antibiotics. Topical clindamycin is used to help control acne. It may be used alone or with one or more other medicines that are used on the skin or taken by mouth for acne. Topical clindamycin may also be used for other problems as determined by your doctor.