While the annual salary represents a floor for an employee's wages, gross pay can exceed that level. For instance, if an employee is paid an annual salary of $23,000 per year, but he is eligible for, and works, $5,000 worth of overtime, his gross pay will be $28,000 -- more than his salary. But while every employee who is paid earns gross pay, not every employee earns a salary. Defining Gross Pay. An employee's gross pay is the amount of his wages before any deductions, including taxes and benefits. Gross pay may be determined by the amount an employee works, as in hourly pay, or at a set rate, as in a weekly salary.
Example. If you have an employee who earns $40,000 per year, that $40,000 is her gross annual salary, but it is not her gross total compensation unless she receives no additional pay or benefits. Total gross compensation is the amount an employee receives before any deductions or adjustments. Unlike gross salary, which is the earned hourly or annual wages before deductions, total gross compensation includes tips, bonuses and other benefits employers give employees during the period being reported.
Report Abuse. It usually means just the salary. Super is added but probably not considered a benefit as it is law that your employer pays this. benefits can mean lots of things, such as bonus pay, commision, uniforms/laundry fees supplied, petrol allowance or use of company car, your own car park-things like that. 
An employee's hourly rate for a job is based on his salary and the number of hours he's supposed to work. When you calculate an hourly rate, do not include any other compensation, such as overtime or bonus pay, or value provided by an employee benefit program, such as vacation or sick pay. Pay for vacation and sick time is considered an employee benefit, not a component of an employee's salary. Do not include vacation or sick time or the value of any other employee benefit when you calculate the hourly rate for a salaried employee.
Total compensation is everything the company provides an employee in exchange for working. It includes base salary, bonuses, benefits, perks and on-site amenities. Total compensation indicates that an employee is making two or three times his base salary. A company may inform you that you are receiving additional compensation, yet rarely discloses the full amount compensated during the entire year. Base Salary. Base salary is what you see on your paycheck. It is the amount per hour or per year that you are paid for performing your job. Base salary does not include any bonuses, benefits or perks associated with the job. It increases with raises or adjustments, but remains the yearly or hourly wage paid. Base salary is typically the number you say when people ask you how much you make -- what you are paid
An employee's salary is often expressed as an annual figure, such as $30,000 per year. Do not add any other income such as a bonus to an employee's salary when you calculate the hourly rate. If an employee has overtime pay, it's an indication that the employee is not a salaried employee. Pay for vacation and sick time is considered an employee benefit, not a component of an employee's salary. Do not include vacation or sick time or the value of any other employee benefit when you calculate the hourly rate for
2. The company includes benefits as part of overall compensation. According to Truitt, Your base salary is the combination of your benefits plus your base salary. In rare cases, a company will pay you what you were hoping in base salary, in addition to offering a terrific benefits package. 