As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details. 
I am sure I passed it as I have no crime etc and the job does not have a thorough long background check like a bank or government job and it is not a very high up job, but I wanna make sure. The background check probably consists of crime check, employer references, drug test, education check (I doubt credit check). 
Advertisements. I was hired by a company pending a background check. I filled out everything on Monday night, the 2nd. On the morning of Tuesday the 3rd I was told that it was submitted and that they would get back to me once the results are in. Now it's Friday morning 10:30 AM. Originally Posted by fortwashingtonkid. I was hired by a company pending a background check. I filled out everything on Monday night, the 2nd. On the morning of Tuesday the 3rd I was told that it was submitted and that they would get back to me once the results are in. Now it's Friday morning 10:30 AM.
Common reasons for delay. According to A Matter of Fact, the most common reason for delay in completing background checks is when employers do not fill out background check request forms accurately and completely, and when they fail to get the authorization and release forms signed by the job applicant. Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors.
If the new job is contigent on something (such as a background check), don't give notice until it's done, because if something does turn up and they decide not to hire you because of it, you could find yourself either with no job, or begging for your old job back. Offers involving 12-18 month background checks do occur. If you pass the interviews and then they start one of those background checks, you might even take another job while waiting for that background check to complete.
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order. Patience when doing employment background checks can significantly reduce the risk of a bad hire! The idea of an instant background check sounds great. However, a quality background takes some effort and time. It takes time to identify, locate, and contact the correct court, employer, school, or licensing agency.
How long does it take to do a background check. The time it takes to complete background checks is dependent on a lot of factors and usually varies from one company to another. For most positions, the norm seems to be around 24 to 36 hours. Any candidate employee worth his salt would know that passing a pre-employment background check is the make-or-break deal when it comes to getting a job. This is the part where the company screens out unfavorables, or candidates who might compromise other employees’ safety or the company’s overall image.
Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate. Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors.