Somatic symptom disorders are a group of disorders, all of which fit the definition of physical symptoms similar to those observed in physical disease or injury for which there is no identifiable physical cause. As such, they are a diagnosis of exclusion. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.
1 Conversion disorder: A somatic symptom disorder involving the actual loss of bodily function such as blindness, paralysis, and numbness due to excessive anxiety. 2  Illness anxiety disorder: A somatic symptom disorder involving persistent and excessive worry about developing a serious illness. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.
In the DSM-5 the disorder has been renamed to somatic symptom disorder (SSD), and includes SSD with predominantly somatic complaints (previously referred to as somatization disorder), and SSD with pain features (previously known as pain disorder). Somatization disorder (also Briquet's syndrome) is a mental disorder characterized by recurring, multiple, and current, clinically significant complaints about somatic symptoms.
Medical Definition of SOMATIC. 1. a: of, relating to, or affecting the body especially as distinguished from the germ plasm or psyche: physical. 2. : of or relating to the wall of the body as distinguished from the viscera: parietal. Definition of SOMATIC. 1. : of, relating to, or affecting the body especially as distinguished from the germplasm or the psyche.
Definition. Somatic symptom disorder involves having a significant focus on physical symptoms — such as pain or fatigue — to the point that it causes major emotional distress and problems functioning. Health concerns may become such a central focus of your life that it's hard to function, sometimes leading to disability. If you have somatic symptom disorder, you may experience significant emotional and physical suffering. Treatment can help ease symptoms, help you cope and improve your quality of life. 1  Symptoms.
Somatization disorder is a psychiatric condition marked by multiple medically unexplained physical, or somatic, symptoms. If a thorough medical evaluation reveals no evidence of an underlying medical-or drug-or medication-induced condition, the diagnosis of somatization disorder is likely.
A somatic symptom disorder, formerly known as a somatoform disorder, is a category of mental disorder included in a number of diagnostic schemes of mental illness, including the DSM-5. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.
The exact cause of somatic symptom disorder is not known. Factors that might be involved in the development of the disorder include: 1  A history of physical or sexual abuse. 2  A history of having a serious illness as a child. The symptoms associated with somatic symptom disorder are not under the person's voluntary control, and they can cause great distress and can interfere with a person's life. Somatic symptom disorder can happen at any time of life, but most often begins in early adulthood. It affects men and women equally.
Somatic symptom disorders are not the result of conscious malingering (fabricating or exaggerating symptoms for secondary motives) or factitious disorders (deliberately producing, feigning, or exaggerating symptoms). Somatic symptom disorder is difficult to diagnose and treat. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.