Silicon is a chemical element with symbol Si and atomic number 14. It is a tetravalent metalloid, more reactive than germanium, the metalloid directly below it in the table. Controversy about silicon's character dates to its discovery; it was first prepared and characterized in pure form in 1823.
sem路i路con路duc路tor. n. 1. Any of various solid crystalline substances, such as germanium or silicon, having electrical conductivity greater than insulators but less than good conductors, and used especially as a base material for computer chips and other electronic devices. 2. Any of various solid substances, such as silicon or germanium, that conduct electricity more easily than insulators but less easily than conductors. Semiconductors are able to do this because they have a small number of electrons that have escaped from the bonds between the atoms, leaving open spaces.
Silicon Lattice. Silicon atoms form covalent bonds and can crystallize into a regular lattice. The illustration below is a simplified sketch; the actual crystal structure of silicon is a diamond lattice. This crystal is called an intrinsic semiconductor and can conduct a small amount of current. Solid state electronics arises from the unique properties of silicon and germanium, each of which has four valence electrons and which form crystal lattices in which substituted atoms (dopants) can dramatically change the electrical properties.
A semiconductor material has an electrical conductivity value falling between that of a conductor, such as copper, and an insulator, such as glass. Semiconductors are the foundation of modern electronics. Semiconducting materials exist in two types-elemental materials and compound materials. 
Silicon is the eighth most common element in the universe by mass, but very rarely occurs as the pure free element in nature. It is most widely distributed in dusts, sands, planetoids, and planets as various forms of silicon dioxide (silica) or silicates. It is a tetravalent metalloid, more reactive than germanium, the metalloid directly below it in the table. Controversy about silicon's character dates to its discovery; it was first prepared and characterized in pure form in 1823.
The materials most often used in semiconductor devices are germanium and silicon. Germanium has higher electrical conductivity (less resistance to current flow) than silicon, and is used in most low and mediumpower diodes and transistors. Silicon is more suitable for highpower devices than germanium. 
Answer by JazzHarper. Confidence votes 8.8K. Silicon is widely used in electronic devices because it has good thermal transfer characteristics, enhancing the ability to heat sink a component, and because it has poor electrical characteristics, making it a good insulator. 
n. 1. Any of various solid crystalline substances, such as germanium or silicon, having electrical conductivity greater than insulators but less than good conductors, and used especially as a base material for computer chips and other electronic devices. 2. 