Leash training this breed takes time and patience, but is a must. Puppy and obedience classes are recommended for the Shiba Inu, not only for the lessons learned but also for the amount of stimulation and socialization it provides the dog. The Shiba Inu originated in Japan along with the Akita, Shikoku, Kai Dog, Hokkaido and Kishu, all of which are larger than the Shiba Inu. The Shiba Inu was used primarily as a hunting dog to flush out small game and birds for hunters. There are several theories how the Shiba Inu got his name.
It takes time and a lot of time and patience to teach a Shiba Inu to walk properly. I used a flexi-leash at first because I thought it was just too tough to train Rusty on a short leash. I also used a martingale collar. This is a collar made of nylon that can tighten when the dog pulls. 
NEVER chase your Shiba Inu when using the command COME. This is a sure way to teach your Shiba Inu that COME is a bad thing. Once you believe your Shiba Inu understands the command, begin to reinforce it. Put a lead on your pet's collar and allow the Shiba Inu to run around with the lead dragging behind. Gently pick up the lead, without the Shiba Inu noticing and say SCOUT COME. If your Shiba Inu does not come, then gently pull the lead forcing it to come. Repeat this test often. Another exercise to test the COME command is having a family member walk the Shiba Inu, on a leash, away from you. Give the command SCOUT COME and see if the Shiba Inu comes. Also, before you can even begin training your Shiba Inu, your must establish that you are the Master and your Shiba Inu is the Follower. Remember, the Shiba Inu has an inherent trait that makes it a social animal, needing a dominance subordination hierarchy.
In this video, I explain how I have taught my Shiba Inu, Milo, to walk nicely on a leash. As a puppy, Milo was a very bad puller! Now, he walks very well and I enjoy our walks quite a lot. The method I use for teaching any dog not to pull is the reverse direction method. 
The Shiba Inu dog breed was originally bred to flush birds and small game, and was occasionally used to hunt wild boar. He is one of Japan's six native breeds: Akita (large), Kishu, Hokkaido, Kai, Shikoku (medium), and Shiba (small). He is known for his spirited personality, small upright ears, and cat-like agility. The Shiba Inu originated in Japan along with the Akita, Shikoku, Kai Dog, Hokkaido and Kishu, all of which are larger than the Shiba Inu. The Shiba Inu was used primarily as a hunting dog to flush out small game and birds for hunters. There are several theories how the Shiba Inu got his name.
In short, the Shiba Inu is not always an easy dog to train. However, if you have experience with dogs and are looking for a challenge, training a Shiba can be a fulfilling experience. Watching how they put their sharp minds to use can be a delight. The Shiba Inu is a breed of dog native to Japan. The dogs were originally bred to hunt in mountainous areas of the country for wild game like boar. Despite their smaller size, these confident dogs were also known for hunting bears.
The Shiba Inu is an undemanding dog that will adapt to your circumstances, so long as it gets a daily walk. It is a very active dog and will be healthier and happier with regular exercise. This breed can walk for hours on end as it has tremendous endurance. Sadie the Shiba Inu at 4 years old. Find a Shiba Inu Breeder Place an Ad Rescue a Shiba Inu List Your Rescue Pronunciation SHEE-bah-EE-noo Description The Shiba is a small, compact dog. The head is in proportion with the body. The round muzzle has a moderate stop and tapers slightly toward the nose.
When our puppy is out on a walk, he is exposed to a lot of new stimuli, including new sights, sounds, and smells. Everything will be very exciting, even leaves flying in the wind and he will want to chase, smell, and see all of it at top speed. Some dogs may also be uncomfortable with the feel and weight of a leash. When I first got my puppy, I would fasten a light leash onto his collar, let him move around, and play with the leash on. While using a drag-lead 1  –. I make sure I am around to supervise. 2  I use a flat collar and *not* an aversive collar.
I try hard to walk and run my Takumi as much as I can. I'd like to know how forum members here deal with this matter. I usually walk Takumi 3 times a day, 20-30 minute walk in the morning, minimum 1 hour 2-3 mile walk with some running early evening, and quick 20-30 minute walk before going to bed. He never shows a sign of '' hey, Daddy, I can't walk any more''.......
Yes, shiba inus shed. They are most known for blowing (completely losing their undercoat) their coats twice a year. They also shed during the rest of the year, but not … to the same level as many short-haired breeds. 