Turquoise is an opaque, blue-to-green mineral that is a hydrous phosphate of copper and aluminium, with the chemical formula Cu Al 6 (P O 4) 4 (O H) 8 · 4 H2O. It is rare and valuable in finer grades and has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years owing to its unique hue. Turquoise /ˈtɜrkɔɪz/ or /ˈtɜrkwɔɪz/ is the name of a greenish blue color, based on the gem of the same name. The word turquoise comes from the French for Turkish, as the gem was originally imported from Turkey. The first recorded use of turquoise as a color name in English was in 1573.
Its only important use is in the manufacture of jewelry and ornamental objects. However, in that use it is extremely popular-so popular that the English language uses the word turquoise as the name of a blue-green color that matches the stone. The earliest record of turquoise being used in jewelry or in ornaments is from Egypt. There turquoise has been found in royal burials over 6000 years old. About 4000 years ago, miners in Persia produced a blue variety of turquoise with a sky blue or robin's egg blue color.
Turquoise, the robin's egg blue gemstone worn by Pharaohs and Aztec Kings, is probably one of the oldest gemstones known. Yet, only its prized blue color, a color so distinctive that its name is used to describe any color that resembles it, results in its being used as a gemstone. 
The ancient Egyptians were probably the first culture to take advantage of what is turquoise. They used the stone in jewelry and decoration. Egyptian turquoise is noted for its almost translucent color, which is unlike turquoise rock from anywhere else in the world. In Persia (now modern-day Iran and Turkey), turquoise has been mined for more than 2000 years. It was considered to protect the wearer against harm and unnatural death, so it was often used in shields and knife hilts. Turquoise rock from this area of the world tends to be a very intense, pure blue color
The substance has been known by many names, but the word turquoise, which dates to the 17th century, is derived from the French turques for Turks, because the mineral was first brought to Europe from Turkey, from mines in the historical Khorasan Province of Persia. It is rare and valuable in finer grades and has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years owing to its unique hue. In recent times, turquoise, like most other opaque gems, has been devalued by the introduction of treatments, imitations, and synthetics onto the market.
Turquoise is traditionallynan opaque, blue-to-green mineral that is a hydrous phosphate of copper and aluminium, with the chemical formula CuAl6(PO4)4(OH)8·4H2O. It is rare a … nd valuable in finer grades and has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Turquoise is a blue-green mineral, a copper aluminum phosphate, valued for its rarity and unique hue, and widely used as an ornamental stone. Popular in the 16th century to adorn places of worship in Turkey, it was eventually traded in Turkish bazaars and brought to Europe by merchants and travelers. 
Turquoise is an opaque, blue-to-green mineral that is a hydrated phosphate of copper and aluminium, with the chemical formula Cu Al 6 (PO 4) 4 (OH) 8 ·4 H 2O. It is rare and valuable in finer grades and has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years owing to its unique hue. In recent times, turquoise, like most other opaque gems, has been devalued by the introduction of treatments, imitations, and synthetics onto the market.
Turquoise is rarely found in well-formed crystals. Instead it is usually an aggregate of microcrystals. When the microcrystals are packed closely together, the turquoise has a lower porosity, greater durability, and polishes to a higher luster. The earliest record of turquoise being used in jewelry or in ornaments is from Egypt. There turquoise has been found in royal burials over 6000 years old. About 4000 years ago, miners in Persia produced a blue variety of turquoise with a sky blue or robin's egg blue color.