1 Chlorine is used in drinking water and swimming pool water to kill harmful bacteria. 2  It is also as used as part of the sanitation process for industrial waste and sewage. 3  Household chlorine bleach can release chlorine gas if it is mixed with certain other cleaning agents. 1 Chlorine gas can be pressurized and cooled to change it into a liquid so that it can be shipped and stored. 2  When liquid chlorine is released, it quickly turns into a gas that stays close to the ground and spreads rapidly. 3  Chlorine gas can be recognized by its pungent, irritating odor, which is like the odor of bleach.
1 You may also be exposed to chlorine if you mix household chemicals such as toilet cleaner with bleach. 2  Mixing household cleaners containing ammonia with bleach may also release dangerous chemicals into the air. 3  You may be exposed to chlorine gas through the improper use of swimming pool chemicals. 1 Do not mix bleach with other household cleaners such as toilet cleaners because chlorine gas can be released to the air. 2  Do not mix bleach with household cleaners containing ammonia because dangerous chemical
Chemical reference number (CAS): 7782-50-5. Chlorine is a poisonous, greenish-yellow gas described as having a choking odor. It is a very corrosive, hazardous chemical. Usually combined with other chemicals, it is used to disinfect water, purify metals, bleach wood pulp and make other chemicals. Household bleach, used to whiten fabrics or remove mold from surfaces, is a 5% solution of a stabilized form of chlorine. DO NOT MIX household bleach with acid-containing or ammonia-containing cleaners. Dangerous levels of a very harmful gas can be released
Most people are generally not exposed to pure chlorine. You may be exposed to non-toxic concentrations of chlorine through household products that are made from chlorine, such as disinfectants used in drinking water and swimming pools. Household bleach does not contain pure chlorine. Chlorine is a naturally-occurring element that can be either a gas or a liquid. As a gas, chlorine has a yellow-green color and a strong, irritating odor similar to bleach. Chlorine can be converted to a liquid at very cold temperatures for shipping. If the liquid is released, it quickly turns into a gas. Chlorine gas can be released if household bleach mixes with ammonia or other cleaning products. When released into the air, chlorine will react with water to form acids
Aside from industrial exposure to chlorine, one very common method of chlorine exposure is the mixture of household bleach with other cleaning agents containing acids or ammonia. This can produce toxic gas and leads to many poison control center visits. Chlorine gas is a form of elemental chlorine that is commonly used industrially. It is also a highly toxic gas. This compound was the first poison gas to be used during World War I. At atmospheric pressure and room temperature, elemental chlorine is a gas.
Chlorine gas, when mixed with ammonia, reacts to form chloramine gas. In the presence of water, chloramines decompose to ammonia and hypochlorous acid or hydrochloric acid. Because of their high water solubility, chloramine exposures result in rapid symptom development. 
Cleaning with chemicals should come with a warning label! Chlorine is a toxic, yellow-green gas that is one of today's most heavily used chemical agents. Many household cleaners contain chlorine, including automatic dishwashing detergents, some laundry detergents, chlorine bleach, chlorinated disinfectant cleaners, mildew removers and toilet bowl cleaners. Aside from never mixing cleaning products, it is recommended to: 1  Avoid using cleaning products that contain chlorine. 2  Read the label and follow the directions. 3  Use the least toxic product you can find.
While chlorine is one of the most commonly used chemicals in the world, it's also one of the most dangerous. That's why chlorine gas safety is so important. Chlorine gas is toxic and has a green and yellow color when it reaches room temperature. Once you can actually smell chlorine gas, trouble is not far behind. Chlorine gas is a form of elemental chlorine that is commonly used industrially. It is also a highly toxic gas. This compound was the first poison gas to be used during World War I. At atmospheric pressure and room temperature, elemental chlorine is a gas.
What chlorine is. 1  Chlorine is an element used in industry and found in some household products. 2  Chlorine is sometimes in the form of a poisonous gas. 3  Chlorine gas can be pressurized and cooled to change it into a liquid so that it can be shipped and stored. 1 Chlorine gas can be pressurized and cooled to change it into a liquid so that it can be shipped and stored. 2  When liquid chlorine is released, it quickly turns into a gas that stays close to the ground and spreads rapidly. 3  Chlorine gas can be recognized by its pungent, irritating odor, which is like the odor of bleach.