Lake Taupo is the largest lake in New Zealand (616 km squared) Lake Taupo in the north island. Lake Benmore, in Canturbury, at 75 square kilometers. Share to: The biggest and most dangerous volcano in New Zealand and the world is actually Lake Taupo which is New Zealand's largest lake, and is located in the centre of the North Isla … nd.
Lake Wanaka. This is New Zealand's fourth largest lake with a surface area of 192 square kms and more than 300 metres deep in many places. The town of Wanaka, beside the lake, is a popular resort offering fishing, boating and swimming as well as easy access to nearby ski fields.
Lake Wakatipu. This is New Zealand's third largest lake, with a surface area of almost 300 square kms, but is the country's longest lake with a length of 80kms. The town of Queenstown is the focal point for the lake and visitors can cruise on a vintage steamboat, the TSS Earnslaw. This is New Zealand's fourth largest lake with a surface area of 192 square kms and more than 300 metres deep in many places. The town of Wanaka, beside the lake, is a popular resort offering fishing, boating and swimming as well as easy access to nearby ski fields.
48,642,792. If you are making your first visit to New Zealand, Lake Taupo in the Taupo Region of the North Island is an excellent first choice. New Zealand's largest freshwater lake, Lake Taupo is located in the very heart of New Zealand's volcanic and geothermal district. Here, one can explore the surrounding ... 
Image Courtesy of Malene Holm. Lake Taupo is a the largest freshwater lake in Australasia and is situated in the very center of the North Island of New Zealand. It is a very popular spot for both kiwis and international visitors for the wide range of sights and activities to be found in the area. 
Lake Te Anau is the second largest lake in New Zealand, covering 344 square kilometres. It is situated near Fiordland National Park, which is famous for Milford Sound and the Milford Track. The lake is surrounded by the huge mountains of the Fiordland National Park, with some portions of rolling hill country. It’s perhaps the most photographed lake in the South Island. Lake Wakatipu is situated right on one of the most popular towns in New Zealand: Queenstown. The lake is huge, and covers 291 square kilometres in area, and is 80 kilometres in length. It is the longest lake in New Zealand, and one of the most picturesque.
It lies in the caldera of the Taupo Volcano. With a surface area of 616 square kilometres (238 sq mi), it is the largest lake by surface area in New Zealand, and the second largest freshwater lake by surface area in geopolitical Oceania after Lake Murray (Papua New Guinea) .
What is the largest lake in New Zealand? Lake Taupo is the largest lake in New Zealand (616 km squared)   Lake Taupo in the north island Lake Benmore, in Canturbury, at 75 square kilometers. + 24 others found this useful. Dan Lorentz. Edit.
Located on New Zealand’s South Island, Lake Tekapo is a popular tourist destination and, with the exception of Lake Wakatipu, it might be New Zealand’s most famous lake. Tekapo’s blazing turquoise color comes from glacial sediment that was left behind when the lake’s basin was originally formed. Lake Taupo is located smack dab in the middle of the North Island. Not only is it New Zealand’s largest lake, but it is the largest freshwater lake in Oceana.