1 The most obvious way to get rid of smelly shoes would be to wash them thoroughly. 2  Using a soapy detergent and bleach, wash the shoes inside out. 3  Thereafter, keep them under the sun, to let dry them well. 4  Don’t wear them until they are completely dry. 1 Using a soapy detergent and bleach, wash the shoes inside out. 2  Thereafter, keep them under the sun, to let dry them well. 3  Don’t wear them until they are completely dry. 4  You can also use fabric conditioner sheets available in the market to get rid of smelly shoes.
You have a choice from eucalyptus, clove or tea tree oil. Whichever oil you would choose, it will help take away the smell of the bacteria on the shoes. 1  Place the essential oil on the shoe. 2  Place papers inside the shoe also in order to help get rid of the smell. 3  Leave on the essential oil and paper inside the shoes for about a few hours. It is also likely that you do not want to wear socks because it makes you feel hot but this is the best thing that you can do to help get rid of shoe odor. 1  Make sure that you wear a pair of clean socks. 2  Place the socks before putting on your shoes. 3  Wash the socks thoroughly after using.
1 To get the smell out of shoes, make a mixture of baking soda, baking powder, and cornstarch taken in equal amount. 2  Put the mixture in a pair of cotton socks and stick the socks in the shoes overnight. 3  Another effective way to get rid of foul smelling shoes would be to use orange peel. 1 Fill each shoe with boiling water and add a small amount of bleach. 2  Let this set for a few minutes. 3  When the water has cooled, dump out the water and wash your shoes. 4  The bleach will kill the bacteria, thus removing the odor. 5  Add one cup of vinegar to each shoe.
1. Wash your sneakers by hand. Take a bit of soap and water and scrub them down. Then, using a hair dryer and towel, dry them off. Be sure to scrub carefully so that you don't damage the shoe. 1  Consider using bleach to help. 2  Reserve this for sneakers that won't be damaged or lose color from the bleach.
When your feet sweat, they activate odor-causing bacteria. The bacteria-laden sweat transfers to the inside of your flats or shoes, resulting in an unpleasant, stinky smell. Rather than toss your shoes in a garbage bin, you can clean the inside of them to get rid of the culprit. 
1 Another simple solution to get rid of the smell coming from your shoes is to throw the shoes in the washer. 2  Keep the shoes to dry in direct sunlight and when dry, double bag them and put them in the freezer overnight. 3  This will kill the bacteria that cause the odor. 1 Using a soapy detergent and bleach, wash the shoes inside out. 2  Thereafter, keep them under the sun, to let dry them well. 3  Don’t wear them until they are completely dry. 4  You can also use fabric conditioner sheets available in the market to get rid of smelly shoes.
1 To get rid of the unpleasant smell coming from your good pair of shoes, you can stuff the shoes with newspaper. 2  Do this at night and next morning you will find ‘stink-free’ shoes. 3  When the shoes are not in use, place a dryer sheet in each one. 1 Using a soapy detergent and bleach, wash the shoes inside out. 2  Thereafter, keep them under the sun, to let dry them well. 3  Don’t wear them until they are completely dry. 4  You can also use fabric conditioner sheets available in the market to get rid of smelly shoes.
Natural ways to get rid of the unpleasant shoe odor. Fortunately, there are multiple natural ways for smelly shoes using products you may already have at home. Some of the options are: 1  Baking soda has proven to be an effective odor removing agent. 2  Sprinkle some baking soda in your shoes and let it stay there overnight. 3  The next day, just shake off the soda from the shoes, before wearing them. 1 Fill each shoe with boiling water and add a small amount of bleach. 2  Let this set for a few minutes. 3  When the water has cooled, dump out the water and wash your shoes. 4  The bleach will kill the bacteria, thus removing the odor. 5  Add one cup of vinegar to each shoe.
7. Use water and vinegar. Spray your shoes with a combination of 50 percent water and 50 percent white distilled vinegar. Spritz the mixture into your shoe lining and sole, and let it air dry for 30 minutes. You can use a hair dryer after that if you are in a hurry to dry the shoe. 3. Put baking soda in the offending shoes. If the freezer trick does not work, put in a healthy dose of baking soda and let the powder absorb the odor overnight. Baking soda can be used in a wide variety of ways, including as an anti-fungal powder.
1 Place the essential oil on the shoe. 2  Place papers inside the shoe also in order to help get rid of the smell. 3  Leave on the essential oil and paper inside the shoes for about a few hours. 4  Some would prefer to leave it on overnight. It is also likely that you do not want to wear socks because it makes you feel hot but this is the best thing that you can do to help get rid of shoe odor. 1  Make sure that you wear a pair of clean socks. 2  Place the socks before putting on your shoes. 3  Wash the socks thoroughly after using.