1 A do-it-yourself tire repair kit can cost $5-$20 for simple tools and plugs (to fill the puncture), or $20-$50 for a larger kit with a sealant and a pump or compressor to re-inflate the tire. 1 Most repair shops include the cost of wheel balancing (placing weights on the rim so the tire rotates evenly) in the cost of flat tire repair. 2  If it's not included, this can cost $6-$20 per wheel.
Save. JCPJR/iStock/Getty Images. Having a flat tire on your car is not only inconvenient but can also be expensive. The cost of fixing your tire varies, depending on the amount of damage done to it and the repair method you choose. In some cases, you'll use a temporary repair before you can fix the tire permanently or replace it. If this occurs, then the tire must be replaced. The cost of tire replacement varies significantly depending on whether the tire is replaced with a new, used or retreaded tire; the brand name of the tire also heavily influences price.
1 If the spare tire is flat or not available, and if a temporary fix isn't possible, towing a vehicle to a shop where the flat tire can be repaired or replaced can cost $35-$125 or more, depending on location and type of vehicle. 1 Most repair shops include the cost of wheel balancing (placing weights on the rim so the tire rotates evenly) in the cost of flat tire repair. 2  If it's not included, this can cost $6-$20 per wheel.
It's essentially a plug that is installed in your tire and doesn't require removing the tire off the wheel, which makes it a very simple and quick fix.The exception is if the puncture is in your sidewall (the side of the tire where there's no tread). (more) Editor in Chief of Modified Magazine (Performance car magazine) 5 upvotes by Andy Anderson, Brian R. Sanderson, David Schwartz, Stephen d Joffe, (more)Loading... It should cost less than 20 dollars if its a normal nail/removable object in your tire.
1 If it's not included, this can cost $6-$20 per wheel. 2  If the spare tire is flat or not available, and if a temporary fix isn't possible, towing a vehicle to a shop where the flat tire can be repaired or replaced can cost $35-$125 or more, depending on location and type of vehicle. 1 Most repair shops include the cost of wheel balancing (placing weights on the rim so the tire rotates evenly) in the cost of flat tire repair. 2  If it's not included, this can cost $6-$20 per wheel.
1 Having a flat fixed by a tire or repair shop typically costs $5-$40 for a standard tire and $30-$60 to repair a run flat tire (designed to be safe to drive on even when it is flat). 1 Most repair shops include the cost of wheel balancing (placing weights on the rim so the tire rotates evenly) in the cost of flat tire repair. 2  If it's not included, this can cost $6-$20 per wheel.