By John M. Grohol, Psy.D. ~ 1 min read. Restless Legs Syndrome is a neurological sleep disorder characterized by a desire to move the legs or arms, usually associated with uncomfortable sensations typically described as creeping, crawling, tingling, burning or itching. Symptoms are worse when the individual is at rest, and frequent movements of the legs occur in an effort to relieve the uncomfortable sensations. For most people with RLS, symptoms are worse in the evening or not; some individuals only have the symptoms in the evening or at night.
Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) , also known as Willis-Ekbom Disease, is a neurological condition associated with abnormal sensations in the legs. It is estimated that 5% of the general population and as many as 10% of those over the age of 65 have this disorder. 
Restless Leg Syndrome. Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a neurological disorder associated with impaired sleep and characterized by throbbing, pulling, creeping, or other unpleasant sensations in the legs. Patients with RLS often complain of an almost irresistible urge to move their legs. 
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a neurological disorder characterized by throbbing, pulling, creeping, or other unpleasant sensations in the legs and an uncontrollable, and sometimes overwhelming, urge to move them. RLS is classified as a movement disorder, as individuals are forced to move their legs in order to gain relief from symptoms. More than 80 percent of people with RLS also experience a more common condition known as periodic limb movement of sleep (PLMS).
Description. Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) is a neurological disorder characterised by unpleasant sensations in the legs and the compelling need to move the legs, usually experienced when trying to sleep. People with RLS feel uncomfortable sensations in their legs, especially when sitting or lying down, accompanied by an irresistible urge to move about. These sensations usually occur deep inside the leg, between the knee and ankle; more rarely, they occur in the feet, thighs, arms, and hands.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) also known as Willis-Ekbom disease (WED) or Wittmaack-Ekbom syndrome, is a neurological disorder characterized by an irresistible urge to move one's body to stop uncomfortable or odd sensations. It most commonly affects the legs, but can affect the arms, torso, head, and even phantom limbs. 
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a neurological disorder characterized by unpleasant sensations in the legs and an uncontrollable, and sometimes overwhelming, urge to move them for relief. Individuals affected with the disorder often describe the sensations as throbbing, polling, or creeping. Taking a hot bath, massaging the legs, or using a heating pad or ice pack can help relieve symptoms in some patients. Physicians also may suggest a variety of medications to treat RLS, including dopaminergics, benzodiazepines (central nervous system depressants), opioids, and anticonvulsants.
Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) is a neurological disorder characterized by an extremely uncomfortable feeling such as creeping, throbbing, pulling, itching or needles and pins in the legs, typically in the evenings while sitting or lying down. 
Restless Legs Syndrome or RLS, is a common and treatable neurologic disorder. It is estimated that up to 7–10 percent of the U.S. population is living with the disease. 
As many as two-thirds of people with restless legs syndrome (RLS) have a family history of the disorder. In people with a family history of the condition, RLS is more likely to occur before they turn 40. People who develop the condition at a later age are less likely to have a family history of RLS. Overview. 1  Restless leg syndrome (RLS) can be a temporary problem (such as during pregnancy) or a chronic, long-term issue. 2  The condition involves a feeling of pulling, searing, drawing, tingling, bubbling, or crawling beneath the skin, usually in the calf area. 3  affect the thighs, feet, and sometimes even the arms.