A positive impact is that the spinning jenny could make clothes faster and easier, by making multiple spools of yarn at a time. A negative impact is that spinning wheel makers … were angry at the inventor, James Hargreaves, because they could go out of business if the spinning jenny became a common item. It is said that some of the makers of the spinning wheel sabotaged Hargreaves machines, and Hargreaves fled. + 87 others found this useful. Answer   The spinning jenny is a multi-spool spinning wheel. It was invented circa 1764 by James Hargreaves in Stanhill, near Blackburn, Lancashire in the north west of E … ngland (although Thomas Highs is another candidate identified as the inventor).
The spinning jenny, is a multi-spindle spinning frame, and was one of the key developments in the industrialization of weaving during the early Industrial Revolution. It was invented in 1764 by James Hargreaves in Stanhill, Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire in England. The device reduced the amount of work needed to produce yarn, with a worker able to work eight or more spools at once. This grew to 120 as technology advanced. The most common story told about the invention of the device and the origin of the Jenny in the machine's name is that a daughter (or his wife) named Jenny knocked over one of their own spinning wheels.
It is called the 'Spinning Jenny' because in the 1700s James Hargreaves had a daughter called Jenny and she knocked over the family spinning wheel and it gave Hargreaves the i … dea to make his invention. And since Jenny had knocked over the family wheel and gave him this idea, he named it after her. Answer   The spinning jenny is a multi-spool spinning wheel. It was invented circa 1764 by James Hargreaves in Stanhill, near Blackburn, Lancashire in the north west of E … ngland (although Thomas Highs is another candidate identified as the inventor).
This decreased the amount of manual labor needed. In 1764, a British carpenter and weaver named James Hargreaves invented an improved Spinning Jenny, a hand-powered multiple spinning machine that was the first machine to improve upon the spinning wheel. James Hargreaves' version of the Spinning Jenny had a single wheel that controlled eight spindles which created a weave that used eight threads.This enhancement of the spinning wheel required less time needed to create textiles.
A positive impact is that the spinning jenny could make clothes faster and easier, by making multiple spools of yarn at a time. A negative impact is that spinning wheel makers were angry at the inventor, James Hargreaves, because they could go out of business if the spinning jenny became a common item. It is said that some of the makers of the spinning wheel sabotaged Hargreaves machines, and Hargreaves fled. The Dynamo's impact on the Industrial Revolution was the belief that human kind could be powered by machines. An interesting fact is that the Dynamo inspired the Industrial Re … volutions leaders to create factories with machinery for man power.
This problem was resolved in 1764, when James Hargreaves invented a new machine that was capable of spinning eight threads of cotton yarn, instead of the spinning wheel's one. The new machine was called the spinning jenny. All this time the processes of spinning and weaving were still being carried out at home. This caused the fibers to be drawn out and twisted to make yarn. James Hargreaves was a weaver who lived in Stanhill, near Blackburn in Lancashire. He was poor, uneducated and had a large family. It is said that, in 1767, one of his daughters accidentally knocked over his spinning wheel.
The Industrial Revolution of the 19th century made an overall  positive impact on Western society. The introduction of factories  and the assembly line, new inventions, the development of  electricity, and the railroads all contributed to faster, more  efficient production of goods and materials. The Dynamo's impact on the Industrial Revolution was the belief that human kind could be powered by machines. An interesting fact is that the Dynamo inspired the Industrial Re … volutions leaders to create factories with machinery for man power.
Answer   The spinning jenny is a multi-spool spinning wheel. It was invented circa 1764 by James Hargreaves in Stanhill, near Blackburn, Lancashire in the north west of E … ngland (although Thomas Highs is another candidate identified as the inventor). The Dynamo's impact on the Industrial Revolution was the belief that human kind could be powered by machines. An interesting fact is that the Dynamo inspired the Industrial Re … volutions leaders to create factories with machinery for man power.
The spinning wheel was invented in China about 1000 AD and the earliest drawing of a spinning wheel that we have is from about 1035 AD (see Joseph Needham). Spinning wheels later spread from China to Iran, from Iran to India, and eventually to Europe. 
The spinning jenny is attributed to James Hargreaves. He was born in Oswaldtwistle, near Blackburn, around 1720. Blackburn was a town with a population of about 5,000, known for the production of Blackburn greys, cloths of linen warp and cotton weft. The most common story told about the invention of the device and the origin of the Jenny in the machine's name is that a daughter (or his wife) named Jenny knocked over one of their own spinning wheels.