It’s in your finger-licking delicious Nacho Cheese Doritos. And it’s definitely in your late-night bowl of Ramen noodles. Used for decades as a food additive and flavor-enhancer, monosodium glutamate (MSG) has been called many things, from a merely unhealthy additive to an addictive neurotoxin. The “MSG Symptom Complex” or the “Chinese Restaurant Syndrome” includes symptoms such as headaches, flushing, sweating, numbness, chest pain, nausea, heart palpitations, and weakness.
This is such garbage. I have a husband who gets migraines from MSG and a son who gets seizures. Documented, specific to this neurotoxin. So your husband and your son have actually been given a placebo and MSG in the same situations and the migraine and seizure only occur in the case when they have MSG. Many people report symptoms of what came to be known as “Chinese Restaurant Syndrome,” which can include headache, flushing, numbness, and weakness. While MSG is typically blamed for these complaints, the high concentrations of salt, sugar, and gluten typical in American Chinese restaurants should also be suspect.
Fact Vs. Monosodium glutamate (MSG) is the sodium salt of glutamate, the most common naturally occurring amino acid. It is used as a food additive, and confers the protein-like flavor (amino acids are the building blocks of proteins) called umami to foods when used in the proper proportions. Many people report symptoms of what came to be known as “Chinese Restaurant Syndrome,” which can include headache, flushing, numbness, and weakness. While MSG is typically blamed for these complaints, the high concentrations of salt, sugar, and gluten typical in American Chinese restaurants should also be suspect.
The ingredient that causes MSG reactions in MSG-sensitive people is manufactured/processed free glutamic acid (1). Manufactured/processed free glutamic acid is found in processed foods (9) -- but it is not found in unprocessed or unadulterated meat, fish, or vegetables (including soybeans, mushrooms, and tomatoes)(3). Monosodium Glutamate, monosodium glutamate, MSG, glutamate-separating MSG-fact from MSG-fiction and industry propaganda This Web site is dedicated to people with problems that once defied medical diagnosis -- people who discovered that elimination of MSG from their diets let them be well.
Monosodium Glutamate (MSG) or Glutamic Acid is an excitatory neurotoxin, which significantly damages the brain, especially the brains of infants and children. Once the developing brain is damaged, it never recovers normal function. 
The FDA assures us that MSG is safe, but a neurotoxin, in any amount, is never fit for human consumption. To detoxify from MSG (and everything else) see this Inexpensive and Easy Detox. MSG goes by many different names; see MSG's Many Side Effects and Aliases for more information. Sources: Colbert MD, Don. The majority of MSG that Americans consume is added to processed foods or created as a by-product of the processing itself. It is also found in much of the food that is served in restaurants. The amount of MSG is particularly high in low-fat foods, canned goods, soups, and gravies.
Myth. Monosodium glutamate (MSG) is the sodium salt of glutamate, the most common naturally occurring amino acid. It is used as a food additive, and confers the protein-like flavor (amino acids are the building blocks of proteins) called umami to foods when used in the proper proportions. Many people report symptoms of what came to be known as “Chinese Restaurant Syndrome,” which can include headache, flushing, numbness, and weakness. While MSG is typically blamed for these complaints, the high concentrations of salt, sugar, and gluten typical in American Chinese restaurants should also be suspect.
MSG (monosodium-glutamate) is a brain neurotoxin. It is a slow poison. Most people understand that MSG is not healthy, so manufacturers have changed the name to Natural Flavors. 
Understanding brain damage and endocrine disorders caused by MSG. MSG is a neurotoxin, potentially toxic to everyone -- potentially toxic even to those people who do not respond with adverse reactions such as migraine headache, asthma, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, disorientation, and depression. We know that MSG kills brain cells in laboratory animals. We know this from studies wherein MSG was given in food and from studies were MSG was given in drinking water. We know that MSG causes macular degeneration (retinal degeneration).