Our results confirm that the downgoing slab of the Cascadia subduction zone dips significantly steeper beneath Oregon than beneath Vancouver Island, lending support to the idea that the Juan de Fuca plate is segmented from north to south. 
The Cascadia Subduction Zone (CSZ) is a 1,000 km (620 mi) long dipping fault that stretches from Northern Vancouver Island to Cape Mendocino in northern California. It separates the Juan de Fuca and North America plates. New Juan de Fuca plate is created offshore along the Juan de Fuca Ridge. Tectonic processes active in the Cascadia subduction zone region include accretion, subduction, deep earthquakes, and active volcanism of the Cascades. This volcanism has included such notable eruptions as Mount Mazama (Crater Lake) about 7,500 years ago, Mount Meager about 2,350 years ago, and Mount St. Helens in 1980.
Monday, January 26, marks 315 years since a major Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake shook Oregon. Geologists believe that quake was around a magnitude 9.0 — and that another one is looming for the region. 
Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone is a long sloping fault that stretches from northern Vancouver Island to northern California, and is the most active seismic region in Canada. This subduction zone is a type of convergent plate boundary, and separates the Juan de Fuca and North American plates.
Cascadia is America's own tectonic version of Sumatra, where the magnitude 9.3 earthquake and tsunami of 2004 occurred. Stretching off the Pacific shore from northern California some 1300 kilometers to the tip of Vancouver Island, the Cascadia subduction zone appears capable of its own magnitude 9 earthquake. 
And just when we think we have nothing startling left to learn about this subduction zone, he says, something “startling” emerges. The Cascadia Subduction Zone is a 1,000-kilometer-long subduction zone stretching from Mendocino, Calif., to north of Vancouver Island off the coast of British Columbia. It is capable of producing magnitude-9-plus earthquakes. 
Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone (CSZ) megathrust fault is a 1,000 Km long dipping fault that stretches from Northern Vancouver Island to Cape Mendocino California. It separates the Juan de Fuca and North America plates. New Juan de Fuca plate is created offshore along the Juan de Fuca ridge. 