List Criteria: Vote up the best players on the 2014 Kansas City Royals. Based in Kansas City, Missouri, the Royals take their name from the American Royal, a rodeo held annually in Kansas City since 1899. They play in the Central Division of the American League and won the World Series in 1985.
The rivalry is often referred to as the I-70 Series, for the stretch of interstate freeway in Missouri. In the regular season, the Cardinals lead the series, 45-31. This list features the full 2014 Kansas City Royals roster, and has been ranked from best to worst by baseball fans.
When the Kansas City Royals joined the American League in 1969, one early idea by owner Ewing Kauffman was to build the Kansas City Royals Baseball Academy in Florida. It was an attempt to find quality athletes without much baseball experience and train them to become baseball players.
The Kansas City Monarchs were the longest-running franchise in the history of baseball 's Negro Leagues. Operating in Kansas City, Missouri and owned by J. L. Wilkinson, they were charter members of the Negro National League from 1920 to 1930. J. L. Wilkinson was the first Caucasian owner at the time of the establishment of the team.
The Kansas City Royals are an American professional baseball team based in Kansas City, Missouri. They are a member of the Central Division of Major League Baseball 's American League. Since April 10, 1973, the Royals have played at Kauffman Stadium, formerly known as Royals Stadium.
In 1955, the Philadelphia Athletics were purchased by Arnold Johnson and were moved to Kansas City. It became clear from the start that this move was not for love or respect for the game, the fans, or the city of Kansas City, but from love of profit.
The Royals have 7 players in the Baseball Hall of Fame, but w ho are the best Kansas City Royals of 2014? The Royals were founded by Ewing Kauffman in 1969 and have an established rivalry with fellow Missouri MLB team, the St. Louis Cardinals.
George Brett is the only player to represent the Kansas City Royals in the Baseball Hall of Fame.