English name. In English, the name Dean means-head, leader.The name Dean originated as an English name. The name Dean is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-head, leader. Origin-England.
Variations in the idiom of the spelling include Deane, Dean, Deans, Deanes. One Mildred Dean married William Hawkes on November 19th 1585 at Newgate Street, London and Ruth Deane married John White on August 14th 1586 at Finchley. This interesting surname of English origin is either a locational name from places so called in many parts of England, or, a topographical name for someone dwelling in a valley, both deriving from the Middle English dene (Old English pre 7th Century denu) meaning valley.
English Meaning: The name Dean is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Dean is: From a surname derived from the Old English 'denu', meaning valley. Famous bearers: American actor and singer Dean Martin, American statesman Dean Acheson.
Presented below is the baby name popularity of Dean for boys. Dean reached its peak position of #88 in the U.S. during 1960-1969, and is currently at #221. (2014 Birth Statistics). Prominent alternative forms of Dean (#221 in 2014) rated in the Top 1000 are Dane (#625 in 2014) , Deane and Dino. Dean is a very prominent first name for males (#173 out of 1220, Top 14%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#250 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Dean /dean/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced deen. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Dean is valley; church official. Place name, or occupational name signifying a church official or the head of a school. The name also means law in Hebrew. Actors Dean Cain; Dean Martin; American Secretaries of State Dean Acheson, Dean Rusk. Dean is a very prominent first name for males (#173 out of 1220, Top 14%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#250 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).
American Meaning: The name Dean is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Dean is: From a surname derived from the Old English 'denu', meaning valley. Famous bearers: American actor and singer Dean Martin, American statesman Dean Acheson. In English
Meaning & History. Occupational surname meaning dean, referring to a person who either was a dean or worked for one. It is from Middle English deen (ultimately from Latin decanus meaning chief of ten). See Also.
It originally was descriptive of one who lived in or near a valley. Another surname arose from the Middle English deen (dean) and the Old French deien (dean), an occupational name for the presiding official of a cathedral, collegiate church, university, or group. The names are now inextricable. Origin of the name Dean: Transferred use of the surname taken from various place-names composed of the Old English denu (valley).