The Second Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies that met beginning in May 10, 1775, soon after shooting in the American Revolutionary War had begun. It succeeded the First Continental Congress, which met briefly during 1774. The second Congress managed the colonial war effort, and moved slowly towards independence, adopting the United States Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776.
The Second Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia's Independence Hall on May 10, 1775, after the Battles of Concord and Lexington had been fought. Although there was still great sentiment among the delegates to seek reconciliation with Great Britain, the movement towards independence could not be reversed. The Second Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia's Independence Hall on May 10, 1775. Like the First Continental Congress, delegates from each colony except Georgia initially attended the Second Continental Congress. Delegates from Georgia were seated on July 20, after Congress declared independence
The Path to the American Revolution ~~~~~ The Second Continental Congress. ~~~~~. Opened May 5, 1774 and met continuously through the war Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ~~~~~. When the First Continental Congress adjourned October 26, 1774, the delegates agreed to meet again on May 5, 1775. The Second Continental Congress met as agreed on May 5, 1775. This was after the battles at Lexington and Concord on April 19th. Sam Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, Patrick Henry, and George Washington were some of the delegates. 
The Second Continental Congress convened on May 10, 1775, at Philadelphia's State House, unanimously passing the Declaration of Independence the following year on July 2, 1776, and publicly announcing the decision two days later. 
When the Second Continental Congress came together on May 10, 1775 it was, in effect, a reconvening of the First Continental Congress. By the time the Second Continental Congress met, the American Revolutionary War had already started with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. The Congress was to take charge of the war effort. For the first few months of the struggle, the Patriots had carried on their struggle in an ad-hoc and uncoordinated manner.
It succeeded the First Continental Congress, which met between September 5, 1774 and October 26, 1774, also in Philadelphia. The second Congress managed the colonial war effort, and moved incrementally towards independence, adopting the United States Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776. By the time the Second Continental Congress met, the American Revolutionary War had already started with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. The Congress was to take charge of the war effort. For the first few months of the struggle, the Patriots had carried on their struggle in an ad-hoc and uncoordinated manner.
On July 4, 1776, the Second Continental Congress, meeting in Philadelphia in the Pennsylvania State House (now Independence Hall), approved the Declaration of Independence, severing the colonies' ties to the British Crown. 
The Second Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies that started meeting in the summer of 1775, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, soon after warfare in the American Revolutionary War had begun. By the time the Second Continental Congress met, the American Revolutionary War had already started with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. The Congress was to take charge of the war effort. For the first few months of the struggle, the Patriots had carried on their struggle in an ad-hoc and uncoordinated manner.
It was at the meeting of the Second Continental Congress that the Declaration of Independence was written by Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Robert Livingston, and Roger Sherman. This amazing document has defined America for over two centuries. 