Streptococcus bacteria cause infections such as strep throat, cellulitis, meningitis, bacterial pneumonia, endocarditis, scarlet fever, and rheumatic fever. They grow in chains or pairs. There are various types or species of Streptococci (strep) bacteria. The two groups briefly discussed here are from group A Streptococcus pyogenes GAS and group B Streptococcus agalactiae GBS. Nonpathogenic forms of strep bacteria normally live on the skin, inside the mouth, nose, throat, and inside the intestines. Streptococcal bacteria are not always the culprit. Streptococcal bacteria are not exclusive to all the types of diseases listed below. For example, endocarditis can also be caused by fungi or other germs. Another example is pneumonia, that may be caused by viruses, parasites, fungi, or noninfectious lung diseases.
More on streptococcus Types of Streptococci from Infoplease: 1  streptococcus: Types of Streptococci-Types of Streptococci Streptococci are classified into the alpha, beta, or gamma groups, according ... More on streptococcus Types of Streptococci from Infoplease: 1  streptococcus: Types of Streptococci-Types of Streptococci Streptococci are classified into the alpha, beta, or gamma groups, according 2  ... Calculator.
The group A streptococcus bacterium is responsible for most cases of streptococcal illness. Other types (B, C, D, and G) may also cause infection. Group B streptococci cause most streptococcal infections in newborns and maternal post-labor/delivery infections. The list of types of Streptococcal Infections mentioned in various sources includes: 1  Strep throat. 2  Group A Streptococcal Infections-most common subtype. 3  Group B Streptococcal Infections. 4  Group C Streptococcal Infections. 5  Group D Streptococcal Infections. 6  Group G Streptococcal I
Strep throat is a bacterial infection in the throat and the tonsils. The throat gets irritated and inflamed, causing a sudden, severe sore throat. Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. There are many different types of strep bacteria. Some cause more serious illness than others. Although some people are quick to think that any painful sore throat is strep, sore throats are usually caused by a viral infection and not strep bacteria. A sore throat caused by a virus can be just as painful as strep throat. But if you have cold symptoms such as coughing, sneezing, or a runny or stuffy nose, you probably do not have strep throat. The most common symptoms of strep throat are: 1  A
In addition to streptococcal pharyngitis (strep throat), certain Streptococcus species are responsible for many cases of pink eye, meningitis, bacterial pneumonia, endocarditis, erysipelas, and necrotizing fasciitis (the 'flesh-eating' bacterial infections). 
Streptococcal infections are any type of infection caused by the streptococcus (strep) group of bacteria. There are many different types of Streptococci bacteria, and infections vary in severity from mild throat infections to life-threatening infections of the blood or organs.
Strep throat (also known as pharyngitis or streptococcal pharyngitis) is a bacterial infection. Two types of bacteria can cause strep throat: Group A (also known as Streptococcus pyogenes) and Group B. Each strain of bacteria can result in different complications. Strep bacteria are very contagious, and spread by nasal secretions and saliva. Many types of bacteria and, more frequently, viruses can cause a sore throat, so to determine what is causing the infection a physician will perform a strep test, according to the CDC.
Types of Streptococci. Streptococci are classified into the alpha, beta, or gamma groups, according to their action on blood cells. Streptococci of the alpha group (e.g., the viridans and S. pneumoniae) cause some destruction (hemolysis) of red blood cells. More on streptococcus Types of Streptococci from Infoplease: 1  streptococcus: Types of Streptococci-Types of Streptococci Streptococci are classified into the alpha, beta, or gamma groups, according 2  ... Calculator.
Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. There are many different types of strep bacteria. Some cause more serious illness than others. Although some people are quick to think that any painful sore throat is strep, sore throats are usually caused by a viral infection and not strep bacteria.