Cinco de Mayo is an occasion of ethnic pride celebrated throughout Mexico and the United States. Cinco de Mayo marks a victorious battle that took place in Puebla, Mexico. There 4,000 brave Mexican soldiers triumphed over twice as many French fighters on May 5, 1862. Today Cinco de Mayo is a joyous holiday celebrated with food, fun, parades, and plenty of cerveza or tequila. 
Cinco de Mayo officially commemorates the anniversary of an early victory by Mexican forces over French forces in the Battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862. It is not the anniversary of the defeat and expulsion of the French forces by the Mexicans, which occurred in 1867. One of the largest Cinco de Mayo celebrations are in cities such as Los Angeles, San Jose, San Francisco, San Antonio, Sacramento, Phoenix, Albuquerque, Denver and El Paso in the USA's south-western regions.
Reenactments of the Battle of Puebla also take place in other parts of Mexico, including Penon peñón de Los banos Baños In, mexico city where the day is celebrated by people Originally. from puebla Select another year-range: Cinco de Mayo, Spanish for the 5th of May, celebrates the defeat of the French army during the Battle of Puebla (Batalla de Puebla) in Mexico on May 5, 1862. It is not to be confused with the country's Independence Day. Celebrations in the city of Puebla, where Cinco de Mayo is a holiday.
The Battle of Puebla took place on May 5th, 1862, near the city of Puebla during the French intervention in Mexico. (April 2014). The Battle of Puebla took place on May 5th, 1862, near the city of Puebla during the French intervention in Mexico. The battle ended in a victory for the Mexican Army over the occupying French forces.
Cinco de Mayo commemorates the victory of Mexico over the French in the Battle of Puebla that took place on 5 May 1862. It is not Mexico's Independence Day as most people assu … me. It is celebrated in the southwestern US more than in Mexico. Cinco de Mayo is a regional holiday in Mexico, primarily celebrated in Puebla. The holiday commemorates the Mexican army's unlikely defeat of French forces at the battl … e of Puebla on May 5, 1862 under the leadership of Mexican General Zaragoza Seguin.
It celebrates the defeat of the French army during the Battle of Puebla (Batalla de Puebla) in Mexico on May 5, 1862. It is not to be confused with Mexico's Independence Day. Cinco de Mayo is a day of Mexican pride and heritage. Cinco de Mayo is a day of Mexican pride and heritage. One of the largest Cinco de Mayo celebrations are in cities such as Los Angeles, San Jose, San Francisco, San Antonio, Sacramento, Phoenix, Albuquerque, Denver and El Paso in the USA's south-western regions.
A common misconception in the United States is that Cinco de Mayo is Mexico's Independence Day, the most important national patriotic holiday in Mexico. Mexico celebrates Independence Day on the 16th of September, commemorating the beginning of the war of Independence (September 16, 1810, Grito de Dolores). (April 2014). The Battle of Puebla took place on May 5th, 1862, near the city of Puebla during the French intervention in Mexico. The battle ended in a victory for the Mexican Army over the occupying French forces.
Similar celebrations take place in many major U.S. cities, including San Antonio, Houston, Dallas, St. Paul, Chicago and Los Angeles. Cinco de Mayo is actually celebrated more widely and on a grander scale in the United States than it is in Mexico, possibly due to effective marketing techniques. May 5th marks the Mexican army s victory over the French invaders at the Battle of Puebla in 1862. In the United States, the celebration of this battle has come to be known simply as the Cinco de Mayo.