By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Lipids are a diverse group of fat-soluble biological molecules. Here is a look at different types of lipids and where they are found. 1  Triacylglycerols or Triglycerides. 2  The largest class of lipids goes by different names: triacylglycerols, triglycerides, glycerolipids, or fats. 
Fats are a class of lipids containing two kinds of monomers, fatty acids and glycerol. Glycerol is a three carbon biomolecule containing three hydroxyl groups, one bonded to each carbon atom. Dehydration synthesis creates an ester linkage between the carboxyl group of fatty acids and a hydroxyl group in glycerol. 
The lipids are a large and diverse group of naturally occurring organic compounds that are related by their solubility in nonpolar organic solvents (e.g. ether, chloroform, acetone & benzene) and general insolubility in water. Phospholipids are the main constituents of cell membranes. They resemble the triglycerides in being ester or amide derivatives of glycerol or sphingosine with fatty acids and phosphoric acid.
Fatty acids or fatty acid residues when they form part of a lipid, are a diverse group of molecules synthesized by chain-elongation of an acetyl-CoA primer with malonyl-CoA or methylmalonyl-CoA groups in a process called fatty acid synthesis. Sterol lipids, such as cholesterol and its derivatives, are an important component of membrane lipids, along with the glycerophospholipids and sphingomyelins. The steroids, all derived from the same fused four-ring core structure, have different biological roles as hormones and signaling molecules.
3. Phospholipids: This class of lipids are really derivatives of triglycerides. The are composed of a glycerol molecule with two fatty acids (a diglyceride). The third carbon contains a phosphate group and usually some added polar molecule (such as ethanolamine, serine or choline). While there are several different classes of lipids, we will mention only three major categories. 1. Triglycerides (or neutral fat)s: This group is better known as the fats. As their name suggests, the triglycerides are composed of one molecule of glycerol and joined via ester bonds with three molecules of fatty acids. As is shown in Figure 12, fatty acids are long chains of carbon and hydrogen usually between 14-24 carbons long (and they always have an even number of carbons
The triesters of fatty acids with glycerol (1,2,3-trihydroxypropane) compose the class of lipids known as fats and oils. These triglycerides (or triacylglycerols) are found in both plants and animals, and compose one of the major food groups of our diet. Phospholipids are the main constituents of cell membranes. They resemble the triglycerides in being ester or amide derivatives of glycerol or sphingosine with fatty acids and phosphoric acid.
Lipids are a group of naturally occurring molecules that include fats, waxes, sterols, fat-soluble vitamins (such as vitamins A, D, E, and K), monoglycerides, diglycerides, triglycerides, phospholipids, and others. Sterol lipids, such as cholesterol and its derivatives, are an important component of membrane lipids, along with the glycerophospholipids and sphingomyelins. The steroids, all derived from the same fused four-ring core structure, have different biological roles as hormones and signaling molecules.
The word triacylglycerol is sometimes used synonymously with triglyceride. In these compounds, the three hydroxyl groups of glycerol are each esterified, typically by different fatty acids. Because they function as an energy store, these lipids comprise the bulk of storage fat in animal tissues. The hydrolysis of the ester bonds of triglycerides and the release of glycerol and fatty acids from adipose tissue are the initial steps in metabolizing fat. Sterol lipids, such as cholesterol and its derivatives, are an important component of membrane lipids, along with the glycerophospholipids and sphingomyelins. The steroids, all derived from the same fused four-ring core structure, have different biological roles as hormones and signaling molecules.
To put it another way, lipids are insoluble in water but soluble in at least one organic solvent. The other major classes of organic compounds (nucleic acids, proteins, and carbohydrates) are much more soluble in water than in an organic solvent. Lipids do not share a common molecule structure. There are many different types of lipids. Examples of common lipids include butter, vegetable oil, cholesterol and other steroids, waxes, phospholipids, and fat-soluble vitamins. The common characteristic of all of these compounds is that they are essentially insoluble in water yet soluble in one or more organic solvents. 