1 Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar in size to bacteria, 1 to 10 microns. 2  Mitochondria and chloroplasts DNA, RNA, ribosomes, chlorophyll (for chloroplasts), and protein synthesis is similar to that for bacteria. 3  This provided the first substantive evidence for the endosymbiotic hypothesis. 
The endosymbiosis theory explains the origins of organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts in eukaryotic cells. The theory proposes that chloroplasts and mitochondria evolved from certain types of bacteria that eukaryotic cells engulfed through endophagocytosis. Many instances of endosymbiosis are obligate; that is, either the endosymbiont or the host cannot survive without the other, such as the gutless marine worms of the genus Riftia, which get nutrition from their endosymbiotic bacteria. The most common examples of obligate endosymbioses are mitochondria and chloroplasts.
1 The mitochondria of eukaryotes evolved from aerobic bacteria (probably related to the rickettsias) living within their host cell. 2  The chloroplasts of red algae, green algae, and plants evolved from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. 
Sequence homologies suggest that mitochondria and chloroplasts evolved separately, from lineages that are common with eubacteria, with mitochondria sharing an origin with a-purple bacteria, and chloroplasts sharing an origin with cyanobacteria. Figure 3.41 shows the endosymbiosis model for mitochondrial evolution, in which primitive cells captured bacteria that provided the functions that evolved into mitochondria and chloroplasts. At this point, the proto-organelle must have contained all of the genes needed to specify its functions.
The endosymbiotic theory deals with the origins of mitochondria and chloroplasts, two eukaryotic organelles that have bacteria characteristics. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are believed to have developed from symbiotic bacteria and, more specifically, cyanobacteria. The theory states that a prokaryotic organelle may have been consumed or engulfed by a larger organelle. By some unknown reason, the prokaryotic organelle was not consumed. Mitochondria can be found in animal cells and Chloroplasts can be found in plant cells. In mitochondria, protons are pumped to the intermembrane space and drive ATP synthesis. In chloroplasts, protons are pumped into the thylakoid space and drive ATP synthesis as they diffuse back into stroma.
Mitochondria and chloroplasts are thought to have arisen from bacteria, engulfed by primitive cells in a process called endosymbiosis. Mitochondria probably evolved when cells took up aerobic bacteria, while chloroplasts were derived from photosynthetic bacteria, such as cyanobacteria. Mitochondria and chloroplasts generate energy for their host cells, but are not completely independent.
Both mitochondria and chloroplasts are sensitive to antibiotics which affect bacteria such as streptomycin, spectinomycin, neomycin, and chloramphenicol while they are unaffected by agents such as cyclohexamide that affect the cytoplasm. Many of these antibiotics act on bacterial ribosomes. 
Both the mitochondria and chloroplast are believed to have prokaryotic origins. They are commonly believed to once have been bacteria that were engulfed by eukaryotic cells wh … ere they lived together with a mutualistic relationship. 
Mitochondria Have DNA. Mitochondria and chloroplasts have striking similarities to bacteria cells. They have their own DNA, which is separate from the DNA found in the nucleus of the cell. And both organelles use their DNA to produce many proteins and enzymes required for their function. A double membrane surrounds both mitochondria and chloroplasts, further evidence that each was ingested by a primitive host.
Membrane. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are enveloped in two membranes, while bacteria only have one. The inner membrane of mitochondria and chloroplasts resembles the bacterial membrane, while the outer membrane is thought to be part of the original host cell membrane. Mitochondria probably evolved when cells took up aerobic bacteria, while chloroplasts were derived from photosynthetic bacteria, such as cyanobacteria. Mitochondria and chloroplasts generate energy for their host cells, but are not completely independent.