Cobalt Deficiency Signs and Symptoms. A deficiency in vitamin B12 is ultimately a cobalt deficiency, and vice versa. Proper intake of food or supplements rich in vitamin B12 can help alleviate the symptoms of deficiency. The cobalt atom in vitamin B12 is attached and surrounded to a deoxyadenosyl group, methyl group, and a cyano group or hydroxyl group. The human body has a need for cobalt that is not in the ionic form of the metal but rather, for a performed metallovatimin which cannot be synthesized from a simple dietary meal.
Cobalt is naturally occurring element that does have beneficial applications. For instance, cobalt is an essential component of vitamin B12. Cobalt has been added to pigments to produce a distinct blue color. Lithium ion batteries contain cobalt. Regardless of these perceived advantages, cobalt is not without its problems. Cobalt can accumulate to toxic levels in the liver, kidney, pancreas, and heart, as well as the skeleton and skeletal muscle. Cobalt has been found to produce tumors in animals and is likely a human carcinogen as well.
Cobalt poisoning is intoxication caused by excessive levels of cobalt in the body. Cobalt is an essential element for health in animals in minute amounts as a component of Vitamin B12. A deficiency of cobalt, which is very rare, is also potentially lethal, leading to pernicious anemia.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood. 
Because of toxicity, supplementation with cobalt should be avoided. It is also not usually needed, as it is found in most foods. Also use caution with vitamin B12 supplements. Vitamin B12 supplements can easily supply too much cobalt, which can be somewhat toxic. HAIR ANALYSIS NOTES. A hair cobalt level above about 0.003 mg% or about 0.03 ppm is associated with some cobalt toxicity, usually from taking a lot of vitamin B12. Cobalt can be one of the amigos. These are elements that can become oxides and irritants to the body when they are in a toxic form. 
When the constituent in liver responsible for the cure-vitamin B12 - was isolated in 1948, scientists found that cobalt was an important part of the molecule. Although cobalt can be toxic as an inorganic mineral, it is essential to life when incorporated into vitamin B12. Cobalt Function. The cobalt-containing vitamin B12 is required for the normal production and functioning of cells. It is particularly important in the bone marrow, nervous system, and gastrointestinal tract. Adults require approximately 1 microgram of cobalt-as a component of Vitamin B12 - per day. Cobalt Deficiency Signs and Symptoms. Dietary deficiency is uncommon, usually only found in alcoholics, strict vegetarians, and pregnant or nursing women.
The body can't produce Vitamin B-12 itself though, so Cobalt supplements alone won't have any effect on Vitamin B-12 levels as the Cobalt in Vitamin B12 is already integrated into the Vitamin when it enters the body in this way. Vitamin B12 needs to be acquired from food or supplements. Modern nutrition in health and disease. Philadelphia: Lea and Febiger, 1994). Cobalt toxicity, or having too much cobalt in your system can lead to panic attacks, anxiety, shortness of breath, asthma, the production of too many red blood cells, neurological problems, infertility and skin rashes.
Cobalt is a trace element mineral whose main function is in vitamin B12, although there are some cobalt-dependent enzymes. There is no evidence of cobalt deficiency in human beings, and no evidence on which to base estimates of requirements for inorganic cobalt. 
Consuming foods that are high in vitamin B-12 provides the cobalt required for its purposes as a vitamin component. Foods that are naturally high in vitamin B-12 are beef liver and other organ meat, clams, fish, poultry, eggs, milk, and other dairy type foods. Fortified foods such as cereal also commonly contain vitamin B-12. Cobalt is also available as tablets, often in a multi-vitamin and mineral supplement. Modern nutrition in health and disease. Philadelphia: Lea and Febiger, 1994). Cobalt toxicity, or having too much cobalt in your system can lead to panic attacks, anxiety, shortness of breath, asthma, the production of too many red blood cells, neurological problems, infertility and skin rashes.
1 Cobalt is an essential element in humans and animals as a constituent of vitamin B 12. 2  Cobalt has also been used as a treatment for anemia, because it stimulates red blood cell production. 