Women, children, and families have better lives because of the work of certified nurse-midwives (CNMs) and certified midwives (CMs). The American College of Nurse-Midwives is the professional association that represents CNMs and CMs. This means that midwives perform physical exams, prescribe medications including contraceptive methods, order laboratory tests as needed, provide prenatal care, gynecological care, labor and birth care, as well as health education and counseling to women of all ages.
Certified Nurse-Midwife (CNM): A Certified Nurse-Midwife (CNM) is an individual educated in the two disciplines of nursing and midwifery, who possesses evidence of certification according to the requirements of the American College of Nurse-Midwives. 
Method 2 of 3: Get the Experience You Need to Become a Midwife. 1. Get an undergraduate degree. In order to become a midwife you will need a graduate degree, so you must start by getting a bachelor's degree. Look into midwifery graduate programs to find out exactly what prerequisites you'll need. You should have a solid foundation in the following areas: 1  The sciences. Many say they have a calling to do the work they do. Midwives have the following responsibilities: 1  Monitor the health of the mother and fetus throughout the pregnancy. 2  Provide guidance to the mother on prenatal nutrition and self care as well as emotional well-being.
1 Studentmidwife.net is a good resource if you are thinking of taking up midwifery training or are already a student midwife. 2  Visit the UCAS website to find out where you can study midwifery and how to apply for training. Midwives care for women during what can be one of their most be a painful, stressful and life-changing experiences. They therefore need specific skills and character traits. Midwives are expected to: If the above list sounds like a description of you, then it is likely you'll be a great midwife.
Certified Nurse-Midwife. Those wishing to practice midwifery outside states allowing for CMs can become certified nurse-midwives. CNMs first become registered nurses by obtaining a bachelor of science degree in nursing. To obtain employment, RNs then pass the National Council Licensure Examination, or NCLEX. Certified Professional Midwife. Another route to becoming a midwife is through an apprenticeship program or attendance at an accredited midwifery school. Instead of examination through the AMCB, you may obtain certification to become a CPM through the North American Registry of Midwives.
Bachelor's Degree Programs. Another option is to earn a bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN) and then continue on to graduate-level certified nurse midwife training. On the other hand, an RN-to-BSN program will teach you how to work with individuals and communities and understand the general practice of nursing. 
A: To become a midwife with a teaching degree, you need to opt for a proper Associate's program in Midwifery. It will be a two years program and if you already have teaching experience in early childhood education, then it can be a plus. The degree can be completed online at a much faster pace as well. A: If you wish to start a career as a midwife, you will need to get relevant education in this area of healthcare. There are a large number of certification and diploma courses that can prepare you for such a career in up to six months.
Candidates for American Midwifery Certification Board (AMCB) certification as a Certified Nurse Midwife (CNM) or Certified Midwife (CM) can take one of two paths. The CNM path requires the candidate to first become a registered nurse. The CM path requires the candidate to obtain a bachelor's degree. Learn how to become a certified midwife. Research the education requirements, training information, and experience required for starting a career as a certified midwife, certified nurse midwife, or certified professional midwife. View 10 Popular Schools ». Show me popular schools
A: If you want to become a midwife you will have to study health related courses. For example a certified mid wife nurse will need to have a bachelor's degree in nursing and will have to take a licensing exam. A: If you wish to start a career as a midwife, you will need to get relevant education in this area of healthcare. There are a large number of certification and diploma courses that can prepare you for such a career in up to six months.