That back-alley knock-off Z Nation is hot on your heels! Syfy has renewed its zombie drama for a second season, says The Hollywood Reporter. The decision comes midway through the series' ridiculous, and sometimes even fun, first season. 
Original updates/timeline follow below…. Stay tuned as we bring you continuous updates on the cancelled/renewed status of Syfy’s brand new zombie series as its hungers for Season 2. Z Nation ‘s 12-episode first season premiered Friday, September 12, 2014. Watch this space for ongoing updates! ABOUT SYFY’S Z NATION | Z Nation starts three years after the zombie virus has gutted the country, a team of everyday heroes must transport the only known survivor of the plague from New York to California, where the last functioning viral lab waits for his blood.
Z Nation Cancelled after one season or renewed for Season 2? That’s the question, let’s find the answer…. October 20 – Midway through its first season, Syfy picks up Z Nation for a second helping. September 15 – Z Nation premiere grabs 1.6 million total viewers, ranking as Syfy’s highest acquired scripted series premiere since Doctor Who in 06′. ABOUT SYFY’S Z NATION | Z Nation starts three years after the zombie virus has gutted the country, a team of everyday heroes must transport the only known survivor of the plague from New York to California, where the last functioning viral lab waits for his blood.
The ratings are typically the best indication of a show’s likelihood of staying on the air. The higher the ratings, the better the chances for survival. This chart will be updated as new ratings data becomes available. 10/20 update: Z Nation has been renewed for a second season on Syfy. Final season averages: 0.5 rating in the 18-49 demographic with 1.42 million total viewers. Note: If you’re not seeing the updated chart, please try reloading the page or view it here. 
Z Nation is coming back. Syfy announced it has picked up the zombie drama for a second season for debut in 2015. The series’ freshman 13-episode run kicked off on September 12 with 1.6 million viewers, making it the most watched show on cable in its 10 PM slot and the second best among the key demo. Z Nation hails from Sharknado franchise producers the Asylum. Related.
The new zombie drama nabs Season 2 pickup. The official Z Nation Twitter account has announced a second season renewal for the freshman series. Syfy's new post-zombie apocalypse drama, currently at the halfway point of the season, has gotten off to a solid start in the ratings since its debut last month. 
Episodes: Ongoing (hour). Seasons: Ongoing. TV show dates: September 12, 2014 — TBD. Series status: Has not been cancelled. Performers include: Harold Perrineau, Tom Everett Scott, DJ Qualls, Kellita Smith, Michael Welch, Anastasia Baranova, Russell Hodgkinson, Pisay Pao, Nat Zang, and Keith Allan. TV show description:
by RenewCancelTV Leave a Comment. Track the cancelled/renewed status of Syfy's Z Nation at our dedicated serialized TV site Seriable.com. Has Z Nation Been Renewed For Season 2 Or … [Read more...]. Z Nation Renewed For 2nd Season At Syfy! by RenewCancelTV 9 Comments. Syfy has renewed zombie series Z Nation for a second season, it was confirmed at the Syfy Press … [Read more...]. Filed Under: Renewed, Z Nation Tagged With: z nation, z nation renewed/cancelled.