Animal Characteristics & Meaning. A totem is a spirit being, sacred object, or symbol of a tribe, clan, family or individual. Native American tradition provides that each individual is connected with nine different animals that will accompany each person through life, acting as guides. Though people may identify with different animal guides throughout their lifetimes, it is this one totem animal that acts as the main guardian spirit. With this one animal a connection is shared, either through interest in the animal, characteristics, dreams, or other interaction.
Native Americans: Totem Poles. These sites have photographs and information on totem poles. Learn about the significance of this art from the Northwest Native Americans. Includes the Tlingit, Tsimshian, and Haida tribes in Alaska and Canada. Includes hands-on totem pole activities and a lesson plan. There is a link to eThemes Resource on Literature: “Touching Spirit Bear” by Ben Mikaelson. 
Native American Totems & Their Meanings. A totem is a spirit being, sacred object, or symbol of a tribe, clan, family or individual. Native American tradition provides that each individual is connected with nine different animals that will accompany each person through life, acting as guides. Though people may identify with different animal guides throughout their lifetimes, it is this one totem animal that acts as the main guardian spirit. With this one animal a connection is shared, either through interest in the animal, characteristics, dreams, or other interaction.
Memorial poles are carved in honor of a deceased clan member. Mortuary poles are also raised in honor of the dead and include a small compartment for the ashes of the deceased. Another interesting type of totem pole is the shame pole. Shame poles are carved to embarrass and ridicule someone who has done something wrong. Shame poles are taken down once the person has made amends.
On these poles, each figure on the totem represents part of a story. These totems are used as a way to record the history and legends of the tribes. Figures on a totem pole are not gods to be worshipped. Instead, they represent traits and characteristics each clan or story embodies. There are many other types of totem poles. Another interesting type of totem pole is the shame pole. Shame poles are carved to embarrass and ridicule someone who has done something wrong. Shame poles are taken down once the person has made amends.
Totem Pole. The totem pole is a monument created by Northwest Coast Aboriginal peoples to serve variously as a signboard, genealogical record and memorial. The totem pole is a monument created by Northwest Coast Aboriginal people s to serve variously as a signboard, genealogical record and memorial. Carved of large, straight red cedar and painted vibrant colours, the totem pole is emblematic of both coastal Aboriginal culture and Northwest Coast Aboriginal Art. In addition, the tools used to refine the art of carving into its contemporary form were only acquired through trade with Europeans in the 19th century. Different First Nations practice different styles of carving, and often prefer different types of pole. The 1950s saw a resurgence of interest in totem poles.
- See more at: http://wonderopolis.org/wonder/what-is-a-totem-pole/#sthash.46SyqnH8.dpuf. Totem poles are sculptures carved from large trees, such as the Western Red Cedar. In North America, totem poles are part of the cultures of many indigenous peoples of Alaska, British Columbia and the Pacific Northwest. Another interesting type of totem pole is the shame pole. Shame poles are carved to embarrass and ridicule someone who has done something wrong. Shame poles are taken down once the person has made amends.
Some totem poles represent stories or important events. On these poles, each figure on the totem represents part of a story. These totems are used as a way to record the history and legends of the tribes. Figures on a totem pole are not gods to be worshipped. Instead, they represent traits and characteristics each clan or story embodies. There are many other types of totem poles. Genealogy poles are erected in front of a family's home to represent the owner's clan or social status. Though the totem pole has been a part of history for decades, totem poles are still created today. Native carvers in the Northwest continue to carve totems as symbols of their cultural pride and clan kinship.
Common figures found on totem poles include the raven (a symbol of The Creator), the eagle (representing peace and friendship), the killer whale (a symbol of strength), the thunderbird, the beaver, the bear, the wolf and the frog. Though the totem pole has been a part of history for decades, totem poles are still created today. Native carvers in the Northwest continue to carve totems as symbols of their cultural pride and clan kinship.