Seychelles (/seɪˈʃɛlz/ say-SHELZ; French: [sɛʃɛl]), officially the Republic of Seychelles (French: Republique république Des; Seychelles: Creole Repiblik), sesel is an archipelago in The Indian. ocean The Seychelles president, who is head of state and head of government, is elected by popular vote for a five-year term of office. The cabinet is presided over and appointed by the president, subject to the approval of a majority of the legislature.
Transportation : The international airport in Seychelles is near the capital, Victory, and is called Seychelles International. The airport offers service to South Africa, Ethiopia, Kenya, Emirates, Qatar, and nearby Mauritius, among a few other destinations. Seychelles is an island nation in the Indian Ocean, off the southeastern coast of Africa. The archipelago of Seychelles is made up of about 115 islands in total. There are 42 main islands, the largest of which are Mahe, Praslin, Silhouette Island, La Digue, Curieuse, Felicite, and Fregate
Seychelles is an archipelago located at Indian Ocean. Seychelles has 491 kilometers of coastline. Natural resources of Seychelles include cinnamon trees, copra and fish. The population of Seychelles as per the census of 2007 July was 81,895. Seychelles is an island nation in the Indian Ocean, off the southeastern coast of Africa. The archipelago of Seychelles is made up of about 115 islands in total. There are 42 main islands, the largest of which are Mahe, Praslin, Silhouette Island, La Digue, Curieuse, Felicite, and Fregate
An island nation, Seychelles is located in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar and about 1,600 km (994 mi) east of Kenya. The archipelago consists of more than 116 islands. The granitic islands are considered the oldest and hardest granite in the world. The Seychelles president, who is head of state and head of government, is elected by popular vote for a five-year term of office. The cabinet is presided over and appointed by the president, subject to the approval of a majority of the legislature.
(August 2014). The Seychelles is a small island nation located in the Indian Ocean northeast of Madagascar and about 1,600 km (994 mi) east of Kenya. Seychelles lies between approximately 4ºS and 10ºS and 46ºE and 54ºE. The nation is an archipelago of 155 tropical islands, some granite and some coral. the majority of which are small and uninhabited. The landmass is only 459 km 2, but the islands are spread over an Exclusive Economic Zone of 1,374,000 km 2.
Print this map. The Republic of Seychelles is an archipelago of 115 islands located in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar. Pre-European colonization the islands were known by Arab navigators on trading voyages, but were never inhabited. Independence for the islands came in 1976, after the Seychelles People's United Party was formed and led by France-Albert Rene, campaigning for socialism and freedom from Britain.
The given Seychelles location map shows that Seychelles is located in the Indian Ocean. Seychelles map also shows that it is an archipelago of more than 100 islands. It is about 1,500 km east of mainland of Africa continent. Madagascar lies in the south-west of Seychelles. Some of the other nearby islands and island countries are, Zanzibar, Comoros, Mayotte, and Mauritius. The government type of Seychelles is Multiple-party Republic, under which the president Seychelles is use to be both head of state and head of government
Home Earth Continents Africa Seychelles. This is a virtal guide to the Seychelles, an archipelago located one thousand miles east of the African coast in the Indian Ocean at the crossroad between Asia and Africa. The Seychelles are definitely one of the world's most beautiful tropical islands destination