Other species of ticks such as the dog tick, wood tick, Lone-star tick, rabbit tick, and biting insects such as deer flies, horse flies, and mosquitoes have been shown to carry the Lyme Disease bacteria. 
I started reading about deer flies and found out that people can get Tularemia from deer flies. Tularemia (deer fly fever) is a bacterial infection and is actually on the government's watch list for bioterrorism. I just wanted to warn people about deer flies being a vector for Lyme's Disease. Last year, a deer fly landed just below my ankle. I smacked it with my hand and was pretty happy that I'd gotten it before it bit me.
I learned that getting Lyme's from a deer fly is much more rare than getting it from a tick, but something I saw on the Internet said that CT, RI, NY, NJ, PA, MD, WI, and MN account for 92% of cases of Lyme's. I just wanted to warn people about deer flies being a vector for Lyme's Disease. Last year, a deer fly landed just below my ankle. I smacked it with my hand and was pretty happy that I'd gotten it before it bit me.
Another site, EHealthMD.com, said One case of Lyme disease from a horsefly or deer fly bite was written up in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1990, but the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) does not believe that the disease is transmitted by flies, fleas, or mosquitoes.. I just wanted to warn people about deer flies being a vector for Lyme's Disease. Last year, a deer fly landed just below my ankle. I smacked it with my hand and was pretty happy that I'd gotten it before it bit me.
We don't have thanksgiving but you have a good one. Flies do carry diseases. Malaria is only one of these. They eat the most rotten filthy stuff and regurgitate that on to anything. also carry it on their feet. Try using search for Do flies carry diseases, or infections by flies, I am sure you will find the info you seek.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Those flies are really nasty! They don't carry HIV/AIDS but they do carry a number of other diseases. The flies can transmit anthrax, tularemia (rabbit fever), loa loa (a skin and eye disease), and filariasis in humans. Filariasis is a nasty tropical disease that is very rare in the West. They can transmit Lyme disease, as you said. 
Adult horse and deer flies are relatively large to very large (approximately 0.25 to 1.25 inches long), robust flies with a pair of huge eyes known as compound eyes.. Those of some horse flies have colorful purple or green bands against a blue or yellowish-green background. Horse and deer flies are annoying biting pests of wildlife, livestock, and humans. Their blood sucking habits also raise concerns about possible transmission of disease agents
I. pacificus is known to be the vector in the west. Other species of ticks such as the dog tick or wood tick, the lone-star tick and the rabbit tick, and biting insects such as mosquitoes, deer flies and horse flies have been shown to carry the Lyme disease bacterium. However, their ability to transmit the disease is not known at this time. This disease is transmitted to people and animals primarily by the bite of the black-legged tick, Ixodes scapularis. In 1975, Lyme disease was first recognized in the United States in children from Lyme, Connecticut.
I. pacificus is known to be the vector in the west. Other species of ticks such as the dog tick or wood tick, the lone-star tick and the rabbit tick, and biting insects such as mosquitoes, deer flies and horse flies have been shown to carry the Lyme disease bacterium. I just wanted to warn people about deer flies being a vector for Lyme's Disease. Last year, a deer fly landed just below my ankle. I smacked it with my hand and was pretty happy that I'd gotten it before it bit me.