Branding – definition American Marketing Association: A name, term, design, symbol, or any other feature that identifies one seller's good or service as distinct from those of other sellers. The legal term for brand is trademark. A brand may identify one item, a family of items, or all items of that seller.
Kotler Marketing Group is a global consulting and training firm, specializing in sales and marketing. Our philosophy is based on the work of Philip Kotler, the world's leading strategic marketer.
1 Dr. Philip Kotler defines marketing as “the science and art of exploring, creating, and delivering value to satisfy the needs of a target market at a profit. 2  Marketing identifies unfulfilled needs and desires. 3  It defines, measures and quantifies the size of the identified market and the profit potential.
The following definitions were approved by the American Marketing Association Board of Directors: Marketing: Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.
The better definitions are focused upon customer orientation and the satisfaction of customer needs. Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.
Philip Kotler is the S.C. Johnson & Son Distinguished Professor of International Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He received his Masters degree at the University of Chicago and his Ph.D. at MIT, both in economics.
Philip Kotler-Keller Definition and Explanation of Marketing Management for 21st Century - 14th Edition. This article is a supplement to a more detailed article The Marketing Concept-Kotler.
1 Marketing is the process of getting a product or service from a company to its end customers from product development through to the final sale and post purchase support. 2  To this end, marketing strategy consists of business goals, target customers, marketing strategies, marketing tactics and related metrics.
However, according to (Kotler & Keller, 2006) the formal definition of marketing is an organizational function and a set of processes for creating, communication, and delivering value to customers and for managing customer relationships in ways that benefit the organization and its shareholders(Kotler & Keller, p.4).
If we look at CIM's definition in more detail Marketing is a management responsibility and should not be left to a specific department or person. In fact everyone that works for or represents a company is responsible for marketing, as their actions contribute towards the company's reputation and success..