Long-Term Outlook Complications of Asbestos. Asbestosis can lead to malignant mesothelioma, a severe form of lung cancer. Other types of lung cancer may develop in patients who smoke. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is another serious condition that can result. A buildup of fluid around your lungs, known as pleural effusion, is also associated with asbestosis.
Asbestosis. A lung disease caused by breathing in particles of asbestos (a group of minerals that take the form of tiny fibers). Symptoms include coughing, trouble breathing, and chest pain caused by scarring and permanent damage to lung tissue. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute).
Overview. Asbestosis is a lung disease that develops from the presence of asbestos fibers, which lead to scarring. It restricts your breathing and interferes with the ability of oxygen to enter the bloodstream. Other types of lung cancer may develop in patients who smoke. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is another serious condition that can result. A buildup of fluid around your lungs, known as pleural effusion, is also associated with asbestosis.
Introduction. Asbestosis is a chronic (long-term) lung condition caused by prolonged exposure to asbestos. Asbestos is a general term for a group of minerals made of microscopic fibres. In the past, it was widely used in construction. Asbestos can be very dangerous. 
1 Asbestosis: Asbestosis is a type of lung disease that significantly reduces the capacity of the lungs to do their job. 2  Lung Cancer: Asbestos lung cancer includes both small-cell and non-small-cell lung cancer. Asbestosis. Asbestosis is an asbestos disease that is particularly common among individuals who have worked in occupations that involved exposure to asbestos either directly (such as in the mining and processing of asbestos) or indirectly (with products or procedures in which asbestos is present).
An asbestos disease is an illness that is caused by asbestos exposure due to inhalation. As a result, the lungs and/or pleura are typically affected when a person has an asbestos disease. There are several types of asbestos diseases; however, the most common are mesothelioma, asbestosis, and lung cancer. If you suspect that you may have asbestos lung cancer or one of the other diseases, it must be properly diagnosed by a physician. Asbestosis. Asbestosis is an asbestos disease that is particularly common among individuals who have worked in occupations that involved exposure to asbestos either directly (such as in the mining and processing of asbestos) or indirectly (with products or procedures in which asbestos is present).
Asbestosis Directory. Asbestos is a fibrous mineral that is mined and used in construction and other industries. When asbestos fibers become airborne and are breathed into the lungs, they can cause asbestosis, mesothelioma, lung cancer, and other problems.
We have briefly outlined the most common types of asbestos disease, which are: 1  Mesothelioma: Mesothelioma is a rare and fatal cancer that attacks the protective lining of the lungs, heart, or stomach. Asbestosis. Asbestosis is an asbestos disease that is particularly common among individuals who have worked in occupations that involved exposure to asbestos either directly (such as in the mining and processing of asbestos) or indirectly (with products or procedures in which asbestos is present).
What is Asbestosis. Asbestosis is a fibrotic disease of the lungs caused by chronic exposure and inhalation of asbestos fibres. Asbestos is mixture of chemicals that occurs naturally as a fibre substance and is widely used in the building industry for insulation, roofing and fireproofing. 
Asbestosis is a chronic lung disease caused by scarring of lung tissue, which results from prolonged exposure to asbestos. It is defined as diffuse interstitial pulmonary fibrosis secondary to asbestos exposure. Asbestos-related diseases include non-malignant disorders such as asbestosis (pulmonary fibrosis due to asbestos), diffuse pleural thickening, pleural plaques, pleural effusion, rounded atelectasis and malignancies such as lung cancer and malignant mesothelioma.