GUIDE TO THE GEORGE SOROS NETWORK. George Soros is one of the most powerful men on earth. A New York hedge fund manager, he has amassed a personal fortune estimated at about $13 billion (as of 2009). His company, Soros Fund Management, controls at least another $25 billion in investor assets. Since 1979, Soros's foundation network -- whose flagship is the Open Society Institute (OSI) -- has dispensed more than $5 billion to a multitude of organizations whose objectives are consistent with those of Soros
The Life of George Soros. George Soros is founder and chair of Soros Fund Management and the Open Society Foundations. Born in Budapest in 1930, he survived the Nazi occupation during World War II and fled communist-dominated Hungary in 1947 for England, where he graduated from the London School of Economics. 
He is chairman of Soros Fund Management. He is known as The Man Who Broke the Bank of England  because of his short sale of US$10 billion worth of pounds, making him a profit of $1 billion during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis. Soros is one of the 30 richest people in the world. 
Show More. Eighty-year-old George Soros is a Hungarian-American hedge fund manager who became known as the Man Who Broke the Bank of England after he made $1 billion in 1992. Soros graduated from the London School of Economics in 1952. After graduation, he started his career in the London merchant bank of Singer & Friedlander. George Soros, the veteran billionaire investor who is widely known as 'the man who broke the bank of England' has dramatically increased his fund, Soros Fund Management's stake in MaxLinear, Inc. (NYSE......
Soros Fund Management is the primary adviser for the Quantum Group of Funds; a family of funds dealing in international investments. The company invests in public equity and fixed income markets worldwide, as well as foreign exchange, currency, and commodity markets, and private equity and venture capital funds. In 2000, the Quantum Fund lost its position as the largest hedge fund in the world when its assets under management changed $10 billion to $4 billion in about a year's time.
Company Overview. Soros Fund Management LLC is a privately owned family office. The firm invests in the public equity and fixed income markets across the globe. The firm also manages private equity and venture capital funds. It invests in capital-intensive start-ups, buyouts, build-ups, and growth equity transactions. Soros Fund Management LLC will own around 25% stake in Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas, S.A. (CATS:FCC) after reaching a deal with the company's major shareholder Esther Koplowitz to take on all of her rights to acquire shares in the capital hike, the source said.
George Soros is one of the biggest names in the hedge fund industry, a man who redefined success in the investment landscape. Forbes ranks him at number 29 on its list of billionaires, pegging him with...... George Soros, the veteran billionaire investor who is widely known as 'the man who broke the bank of England' has dramatically increased his fund, Soros Fund Management's stake in MaxLinear, Inc. (NYSE......
The firm was founded in 1969 by George Soros and in 2010 was reported to be one of the most profitable firms in the hedge fund industry, averaging a 20% annual rate of return over four decades. In 2000, the Quantum Fund lost its position as the largest hedge fund in the world when its assets under management changed $10 billion to $4 billion in about a year's time.