With three cars, the coverage would increase to $150,000/$250,000 and so forth for additional vehicles. Unstacked Insurance. With multiple cars on a policy, you do not have to stack the coverage. As in the above example, each car would be covered at $50,000/$100,000 individually. No matter how many cars you have on the policy, the amount of coverage for each car stays the same. Advantages of Stacking Auto Insurance. The primary benefit to stacking auto insurance is that if you have multiple cars, it allows you to substantially increase your policy payment limits for uninsured and underinsured bodily injury. As you add coverage for two or three or more cars, those policy benefits can become significant
Stacking normally refers to an option you can select for uninsured motorist bodily injury (UM) and/or underinsured motorist bodily injury (UIM) coverages. Stacking uninsured/underinsured motorist policies is an option that allows you to increase the limits you select for your UM/UIM bodily injury coverage. Limits increase based on the number of cars you are insuring. So by selecting stacking for your uninsured/underinsured motorist bodily injury coverage, you increase your limits for each of these coverages by the number of cars you’re insuring. Generally, there is not a limit on the number of vehicles that can be insured and thus stacked this way.
Stacking your coverage means that you increase your level of UM/UIM coverage according to the number of vehicles that you drive. You can stack your UM/UIM coverage within or across policies. 1  Within policies: Combining coverage limits for multiple vehicles on one policy. Stacking your UM/UIM coverage raises the potential amount of coverage you can use in case of an accident with an uninsured or underinsured driver. Also, some states forbid you to have UM/UIM coverage limits higher than those of your liability insurance if you do not get stacked coverage.
Stacking within one policy. If you insure more than one car on the same policy, you might be able to stack UM bodily injury (UMBI) coverage. Let's say you have 3 cars, each with $25,000 UMBI limits, and you decide to stack these coverages. Stacking across policies. Let's say you have 2 separate car insurance policies: one for your truck and one for your car. You buy $50,000 of UMBI coverage for each. Then it happens: an uninsured driver slams into your truck. Your truck is totaled and you're hurt in the crash.
Stacking means that if you have two or more Pennsylvania auto insurance policies in your household, you can stack or combine the uninsured and underinsured auto insurance coverage of two auto insurance policies or two cars on the same policy. You cannot stack your liability coverage or your medical bill coverage. If you have further PA auto insurance coverage questions, contact the Philadelphia area personal injury lawyers at Saile & Saile LLP.
Insurance Stacking Example 2. You own more than one auto insurance policy with UM/UIM coverage. (The policies could be with the same insurer or two different insurers.) To collect all of the damages, you could make a claim under the UM/UIM coverage of each of the insurance policies you own. Stacking your uninsured/underinsured motorist (UM/UIM) coverage can be a lifesaver — if your state allows it. Stacking UM/UIM coverages means you are able to collect from more than one car insurance policy to receive full payment for your injuries and property damage. Not every state allows this, so check the chart at end of this story. Here's how you can stack your coverages
That means $10,000 per person, $20,000 max per accident. This coverage is for each vehicle on the policy. If you stack the coverage and have 2 cars, you can collect the coverage from both vehicles on your policy if you have a claim (therefore doubling your coverage--$20,000 per person/$40,000 per accident).
Insurance Stacking Example 1. You own an auto insurance policy under which two or more cars are insured with UM/UIM coverage. When you're hit by an uninsured or underinsured driver, you collect the limits of your UM/UIM coverage under as many vehicles as necessary to receive full payment for your damages. Stacking your uninsured/underinsured motorist (UM/UIM) coverage can be a lifesaver — if your state allows it. Stacking UM/UIM coverages means you are able to collect from more than one car insurance policy to receive full payment for your injuries and property damage. Not every state allows this, so check the chart at end of this story. Here's how you can stack your cover