The Triassic ranges from 250 million to 200 million years ago. The Triassic is a desolate transitional state in Earth's history between the Permian Extinction and the lush Jurassic Period. It has three major epochs: the Early Triassic, the Middle Triassic and the Late Triassic. The Cretaceous is the longest era in the Mesozoic, but has only two periods: the Early Cretaceous, and the Late Cretaceous. Tylosaurus (a mosasaur) hunting Xiphactinus. The Early Cretaceous spans from 145 million to 1
The Jurassic (/dʒuːˈraesɪk/ ; dʒuːˈræsɪk From Jura) mountains is a geologic period and system that extends from.201± 3.0 6 (ma million years) ago to± 145 4; ma from the end of The triassic to the beginning of The. cretaceous The Jurassic constitutes the middle period of the Mesozoic Era, also known as the Age of Reptiles. The start of the period is marked by the major Triassic–Jurassic extinction event. Two other extinction events occurred during the period: the Late Pliensbachian/Early Toarcian event in the Early Jurassic, and the Late Tithonian event at the end; however, neither event ranks among the Big Five mass extinctions.
Epochs are subdivisions of geologic periods. Era-A division of geologic time of several hundred million years in duration. An era is smaller than an eon and longer than a period. Geologic Time Scale-A categorization of geological events based on successively smaller time spans: eons, eras, periods, epochs, and ages. Hadean-The earliest eon in the history of the Earth from the first accretion of planetary material until the date of the oldest known rocks.
The Jurassic (/dʒuːˈraesɪk/ ; dʒuːˈræsɪk From Jura) mountains is a geologic period and system that extends from.201± 3.0 6 (ma million years) ago to± 145 4; ma from the end of The triassic to the beginning of The. Cretaceous The jurassic constitutes the middle period of The Mesozoic, era also known as The age Of. reptiles The Jurassic constitutes the middle period of the Mesozoic Era, also known as the Age of Reptiles. The start of the period is marked by the major Triassic–Jurassic extinction event. Two other extinction events occurred during the period: the Late Pliensbachian/Early Toarcian event in the Early Jurassic, and the Late Tithonian event at the end; however, neither event ranks among the Big Five mass extinctions.
The Jurassic period is the second of the three divisions of the Mesozoic era, The Age of Reptiles.. The Jurassic lasted for 64 million years, from about 208 to 144 million years ago. The period is named for rock strata found in the Jura Mountains on the border between Switzerland and France.
Geologic and Biological Timeline of the Earth. Astronomical and geological evidence indicates that the Universe is approximately 13,820 million years old[42], and our solar system is about 4,567 million years old. Earth's Moon formed 4,450 million years ago, just 50 million years after the Earth's formation. Geologic Time Scale-A categorization of geological events based on successively smaller time spans: eons, eras, periods, epochs, and ages. Hadean-The earliest eon in the history of the Earth from the first accretion of planetary material until the date of the oldest known rocks.
Jurassic period. The Jurassic began after the mass extinction event that ended the Triassic. Life, however, was quick to recover from this blow and the Jurassic eventually became host to the most diverse range of organisms that Earth had yet seen. Amongst them were the first birds and some of the dinosaurs. 
This was the Jurassic Period, 199.6 to 145.5 million years ago*  a 54-million-year chunk of the Mesozoic Era. Named for the Jura Mountains on the border between France and Switzerland, where rocks of this age were first studied, the Jurassic has become a household word with the success of the movie Jurassic Park. 
Jurassic The second geological period of the Mesozoic era. It followed the Triassic, which ended about 213 million years ago, and extended until the beginning of the Cretaceous period, about 144 million years ago. It was named in 1829 by A. Brongniart after the Jura Mountains on the borders of France and Switzerland. The Jurassic lasted for 64 million years, from about 208 to 144 million years ago. The period is named for rock strata found in the Jura Mountains on the border between Switzerland and France.