Although known as kennel cough, the bacteria Bordetella bronchiseptica also affects cats, rabbits and even people. The bad news is that it's highly contagious. Ask your vet about giving your dog this shot, commonly called the kennel cough vaccine, if he spends a lot of time in boarding kennels, doggie day care or other areas with strange dogs.
Kennel cough, the common name given to infectious canine tracheobronchitis, is a highly contagious respiratory disease among dogs. As the name suggests, it is typified by inflammation of the trachea and bronchi. 
This test checks for Bordetella pertussis antibodies in your blood. B. pertussis are the bacteria that cause pertussis, or whooping cough. Whooping cough is a highly contagious childhood infection that can also affect adults. It can be quite serious and sometimes deadly, especially in children younger than 6 months. Its hallmark symptom is a cough that may last 10 months or longer.
Causes. Pertussis, a respiratory illness commonly known as whooping cough, is a very contagious disease caused by a type of bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. These bacteria attach to the cilia (tiny, hair-like extensions) that line part of the upper respiratory system. 
Pertussis is a respiratory disease found only in humans that is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. The first account of the infection was recorded in the sixteenth century, but it was not until the early twentieth century that B. pertussis was identified as the cause. 
Bordetella (Kennel Cough) Kennel Cough (Bordetella) Bordetella bronchiseptica is a bacterial agent that, along with several viruses, contributes to Canine Infectious Tracheobronchitis, or Kennel Cough disease. Bordetella (Kennel Cough).
The Bordetella vaccine does not cover all strains of canine flu or upper respiratory infections, cautions Dunbar. It does cover the Bordetella bacteria, which is one of the most common causes of upper respiratory infections.. The disadvantage of the nasal vaccine is that some pets develop a mild respiratory disorder, especially after the first vaccination. The idea of a vaccine is that it introduces the body to a nonpathogenic virus or bacteria so that the immune system can recognize it and fight against it in the future.
Pertussis, more commonly known as whooping cough, is caused by a bacterium (germ), Bordetella pertussis, that lives in the mouth, nose and throat. The germ is highly contagious and is easily spread from person-to-person. 
Whether your dog needs a bordetella vaccination depends on several factors. Ask your vet about giving your dog this shot, commonly called the kennel cough vaccine, if he spends a lot of time in boarding kennels, doggie day care or other areas with strange dogs.
Bordetella is a bacterial illness caused by Bordetella bronchoseptica that affects dogs and cats. When the disease is caused by a single agent it is known as Bordetellosis. The disadvantage of the nasal vaccine is that some pets develop a mild respiratory disorder, especially after the first vaccination. The idea of a vaccine is that it introduces the body to a nonpathogenic virus or bacteria so that the immune system can recognize it and fight against it in the future.