Sarin (red), acetylcholinesterase (yellow), acetylcholine (blue). Like some other nerve agents, sarin attacks the nervous system by interfering with the degradation of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions. Death will usually occur as a result of asphyxia due to the inability to control the muscles involved in breathing function
Here's some background information about sarin, a man-made nerve agent developed for chemical warfare. Facts: Sarin is a liquid that is clear, colorless, tasteless and odorless. Sarin is an extremely volatile nerve agent because of the ability to change from liquid to gas. If it evaporates into a gas, it can spread into the environment. Sarin's military designation is GB. Read More. People are exposed to sarin through skin contact, eye contact, or by breathing it in through the air. 
1 DESCRIPTION: Sarin (military designation GB) is a nerve agent that is one of the most toxic of the known chemical warfare agents. 2  It is generally odorless and tasteless. 3  Exposure to sarin can cause death in minutes. 4  A fraction of an ounce (1 to 10 mL) of sarin on the skin can be fatal. 
Sarin can be lethal even at very low concentrations, with death following within 1 to 10 minutes after direct inhalation due to suffocation from lung muscle paralysis, unless some antidotes, typically atropine or biperiden and pralidoxime, are quickly administered. Like some other nerve agents, sarin attacks the nervous system by interfering with the degradation of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions.
1 Sarin is a human-made chemical warfare agent classified as a nerve agent. 2  Nerve agents are the most toxic and rapidly acting of the known chemical warfare agents. What sarin is. 1  Sarin is a human-made chemical warfare agent classified as a nerve agent. 2  Sarin originally was developed in 1938 in Germany as a pesticide. 3  Sarin is a clear, colorless, and tasteless liquid that has no odor in its pure form. 4  Sarin is also known as GB.
1 Sarin originally was developed in 1938 in Germany as a pesticide. 2  Sarin is a clear, colorless, and tasteless liquid that has no odor in its pure form. 3  However, sarin can evaporate into a vapor (gas) and spread into the environment. 4  Sarin is also known as GB. What sarin is. 1  Sarin is a human-made chemical warfare agent classified as a nerve agent. 2  Sarin originally was developed in 1938 in Germany as a pesticide. 3  Sarin is a clear, colorless, and tasteless liquid that has no odor in its pure form. 4  Sarin is also known as GB.
Sarin Gas. █ JULI BERWALD. Sarin gas (O-Isopropyl methylphosphonofluoridate), also called GB, is one of the most dangerous and toxic chemicals known. It belongs to a class of chemical weapons known as nerve agents, all of which are organophosphates. 
Sarin is among the most toxic and fast-acting chemical weapons. Developed by German scientists seeking new pesticides in the 1930s, the colorless and odorless chemical is manufactured from dual-use precursor chemicals—that is, commercially available chemicals that serve legitimate industrial uses. Like VX, a more toxic nerve agent, sarin (also known as GB) disrupts the nervous system. Overstimulation of glands and muscles causes the respiratory system to shut down and can induce convulsions, paralysis, and even death if an antidote is not immediately administered.
The most notorious sarin attack occurred in March 1988 in Halabja when as many as 5,000 Kurds were killed and 65,000 injured when the Iraqi military used a combination of chemical agents that included sarin, mustard gas and possibly VX, a nerve agent 10 times more powerful than sarin. Sarin is 26 times more deadly than cyanide gas. Just a pinprick-sized droplet will kill a human, according to the World Health Organization. Exposure symptoms include nausea and violent headaches, blurred vision, drooling, muscle convulsions, respiratory arrest and loss of consciousness, the CDC says.