Although the Moon is Earth's only natural satellite, there are a number of near-Earth objects (NEOs) with orbits that are in resonance with Earth. These have been called, inaccurately but provocatively, second, third or other moons of Earth. 
The Moon System of Embossed Reading (commonly known as the Moon writing, Moon alphabet, Moon type, or Moon code) is a writing system for the blind, using embossed symbols mostly derived from the Latin script (but simplified). Moon type was developed by Dr. William Moon (1818–1894), a blind Englishman living in Brighton, East Sussex. After a bout of scarlet fever, Moon lost his sight at age twenty-one and became a teacher of blind children.
With Animations: All Eclipses 1900-2099. Observers from Earth can see two types of eclipses – eclipses of the Sun (solar eclipses), and eclipses of the Moon (lunar eclipses). These occur when the Sun, Earth and Moon align in a straight or almost straight configuration. Solar eclipses can only occur during a new Moon, when the Moon moves between the Earth and the Sun and the three celestial bodies form a straight line: Earth-Moon-Sun. There are 3 kinds of solar eclipses: total, partial, annular. There is also a rare hybrid that is a combination of two eclipses
The different types of moons are: Full Wolf Moon, Full Snow Moon, Full Worm Moon, paschal full moon, full pink moon, full flower moon, full strawberry moon, full buck moon, … full sturgeon moon, full harvest moon, full hunters moon, full beaver moon, full cold moon. The solar eclipse, when the moon blocks the sun's light from hitting the earth-creating a temporary blackout on earth, can occur only at the time of New Moon, while the luna … r eclipse, when the earth blocks the sun's light from reflecting off the moon, can occur only at the time of Full Moon.
As of October 2008, there are known natural moons orbiting planets in our Solar System. moons orbit the full-size planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune), while moons orbit the smaller  dwarf planets  (Ceres, Pluto, Haumea, Makemake, and Eris). 
Ganymede is the largest moon in the solar system and our Moon is the fifth largest. The smallest is a tie between S/2003 J 9 and S/2003 J 12, in orbit around Jupiter. Scientist theorize that there were moons around Mercury and Venus, but may have impacted the surface of their primaries in ancient history. If you include moons that orbit dwarf planets, Trans-Neptunian Objects, Trojan moons, and asteroids the number would jump to 336 classified moons. In addition to those, there have been another 150 very small objects observed within the rings of Saturn.
Types of Moons. Full Moon names date back to Native Americans, of what is now the northern and eastern United States. The tribes kept track of the seasons by giving distinctive names to each recurring full Moon. Their names were applied to the entire month in which each occurred. There was some variation in the Moon names, but in general, the same ones were current throughout the Algonquin tribes from New England to Lake Superior. The Full Sap Moon, marked the time of tapping maple trees. To the settlers, it was also known as the Lenten Moon, and was considered to be the last full Moon of winter. April-The Wind Moon-The Pink Moon-The Sprouting Grass Moon-The Egg Moon-The Fish Moon Called the wind moon to signify the winds that carry the seeds.
The different types of moons are: Full Wolf Moon, Full Snow Moon, Full Worm Moon, paschal full moon, full pink moon, full flower moon, full strawberry moon, full buck moon, full sturgeon moon, full harvest moon, full hunters moon, full beaver moon, full cold moon. 