Intestinal villi (singular: villus) are small, finger-like projections that protrude from the epithelial lining of the intestinal wall. Each villus is approximately 0.5-1.6 mm in length, and has many microvilli projecting from the enterocytes of its epithelium which collectively form the striated or brush border. Each of these microvilli are much smaller than a single villus. Villi are specialised for absorption in the small intestine as they have a thin wall, about one cell thick, which enables a shorter diffusion path. They have a large surface area so there will be more efficient absorption of fatty acids and glycerol into the blood stream.
Scan the epithelial surface to find regions where the epithelium is cut in a section perpendicular to the basal lamina. Two distinct types of columnar cells are present in this epithelium, ciliated cells and non-ciliated secretory cells. Measure the height of the cilia and compare to the height of the striated border composed of microvilli in the previous Webslide 32.
Epithelium. OBJECTIVES: At the end of this laboratory you should be able to: 1. Recognize and correctly name the eight types of epithelium. 2. Name one representative site in the body where these types are found. 3. Distinguish whether an epithelial type contains cilia or microvilli. 4. Identify and distinguish between cilia and microvilli both in light and electron micrographs (based on the type of epithelium in the light microscope and based upon structure at the EM level). 5.
Simple squamous epithelia are seen in many places but mesothelium and endothelium are the most ubiquitous types. Mesothelium is the term applied to the simple squamous epithelium that lines the four coelom-derived cavities: two pleural, pericardial and peritoneal. This epithelium has a thick basement membrane that is a characteristic of the respiratory epithelium. Look for cilia and goblet cells. Cilia may be seen to better advantage in slide 125, a 1.5 thick plastic section of a monkey trachea or large bronchus. Consult your text or atlas for details of their fine structure.
The image in HA6 is deep in the wall of the ileum and shows many crypts cut in different planes of section surrounded by a CT layer called the lamina propria. Cells in the crypt divide (HA6, arrows) and push the epithelium toward the tip of the villus in the process of cell turnover (HA6) . The mitotic cells in this part of the epithelium provide a constant supply of new cells, while other cells are being sloughed into the lumen at the tip of the villus (HA7, arrows) . HA4-8: Ileum-fast green, hematoxylin & PAS. Refer to the diagram in your coursebook to begin to understand the 3-dimensional structure of the lining of the small intestine. Begin by looking at the lumen of the ileum (top, HA4). Finger-shaped structures, called villi project into the lumen. The epithelium covering the villi has many different appearances, but the thinnest area is simple columnar epithelium, as shown in this high magnification image (HA5) which is perpendicular to HA4
Structure [edit]. The epithelium is part of the intestinal mucosa layer. In the small intestine this takes the form of villi but these are not present in the colon. In both parts of the mammalian intestine, the mucosa is covered by a single layer of epithelial cells that is renewed every 4–5 days.
Each intestinal villus has a surface of simple columnar epithelium (absorptive cells and goblet cells) and a core of lamina propria. In addition the loose, cellular connective tissue that is typical of lamina propria throughout the gut, villi also contain capillaries, lacteals and smooth muscle fibers. 
The type of epithelial cells lining the small and large intestines  are simple columnar. However, at the inferior part of the rectum,  it changes to stratified squamous epit … helium. 1 person found this useful. The intestinal epithelium, which covers the small and large intestine, is simple columnar and nonciliated. It lines most of the organs of the digestive tract