Symptoms caused by intestinal stenosis are also common in Crohn's disease. Abdominal pain is often most severe in areas of the bowel with stenoses. Persistent vomiting and nausea may indicate stenosis from small bowel obstruction or disease involving the stomach, pylorus, or duodenum. Crohn's disease is caused by a combination of environmental, immune and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals. It results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in which the body's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens
Crohn's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis, is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus. Signs and symptoms often include abdominal pain, diarrhea (which may be bloody if inflammation is severe), fever, and weight loss. Crohn's disease is caused by a combination of environmental, immune and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals. It results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in which the body's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigen
Scientists have linked immune system problems to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's. Usually, cells of the immune system defend the body from harmful microbes -- bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other foreign substances -- that have entered it. The body doesn't usually respond to all microbes, however. 
The condition may be passed on through milk Scientists have identified a type of bacteria they believe may cause Crohn's disease. The bowel disorder affects 100,000 Britons and can cause a variety of symptoms, ranging from a lack of appetite to chronic diarrhoea and abdominal pain. 
The first signs of Crohn's disease are small ulcers, called aphthous ulcers, caused by breaks in the lining of the intestine due to inflammation. The ulcers become larger and deeper. With the expansion of the ulcers comes swelling of the tissue, and finally scarring of the intestine that causes stiffness and narrowing. The chronic inflammation that is the basis of Crohn's disease causes ulceration, swelling, and scarring of the parts of the intestine that it involves. Other names for Crohn's disease include granulomatous enteritis, regional enteritis, ileitis, and granulomatous colitis when it involves the colon.
Researchers Question Antibiotic Treatments. Many symptoms of Crohn’s disease—such as abdominal pain, cramping, and severe diarrhea—are caused by inflammation of the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. Treatments are often aimed at toning down that inflammation either with anti-inflammatory or immune-suppressing drugs. The harmful organisms that thrived in the guts of people with Crohn’s disease included ones in the same family as Salmonella and Escherichia coli, as well as several other groups of bacteria. Beneficial bacteria that were more rare included Bifidobacterium and other families of microbes.
Crohn's (or Crohn) disease is a disease that usually affects the small intestine and less commonly the colon, but it is capable of involving the remainder of the gastrointestinal tract-the mouth, esophagus, and stomach. The chronic inflammation that is the basis of Crohn's disease causes ulceration, swelling, and scarring of the parts of the intestine that it involves. Other names for Crohn's disease include granulomatous enteritis, regional enteritis, ileitis, and granulomatous colitis when it involves the colon.
View full size image. In people with Crohn's disease, harmful gut bacteria are more abundant, and beneficial gut bacteria are less prevalent, than they are in people without the intestinal condition, according to a new study. The findings also suggest that antibiotic use may worsen symptoms of the disease. 
Introduction. Crohn's Disease causes inflammation of the bowel. It most commonly affects the lower small intestine (ileum) and the large intestine (colon), but may involve any part of the digestive tract from the mouth to the anus. The inflammation extends through the entire thickness of the bowel wall. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterised by chronic intestinal inflammation. The two major types of IBD are Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC), although other less common IBD conditions are also included in this category.