Mini Bio (1). LeBron James was born on December 30, 1984 in Akron, Ohio, USA as LeBron Raymone James. He is a producer and actor, known for More Than a Game (2008), 2015 NBA All Star All Style (2015) and Trainwreck (2015). He has been married to Savannah Brinson James since September 14, 2013. They have two children. 
More videos (1 of 9). Warriors' Steph Curry and Cavaliers' LeBron James born in same hospital in Akron Ohio, 39 months apart. (Published Tuesday, June 9, 2015). Warriors guard Steph Curry and Cavaliers forward LeBron James have more than just basketball in common. Ayesha Curry Focused on Family, Smores. James of the Cleveland Cavaliers was born to Anthony McClelland and Gloria Marie James on Dec. 30, 1984 at Summa Akron City Hospital in Akron, Ohio.
The King of the NBA now has a Princess in his realm ... with LeBron James welcoming his first baby girl to the world. The 4-time NBA Most Valuable Player and his wife Savannah welcomed their 3rd child last week at a hospital in their hometown of Akron, Ohio. Zhuri James is not the heir to the NBA throne ... 
LeBron Raymone James (/ləˈbrɒn/ ; born December 30, 1984) is an American professional basketball player who currently plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He has started at the small forward and power forward positions. James played high school basketball at St. Vincent–St. Mary High School in his hometown of Akron, Ohio, where he was highly promoted in the national media as a future NBA superstar. After graduating, he was selected with the first overall pick in the 2003 NBA draft by the Cavaliers.
Excited papa LeBron James may have just revealed the name of his soon-to-be-born daughter. Posting a sunny, casual Instagram photograph of him and pregnant wife Savannah Brinson on Friday, James wrote in the caption that he was treating his beloved to a trip in Greece before her impending due date. 
James was born on December 30, 1984 in Akron, Ohio, to a 16-year-old mother, Gloria Marie James, who raised him on her own. Growing up, life was often a struggle for the family, as they moved from apartment to apartment in the seedier neighborhoods of Akron while James' mother struggled to find steady work. James played high school basketball at St. Vincent–St. Mary High School in his hometown of Akron, Ohio, where he was highly promoted in the national media as a future NBA superstar. After graduating, he was selected with the first overall pick in the 2003 NBA draft by the Cavaliers.
LeBron James was born in Akron, Ohio on December 30, 1984. He grew up in Akron where he had a difficult childhood. His father was an ex-con who wasn't there when he grew up. His family was poor and had a tough time. 
Synopsis. Born in Ohio in 1984, LeBron James garnered national attention as the top high school basketball player in the country. With his unique combination of size, athleticism and court vision, he became one of the premier players in the NBA for the Cleveland Cavaliers.