Moss Animals: Phylum Bryozoa. Bryozoans, sometimes referred to as moss animals, are a type of simple colonial animal that mostly lives in marine environments (a few inhabit freshwater). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Entoprocta, whose name means  anus inside, is a phylum of mostly sessile aquatic animals, ranging from 0.1 to 7 millimetres (0.0039 to 0.2756 in) long. Mature individuals are goblet-shaped, on relatively long stalks. 
The Bryozoa, also known as Polyzoa, Ectoprocta or commonly as moss animals, are a phylum of aquatic invertebrate animals. Typically about 0.5 millimetres (0.020 in) long, they are filter feeders that sieve food particles out of the water using a retractable lophophore, a crown of tentacles lined with cilia. Another group of animals discovered subsequently, whose filtering mechanism looked similar, was also included in Bryozoa until 1869, when the two groups were noted to be very different internally. The more recently discovered group was given the name Entoprocta, while the original Bryozoa were called Ectoprocta.
1 Bryozoa, also known as the Ectoprocta: An aquatic phylum with a huge fossil record (one of the most common in the Palaeozoic). 2  Still fairly common, though little known to the public. 3  There are now 5000 species, most of which build calcareous skeletons. List of animal phyla is a list of the major groups of animals usually classified as a phylum. Modern sources have been used: the list is different from that of Linnaeus or Cuvier. A list of this type may be arranged alphabetically; but equally it might be arranged according to evolutionary relationships.
Introduction. The Bryozoa, also known as Ectoprocta or commonly as moss animals, are a phylum of aquatic invertebrate animals that resemble corals. They are found in marine, brackish and freshwater habitats
Currently there are about 5,000 known species of Bryozoa that are known. The Bryozoa are known as a moss animals. The different species can come together to form a colony that can attach to different kind of rock surfaces as well as shells and algae. Another group of animals discovered subsequently, whose filtering mechanism looked similar, was also included in Bryozoa until 1869, when the two groups were noted to be very different internally. The more recently discovered group was given the name Entoprocta, while the original Bryozoa were called Ectoprocta.
Despite the fact that there are about 5000 living species, with several times that number of fossil species, the Bryozoa remain largely unknown to most people. Bryozoans, or moss animals, are aquatic organisms, living for the most part in colonies of interconnected individuals. 
This was before the nature of the animals was clearly understood, and both phyla, as then defined, included, in addition to the ectoprocts, organisms not closely related to them. Hence, some workers prefer to use the phylum-name Ectoprocta for the phylum-concept in the narrower sense. Other scholars, however, continue to use the term Polyzoa or Bryozoa in a restricted sense for the phylum that includes the animals that almost everyone calls bryozoans. The creatures now assigned to phylum Ectoprocta originally were referred to phylum Polyzoa by J. V. Thompson in 1830 and to phylum Bryozoa by C. G. Ehrenberg a few months later, in 1831.
Abstract. The Bryozoa are a phylum of small, colonial, filter‐feeding, almost exclusively sessile, aquatic organisms. Approximately 5600 living species have been described, and the fossil record comprises approximately 20 000 species. Bryozoans are found in all oceans and many freshwater areas. 