In order to become an orthodontist, an additional 2-5 years of schooling will be required in the science of orthodontics plus a 2-3 year residency at an ADA approved program. How to become an Orthodontist. In order to become an orthodontist, prospective students must first become licensed to practice as a dentist. There are over 56 dental schools in the United States that are accredited by the American Dental Association (ADA).
It typically takes about 10 years to become an orthodontist. It takes 4 years to obtain a bachelor's degree, another 4 years of dental school, and then 2 more years in a post doctoral program devoted to the study of orthodontics. All 50 states mandate that orthodontists are licensed. Not only must they be licensed as dentists, states also require a separate orthodontist license. The dental license necessitates the passing of an exam, but those becoming orthodontists must complete more specialized schooling and possibly another exam.
It takes a long time and many hours of study to become an orthodontist. An average number of years to become an orthodontist is 10 to 11 years after high school graduation. That would be 4 years of undergraduate, 4 years of dental school and 2 to 3 years of an orthodontic graduate program. Yep, that’s right. You may be able to get into dental school after three years of undergraduate school. Each dental school has their set number of students that they will admit each year. A certain number of students will be in-state, foreign exchange and out of state with a ratio of 50/50 male to female mix. If you are considered for a dental student slot, an interview with the admittance committee will be given
Education Requirements to become an Orthodontist (in U.S.). All orthodontists are, first of all, dentists, so you have first to get the same training in a dental school required to become a dentist, and afterwards complete an additional 2-3 years orthodontics program. Step 1: College. Following a career in orthodontics is not only challenging but also rewarding 1  : Financial rewards for the dental professionals who become orthodontists are significant. 2  Average salary of an orthodontist in U.S. is close to $200,000.
Once, admitted to dental school, congratulations. You have just begun. Dental school is an intensive four years of full time study. Your lectures and patient appointments will be from 8am to 5pm. After 5pm a dental student will do their lab work, and then study for the next day’s classes. You may be able to get into dental school after three years of undergraduate school. Each dental school has their set number of students that they will admit each year. A certain number of students will be in-state, foreign exchange and out of state with a ratio of 50/50 male to female mix. If you are considered for a dental student slot, an interview with the admittance committee will be given
Before you may be admitted to a dental program and train as an orthodontist, you must complete pre-dental requirements as an undergraduate. Most dental programs prefer to admit students with a bachelor's degree, though some will accept students with a minimum of two years of undergraduate education. Orthodontists are dentists who specialize in straightening teeth. As an orthodontist, you'll use devices such as braces that apply pressure to the teeth and slowly readjust their positions in the gums. It takes several years to become an orthodontist. You'll typically need to spend 2-4 years in an undergraduate program, four years in dental school and 2-3 years in a postgraduate orthodontics program
Orthodontics is a field in dentistry that focuses on improving the appearance and function of abnormally arranged teeth. Orthodontists are the health care practitioners responsible for performing this procedure. They diagnose anomalies and design and implement treatment plans. 
Many people, who have had braces, get to see their orthodontist at work. They like their orthodontist and think their job is a fun job. They wonder how a person becomes an orthodontist. Here is some information about becoming an orthodontist in the United States. You may be able to get into dental school after three years of undergraduate school. Each dental school has their set number of students that they will admit each year. A certain number of students will be in-state, foreign exchange and out of state with a ratio of 50/50 male to female mix. If you are considered for a dental student slot, an interview with the admittance committee will be given