The Canadian Human Rights Act created the Canadian Human Rights Commission that investigates claims of discrimination as well as the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal to judge the cases. Before a case can be brought to the Tribunal it must go through several stages of investigation and remediation by the Commission. The process is generally known as the  Meiorin test  which is similar to the Oakes test justification in a Charter challenge. In June 2012, the House of Commons voted to repeal Section 13(1) of the Canadian Human Rights Act regarding communication of hate messages. On June 26, 2013, Section 13(1) was finally repealed after a vote in the Senate
The Charter was signed into law by Queen Elizabeth II of Canada on April 17, 1982, along with the rest of the Act. The Charter was preceded by the Canadian Bill of Rights, which was enacted in 1960. However, the Bill of Rights is only a federal statute, rather than a constitutional document. As a federal statute, it can be amended through the ordinary legislative process and has no application to provincial laws. Many of the rights and freedoms that are protected under the Charter, including the rights to freedom of speech, habeas corpus and the presumption of innocence, have their roots in a set of Canadian laws and legal precedents sometimes known as the Implied Bill of Rights.
The Canadian Human Rights Act is a statute passed by the Parliament of Canada in 1977 with the express goal of extending the law to ensure equal opportunity to individuals who may be victims of discriminatory practices based on a set of prohibited grounds such as sex, disability, or religion. The process is generally known as the  Meiorin test  which is similar to the Oakes test justification in a Charter challenge. In June 2012, the House of Commons voted to repeal Section 13(1) of the Canadian Human Rights Act regarding communication of hate messages. On June 26, 2013, Section 13(1) was finally repealed after a vote in the Senate
In Canada the definition and protection of civil rights began with ordinary statutes that set out a limited range of rights to which citizens were entitled. Sometimes the limits on government are left to self-restraint, but in some countries legislation or protection of citizens' rights is put in place. In this section, you will trace the development of civil rights protection in Canada through to the entrenchment of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Saskatchewan was the first Canadian province to legislate a human rights code, in 1947. Parliament passed the Bill of Rights in 1960, as one means of protecting Canadians from government excesses. Sometimes the limits on government are left to self-restraint, but in some countries legislation or protection of citizens' rights is put in place. In this section, you will trace the development of civil rights protection in Canada through to the entrenchment of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Human rights describe how we instinctively expect to be treated as persons. Human rights define what we are all entitled to — a life of equality, dignity, and respect. A life free from discrimination. You do not have to earn your human rights. You are born with them. It’s the same for every man, woman and child on earth. Nobody can give them to you. But they can be taken away.
Civil Rights in Canada. An important principle of liberal democracies is to set limits on what governments can do to their citizens. Sometimes the limits on government are left to self-restraint, but in some countries legislation or protection of citizens' rights is put in place. In this section, you will trace the development of civil rights protection in Canada through to the entrenchment of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. You will find links to the full text of the Supreme Court of Canada's decisions on Charter issue
Basic human rights have evolved slowly and in such forms of the early cases on trespass, the English Bill of Rights and, most importantly, the advent of international conventions and domestic laws, such as human rights code. Human rights, civil rights or fundamental rights and freedoms given equally and without distinction to each and every human being, is a matter that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Some jurisdictions, like Canada's provinces, prohibit virtually all forms of traditional discrimination.
26. (1) A commission is hereby established to be known as the Canadian Human Rights Commission, in this Part and Part III referred to as the “Commission”, consisting of a Chief Commissioner, a Deputy Chief Commissioner and not less than three or more than six other members, to be appointed by the Governor in Council. (6) The Chairperson of the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal has supervision over and direction of the work of any Human Rights Tribunal, Review Tribunal or Employment Equity Review Tribunal referred to in subsection (3), (4) or (5).