Sagittarius and Independence: Independence is Sagittarius' principle, they crave adventure and excitement and welcome change with open arms. Sagittarius is the sign of the philosopher and the explorer, they will go as far as road will go and explore every corner thoroughly in their ever eternal search for wisdom. She has a great attitude and always seems to be on the go. Sagittarius woman is for the man with lots of energy and creativity. She likes unconventionality and change, so whisk her away last second to somewhere unplanned and uncharted and she will remember you forever.
Wooing a Sagittarius can be a challenge. Those born between November 22nd and December 21st all have very intriguing, hard-to-pin-down personalities. If you're up to it, here are some steps to follow on dating this lucky, optimistic, adventuresome sign based on their unique astrological characteristics. 1 They're not labeled fire signs for nothing. 2  Sagittarius is the most careless sign, and they have to pay extra attention to their words and actions. 3  Assumptions regarding a person's personality based purely on their date of birth are not necessarily correct.
Sagittarius seem to be guided by luck, good things happen to Sagittarius and this is usually because of their optimistic outlook and positive disposition which attracts good fortune. Despite hardships, Sagittarius is always optimistic that good things will happen tomorrow and the future carries good luck. She has a great attitude and always seems to be on the go. Sagittarius woman is for the man with lots of energy and creativity. She likes unconventionality and change, so whisk her away last second to somewhere unplanned and uncharted and she will remember you forever.
Freedom is so important to Sagittarius that they will actually make decisions based on the amount of freedom that is given by the choice they have made, as a result, sometimes a good opportunity is turned down because of it's high commitment need, but this is their choice so it is a good choice for them. She has a great attitude and always seems to be on the go. Sagittarius woman is for the man with lots of energy and creativity. She likes unconventionality and change, so whisk her away last second to somewhere unplanned and uncharted and she will remember you forever.
Versions. Sagas. The Sagittarius Gold Cloth is the Cloth of the Saints Aiolos in Saint Seiya and Saint Seiya: Episode G, Sisyphus in Saint Seiya: The Lost Canvas, and by Seiya (who briefly wore it in the Original Series) and by Kouga briefly in Saint Seiya: Omega.
Sagittarius (♐) (Greek: τοξότης Toxotes, Latin: Sagittarius) is the ninth astrological sign, which is associated with the constellation Sagittarius. Under the tropical zodiac, sun transits this sign between November 23 and December 21. The symbol of the archer is based on the centaur Chiron, who mentored Achilles in archery. Sagittarius, half human and half-horse, is the centaur of mythology, the learned healer who forms a bridge between human beings and beasts. Also known as the Archer, Sagittarius is represented by the symbol of an arrow.
Sagittarius women can easily get hurt but easily to forgive other and their self, tend to the attitude of love is not heavy. Striker born rebellious, fear of being bound, do not want to change for others, fear of compromise.Gentle is hidden inside. Sagittarius is Windfall, a rich life. Fear to fraud, hate hypocrisy. Sagittarius Women. Switch to the occasion in the late autumn early winter born Sagittarius, personality change, such as the climate between the evil that, irritable instability, strike unruly female character, slightly Hero spirit, and fickle but their appearance is an absolute lady.
People of this sign do many of the great things in the world, and when educated, well read, well informed and cultivated invariably achieve distinction and amass great fortunes. It is well for you in your relations with men and women to be frank and open, and always bright, cheerful and jovial. This is the last sign of the Fire Triplicity. As this is the sign of earnestness, honesty and frankness, I want to impress you with the fact that the Hindu Yogis give their whole lives to doing good; that all that I write here is for your good; I want you to be successful and happy.
A Mutable Quality is attached to the signs Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces. The Mutable Houses are the Third, Sixth, Ninth and Twelfth; if a horoscope shows a preponderance of planets in these houses, its energy is weighted toward mutability. Mutable Signs know how to go with the flow. 
Inquisitive and energetic, the Sagittarius is the traveler of the Zodiac. Their philosophical, broad-minded approach to life motivates them to wander far and wide in the search for the meaning of life. Extroverted, optimistic, and enthusiastic, it can be almost impossible to keep the Sagittarius down. They love change. In fact, change is essential for this sign to feel their best. Sagittarians are playful and love to have fun with their lovers. Passionate, expressive, and willing to try just about anything, partners who are equally outgoing are best suited to the Sagittarius.