The 1906 Ecuador–Colombia earthquake occurred at 15:36 UTC on January 31, off the coast of Ecuador, near Esmeraldas. The earthquake had a moment magnitude of 8.8 and triggered a destructive tsunami that caused at least 500 casualties on the coast of Colombia. The earthquake occurred along the boundary between the Nazca Plate and the South American Plate. The earthquake is likely to be a result of thrust-faulting, caused by the subduction of the Nazca plate beneath the South American plate. The coastal parts of Ecuador and Colombia have a history of great megathrust earthquakes originating from this plate boundary
Ecuador is a land of volcanoes and geological faults so Ecuador does have earthquakes. Here is an excerpt from a full report just emailed to our Ecuador Living subscribers. The recent earthquake in Haiti sent many readers scuttling to their keyboards so they could ask about earthquakes in Ecuador. San Francisco de Quito, most often called Quito, is the capital city of Ecuador in northwestern South America. It is located in north-central Ecuador in the Guayllabamba river basin, on the eastern slopes of Pichincha,[1] an active stratovolcano in the Andes mountains.
Quito, Ecuador, the site of many powerful earthquakes through the years, suffers one of its worst when a tremor kills 5,000 people and destroys some of the most famous buildings in South America, on this day in 1859. Quito’s history of earthquakes in modern times began with a monster tremor on February 4, 1797. 
Earthquakes. Earthquakes are the result of plate tectonics, or shifting plates in the crust of Earth, and quakes occur when the frictional stress of gliding plate boundaries builds and causes failure at a fault line. In an earthquake, elastic strain energy is released and waves radiate, shaking the ground. 
1 Off the coast of Ecuador, near Esmeraldas on January 31, 1906 with a magnitude of 8.8. 2  This earthquake produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia. 3  It was recorded at San Diego and San Francisco, where an earthquake in April of the same year had a magnitude of 7.8. 
Earthquakes that affect Ecuador can be divided into those that result from movement on the subduction interface along the plate boundary, those that result from deformation within the South American and Nazca Plates and those that are associated with active volcanoes. Earthquakes within the downgoing Nazca Plate, such as the M w 7.1 event of August 2010, are generally too deep to cause significant damage in Ecuador although they are felt over a wide area.
A magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia. It was recorded at San Diego and San Francisco.. Share this page: 1  Facebook. 8.8M. N.B: The magnitude for this earthquake has been recalculated since the following articles were written. Magnitude 8.8 is a better determination of the size of this earthquake. A catastrophic magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador and Colombia generated a strong tsunami that killed 500 to 1500 there. It was observed all along the coast of Central America and as far north as San Francisco and west to Japan.....The wave arrived in Hilo at about 12.5 hours after the earthquake
Earthquakes in Ecuador. Earthquakes in Ecuador today. All information you need to know about Ecuador. Find articles, news, videos, pictures, links and facts about Ecuador. Ecuador Earthquake latest breaking news and updates, information, look at maps, watch videos and view photos and more. Join the discussion on Facebook or Twitter and find more about temblor, tremor or quakes that have occurred in Ecuador quakes. 