The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution designed to guarantee equal rights for women. The ERA was originally written by Alice Paul and Crystal Eastman. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. Oregon-Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the state of Oregon or by any political subdivision in this state on account of sex.
The legal analysis for this strategy is outlined in The Equal Rights Amendment: Why the ERA Remains Legally Viable and Properly Before the States, an article by Allison Held, Sheryl Herndon, and Danielle Stager in the Spring 1997 issue of William & Mary Journal of Women and the Law. Alice Paul rewrote the ERA in 1943 to what is now called the Alice Paul Amendment, reflecting the 15th and the 19th Amendments: Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex..
The Equal Rights Amendment is not yet in the U.S. Constitution. The ERA, affirming the equal application of the Constitution to all persons regardless of their sex, was written in 1923 by Alice Paul, suffragist leader and founder of the National Woman's Party. Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.
1 Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. 4  Section 3. Alice Paul rewrote the ERA in 1943 to what is now called the Alice Paul Amendment, reflecting the 15th and the 19th Amendments: Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex..
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was the most highly publicized and debated constitutional amendment before the United States for most of the 1970s and early 1980s. First submitted by Congress to the states for ratification on March 22, 1972, it failed to be ratified by its final deadline of June 30, 1982. If ratified, the ERA would have become the Twenty-Seventh Amendment to the Constitution. The proposed addition would have read, Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.. The ERA was written by alice paul, of the National Woman's Party, and was first introduced in Congress in 1923
Equal Rights Amendment. A constitutional amendment originally introduced in Congress in 1923 and passed by Congress in 1972, stating that equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex.. 
Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). proposed amendment to the U.S. constitution passed by Congress and submitted to the states for ratification in 1971; outlawing discrimination based on gender, it was at first seen as a great victory by women's-rights groups. 
National Council of Women's Organizations. 1  Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. Alice Paul rewrote the ERA in 1943 to what is now called the Alice Paul Amendment, reflecting the 15th and the 19th Amendments: Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex..