1 The cost of your pet's spay/neuter surgery is a lot less than the cost of having and caring for a litter. 2  It also beats the cost of treatment when your unneutered tom escapes and gets into fights with the neighborhood stray! 3  Spaying and neutering your pet is good for the community. 1 It is highly cost-effective. 2  The cost of your pet's spay/neuter surgery is a lot less than the cost of having and caring for a litter. 3  It also beats the cost of treatment when your unneutered tom escapes and gets into fights with the neighborhood stray! 4  Spaying and neutering your pet is good for the community.
You heard me right. Do not spay or neuter your dog. Well, at least not right away. And not all dogs. My friend, Zeke's owner, he had a lot of questions about his new puppy. One question was pertaining to spaying and neutering. Zeke is a Llewellyn Setter. He is a breed of pointing dog. 
Check out our handy-and persuasive-list of the top 10 reasons to spay or neuter your pet! 1  Your female pet will live a longer, healthier life. 2  Spaying helps prevent uterine infections and breast cancer, which is fatal in about 50 percent of dogs and 90 percent of cats. 1 It is highly cost-effective. 2  The cost of your pet's spay/neuter surgery is a lot less than the cost of having and caring for a litter. 3  It also beats the cost of treatment when your unneutered tom escapes and gets into fights with the neighborhood stray! 4  Spaying and neutering your pet is good for the community.
Prevent a Litter-It's Good for Your Pet. 1  Spayed and neutered dogs and cats live longer, healthier lives. 2  Spaying female dogs and cats eliminates the possibility of uterine or ovarian cancer and greatly reduces the incidence of breast cancer. 3  Neutering male dogs and cats reduces the incidence of prostate cancer. Spay surgery also eliminates the heat cycle and associated mood swings and undesirable behaviors, messy spotting (in dogs) and the attraction of all available males to your yard. Five Good Reasons Why You Should Spay or Neuter Your Pet. 1) Spaying or neutering increases your pet's chances for a longer, healthier life.
Spaying / Neutering. Spaying is a general term used to describe the ovariohysterectomy of a female animal. Neutering is a general term used to describe the castration of a male animal. However, neutering is often used in reference to both genders. 
Why You Should Spay/Neuter Your Pet. Curb pet overpopulation and make your pet healthier. iStockphoto. Feral cats are victims of overpopulation. iStockphoto. The decision to spay or neuter your pet is an important one for pet owners. But it can be the single best decision you make for his long-term welfare. Getting your pet spayed or neutered can: 1  Reduce the number of homeless pets killed. 2  Improve your pet's health. 3  Reduce unruly behavior. 4  Save on the cost of pet care. Part of being conscientious about the pet overpopulation problem is to spay or neuter your pet rabbits, too. Rabbits reproduce faster than dogs or cats and often end up in shelters, where they must be euthanized. Neutering male rabbits can reduce hormone-driven behavior such as lunging, mounting, spraying, and boxing.
Many pet owners opt to spay or neuter their pets, and spaying and neutering are important for reducing pet overpopulation. If you decide to spay or neuter your pet, you have options. Discuss the options with your veterinarian so you can make a decision that's right for you, your family and your pet. The good news is that responsible pet owners can make a difference. By having your dog or cat sterilized, you will do your part to prevent the birth of unwanted puppies and kittens. Spaying and neutering prevent unwanted litters and may reduce many of the behavioral problems associated with the mating instinct.
Spaying-removing the ovaries and uterus of a female pet-is a veterinary procedure that requires minimal hospitalization and offers lifelong health benefits. Neutering-removing the testicles of your male dog or cat-will vastly improve your pet’s behavior and keep him close to home. Many states and counties have established low-cost spay/neuter programs that make surgery easily affordable and accessible. 1 It is highly cost-effective. 2  The cost of your pet's spay/neuter surgery is a lot less than the cost of having and caring for a litter. 3  It also beats the cost of treatment when your unneutered tom escapes and gets into fights with the neighborhood stray! 4  Spaying and neutering your pet is good for the community.