Statistics prove that wearing a seatbelt is safer than not wearing one at all. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, occupants of a vehicle have a 50% increase of fatal injuries if no seatbelt is worn. A seatbelt will also protect a person from whiplash. Injuries due to a person not wearing a seatbelt include abdominal injuries (if worn too high), skin abrasions and injuries to the carotid artery, throat and cervical spine. Injuries to the chest, shoulders and ribs are at high risk if not properly wearing a seatbelt. Seatbelts are important when it comes to the law
Not wearing a seat belt is punishable by law. Another reason why wearing a seat belt is very important is because it is a violation if any one person inside the vehicle does not wear one. Basically, all states in the U.S. have mandatory seat belt use laws to help encourage motorists to fasten their seat belts. They don t make it a habit to wear seat belts. Wearing a seat belt for them is very uncomfortable, either because it is too tight or that the shoulder strap cuts across the neck area of the driver or passenger.
It is extremely important for people to understand the significance of wearing a seatbelt. Perhaps understanding what it is that they do would be beneficial for people to know. Maybe even a personal experience I have endured would help people to understand how important seatbelts are as well. 
Drivers and passengers think that wearing a seat belt is not that important, especially when driving in short distances or when the traffic is visibly light. They tend to forget to wear them, especially when they are on the rush. They don t make it a habit to wear seat belts. Wearing a seat belt for them is very uncomfortable, either because it is too tight or that the shoulder strap cuts across the neck area of the driver or passenger.
The reason why wearing a seatbelt is important is because seatbelts are designed to protect, it is the law and statistics prove that wearing a seatbelt is safer than not wearing one at all, and wearing a seatbelt will save a person money on medical bills and related costs due to an accident. A seatbelt will also protect a person from whiplash. Injuries due to a person not wearing a seatbelt include abdominal injuries (if worn too high), skin abrasions and injuries to the carotid artery, throat and cervical spine. Injuries to the chest, shoulders and ribs are at high risk if not properly wearing a seatbelt. Seatbelts are important when it comes to the law
Wearing a seat belt every time you enter a vehicle is not only the smart thing to do it is the right thing because it saves lives, it's the law and it will save you money. Car accidents are the leading cause of death for people under the age of 35. Wearing a seat belt can prevent death in about half of these accidents. Did you know that every 15 seconds someone is injured in an automobile accident if they are not buckled up, or that every 13 minutes someone is killed in a crash. The Importance of Wearing a Seatbelt. We have all heard the excuses before, It's uncomfortable, I'm only going around the corner, I'd rather be thrown out of a car than be stuck in a seatbelt, and my favorite, I'm a good driver I don't need to wear one..
Reasons to Wear a Seat Belt. As you know, driver safety is very important. When you're behind the wheel, your actions will affect you, others in the car, and anyone else who happens to be on the road near you. One way to promote safety is to always wear your seat belt when the car is in motion.
Seatbelts are designed to protect drivers and all passengers. A three-point harnessed seatbelt will protect vital internal organs and bones. While properly wearing a seatbelt a person is protecting their ribs, spine, neck and skull. Along with those bones, a person is protecting organs such as their heart and brain. A seatbelt will also protect a person from whiplash. Injuries due to a person not wearing a seatbelt include abdominal injuries (if worn too high), skin abrasions and injuries to the carotid artery, throat and cervical spine. Injuries to the chest, shoulders and ribs are at high risk if not properly wearing a seatbelt. Seatbelts are important when it comes to the law
Therefore, whether you're in the driver's seat, the passenger's seat, or riding in the back, wearing a seat belt is equally important and should be incorporated on every single journey. Your life could be saved just by the simplest procedure of fastening your seat belt. Though there are many factors that can potentially cause an accident to take place (i.e. drinking and driving, texting while driving, poor weather conditions, etc.), there is one element that each driver and passenger can control and should constantly be conscious of—wearing a seatbelt.