The childhood vaccine is called DTaP. The whooping cough booster vaccine for adolescents and adults is called Tdap. Both DTaP and Tdap protect against whooping cough, tetanus, and diphtheria. 1 Childhood Whooping Cough Vaccine Protects Most Children for at least 5 Years [1 page] Updated Oct 2011. 2  Formatted, ready-to-print matte release summarizes a recent large study that shows DTaP vaccines do a very good job of protecting 4 through 10 year old children from pertussis.
1 Vaccination of pregnant women with Tdap is especially important to help protect infants. 2  Pregnant women should get the vaccine late in the second trimester or in the third trimester for each pregancy. 3  All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 1 In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 2  Whooping cough spells can leave adults gasping for breath and unable to sleep, and can cause cracked ribs and hospitalization.
1 The whooping cough booster is a combination vaccine with tetanus and diphtheria. 2  The vaccine is called Tdap. 3  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 1 In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 2  Whooping cough spells can leave adults gasping for breath and unable to sleep, and can cause cracked ribs and hospitalization.
1 The vaccine is called Tdap. 2  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 3  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 1 In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 2  Whooping cough spells can leave adults gasping for breath and unable to sleep, and can cause cracked ribs and hospitalization.
Top of Page. The best way to prevent pertussis (whooping cough) is to get vaccinated. There are vaccines for babies, children, preteens, teens, and adults. The childhood vaccine is called DTaP, and the pertussis booster vaccine for preteens, teens, and adults is called Tdap. Talk to your healthcare professional about getting vaccinated against pertussis and read more about pertussis prevention
Whooping cough is most contagious before the coughing starts, so the most effective way to prevent it is through immunization. The whooping cough booster vaccine for adults (and adolescents) is called Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis). Younger children get a different formulation, called DTaP. Both protect against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. 
Vaccine Recommendations. Health officials now recommend that adults and adolescents receive one dose of the Tdap booster vaccine to protect against whooping cough. It is especially important that those in contact with infants younger than 12 months of age are up-to-date with pertussis vaccinations. 1 Childhood Whooping Cough Vaccine Protects Most Children for at least 5 Years [1 page] Updated Oct 2011. 2  Formatted, ready-to-print matte release summarizes a recent large study that shows DTaP vaccines do a very good job of protecting 4 through 10 year old children from pertussis.
Tdap is a combination vaccine that protects against three potentially life-threatening bacterial diseases: tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). Td is a booster vaccine for tetanus and diphtheria. It does not protect against pertussis. 
1 Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 2  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 1 In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 2  Whooping cough spells can leave adults gasping for breath and unable to sleep, and can cause cracked ribs and hospitalization.
The Tdap vaccine can protect adolescents and adults against tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (whooping cough). Td (Tetanus Booster) vaccine can protect against tetanus and diphtheria, and has been used for many years as booster doses for adolescents and adults. 