Biodiesel is a fuel made from vegetable-based oils, such as soybean oil, canola oil, or recycled restaurant fryer grease. Biodiesel can be substituted for diesel fuel in most applications, and can be blended with diesel fuel in any ratio. 
July 30, 2013 - 2:43pm. Biodiesel is a domestically produced, renewable fuel that can be manufactured from vegetable oils, animal fats, or recycled restaurant greases. Biodiesel is a liquid fuel produced from renewable sources such as new and used vegetable oils and animal fats and is a cleaner-burning replacement for petroleum-based diesel fuel. It is nontoxic and biodegradable. Like petroleum diesel, biodiesel is used to fuel compression-ignition (diesel) engines.
Biodiesel. Biodiesel is a form of diesel fuel manufactured from vegetable oils, animal fats, or recycled restaurant greases. It is safe, biodegradable, and produces less air pollutants than petroleum-based diesel. Biodiesel can be used in its pure form (B100) or blended with petroleum diesel. Common blends include B2 (2% biodiesel), B5, and B20. Most vehicle manufacturers approve blends up to B5, and some approve blends up to B20.
Biodiesel is a renewable, biodegradable fuel that can be manufactured domestically from vegetable oils, animal fats, or recycled restaurant grease. It is a cleaner-burning replacement for petroleum diesel fuel. Biodiesel is a liquid fuel often referred to as B100 or neat biodiesel in its pure, unblended form. 
Biodiesel is defined as mono-alkyl esters of long chain fatty acids derived from vegetable oils or animal fats which conform to ASTM D6751 specifications for use in diesel engines. Biodiesel refers to the pure fuel before blending with diesel fuel. Made from a diverse mix of feedstocks including recycled cooking oil, soybean oil, and animal fats, it is the first and only EPA-designated Advanced Biofuel in commercial-scale production across the country and the first to reach 1 billion gallons of annual production.
Fuel Prices. Find biodiesel fuel prices and trends. Biodiesel is a domestically produced, renewable fuel that can be manufactured from vegetable oils, animal fats, or recycled restaurant grease for use in diesel vehicles. Biodiesel's physical properties are similar to those of petroleum diesel, but it is a cleaner-burning alternative. 
Biodiesel refers to a vegetable oil-or animal fat-based diesel fuel consisting of long-chain alkyl (methyl, ethyl, or propyl) esters. Biodiesel is typically made by chemically reacting lipids (e.g., vegetable oil, soybean oil, animal fat (tallow)) with an alcohol producing fatty acid esters. Biodiesel is meant to be used in standard diesel engines and is thus distinct from the vegetable and waste oils used to fuel converted diesel engines. Biodiesel can be used alone, or blended with petrodiesel in any proportions. Biodiesel blends can also be used as heating oil
Value from waste oil. Sustainable biodiesel can be best produced from recycled bio-based cooking oils and greases from food industry, restaurants and households, and used as fuel in normal diesel vehicles and for heating and/or cooling. 
Background. Biodiesel is a diesel replacement fuel made from new and used vegetable oils or animal fats that have been chemically reacted with an alcohol. In the United States, most biodiesel is made from soybeans. Biodiesel is also made from canola oils and from waste stream sources including used cooking oils or animal fats. 