Attractive to pollinators. Wonderfully fragrant leaves give off an anise scent when crushed, reminiscent of licorice candy! The lance-shaped leaves are a glossy, smooth dark green. S. odora has a tidy, clump-forming habit and is not weedy or aggressive in the garden. Attracts butterflies, bees, ladybugs, lacewings and other beneficial insects. Its high ecologial value and handsome appearance make it a valuable addition to wildflower gardens, meadows and naturalistic borders.
Other common names. Sweet goldenrod, wound weed, Blue Mountain tea, sweet-scented goldenrod, anise-scented goldenrod, true goldenrod. Habitat and range. The fragrant goldenrod is found in dry, sandy soil or pinelands from Nova Scotia south to Florida and west to Arkansas and Texas. Description. Fragrant goldenrod is a slender herb from 2 to 4 feet high with nearly smooth stems. The narrow, pointed, entire leaves, which have a pleasant anise odor when crushed, are 2 to 4 inches long and one-fourth to three-fourths of an inch wid
Goldenrod was recently named the state wildflower of South Carolina. The sweet goldenrod (Solidago odora) is the state herb of Delaware. Goldenrod was the state flower of Alabama, but it was later rejected in favour of the camellia. Floret corollas are usually yellow, but white in the ray florets of a few species (such as Solidago bicolor); they are typically hairless. Heads usually include between 2 and 35 disc florets, but in some species this may go up to 60. Filaments are inserted closer to the base of the corolla than its middle.
Synonym(s): A smooth, tall, fragrant plant bearing crowded, cylindrical clusters of yellow flower heads along one side of slightly arching branches, Anise-scented goldenrod is a 2-5 ft. perennial with a neat form and rich, anise scent. The yellow inflorescence is usually one-sided, with the base wider than the tip. USDA Native Status: L48 (N). A smooth, tall, fragrant plant bearing crowded, cylindrical clusters of yellow flower heads along one side of slightly arching branches, Anise-scented goldenrod is a 2-5 ft. perennial with a neat form and rich, anise scent.
Anisescented goldenrod, Anise-scented goldenrod, Sweet goldenrod. A smooth, tall, fragrant plant bearing crowded, cylindrical clusters of yellow flower heads along one side of slightly arching branches, Anise-scented goldenrod is a 2-5 ft. perennial with a neat form and rich, anise scent. The yellow inflorescence is usually one-sided, with the base wider than the tip. USDA Native Status: L48 (N). A smooth, tall, fragrant plant bearing crowded, cylindrical clusters of yellow flower heads along one side of slightly arching branches, Anise-scented goldenrod is a 2-5 ft. perennial with a neat form and rich, anise scent.
Solidago species are perennials growing from woody caudices or rhizomes. Their stems ranges from decumbent (crawling) to ascending or erect, with a range of heights going from 5cm to over a meter. Most species are unbranched, but some do display branching in the upper part of the plant. Floret corollas are usually yellow, but white in the ray florets of a few species (such as Solidago bicolor); they are typically hairless. Heads usually include between 2 and 35 disc florets, but in some species this may go up to 60. Filaments are inserted closer to the base of the corolla than its middle.
Anise Scented Goldenrod, Solidago odora, is an excellent choice in dry shade. Named for the licorice fragrance given off by the leaves when crushed, the dense spires of golden-yellow flowers provide a burst of late season color. Native to dry open woods of the eastern U.S. and central Midwest.
Noteworthy Characteristics. Sweet goldenrod is easily identified by its anise-scented leaves. It is native to dry, sandy, open woods in the eastern U.S. In Missouri, it typically occurs in open woods, thickets, ravine slopes and bluff bases in the southeastern part of the state (Steyermark). Goldenrods are attractive to bees and butterflies. Goldenrods have been wrongfully accused of causing hay fever which is actually an allergic reaction to wind-borne pollen from other plants such as ragweed. This species is also commonly called anise-scented goldenrod or fragrant goldenrod.