Birch sap sugar is about 42–54% fructose and 45% glucose, with a small amount of sucrose and trace amounts of galactose. The flavor of birch syrup has a distinctive and mineral-rich caramel-like taste that is not unlike molasses or balsamic condiment or some types of soy, with a hint of spiciness. Making birch syrup is more difficult than making maple syrup, requiring about 100-150 liters of sap to produce one liter of syrup (more than twice that needed for maple syrup). The tapping window for birch is generally shorter than for maple, primarily because birches live in more northerly climates.
They drank the sap as a medicine for colds. Birch sap can be used to make syrup, but it requires 80 to 100 litres of sap to make one litre of syrup! Undiluted, birch sap can be used to make vinegar or birch beer. Birch is harvested in eastern Canada for pulp, sawlogs, and veneer logs; the wood is used for products such as paneling, tongue depressors, and cheese boxes. In British Columbia, paper birch is harvested for firewood. 
Bottle of Russian commercial birch sap. Birch sap or birch water is the sap directly tapped from birch trees, Betula alba (white birch), Betula pendula (silver birch), Betula lenta, Betula papyrifera, and Betula fontinalis. Birch sap is collected only at the break of winter and spring when the sap moves intensively. When fresh, it is a clear and uncoloured liquid, very similar to water, often slightly sweet with a slightly silky texture. After two to three days, the sap starts fermenting and the taste becomes more acidic. Birch sap is commonly known for its detoxifying, diuretic, cleansing and purifying properties. Heterosides present in birch sap release methyl salicylate by enzymatic hydrolysis which is analgesic, antiinflammatory and diuretic.
Birch tree water / juice – Health benefits of birch sap. Birch tree water or birch sap or birch juice is one of best juices you can drink. Birch water is the sap extracted from a birch tree, such as a North American Sweet Birch or a Silver Birch. The birch water is a slightly sweet, thin syrupy-watery liquid. The birch sap contains sugars (namely xylitol), proteins, amino acids, and enzymes.
While maple sap may be boiled down without the use of reverse osmosis, birch syrup is difficult to produce this way: the sap is more temperature sensitive than is maple sap because fructose burns at a lower temperature than sucrose, the primary sugar in maple sap. Making birch syrup is more difficult than making maple syrup, requiring about 100-150 liters of sap to produce one liter of syrup (more than twice that needed for maple syrup). The tapping window for birch is generally shorter than for maple, primarily because birches live in more northerly climates.
Birch syrup in Alaska is produced by collecting the sap from the paper birch and evaporating it to syrup. It takes an average of 100 gallons of sap to make 1 gallon of birch syrup. Maple syrup, by comparison, averages 40:1. The sap, containing only 1-1.5% sugar, looks and tastes much like water right out of the tree.
BIRCH Overview Information. Birch is a tree. The leaves of the tree, which contain lots of vitamin C, are used to make medicine. Birch is used for infections of the urinary tract that affect the kidney, bladder, ureters, and urethra. It is also used as a diuretic to increase urine output.
It is condensed from the sap, which has about 0.5-2% percent sugar content, depending on the species of birch, location, weather, and season. The finished syrup is 66% sugar or more to be classified as a syrup. Making birch syrup is more difficult than making maple syrup, requiring about 100-150 liters of sap to produce one liter of syrup (more than twice that needed for maple syrup). The tapping window for birch is generally shorter than for maple, primarily because birches live in more northerly climates.
Birch syrup is a savory mineral tasting syrup made from the sap of birch trees, and produced in much the same way as maple syrup. Making birch syrup is more difficult than making maple syrup, requiring about 100-150 liters of sap to produce one liter of syrup (more than twice that needed for maple syrup). The tapping window for birch is generally shorter than for maple, primarily because birches live in more northerly climates.