The main reason for this is that fossil fuels have been used to power our world for many decades. Fossil fuels are cheap and reliable sources of energy. They are excellent types of fuel to use for the energy base-load, as opposed to some of the more unreliable energy sources such as wind and solar. Cheap and Reliable
Advantages of Fossil Fuels. 1. Easily Available: Since these fossil fuels have been of such a great source of energy, more and more extractions are going on every day. The geologists all around the world are trying to find out mines of coals. The pressure is even more as the population is increasing day by day. Fossil fuels are the highest producers of calorific value in terms of energy. This is also one of the reasons why they are still preferred over the renewable sources of energy or the alternative sources of energy. 4. Stability: The fossil fuels are composed of the molecules of carbon, and hydrogen.
Advantages of fossil fuels. * major advantage of fossil fuels is their capacity to generate huge amounts of electricity in just a single location. * Fossil fuels are very easy to find. * When coal is used in power plants, they are very cost effective. Coal is also in abundant supply. * Transporting oil and gas to the power stations can be made through the use of pipes making it an easy task. * Power plants that utilize gas are very efficient.
The biggest advantage of using fossil fuels is that they can be easily stored and transported from one place to another. Large reserves of coal are therefore taken from the coal mines to the industries which are acres away from the mines. The petroleum is also taken to too far off power stations to produce energy. Fossil fuels are the highest producers of calorific value in terms of energy. This is also one of the reasons why they are still preferred over the renewable sources of energy or the alternative sources of energy. 4. Stability: The fossil fuels are composed of the molecules of carbon, and hydrogen.
1. Environmental Hazards: Environmental pollution is one of the major disadvantage of fossil fuels. It is a known fact that carbon dioxide, gas released when fossil fuels are burnt, is one of the primary gas responsible for global warming. 
Disadvantages of Fossil Fuels Pollution is a major disadvantage of fossil fuels. This is because they give off carbon dioxide when burned thereby causing a greenhouse effect. This is also the main contributory factor to the global warming experienced by the earth today. Advantages of Fossil Fuels. A major advantage of fossil fuels is their capacity to generate huge amounts of electricity in just a single location. Fossil fuels are very easy to find. When coal is used in power plants, they are very cost effective. Coal is also in abundant supply. Transporting oil and gas to the power stations can be made through the use of pipes making it an easy task
Fossil fuels include coal, oil and gas, they are formed out of organic matter (carbon) deposited and decomposed under the earth's surface millions of years ago. Some of the advantages of fossil fuels are -. Fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas are good fuels because they can be burned. These substances contain chemical energy that can be easily released to create thermal energy by burning them. Good for industry. Coal is a fossil fuel, so eventually the human race will use up this resource. Therefore, we will have to start using a different source of energy. Because it is a fossil fuel, it contributes to the greenhouse effect and gives off co2 emissions.