From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A fibroblast is a type of cell that synthesizes the extracellular matrix and collagen, the structural framework (stroma) for animal tissues, and plays a critical role in wound healing. Fibroblasts are the most common cells of connective tissue in animals. Fibroblasts and fibrocytes are two states of the same cells, the former being the activated state, the latter the less active state, concerned with maintenance and tissue metabolism. Currently, there is a tendency to call both forms fibroblast
Fibroblasts are by far the most common native cell type of connective tissue. The fibroblast synthesizes the collagen and ground substance of the extracellular matrix. These cells make a large amount of protein that they secrete to build the connective tissue layer. Cartilage. Cartilage is a specialized form of connective tissue produced by differentiated fibroblast-like cells called chondrocytes. It is characterized by a prominent extracellular matrix consisting of various proportions of connective tissue fibers embedded in a gel-like matrix.
CELLS: The most common connective tissue cells are: 1  Fibroblasts, which secrete collagen and other elements of the extracellular matrix. 2  Adipocytes, which store fat. 3  Mast cells, macrophages, and lymphocytes, cells with immune function which participate in inflammation. Ordinary connective tissue, or connective tissue proper , is a generalized form of connective tissue which contains all of the basic components of connective tissue in reasonable proportion, including cells (of several types), extracellular fibers, and extracellular ground substance.
In addition, the connective tissue of most organs contains blood vessels and cells of the immune system to provide metabolic support and protection against foreign pathogens. In most organs, fibroblasts synthesize most components of the connective tissue. 
Definition. A fibroblast is a cell that manufactures and maintains connective tissue, the structural framework that supports the organs of all animals. Fibroblasts secrete fibrous proteins and ground substance, which together form the extracellular matrix that is the basis of connective tissue. Depending on where they are and what type of connective tissue they're building, fibroblasts can secrete several different types of fibrous proteins: • Collagen is a tough, strong fiber that provides tensile and compressive strength to your organs and tissues. Collagen is the most abundant protein in the human body.
CELLS. The common cell types in connective tissue include: fibroblasts, mast cells, plasma cells, macrophages, adipocytes, and leukocytes. Slide 72 Tendon. Fibroblasts are the most common cell type of connective tissue. They produce both fibers and amorphous ground substance. The most numerous cell types are fibroblasts. In addition, other fibers such as collagen, elastic, and reticular fibers are present. Also, look for this type of connective tissue surrounding blood vessels and underlying the epithelium of the digestive tract.
Although connective tissue exists in a number of forms, all types have three basic structural elements -- cells, fibres and intercellular substance (ground substance). The most common cell types are fibroblasts, which produce fibres and other intercellular materials. 