Ultrasound technicians, also known as diagnostic medical sonographers, operate machines called sonographic scanners that create images of patients' internal organs. Sonographers can work in physicians' offices, clinics or hospitals, and night and weekend shifts may be required. 
Ultrasound technicians, also called diagnostic medical sonographers or sonographers, operate equipment that utilizes sound waves to create images of the body's internal structures. Most ultrasound technicians train through associate's degree programs, although bachelor's degree and certificate programs are also available. Employers often prefer to hire ultrasound technicians who hold professional certification, available in various specialty areas.
When people think of ultrasound technicians (also known as sonographers or ultrasound technologists), they often visualize the TV shows, movies, or ads they’ve seen where ultrasound is used during pregnancy to give parents a peek inside the womb to view the moving and growing baby. 
Ultrasound technologists (also known as diagnostic medical sonographers) have the knowledge and responsibility to perform ultrasound examinations utilizing a technology that creates detailed and dynamic images of the body’s internal organs using high frequency sound waves. The annual median salary for ultrasound technologists is $67,530, with a range of $46,930 to $93,850, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics as of May 2014. Technologists working in outpatient centers and specialty hospitals generally had slightly higher salaries than those working in other settings.
As an in-demand Ultrasound Technician you will find opportunity anywhere there is a hospital, physician’s office, or medical clinic. In addition, a career in Medical Sonography provides the opportunity to work in a high growth industry with the latest technology while helping people everyday. UltrasoundTechnicianExpert was created to provide information about how to become a Ultrasound Technician in your community as well as provide information about finding Ultrasound Technician jobs, ultrasound technician schools and more!
An ultrasound technician is a very valuable job in the world of health care. Also called a diagnostic medical sonographer, an ultrasound tech uses special machines and equipment that operate on sound waves to determine or diagnose medical problems for patients. UltrasoundTechnicianExpert was created to provide information about how to become a Ultrasound Technician in your community as well as provide information about finding Ultrasound Technician jobs, ultrasound technician schools and more!
Essential Information. Ultrasound technicians, also called diagnostic medical sonographers or sonographers, operate equipment that utilizes sound waves to create images of the body's internal structures. Ultrasound is commonly used in obstetrics, but it can also diagnose other medical conditions. Most ultrasound technicians train through associate's degree programs, although bachelor's degree and certificate programs are also available. Employers often prefer to hire ultrasound technicians who hold professional certification, available in various specialty areas.
Ultrasound technicians, also known as diagnostic medical sonographers, use high-frequency sound waves to create images of soft tissue in a patient's body. Physicians use these images to diagnose abnormalities and diseases in a patient. As an ultrasound technician, you'll help assess a patient's health using medical equipment that captures images using sound waves. Whether you want to work in obstetrics or vascular care, you'll find a degree and certification that prepare you for this career.
An ultrasound technician is an employee that uses sound waves to reflect images of the inside of the body. These images are used to help diagnose various problems and to aid the doctor in making a final diagnosis. In general we can say that ultrasound technician salaries are between $45000 to $66000 and above, with the initial earnings at around $40,000. However, there is an exponential increase up to $65000 until it reaches $85000 and above.
Training to become an ultrasound technician may be done through a formal education program or through military training. The most common training is an associate's degree program, although there are bachelor's degree and 1-year certificate programs available. Most ultrasound technicians train through associate's degree programs, although bachelor's degree and certificate programs are also available. Employers often prefer to hire ultrasound technicians who hold professional certification, available in various specialty areas.