Search. A misplaced modifier is a word, phrase, or clause that does not clearly relate to what it is intended to modify. In other words, a misplaced modifier makes the meaning of a sentence ambiguous or wrong. Here are some examples of misplaced modifiers (shaded): Sometimes, a misplaced modifier is not a mistake
Lesson Summary. To recap: - A modifier is a word, phrase or clause that modifies (or describes) another word. - Misplaced modifiers are modifiers that point to the wrong part of the sentence, changing its meaning from what you intend it to mean to something else. 
Misplaced Modifiers. A misplaced modifier is a word, phrase, or clause that is improperly separated from the word it modifies / describes. Because of the separation, sentences with this error often sound awkward, ridiculous, or confusing. Furthermore, they can be downright illogical. Example. The example above suggests that a gold man owns a watch. Misplaced modifiers can usually be corrected by moving the modifier to a more sensible place in the sentence, generally next to the word it modifies. Example. Now it is the watch that is gold.
Recognize a misplaced modifier when you see one. Modifiers are words, phrases, or clauses that add description to sentences. Typically, you will find a modifier snuggled right next to—either in front of or behind—the word it logically describes. Take the simple, one-word adjective blue. 
Writing has to be more precise than speaking, or it will be misunderstood. A misplaced modifier is simply a word or phrase describing something but not placed near enough the word it is supposed to modify. The modifying word or phrase is not dangling; no extra words are needed; the modifier is just in the wrong place. Incorrect: I had to take down the shutters painting the house yesterday. 
This page deals with modifiers. A modifier is a word or phrase that adds detail or description to a sentence. In the example sentences below, the modifiers are underlined. 1  I walked in and out of dozens of stores yesterday, searching for the perfect purse. 2  Shopping with Lisa today, I found a great purse. 
A misplaced modifier is a word, phrase, or clause that is improperly separated from the word it describes. Sentences with misplaced modifiers often sound awkward, confusing, or downright illogical. 
Before we delve into this fascinating topic, let's examine regular modifiers. Modifiers are words, phrases, or clauses that describe (modify) other words or groups of words. I love sandy beaches. I only drove to the beach. Sandy and only are modifiers. Sandy is an adjective modifying the noun beaches. Only is an adverb modifying the verb drove. I enjoyed the hot dog covered in mustard and relish. Covered in mustard and relish is a modifier. It is a participial phrase (adjective) modifying the noun hot dog.