The last recorded eruption occurred in 1708 during the Edo period. At this time, a new crater, along with a second peak, named Hōei-zan after the era name, formed halfway down its side. Mount Fuji is located at the point where the Eurasian Plate (or the Amurian Plate), the Okhotsk Plate, and the Philippine Plate meet. Those plates form the western part of Japan, the eastern part of Japan, and the Izu Peninsula respectively. Mt. Fuji stands at 12,388 ft/3,776 m high and is surrounded by five lakes: Lake Kawaguchi, Lake Yamanaka, Lake Sai, Lake Motosu and Lake Shoji. 
Mount Fuji is located near a subduction formed by the convergence of the Philippine and Eurasian Plates. It is believed that Mount Fuji began at least 700 000 years ago … . The 'current' phase of activity began about 10 000 years ago. This volcano is located at the mutual junction of three tectonic plates.
Mount fuji was formed from tectonic plates in the earth.    lIt does not lie on a plate boundary but it lies near where the Pacific plate, Philippine plate and Eurasian p … late meet. Which would make Japan a convergent boundary     . It is believed that Mount Fuji began at least 700 000 years ago … . The 'current' phase of activity began about 10 000 years ago. This volcano is located at the mutual junction of three tectonic plates.
Best Answer: It seems to be both. Mount Fuji is a composite volcano (stratovolcano) that was created through a series of volcanic eruptions. The volcano is above a subduction zone where the Philippine Sea plate is sinking beneath Japan. However, Mount Fuji is not solely generated by the subduction of plates. Report Abuse. Mount Fuji is located at the point where the Eurasian Plate (or the Amurian Plate), the Okhotsk Plate, and the Philippine Plate meet. Those plates form the western part of Japan, the eastern part of Japan, and the Izu Peninsula respectively.
Tectonic Plates. Mt. Fuji sits on a subduction zone of tectonic plates where the Philippine plate is sinking beneath Japan. A tear in the Philippine plate was discovered by scientists at the University of Kyoto, allowing high volumes of mantle to keep Mt. Fuji’s magma chamber filled. Mt. Fuji: Geology of a Volcano. Japan’s most famous volcano, Mt. Fuji was last active in 1707, but is still classified as an active, but dormant volcano. The country’s highest mountain at 12,390 feet, it is also Japan’s most recognized feature.
Confidence votes 301. Mount Fuji is located at the triple junction where the Amurian Plate, the Okhotsk Plate, and the Philippine Sea Plate meet. Those plates form the western part of Japan, the eastern part of Japan, and the Izu Peninsula respectively. Mount fuji was formed from tectonic plates in the earth.    lIt does not lie on a plate boundary but it lies near where the Pacific plate, Philippine plate and Eurasian p … late meet. Which would make Japan a convergent boundary     . 21 people found this useful.