The hereditary diseases list is an endless one. However in this article, you can find a few genetic disease examples. Advertisement. Hereditary diseases, also known as inherited diseases or genetic disorders, are diseases that are passed on from one generation to another through defective genes. These diseases are transmitted in the same family. Autosomal Dominant Diseases. There is a specific pattern of inheritance of genes in autosomal dominant diseases. The offspring inherits a copy of normal gene and mutant gene from its parents. Either of the parents may often suffer from a disease and thus the abnormal gene is passed on to the child.
List of Hereditary Diseases. There are numerous genetic diseases and disorders that are passed from the parent to the offspring. Some of these diseases may be congenital (present at the time of birth) or can even occur after a while. Autosomal Dominant Diseases. There is a specific pattern of inheritance of genes in autosomal dominant diseases. The offspring inherits a copy of normal gene and mutant gene from its parents. Either of the parents may often suffer from a disease and thus the abnormal gene is passed on to the child.
A single-gene disorder is the result of a single mutated gene. Over 4000 human diseases are caused by single-gene defects. Single-gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. Genomic imprinting and uniparental disomy, however, may affect inheritance patterns. Whether, when and to what extent a person with the genetic defect or abnormality will actually suffer from the disease is almost always affected by the environmental factors and events in the person's development.
Single-gene diseases run in families and can be dominant or recessive, and autosomal or sex-linked. Pedigree analyses of large families with many affected members are very useful for determining the inheritance pattern of single-gene diseases. Table 1 includes some examples of single-gene diseases. For example, identical twins with the same mutation in the gene associated with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, called DMD, can exhibit strikingly different disease phenotypes due to different patterns of X chromosome inactivation (Abbadi et al.
Genetic diseases are disorders that are inherited by a person from his or her parents or are related to some type of spontaneous genetic change. 1 So if a child inherits the disease, at least one of the parents has the disease as well. 2  It is possible for the gene to change by itself in the affected person. 3  This change is called a mutation. 4  Unaffected children of a parent with the disorder have unaffected children and grandchildren.
Types of Genetic Diseases. There are several types of genetic disorders. The way in which the disorder is inherited can help determine the risks it will have on a pregnancy and the risk of recurrence it will recur in future children. Risks for having a baby with a birth defect from a genetic abnormality may be increased when: These are also known as Mendelian inheritance disorders, from the first genetic work of Gregor Mendel. In these disorders, a single gene is responsible for a defect or abnormality. Single gene disorders usually have greater risks of inheritance.
Genetic Disease Related Diseases & Conditions. Medical conditions are often related to other diseases and conditions. Our doctors have compiled a list of ailments related to the topic of Genetic Disease. These conditions may be a cause or symptom of Genetic Disease or be a condition for which you may be at increased risk. 
The following is a list of genetic disorders and if known, type of mutation and the chromosome involved. The list of human genes includes genes not listed here, which also affect predisposition toward certain diseases. 