The example above suggests that a gold man owns a watch. Misplaced modifiers can usually be corrected by moving the modifier to a more sensible place in the sentence, generally next to the word it modifies. Example. Now it is the watch that is gold. Click on the link below to complete Exercise 3. Link to Exercise 3. DANGLING MODIFIERS. A dangling modifier is a phrase or clause that is not clearly and logically related to the word or words it modifies (i.e. is placed next to).
Search. A dangling modifier is a modifier that has nothing to modify. Remember, modifiers describe a word or make its meaning more specific. A dangling modifier is an error caused by failing to use the word that the modifier is meant to be describing. Here is an example of a dangling modifier (shaded): In this example, the missing word is we. A correct version would be: Logically, the wrong example suggests the cat read the letter
Search. A misplaced modifier is a word, phrase, or clause that does not clearly relate to what it is intended to modify. In other words, a misplaced modifier makes the meaning of a sentence ambiguous or wrong. Here are some examples of misplaced modifiers (shaded): Sometimes, a misplaced modifier is not a mistake
A misplaced modifier is a word, phrase, or clause that is improperly separated from the word it describes. Sentences with misplaced modifiers often sound awkward, confusing, or downright illogical. 
Lesson Summary. To recap: - A modifier is a word, phrase or clause that modifies (or describes) another word. - Misplaced modifiers are modifiers that point to the wrong part of the sentence, changing its meaning from what you intend it to mean to something else. Misplaced modifiers: A misplaced modifier, like it sounds, is a modifier that finds itself in the wrong part of the sentence. Take this: The fisherman left his live sack of bait on the dock. Live is the adjective modifier here, and it's misplaced because it's modifying the word sack, implying that the sack is alive.
Dangling Modifiers and How To Correct Them. Summary: This resource explains what a dangling modifier is and how to correct the problem. Contributors: Chris Berry, Karl Stolley. Last Edited: 2013-01-07 12:05:23. A dangling modifier is a word or phrase that modifies a word not clearly stated in the sentence. A modifier describes, clarifies, or gives more detail about a concept. Having finished the assignment, Jill turned on the TV. Having finished states an action but does not name the doer of that action
Recognizing Misplaced and Dangling Modifiers. Directions: In the exercise that follows, you will need to determine whether or not sentences contain misplaced or dangling modifiers. In a clear, logical sentence, you will find most modifiers right next to the words they describe: 
A dangling modifier is an ambiguous grammatical construct, whereby a grammatical modifier could be misinterpreted as being associated with a word other than the one intended or with no particular word at all. 
Misplaced Modifiers. A misplaced modifier is a word, phrase, or clause that is improperly separated from the word it modifies / describes. Because of the separation, sentences with this error often sound awkward, ridiculous, or confusing. Furthermore, they can be downright illogical. Click on the link below to complete Exercise 3. Link to Exercise 3. DANGLING MODIFIERS. A dangling modifier is a phrase or clause that is not clearly and logically related to the word or words it modifies (i.e. is placed next to).