Results. A sodium test checks how much sodium (an electrolyte and a mineral) is in the blood. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Your lab report should contain the range your lab use
Causes. Sodium plays a key role in your body. It helps maintain normal blood pressure, supports the work of your nerves and muscles, and regulates your body's fluid balance. A normal sodium level is between 135 and 145 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L) of sodium. Hyponatremia occurs when the sodium in your blood falls below 135 mEq/L. Many possible conditions and lifestyle factors can lead to hyponatremia, including: 1  Certain medications. 
Sodium. Sodium is regulated by the kidneys and adrenal glands. Low sodium levels are caused by kidney disease and adrenal disease, diuretics, diarrhea, and occasionally conditions that cause fluid buildup in the body; the most common cause of high sodium is dehydration. Normal sodium levels are 136 to 142 mmol/L. CO2 helps maintain the body’s acid-base balance (pH) in concert with sodium, potassium and chloride. Bicarbonate levels that are higher or lower than normal may signify an acid/base or electrolyte imbalance, often due to dehydration or drinking too much water. The normal range of CO2 is 23 to 32 mmol/L.
The normal range for blood sodium levels is 135 to 145 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L). The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. 
Sodium levels that are far from the normal range can be fatal, so knowing the level of sodium in the body is extremely important. Normal sodium levels indicate that the body is metabolizing properly, with the cells nourished adequately and nervous system is in check. Maintaining sodium levels at normal range is important in having good mood, mental clearness and general sense of happiness.
Normal Levels. Blood sodium levels are measured in terms of millequivalents per liter or (mEq/L). The normal range for blood sodium is 135 to 145 mEq/L, according to Medline Plus. A physician will often begin to monitor blood sodium levels when they drop lower than the 120 mEq/L range. While some adults can function sufficiently at these levels, many may have symptoms such as fatigue, lethargy, confusion, muscle cramps and nausea.
The mean value and range of 24-hour UNaV in each of these datasets were within 1 SD of our previous estimate. The combined mean and normal range of sodium intake of the 129 datasets were nearly identical to that we previously reported (mean = 158.3±22.5 vs. 162.4±22.4 mmol/d). Merging the previous and new datasets (n = 190) yielded sodium consumption of 159.4±22.3 mmol/d (range = 114-210 mmol/d; 2,622-4,830mg/d). 
A Normal blood sodium level is 135 - 145 milliEquivalents/liter (mEq/L), or in international units, 135 - 145 millimoles/liter (mmol/L). Excess sodium that is consumed in the diet will be excreted in the urine. Just like potassium and sodium, chloride can have fatal consequences when the increase or decrease is extreme. The normal serum range for chloride is 98 - 108 mmol/L. Increased chloride levels is 'hyperchloremia'. Elevated levels are seen in diarrhea, some kidney disease and sometimes in overactive parathyroid glands.
Back to Top Normal Results. The normal range for blood sodium levels is 135 to 145 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L). The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. 