Step 3: Cut up carrots and steam until tender – or steam turnips and carrots together. Step 4: When turnip & carrot are ready, put both in one bowl or saucepan and mash them together. Or you can mash them separately (food processor can also be used) and then mix them together. Step 5: Add s pices as desired. Step 3: Bake carrots at 350 F for approximately 45 minutes or until carrots have turned fork tender and have changed to a dark orange. Step 4: Puree, adding water as needed, and serve or freeze. You can also cut the carrots into little bits and serve as finger food. Or, freeze the carrot dices in a freezer bag.
Place the vegetables in the steamer and lower the steamer basket over the water once the water is boiling. Cover the steamer with a lid and lower the heat to medium to keep the water boiling. Steam the vegetables for 5 minutes and then check them by piercing them with a fork. They should pierce easily. If they do, remove a piece from the pot and crush it with the back of a fork to see if it will easily puree without lumps. Tips & Warnings. 1  Some vegetables may take longer to steam than others. 2  If the vegetable you are steaming is fibrous, such as asparagus or broccoli, puree it in a food processor to make sure there are no lumps that could become a choking hazard. 3  Make sure the puree has cooled thoroughly before feeding it to your baby.
1 Simmering-cover with water, and cook on high until soft enough for baby (about 5 minutes). 2  Microwaving-put them in a shallow bowl with 2 tablespoons water. 3  Cover with a lid or plastic wrap. 4  Microwave on high for 3 minutes, shake the container, and microwave at 1 minute intervals until carrots are tender. Homemade Baby Food Recipe. Steaming or microwaving carrots are the easiest methods to cook them. First peel the carrots because the peel has a bitter taste that baby probably won't like, unless you have purchased the baby carrots. Then cut the carrots into 1/2 inch slices.
Step 1: Combine the carrots, rice, onions, herbs, and salt in a bowl, and stir to mix well. Step 2: Add the milk (or yogurt) and egg yolks, and stir to mix. Step 3: Coat a 2-quart casserole dish with nonstick cooking spray, and spread the mixture evenly in a dish. Step 4: Sprinkle cheese over the top. Step 3: Bake carrots at 350 F for approximately 45 minutes or until carrots have turned fork tender and have changed to a dark orange. Step 4: Puree, adding water as needed, and serve or freeze. You can also cut the carrots into little bits and serve as finger food. Or, freeze the carrot dices in a freezer bag.
6. Steam the carrots until they are tender. This should take 5 to 10 minutes, depending on the size of the chunks. 1  You can check the carrots for doneness by sticking a fork into them. 2  If it slides in easily, the carrots are done. How to Steam Carrots. Three Methods: Steaming in a Steamer Basket Steaming in the Microwave Steaming in a Frying Pan. Steamed carrots are a quick and easy side dish that go well with almost any meal.
Steaming vegetables for baby food helps preserve the vitamins and minerals in the foods. Steaming vegetables for your baby's food means you know exactly what went into the food and how it was made. It may also save you money over jarred foods. Tips & Warnings. 1  Some vegetables may take longer to steam than others. 2  If the vegetable you are steaming is fibrous, such as asparagus or broccoli, puree it in a food processor to make sure there are no lumps that could become a choking hazard. 3  Make sure the puree has cooled thoroughly before feeding it to your baby.
Directions. Place baby carrots in 1/2-inch of water with butter, sugar, and salt. Bring water to a boil, cover pan, and reduce heat to simmer. Cook carrots 7 or 8 minutes, remove lid, and raise heat to medium high. Reduce water until it almost evaporates, a couple of minutes. Turn carrots in sauce and taste to adjust seasonings and serve. Recipe courtesy of Rachael Ray.
Step 3: Cook the Carrot. Bring water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Reduce heat (until bubbles are soft) and cook carrot until tender (about 10 to 15 minutes). Drain carrot and rinse with cold water for three minutes to stop the cooking process. Carrot is a very versatile veggie; after baby has mastered single-vegetable purees, you can mix carrots with a variety of fruits, other veggies, and meats. Look for firm carrots with a smooth exterior and a rich orange color. One medium carrot yields about three ounces of puree.