1 Urinalysis. 2  Your doctor uses urine tests to look for red blood cells, high levels of protein, and excreted minerals in the urine that may indicate kidney or urinary tract problems. 3  A sample of your urine is also likely to be checked for bacteria that cause infection. 4  Blood tests. 1 Your doctor uses urine tests to look for red blood cells, high levels of protein, and excreted minerals in the urine that may indicate kidney or urinary tract problems. 2  A sample of your urine is also likely to be checked for bacteria that cause infection. 3
Professional urine reagent test strips for the rapid determination of Ketones (URS-K), Glucose, Protein and pH (URI-3) plus Leukocytes, Nitrites, Ketones, Bilirubin, Blood, Urobilinogen, and Specific Gravity (URI-10) levels in urine. The URS-UTI is a single use test specific for detection of urinary tract infections. Glucose: Glucose should not be detected in normal urine. Small amounts of glucose may be excreted by the kidney. These amounts are usually below the sensitivity of this test but on occasion may produce a color between the negative and the 1/10 g/dL color blocks.
Seeing red urine is typically a sign that there is blood in the urine, a little blood can produce a dramatic color change, and can be a sign of something serious, like an infection or cancer, and it warrants a visit to your doctor or urologist. The Meaning Of Urine Color. Eating foods that can discolor urine, such as berries, beets and rhubarb, or taking certain medications makes it more likely that you’ll have harmless changes in your urine color. Urine gets its yellow color from a pigment called urochrome
A urine glucose test is used to indirectly determine whether your levels of glucose, or blood sugar, are within a healthy range. It's used to monitor both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. If your blood glucose rises above normal, your kidneys get rid of the extra glucose in your urine. That's why a urine glucose test may be able to determine whether your blood glucose is too high. If your test results are different from the normal value, you may not have a problem. To learn what the results mean for you, talk with your healthcare provider. Typically, urine glucose testing involves checking the color of a test strip to see if your
Test for glycosuria, the excretion of glucose in the urine. The test for urine glucose uses a small dipstick that changes color after it has been dipped in urine. Matching the color on the dipstick against a chart on the test package reveals whether there is glucose in the urine.
Say, for sugar test of urine,blue color indicates no sugar in the urine whereas red color indicates sugar is going out,and needs medical attention. This Color chart can be found on the label or the inside Urine test kit for particular test whether sugar,pregnency etc etc. TARBA · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. The colors on the urine testing strip indicate the different concentrations of sugar in the urine. for example, the dark brown shade indicates highest concentration(++++),whereas light blue indicates nil sugar in the urine.There are other shades inbetween indicating 1/2,1,1 1/2 percent sugar.
A urine glucose test may be done along with more sensitive and accurate blood tests. A urine test alone is not typically used to diagnose diabetes. Other tests that are used to diagnose diabetes or monitor blood glucose include blood glucose testing and an A1C blood test. If your test results are different from the normal value, you may not have a problem. To learn what the results mean for you, talk with your healthcare provider. Typically, urine glucose testing involves checking the color of a test strip to see if your glucose is too high.
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. 