Knowledge center. Hyperthyroidism, also known as overactive thyroid, is a medical condition caused by an abnormally high level of thyroid hormone in the bloodstream. The thyroid gland produces an excessive amount of thyroid hormones. The thyroid gland is located in the neck. Graves' disease. It is the most common cause. Graves' disease is an autoimmune condition in which the body's immune system mistakenly targets the thyroid gland and causes it to produce too much thyroid hormone.
Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which an overactive thyroid gland is producing an excessive amount of thyroid hormones that circulate in the blood. (Hyper means over in Greek). Thyrotoxicosis is a toxic condition that is caused by an excess of thyroid hormones from any cause. Thyrotoxicosis can be caused by an excessive intake of thyroid hormone or by overproduction of thyroid hormones by the thyroid gland.
Hyperthyroidism means your thyroid makes too much thyroid hormone. Your thyroid is a gland in the front of your neck. It controls your metabolism, which is how your body turns food into energy. It also affects your heart, muscles, bones, and cholesterol. 
The thyroid gland is a small butterfly-shaped gland located at the front of the neck below your Adam’s apple. It produces tetraiodothyronine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3), two hormones which control how your cells use energy. The process by which cells use energy is called metabolism. Other causes of hyperthyroidism include: 1  excess iodine (iodine is needed to make T4 and T3). 2  inflammation of the thyroid gland (thyroiditis causes T4 and T3 to leak out of the gland). 3  tumors of the ovaries or testes.
Hyperthyroidism, also known as over active thyroid and hyperthyreosis, is the condition that occurs due to excessive production of thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland. Thyrotoxicosis is the condition that occurs due to excessive thyroid hormone of any cause and therefore includes hyperthyroidism. Graves' disease is the cause of about 50% to 80% of case of hyperthyroidism in the United States. Other causes include multinodular goiter, toxic adenoma, inflammation of the thyroid, eating too much iodine, and too much synthetic thyroid hormone. A less common cause is a pituitary adenoma.
About Hyperthyroidism. The thyroid gland is a part of the body's endocrine (hormone) system — which is made up of the glands that help regulate many of the body's different functions. An overactive thyroid produces too much of the thyroid hormone thyroxine, which causes some of these functions to speed up. Hyperthyroidism is the medical term for an overactive thyroid gland. Too little thyroxine reverses the process and slows down the body's
Hyperthyroidism facts. 1  Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which there is an excessive amount of thyroid hormones. 2  Thyroid hormones regulate the metabolism of the cells. 3  Normally, the rate of thyroid hormone production is controlled by the brain at the pituitary gland. Thyrotoxicosis is a toxic condition that is caused by an excess of thyroid hormones from any cause. Thyrotoxicosis can be caused by an excessive intake of thyroid hormone or by overproduction of thyroid hormones by the thyroid gland.
1 Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which there is an excessive amount of thyroid hormones. 2  Thyroid hormones regulate the metabolism of the cells. 3  Normally, the rate of thyroid hormone production is controlled by the brain at the pituitary gland. Thyrotoxicosis is a toxic condition that is caused by an excess of thyroid hormones from any cause. Thyrotoxicosis can be caused by an excessive intake of thyroid hormone or by overproduction of thyroid hormones by the thyroid gland.
Graves' disease. The most common cause of hyperthyroidism is an autoimmune condition called Graves' disease. The body's immune system creates an antibody that causes the gland to make an excessive amount of thyroid hormone. Graves' disease runs in families, and usually affects younger women. Thyroiditis. 