1 A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 2  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 3  Overproduction of ACTH. 1 A problem with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. 2  A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 3  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 4
It is an important component of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and is often produced in response to biological stress (along with its precursor corticotropin-releasing hormone from the hypothalamus). Its principal effects are increased production and release of cortisol by the cortex of the adrenal gland. 237–241. In order to regulate the secretion of ACTH, many substances secreted within this axis exhibit slow/intermediate and fast feedback-loop activity.
ACTH is made in the pituitary gland in response to the release of another hormone, called corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), by the hypothalamus. In turn, the adrenal glands then make a hormone called cortisol, which helps your body manage stress. 1 A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 2  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 3  Overproduction of ACTH.
ACTH is made in the pituitary gland in response to the release of another hormone, called corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), by the hypothalamus. In turn, the adrenal glands then make a hormone called cortisol, which helps your body manage stress. 1 A problem with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. 2  A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 3  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 4  Overproduction of ACTH.
ACTH Stimulation Test. 1  ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone) is a hormone produced by the brain that stimulates the adrenal glands to release cortisol and other hormones. 2  Two medical conditions, Cushing’s disease and Addison’s disease, occur when the body’s regulation of adrenal gland hormones is altered. 1 ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone) is a hormone produced by the brain that stimulates the adrenal glands to release cortisol and other hormones.
These conditions include: 1  Cushing disease: excess cortisol that is due to an ACTH-producing tumor in the pituitary gland (usually a benign tumor). 2  Cushing syndrome: refers to the symptoms and signs associated with excess cortisol. 1 Cushing syndrome: refers to the symptoms and signs associated with excess cortisol. 2  In addition to Cushing disease, Cushing syndrome may be due to an adrenal tumor, adrenal hyperplasia, the use of steroid medications, or due to an ACTH-producing tumor located outside the pituitary (ectopic), such as in the lungs.
A test to measure ACTH is done to check for: 1  A problem with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. 2  A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 1 A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 2  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 3  Overproduction of ACTH.
Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: October 24, 2013. Adrenocorticotropic hormone is produced by the pituitary gland. Its key function is to stimulate the production and release of cortisol from the cortex of the adrenal gland. Adrenocorticotropic hormone is made in the corticotroph cells of the anterior pituitary gland. It is secreted in several intermittent pulses during the day into the bloodstream and transported around the body.
Why It Is Done. A test to measure ACTH is done to check for: 1  A problem with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. 2  A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 1 A problem with the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. 2  A high level of ACTH and a low level of cortisol (or low ACTH and high cortisol levels) could be caused by a problem with the adrenal glands. 3  Low levels of ACTH and cortisol could be caused by a problem with the pituitary gland. 4  Overproduction of ACTH.