OK-terminology misunderstanding, I think. If it is installed on the incoming water supply, would be a Pressure Regulator (to keep excess pressure in the public water mains from reaching your house system). Generally code requires it be an 80 psi setting, but some areas lower. If you are talking about the Inflow Control Valve (pressure control tank automatic fill valve) that is controlled by a pressure regulating tank on a hydronic furnace (hot water boiler), then the valve costs about $40, installation $100-200 as with pressure regulator and for same reasons.
1 On average, a pressure regulator can cost $40 to $120 for the materials and up to $150 to $225 to have a professional install a new regulator. 2  If you want to get an exact quote for your job, consider getting multiple quotes for free from HomeAdvisor.com. Tips to know: 1  To find out if you may require a water pressure regulator, you must do some tests on the water pressure of the main water supply to your house. 2  You may purchase a pressure gauge from a local hardware or home improvement store.
The cost to replace and install a water pressure regulating valve in Los Angeles ranges from $450 to $875 (parts and labor) depending on the regulator’s size. For example, a good quality 3/4″ pressure reducing valve costs between $100 to $150. Larger sizes cost more. If homeowners are unsure if they need a replacement, we can perform a water pressure reducing valve inspection. If we determine there is no need to repair or replace the valve, our fee is $70.
The cost to replace the water shut of valve varies based on if it  is to a sink, toilet, hose, or the entire house as well as the type  of pipe used. They can range from twe … nty dollars to around a  hundred dollars. 
what is the cost to replace a water pressure regulator valve. 
A water pressure reducing valve, also called a water pressure regulator, is designed to reduce incoming main water pressure levels in order to protect plumbing system components and reduce water consumption. For example, a good quality 3/4″ pressure reducing valve costs between $100 to $150. Larger sizes cost more. If homeowners are unsure if they need a replacement, we can perform a water pressure reducing valve inspection. If we determine there is no need to repair or replace the valve, our fee is $70.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Pressure Regulator Valve Installation project. For a basic 1 valve project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Pressure Regulator Valve ranges between $154.53 - $193.93 per valve. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Pressure Regulator Valve Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.