Definition of Relevant Evidence. Relevant evidence means evidence having any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence. 
Evidence is relevant if: (a) it has any tendency to make a fact more or less probable than it would be without the evidence; and (b) the fact is of consequence in determining the action. Relevance is ordinarily a necessary condition, but not a sufficient condition, for the admissibility of evidence. For example, relevant evidence may be excluded if its tendency to prove or disprove a fact is heavily outweighed by the possibility that the evidence will prejudice or confuse the jury.
Relevant Law & Legal Definition. Relevant means having some reasonable connection with something. When used in the context of a evidence law, it refers to the evidence's tendency to prove or disprove a matter of fact that is related to an issue in dispute in the case. A common basis for an objection to testimony or physical evidence is that it is irrelevant.
Relevant Evidence “means evidence having any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence.” See USCS Fed Rules Evid R 401, United States v. Rivera Calderon, 578 F.3d 78, 94 (1st Cir. P.R. 2009). 
Irrelevant evidence is that evidence that is deemed immaterial or not relating to the matter at issue. Irrelevant evidence is deemed impertinent to a fact or argument and it is not material to a decision in the case. Irrelevant evidence is commonly objected to and disallowed at trial. Evidence is ‘relevant’ when it has applicability to the issues presented in the case. Relevancy is that quality in evidence that makes it properly applicable to the truth or falsity of matters at issue between the parties. A fact is relevant when it helps to prove an issue. It is such evidence that bears directly upon the point of fact in issue and proves or has a tendency to prove the point alleged. Relevancy refers to the probative value of evidence and its relationship to the purpose for which it is offered to prove
Irrelevant. Unrelated or inapplicable to the matter in issue. Irrelevant evidence has no tendency to prove or disprove any contested fact in a lawsuit. adj. not important, pertinent, or germane to the matter at hand or to any issue before the court