1. to penetrate the interstices of a tissue or substance. 2. material deposited by infiltration. interstitial infiltrate. cellular infiltrate scattered evenly throughout the thickness of the dermis.
Soaking it Up = Infiltration Infiltration happens when water soaks into the soil from the ground level. It moves underground and moves between the soil and rocks. Some of the water will be soaked up by roots to help plants grow. The plant s leaves eventually release the water into the air through the plant s pores.
Infiltration is the unintentional or accidental introduction of outside air into a building, typically through cracks in the building envelope and through use of doors for passage. Infiltration is sometimes called air leakage. The leakage of room air out of a building, intentionally or not, is called exfiltration.
Infiltration is the process by which water on the ground surface enters the soil. Infiltration rate in soil science is a measure of the rate at which soil is able to absorb rainfall or irrigation. It is measured in inches per hour or millimeters per hour.nfiltration (Noun). The act or process of infiltrating, as of water into a porous substance, or of a fluid into the cells of an organ or part of the body. infiltration (Noun). The substance which has entered the pores or cavities of a body.
RECOMMENDED LESSONS: Infiltration Infiltration is the process by which precipitation or water soaks into subsurface soils and moves into rocks through cracks and pore spaces. As we mentioned before, the bulk of rainwater and melted snow end up infiltrated. But where does it go in the ground?
infiltration (Noun). The act or process of infiltrating, as of water into a porous substance, or of a fluid into the cells of an organ or part of the body. infiltration (Noun). The substance which has entered the pores or cavities of a body.
Medical Definition of INFILTRATION. 1. a: the act or process of infiltrating. 2.
Full Definition of INFILTRATE. transitive verb. 1. : to cause (as a liquid) to permeate something by penetrating its pores or interstices.2. : to pass into or through (a substance) by filtering or permeating. 3. : to pass (troops) singly or in small groups through gaps in the enemy line. 4.
Infiltration is the process by which water on the ground surface enters the soil. Infiltration rate in soil science is a measure of the rate at which soil is able to absorb rainfall or irrigation. It is measured in inches per hour or millimeters per hour. The rate decreases as the soil becomes saturated
infiltration. Definitions: 1. The act of permeating or penetrating into a substance, cell, or tissue; said of gases, fluids, or matter held in solution. 2. The gas, fluid, or dissolved matter that has entered any substance, cell, or tissue.3. Injection of solution into tissues, as in infiltration anesthesia.