Source Code Definition. Source code (also referred to as source or code) is the version of software as it is originally written (i.e., typed into a computer) by a human in plain text (i.e., human readable alpha numeric characters). 
Definition. Computer program written in a high-level language which is converted into object code or machine code by a compiler. Source code is the only stage where a programmer can read and modify a computer program. 
Source Code. Every computer program is written in a programming language, such as Java, C/C++ , or Perl. These programs include anywhere from a few lines to millions of lines of text, called source code. Source code, often referred to as simply the source of a program, contains variable declarations, instructions, functions, loops, and other statements that tell the program how to function. Programmers may also add comments to their source code that explain sections of the code.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Source code refers to the programming language one uses to write a program. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of programming languages, including C++, Java, and Unix. 
Hero Images/Getty Images. Definition: Programmers write software programs using a programming language (e.g., Java). The programming language provides a series of instructions they can use to create the program they want. All the instructions a programmer uses to build the program are known as source code. 
Definition of SOURCE CODE. : a computer program in its original programming language (as FORTRAN or C) before translation into object code usually by a compiler. 
The Android Source Code. Android is an open source software stack created for a wide array of devices with different form factors. 
Source Code. Every computer program is written in a programming language, such as Java, C/C++ , or Perl. These programs include anywhere from a few lines to millions of lines of text, called source code. 
n. Code written by a programmer in a high-level language and readable by people but not computers. Source code must be converted to object code or machine language before a computer can read or execute the program. Noun. 1. source code-program instructions written as an ASCII text file; must be translated by a compiler or interpreter or assembler into the object code for a particular computer before execution. ASCII text file-a text file that contains only ASCII characters without special formatting.