The Renaissance is thought of as beginning in Florence, Venice, and other Italian cities, with various historians dating the beginning as early as the late 13th century or as late as about 1350 or 1400. WEALTH OF ITALIAN CITIES: During the middle ages, Italy was the centre of trade in Europe. Merchants brought silk and spices from Asia and they became rich. Ideas and knowledge came with them. They used the knowledge to become patrons of the art.
The Renaissance began in Italy for a variety of reasons.   RUINS OF ANCIENT ROME: Throughout Italy their were ruins of ancient  Rome like art and architecture. WEALTH OF ITALIAN CITIES: During the middle ages, Italy was the centre of trade in Europe. Merchants brought silk and spices from Asia and they became rich. Ideas and knowledge came with them. They used the knowledge to become patrons of the art.
The Renaissance began in Italy, specifically in the Italian cities  of Florence and Venice. Many of the innovations created during the  Renaissance were made in Italy, like … the artwork and scientific  work of Leonardo da Vinci or the paintings of Raphael and  Donatello. + 142 others found this useful. WEALTH OF ITALIAN CITIES: During the middle ages, Italy was the centre of trade in Europe. Merchants brought silk and spices from Asia and they became rich. Ideas and knowledge came with them. They used the knowledge to become patrons of the art.
The European Renaissance began in Northern Italy in the 14th century. The Tuscan city of Florence is considered the birthplace of the Renaissance. Gradually, the movement spread from Italy to other parts of Europe. 
The Power of Money. It was in a handful of Northern Italian city states that the renaissance emerged. It would eventually spread to northern Europe but it was in Italy that the rebirth truly began. slide 1 of 2. The renaissance (~1350-1600) was marked by a return to classical ideas and culture. Artists, scientists, and scholars began to look back at the attainments of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome, study the classical texts, and create their own accomplishments using this knowledge.
Report Abuse. The Renaissance began in Italy for a number of reasons. 1.The Colosseum ruins in Rome made people want to learn more about ancient Rome. 2.Because the Italian language was much like the Latin language so it was easy to translate ancient Roman manuscripts. Answers. Best Answer: The Renaissance began in Italy for a variety of reasons. RUINS OF ANCIENT ROME: Throughout Italy their were ruins of ancient Rome like art and architecture. The ruins remind Romans about their glorious past.
The renaissance began in Italy earlier than it occurred in the rest of Western Europe. The cities of Florence, Genoa, and Venice supported the Arts to an extent unknown … in the rest of Europe. The Renaissance would begin a few centuries later in Western Europe but at that point, creativity in art, music, and science would slowly leave Italy and move north. Mozart, Bach, and others composed Germany. Rembrandt, Rubens, and Vermeer painted in Holland, and science moved to England and France.
Best Answer: Something of a misnomer-- the Renaissance started as art, education, trade, record keeping and invention began to influence life. We usually think of it beginning in Italy since Rome and the Vatican provided a ready focus of support for artisans and thinkers in addition to commercial centers like Venice. · just now. Report Abuse. The renaissance started in italy because it was at the crossroads of trade, where the silk road ended. Along with silk the silk roads brought it many people from other lands trying to sell there product along with selling there products they brought new idea's in medicine, art, and astronomy.