The national flag of Scotland, the Saltire or St. Andrew's Cross, dates (at least in legend) from the 9th century, and is thus the oldest national flag still in use. The Royal Coat of Arms of Scotland, used prior to 1603 by the Kings of Scotland was supported by two unicorns and the current royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom is supported by a unicorn for Scotland along with a lion for England. The unicorn is frequently found as an ornament on mercat crosses.
Saint Andrew is the patron saint of Scotland, Greece and Russia and was Christ's first disciple. There are around 600 pre-Reformation churches in England named after Saint Andrew, in contrast to Scotland's handful of churches of all denominations named after the saint. But, while the red Lion Rampant is the proper Royal flag for Scotland and the Thistle the national badge, official heraldic decrees state that the national flag and arms of Scotland are the Saint Andrew's Cross. Saint Andrew is patron of Russia and Greece but has special significance for the Scots.
The British flag incorporates the national symbols of three distinct countries, England, Scotland and Northern Ireland. In fact its name Union Jack emphasises the very nature of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as a union of nations. Thus we have the first flag of the union called, in fact, the Union Flag. What was meant to be a symbol of unity actually became a symbol of international controversy. The English resented the fact that the white background of their cross had disappeared and that the new flag had the blue Scottish background.
The Union Jack was the official flag from the Union of the Parliaments in 1707. But, while the red Lion Rampant is the proper Royal flag for Scotland and the Thistle the national badge, official heraldic decrees state that the national flag and arms of Scotland are the Saint Andrew's Cross. Saint Andrew is patron of Russia and Greece but has special significance for the Scots. The Declaration of Arbroath (1320), written by Scottish clergymen to Pope John XXII, was an appeal to the Pope against the English claim that Scotland fell within the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of York
The Flags of the UK and Ireland. The Flags of the UK and Ireland. As you travel around the British Isles, you may see many different flags that you will perhaps be unfamiliar with. This short article may help to clarify what those flags are and what they represent. This flag is the Royal Standard of the Kings of Scotland and is now only used officially on special state occasions to honour the presence of the Royal Family, although you may well see it displayed by supporters at football and rugby matches.. The Arms of Scotland.
St. Patrick's Cross, the flag of Ireland. The cross represented in each flag is named after the patron saint of each country: St. George, patron saint of England, St. Andrew, patron saint of Scotland and St. Patrick, patron saint of Ireland. The image below renders the idea of the union of the three flags forming one unified, transnational Flag. Thus we have the first flag of the union called, in fact, the Union Flag. What was meant to be a symbol of unity actually became a symbol of international controversy. The English resented the fact that the white background of their cross had disappeared and that the new flag had the blue Scottish background.
King James I merged it with the national flag of England in 1606 when the two kingdoms were united. It has become very popular in Scotland and is also used by the Scottish National Party. Scotland has another flag which depicts a red lion rampant on a gold background, as depicted on the Arms of Scotland. This flag is the Royal Standard of the Kings of Scotland and is now only used officially on special state occasions to honour the presence of the Royal Family, although you may well see it displayed by supporters at football and rugby matches.. T
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Symbols of the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man is a list of the national symbols of the United Kingdom, its constituent countries (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland), and the British Crown dependencies (the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man). 
The British Union Flag is commonly called the 'Union Jack' and is it represents the flags of the kingdoms of England and Wales, Scotland and of Northern Ireland. This flag is the Royal Standard of the Kings of Scotland and is now only used officially on special state occasions to honour the presence of the Royal Family, although you may well see it displayed by supporters at football and rugby matches.. The Arms of Scotland.
The unicorn is the national animal of Scotland. The Royal Coat of Arms of Scotland, used prior to 1603 by the Kings of Scotland was supported by two unicorns and the current royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom is supported by a unicorn for Scotland along with a lion for England. The unicorn is frequently found as an ornament on mercat crosses.