Metallic-Minerals with a metallic luster are opaque and reflective, like metal. The metal lic elements, most sulfides, and some oxides belong in this category. Submetallic-Describes a mineral that is opaque to nearly opaque and reflects well. Thin splinters or sections of submetallic minerals are translucent.
As one of the properties in minerals, there are different types of luster as there are different mineral categories. Luster is divided into two categories namely nonmetallic and metallic. Metallic minerals tend to have a shiny and opaque appearance. There are various sub-categories of luster in nonmetallic minerals.
Pitchy-Minerals with a tar-like appearence have a pitchy luster. Minerals with a pitchy luster are usually radioactive and have gone through the process of metamiction. Waxy-A waxy luster describes a mineral that appears as if it were coated with a layer wax.
Luster (or Lustre) is a description of the way light interacts with the surface of a crystal,rock or mineral-For example a metallic lustre or silky lustre.
Every mineral has a characteristic luster, but some minerals may have a different luster on different specimens. There is no scientific method to determine luster. Often, determining the luster of a particular specimen is personal; to some it may appear as one type of luster, and to others as a different type.
Such include cinnabar and sphalerite. There are minerals that have a completely nonmetallic luster. Thus type of luster gives minerals a nonmetallic appearance. An example of nonmetallic luster is adamantine, a type of luster where a mineral has a brilliant, shiny appearance with a hard diamond look. Such minerals may be translucent or transparent and include cubic zirconia and diamonds.
One simple way to classify luster is based on whether the mineral is metallic or non-metallic. Minerals that are opaque and shiny, such as pyrite, have a metallic luster. Minerals such as quartz have a non-metallic luster. Different types of non-metallic luster are described in Table below.
Minerals like pyrite that are opaque and shiny have a metallic luster. Minerals with a non-metallic luster do not look like metals. There are many types of non-metallic luster, six of which are described in Table 3.1.