1 Plumbers' rates vary significantly by location. 2  In some areas plumbers charge $45 -$75 an hour; in other regions the hourly rate can be $75 -$150. 3  Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 1 A plumber typically charges $200-$500 to install a standard utility sink if the basic hook-ups and vents are already in place, or $500-$1,300 or more to add he basic hook-ups; the utility sink itself can cost another $50-$900 or more.
The following table summarizes the average plumbing costs for a variety of repairs in the United States. These estimates may differ depending on regions, complexity, hourly rates and costs of materials. It is highly recommended to obtain at least three plumbing quotes from local service professionals for validation. Low Plumbing Cost. Depending on the given plumbing job, cheap repair does not necessarily save you money in the long run. Always hire a trustworthy plumbing service provider that is licensed by the relevant authorities and adheres to specific regulations and building codes.
Continue Reading. The cost of a plumber ranges from $160 to $430 for a typical job with the average cost per hour ranging from $45 to $150. This can include jobs like repairing faucets, toilets, sinks or bathtubs. Some plumbers may also charge a flat rate depending on the job. The quicker you address your problem, the better off you, and your wallet will be. It might not feel like a great investment when you see that rush jobs come with premium costs. But the alternatives can be apocalyptic. Click here for quotes on different types of plumbing jobs.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Plumbing Leak Repair project. For a basic 1 leak project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Repair a Plumbing Leak ranges between $149.19 - $187.83 per leak. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.
1 In some areas plumbers charge $45 -$75 an hour; in other regions the hourly rate can be $75 -$150. 2  Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 3  Either away, exact costs will depend on the complexity and type of work done. 1 A plumber typically charges $200-$500 to install a standard utility sink if the basic hook-ups and vents are already in place, or $500-$1,300 or more to add he basic hook-ups; the utility sink itself can cost another $50-$900 or more.
The average cost per hour for a plumber ranges from $45 to $150 per hour depending on the job, timing and location. Services may include drain cleaning, faucet replacement or installation, and toilet repair. Most states require plumbers to be licensed, and they typically provide a number you can call to verify that the license is current and that there are no active complaints against it. Any plumber you consider should also hold a current workers' compensation policy and a minimum of $500,000 liability insurance.
Their duties break out into two categories: plumbers who handle basic repairs (often in emergency situations), and plumbers who specialize in remodeling projects and additions. According to project data from HomeAdvisor members, the average cost to hire a plumber ranges between $169 and $434. Most states require plumbers to be licensed, and they typically provide a number you can call to verify that the license is current and that there are no active complaints against it. Any plumber you consider should also hold a current workers' compensation policy and a minimum of $500,000 liability insurance.
In addition to the service call and labor fee, homeowners will also need to pay for the cost of any necessary supplies to complete a plumbing repair or installation. When plumbing services are needed overnight, on weekends or holidays, homeowners may have to pay an additional fee or a higher rate per hour of service. The more difficult the job is for a plumber to tackle, the more time it will take. Most plumbers charge a flat-rate service call plus an hourly rate for their labor. The plumber may be able to break down their rate of labor into quarter-hours.
1 Most plumbers charge a two-hour minimum or a service call fee of $75 -$150, and some plumbers bill a flat fee per job instead of an hourly rate. 2  Either away, exact costs will depend on the complexity and type of work done. 1 A plumber typically charges $200-$500 to install a standard utility sink if the basic hook-ups and vents are already in place, or $500-$1,300 or more to add he basic hook-ups; the utility sink itself can cost another $50-$900 or more.