RESULTS: The characteristic radiographic appearance of a nasal septal abscess included a fluidcollection with thin rim enhancement, located within the cartilaginous nasal septum. After CT exam-ination, incision and drainage was performed in both patients, and appropriate antibiotic coverage wasinitiated. Promptdiagnosis and treatment, including incision and drainage and appropriate antibiotic coverage, arenecessary to avoid serious complications. N asal septal abscess is defined as a collection of purulentmaterialbetweenthecartilaginousorbonyseptumandthemucoperichondrium or mucoperiosteum. 1 Nasal septal ab-scessesoccurmorecommonlyafterminornasaltrauma 1 butmayalsoresultfromiatrogeniccauses 2 andsinonasal 3 ordentalinfec-tion. 4 Afterminornasaltrauma ..
Nasal septal abscess: unusual causes, complications, treatment, and sequelae. Matsuba HM(1), Thawley SE. Author information: (1)Department of Otolaryngology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110. Abscesses of the nasal septum are most likely to occur after trauma. Proper management of a nasal septal abscess requires prompt diagnosis, adequate surgical drainage, and parenteral antibiotics to prevent the potentially dangerous spread of infection and the development of severe functional and cosmetic sequelae. Without a history of prior trauma, physicians should be alert to other, less obvious causes for nasal septal abscesses. A rare case of an isolated sphenoid sinus infection leading to a nasal septal abscess illustrates the surgical treatment of these entities.
Please try again later. Here you can see swelling of nasal septum, highly congested, this is actually abscess, abscess at nasal septum. Here the treatment is incision and drainage of abscess. In case of nasal septum abscess, it need to be drained again & again for 3-4 days so that no necrotic tissue is left. Such abscess can be due to presence of any fur-uncle in nose or after hematoma in the septum.
Nasal septal abscess. Save page. A nasal septal abscess is a serious condition that is caused by bacteria. Trauma to the nose, or even nasal surgery, can leave the patient prone to develop a nasal abscess, which is basically a pocket filled with blood (haematoma) which has become affected by bacteria. Symptoms include nasal blockage, pain, redness over the nasal bridge, difficulty in breathing and fever.
CONCLUSION: Nasal septal abscess has a characteristic appearance on CT examination. Promptdiagnosis and treatment, including incision and drainage and appropriate antibiotic coverage, arenecessary to avoid serious complications. N asal septal abscess is defined as a collection of ... Promptdiagnosis and treatment, including incision and drainage and appropriate antibiotic coverage, arenecessary to avoid serious complications. N asal septal abscess is defined as a collection of purulentmaterialbetweenthecartilaginousorbonyseptumandthemucoperichondrium or mucoperiosteum. 1 Nasal septal ab-scessesoccurmorecommonlyafterminornasaltrauma 1 butmayalsoresultfromiatrogeniccauses 2 andsinonasal 3 ordentalinfec-tion. 4 Afterminornasaltrauma
In the setting of trauma to the anterior nasal septum, hematoma formation may occur. Although septal hematomas are rare, early diagnosis and treatment is important to prevent abscess formation, septal perforation, saddle-nose deformity, and potentially permanent complications. The Kiesselbach plexus, or the Little area, represents a region in the anteroinferior third of the nasal septum, where all 3 of the chief blood supplies to the internal nose converge. For more information about the relevant anatomy, see Nasal Anatomy. The nasal septum is normally 2-4 mm thick.
Etiology and symptoms [edit]. A nasal septal abscess is frequently a result of a secondary bacterial infection of a nasal septal hematoma. Individuals with this condition may also have fever, general malaise and nasal pain, including tenderness over the dorsum of the nose. A bilateral persistent nasal obstruction may also be present. 
Nasal septal hematoma is a condition affecting the nasal septum. It can be associated with trauma. Because the septal cartilage has no blood supply of its own and receives all of its nutrients and oxygen from the perichondrium, an untreated septal hematoma may lead to destruction of the septum. 