Secondary lactase deficiency. Secondary lactase deficiency is a shortage of lactase caused by a problem in your small intestine. It can occur at any age, and may be the result of another condition, surgery to your small intestine, or taking certain medication. Primary lactase deficiency is the most common cause of lactose intolerance worldwide. This type of lactase deficiency is caused by an inherited genetic fault that runs in families. Primary lactase deficiency develops when your lactase production decreases when your diet becomes less reliant on milk and dairy products.
lactase deficiency a deficiency of intestinal lactase, which causes abdominal distention and cramping and often diarrhea when milk is drunk. an inherited abnormality in which the amount of the digestive enzyme lactase is inadequate for the normal digestion of milk products, resulting in lactose intolerance, the inability to digest lactose (except for the bacterial breakdown of lactose in the large intestine).
People with lactose intolerance or lactase deficiency cannot metabolize lactose properly; they lack lactase, an enzyme required in the digestive system to break down lactose. Patients typically experience bloating, flatulence, and diarrhea after drinking milk. Lactase is a protein, an enzyme that is produced in the small intestine-it breaks down lactose. Individuals with lactose intolerance do not produce enough lactase. People with adequate amounts of lactase can break down lactose into glucose and galactose (a type of sugar) which are then absorbed into the bloodstream.
Lactase deficiency (medical condition): Lactose intolerance is a difficulty properly digesting lactose (milk sugar) and the various dairy products that ... Lactase deficiency: The condition resulting from the absence or deficiency of LACTASE in the MUCOSA cells of the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT, and the inability to break down LACTOSE in milk for ABSORPTION.
Secondary lactase deficiency-there is a problem with the small intestine that results in inadequate amounts of lactase production. Possible causes are intestinal surgery, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, chemotherapy, celiac disease and gastroenteritis. Lactase is a protein, an enzyme that is produced in the small intestine-it breaks down lactose. Individuals with lactose intolerance do not produce enough lactase. People with adequate amounts of lactase can break down lactose into glucose and galactose (a type of sugar) which are then absorbed into the bloodstream.
Causes of lactose intolerance. Lactose intolerance is usually the result of a lactase deficiency. Lactase is an enzyme (protein that causes a chemical reaction to occur) normally produced in your small intestine that is used to digest lactose. Primary lactase deficiency is the most common cause of lactose intolerance worldwide. This type of lactase deficiency is caused by an inherited genetic fault that runs in families. Primary lactase deficiency develops when your lactase production decreases when your diet becomes less reliant on milk and dairy products.
d-galactosidase; an enzyme in the intestinal mucosa that hydrolyzes lactose, producing glucose and galactose. lactase deficiency. a deficiency of intestinal lactase, which causes abdominal distention and cramping and often diarrhea when milk is drunk. an inherited abnormality in which the amount of the digestive enzyme lactase is inadequate for the normal digestion of milk products, resulting in lactose intolerance, the inability to digest lactose (except for the bacterial breakdown of lactose in the large intestine).
1 Lactose intolerance is caused by a deficiency of the intestinal enzyme lactase that splits lactose into two smaller sugars, glucose and galactose, and allows lactose to be absorbed from the intestine. 2  The primary symptoms of lactose intolerance are diarrhea, flatulence (passing gas), and abdominal pain. The enzyme that splits lactose into glucose and galactose is called lactase, and it is located on the surface of the cells lining the small intestine. Lactose intolerance is caused by reduced or absent activity of lactase that prevents the splitting of lactose (lactase deficiency).
Lactase deficiency: Lack of the enzyme lactase in the small intestine. Lactase is needed to digest lactose, a sugar found in milk and most other dairy products and also used as an ingredient in other foods. The most common symptoms of lactase deficiency are diarrhea, bloating, and gas. Treatment usually involves avoiding lactose in the diet or taking over-the-counter lactase supplements before eating foods that contain lactose.
Background. Lactose intolerance is a common disorder and is due to the inability to digest lactose into its constituents, glucose and galactose, secondary to low levels of lactase enzyme in the brush border of the duodenum. Lactase deficiency is the most common form of disaccharidase deficiency. Enzyme levels are the highest shortly after birth and decline with aging, despite continued intake of lactose. Within the animal world, nonhuman mammals usually lose the ability to digest lactose as they reach adulthood.