Neurotransmitters are endogenous chemicals which transmit signals from a neuron to a target cell across a synapse. They are what allows brain cells to communicate.
Types of synapses. The typical and most frequent type of synapse is the one in which the axon of one neuron connects to a second neuron by usually making contact with one of its dendrites or with the cell body. There are two ways in which this can happen: the electrical and the chemical synapses.
Information from one neuron flows to another neuron across a small gap called a synapse (SIN-aps). At the synapse, electrical signals are translated into chemical signals in order to cross the gap. Once on the other side, the signal becomes electrical again.
Neurons communicate by either chemical or electrical synapses. By far the predominant method is chemical though. The neuron releases a neurotransmitter like acetyl choline, gl … utamate, glycine and others to which the postsynaptic neuron or cell responds to.
A neuron is a specialized cell that can produce different actions because of its precise connections with other neurons, sensory receptors, and muscle cells. A typical neuron has four morphologically defined regions: the cell body, dendrites, axons, and presynaptic, or axon, terminals.
A nerve impulse is the transmission of a coded signal from a given stimulus along the membrane of the neuron, starting in the point where it was applied. Nerve impulses can pass from one cell to another, thus creating a chain of information within a network of neurons.
Neurons Communicate via the Synapse. Information from one neuron flows to another neuron across a small gap called a synapse (SIN-aps). At the synapse, electrical signals are translated into chemical signals in order to cross the gap. Once on the other side, the signal becomes electrical again.
A network of neurons (or neural network) is merely a group of neurons through which information flows from one neuron to another. The image below represents a neural network. Information flows between the blue neurons through electrical synapses.