Humayun Kabir. This paper reviews five important works on normative accounting theory-MacNeal (1939), Paton and Littleton (1940), Littleton (1953), Chambers (1966), and Ijiri (1975) - with emphasis on recognition and measurement issues in accounting. 
TOPIC: Discuss positive accounting theory and contrast it with normative accounting theory. Provide examples where. appropriate. The purpose of this essay is to provide an overview of positive accounting theory (PAT) and highlight how this theory differs to normative accounting theory. accounting as being meaningless or not decision useful and prescribe the use of more ‘useful’ systems of accounting mostly based on inflation adjustments. One of the issues which became the focus of some. normative theorists is how to derive the ‘true income’ (profit).
Normative Accounting. Normative accounting is a branch of accounting theory that is concerned with the differences between different accounting systems and the ways in which one system might be better than another. In positive accounting theory, for example, theorists tend to develop accounting principles and concepts according to a more scientific methodology of explaining and predicting the practice, rather than working to develop a more ideal system of accounting, according to Meditari Accountancy Research.
A basis of this theory is the execution of an accounting process and not the observation aspect. The use of a single formula to derive the value based income, is derived after undertaking several different approaches. 
Definition. A theory that is not based on observation, but on how an accounting process should be done. Researchers believe this theory utilizes several different approaches to end up with one correct accounting opinion. This method uses a formula to figure out income based on value, not cost. Nearby Terms. 1  normal spoilage. 2  normal temperat... 3  normal trade re... 4  normal yield cu... 5  normalization. 6  normalized earn... 7  normalized fina... 8  normative. 9  normative accou... 10  normative commi... 11  normative econo... 12  normative influ... 13  normative model. 14  normative state... 15  North. 16  North American 17  ... North American ...
Found This Helpful. The importance of accounting theory to a business' decisions vary according to the nature of its industry. For some businesses, especially in the financial sector, the effort to develop better accounting practices and adapt to new challenges of modern business are very important. In positive accounting theory, for example, theorists tend to develop accounting principles and concepts according to a more scientific methodology of explaining and predicting the practice, rather than working to develop a more ideal system of accounting, according to Meditari Accountancy Research.
Positive accounting is the branch of academic accounting research that seeks to explain and predict actual accounting practices. This contrasts with normative accounting, that seeks to derive and prescribe optimal accounting standards. 
Normative theories of accounting are not necessarily based on observation and therefore cannot (or should not) be evaluated on whether they reflect actual accounting practice. The conceptual framework of accounting is an example of a normative theory of accounting. E.g. a theory that prescribes the assets should be valued on the basis of market values rather than historical costs. Early development of accounting theory relied on the process of induction, that is, the development of ideas or theories through. observation.
Confidence votes 121. A Normative Theory expresses a judgment about whether a situation is desirable or undesirable, and is based upon some moray or standard. The world would be a better place if the moon were made of green cheese, is a normative statement because it expresses a judgment about what ought to be. A Positive Theory expresses an opinion on a condition, assuming w hat is, and that contains no indication of approval or disapproval and is not based on any standard. Notice that a positive statement can be incorrect.