For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Police Patrol Officer in the United States is $52,799, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Police Patrol Officer in the United States are expected to make less than $52,799. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 
Average Police Officer’s Salary in Canada. The table below details the hourly wages for Police Officers. The Canadian national occupation classification code (NOC) for this role is 6261. The 2014 full-time average hourly wage rate for occupations in protective services, which includes police officers, is $26.90. The 2014 corresponding median weekly wage rate is $960, giving an approximate full-time annual salary for this employment unit of $50,000. These occupations may also be of interest:
Average Police Officer Salaries. The average salary for police officer jobs in Ontario, CA is $38,000. Average police officer salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term police officer anywhere in the job listing. The police officer salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional police officer salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Within California there is a lot of variation in Police Patrol Officer salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in California and surrounding states, click on any one to find Police Patrol Officer Salaries for that area.
Average Police Officer salaries for job postings in Ontario, OH 44862 are 14% lower than average Police Officer salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Average police officer salaries for job postings nationwide are 51% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
A typical full-time annual salary for this occupation is in the region of $60,000 – $70,000. Employment prospects for police officers are good in Canada. The government forecasts that there will be a shortage of workers in this profession for the near future. The 2014 full-time average hourly wage rate for occupations in protective services, which includes police officers, is $26.90. The 2014 corresponding median weekly wage rate is $960, giving an approximate full-time annual salary for this employment unit of $50,000. These occupations may also be of interest:
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). 
According to the latest figures, the highest hourly average (median) wages are earned in London, Ontario at $39.00 per hour and the lowest average (median) wages are earned in Prince Edward Island at $27.28 per hour. The 2014 full-time average hourly wage rate for occupations in protective services, which includes police officers, is $26.90. The 2014 corresponding median weekly wage rate is $960, giving an approximate full-time annual salary for this employment unit of $50,000. These occupations may also be of interest: