A deficiency of lipoic acid, the E2 enzyme cofactor, has been described. A deficiency of the E2 enzyme has been described. The gene for the X protein of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex is located at 11p13 and has an autosomal recessive inheritance. Eleven cases of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex X protein deficiency have been documented. The E3 enzyme is mapped to 7q31-32 and has an autosomal recessive inheritance. 
(2). The organization of the subunits of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, which is located in the mitochondria in eukaryotic organisms, differs from that of gram negative organism. In gram negative organism, the complex is composed of 24 subunits of E2 that form trimers. Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is responsible for the first two reactions. First it decarboxylates pyruvate with the help of the coenzyme TPP to form hydroxyethyl-TPP. Secondly, the hydroxyethyl group is transferred to dihydrolipoyl transacetylase (E2) through the use of lipoic acid bound to a modified lysine residue.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency can have different inheritance patterns. When the condition is caused by mutations in the PDHA1 gene, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The PDHA1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is characterized by the buildup of a chemical called lactic acid in the body and a variety of neurological problems.
Their are five separate reactions catalyzed by the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, (see fig 3) with the overall reaction: Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is responsible for the first two reactions. First it decarboxylates pyruvate with the help of the coenzyme TPP to form hydroxyethyl-TPP. Secondly, the hydroxyethyl group is transferred to dihydrolipoyl transacetylase (E2) through the use of lipoic acid bound to a modified lysine residue.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) is a complex of three enzymes that convert pyruvate into acetyl-CoA by a process called pyruvate decarboxylation. Acetyl-CoA may then be used in the citric acid cycle to carry out cellular respiration, and this complex links the glycolysis metabolic pathway to the citric acid cycle. Initially, pyruvate and thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP or vitamin B1) are bound by pyruvate dehydrogenase subunits. The thiazolium ring of TPP is in a zwitterionic form, and the anionic C2 carbon performs a nucleophilic attack on the C2 (ketone) carbonyl of pyruvate.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase is the first component enzyme of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex contributes to transforming pyruvate into acetyl-CoA by a process called pyruvate decarboxylation (Swanson Conversion).
Pyruvate decarboxylation is also known as the pyruvate dehydrogenase reaction because it also involves the oxidation of pyruvate. This multi-enzyme complex is related structurally and functionally to the oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and branched-chain oxo-acid dehydrogenase multi-enzyme complexes. Initially, pyruvate and thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP or vitamin B1) are bound by pyruvate dehydrogenase subunits. The thiazolium ring of TPP is in a zwitterionic form, and the anionic C2 carbon performs a nucleophilic attack on the C2 (ketone) carbonyl
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) deficiency (PDCD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders associated with abnormal mitochondrial metabolism. The citric acid cycle is a major biochemical process that derives energy from carbohydrates. Pathophysiology. Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) converts pyruvate to acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA), which is one of the two essential substrates needed to produce citrate (see the image below). This diagram shows a simplified version of the citric acid cycle and shows the enzyme deficit.
The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the reaction that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA with the release of CO 2. The reaction is coupled to the reduction of NAD + to NADH 2 [ Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Reaction ]. The three components of the complex, E 1, E 2, and E 3 catalyze different steps. 