The cash flows from unearned revenue are recorded on the cash flow statement. Unearned revenue flows through the income statement, as it is earned by the company. One factor to keep in mind is to make sure the prepaid revenues are collected with cash, not with an accounts receivable. 
For example, a company that receives an advance payment of $100,000 for delivery of a product would book it as deferred revenue on its balance sheet. Once it delivers the product to the customer, the company would transfer the $100,000 from the deferred revenue account to regular revenue on its income statement. DEFINITION of 'Deferred Revenue'. Advance payments or unearned revenue, recorded on the recipient's balance sheet as a liability, until the services have been rendered or products have been delivered.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. unearned service revenue is on the balance sheet not the income statement so the answer is nowhere. service revenue is on the income statement under revenues. When you record unearned fees or revenue it only hits the balance sheet. Ex: Debit-Cash or AR (Asset Account) Credit-Unearned Revenue (Liability) It is a li … ability until the revenue is earned in which case you then Debit: Unearned Revenue Credit: Revenue/Sales Account (finally and income statement account!).
Revenue from completed business activities is entered as revenue on the income statement. Unearned service revenue must be recorded, but it is not entered as revenue on the income statement. Cash received for services that have not been provided is not considered true revenue until the income is earned.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: No, it goes on the balance sheet as a liability. Then, as the income is earned, the liability is debited and revenue is credited. A good example of this is in the credit card industry. When you earn miles, a portion of the fees the receive from the transaction is designated as deferred revenue. Such revenue is earned as miles are redeemed.
Balance Sheet. A balance sheet indicates a company’s financial position as of a specific date. The balance sheet indicates the company’s assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity. Unearned revenue appears on the balance sheet as opposed to the income statement. A company’s unearned revenue account represents an obligation for the company to provide the goods or services to the customer who has already prepaid. A company recognizes revenue when a sale is made or when the service is provided. Unearned revenue occurs when a company receives cash but has not yet provided the goods and services. Unearned revenue does not appear on the income statement with the company’s other revenues.
Accounting for Unearned Revenue. As a company earns the revenue, it reduces the balance in the unearned revenue account (with a debit) and increases the balance in the revenue account (with a credit). The unearned revenue account is usually classified as a current liability on the balance sheet. 
A company must recognize the earned portion of the unearned revenue as the service or goods are provided. For instance, a newspaper company receives $50 in advance for a 10-week subscription. This means it costs $5 per week to subscribe to the newspaper because $50 divided by 10 weeks is $5. A company recognizes revenue when a sale is made or when the service is provided. Unearned revenue occurs when a company receives cash but has not yet provided the goods and services. Unearned revenue does not appear on the income statement with the company’s other revenues.
A transportation company contracts to provide services to an after-school program for a fee of $24,000, and is paid $12,000 as half of the fee. The $12,000 in unearned service revenue is recorded as a liability on the income statement, and the appropriate portion entered as revenue after each completed month of service. Companies often create a separate category on income statements for unearned revenue. Unearned service revenue must be recorded, but it is not entered as revenue on the income statement. Cash received for services that have not been provided is not considered true revenue until the income is earned.