Electric Solenoids. In an automobile ignition system, the starter solenoid acts as a relay, bringing metal contacts into place to close a circuit. The starter solenoid receives a small electric current when the car's ignition is activated, usually by the turn of the key. How a Solenoid Works. A solenoid is a coil of wire in a corkscrew shape wrapped around a piston, often made of iron. As in all electromagnets, a magnetic field is created when an electric current passes through the wire.
Parts of Solenoid Starters in Automobiles. The solenoid starter system in an automobile is fairly simple. It consists of a battery from which the system's initial charge is derived, which is directly connected to the solenoid. Inside the solenoid are a pull-in coil (the larger coil) and a hold-in coil. The movement of the plunger causes the starter's drive gear to move into mesh with the flywheel ring gear. This is what causes the motor to turn. The hold-in coil generates a much weaker magnetic field and holds the plunger in place. This saves battery power and reserves most of the battery's life for starting the car.
Solenoid is the generic term for a coil of wire used as an electromagnet. It also refers to any device that converts electrical energy to mechanical energy using a solenoid. The device creates a magnetic field from electric current and uses the magnetic field to create linear motion. How a Solenoid Works. A solenoid is a coil of wire in a corkscrew shape wrapped around a piston, often made of iron. As in all electromagnets, a magnetic field is created when an electric current passes through the wire.
The starter solenoid works as a powerful electric relay. When activated, it closes the electric circuit and sends the battery power to the starter motor. At the same, the starter solenoid pushes the starter gear forward to mesh it with the engine flywheel (flexplate) ring gear teeth. Starting system simplified diagram. The starter motor requires a very high current to turn over the engine, that's why it's connected to the battery with thick (large gauge) cables (see the diagram). The negative (ground) cable connects the  -  battery terminal to the engine cylinder block, close to the starter.
A starter is an electric motor that turns over or cranks the engine to start it. It consists of a powerful DC (Direct Current) electric motor and the starter solenoid that is attached to the motor (see the picture). The starter motor is powered by the car battery. To turn over the engine the starter motor requires a very high electric current, which means the battery has to have sufficient power. Starting system problems are common and not all problems are caused by a faulty starter motor. Starting system simplified diagram. The starter motor requires a very high current to turn over the engine, that's why it's connected to the battery with thick (large gauge) cables (see the diagram). The negative (ground) cable connects the  -  battery terminal to the engine cylinder block, close to the starter.
A starter solenoid (or starter relay) is the part of an automobile which switches a large electric current to the starter motor, in response to a small control current, and which in turn sets the engine in motion. When low-current power from the starting battery is applied to the starter solenoid, usually through a key-operated switch, the solenoid closes high-current contacts for the starter motor and it starts to run.
1. Move the car to a position where you can access the starter solenoid. 1  Depending on the car, you may have to work from underneath it. 2  If you do, use ramps or jack stands and make sure that you follow all safety precautions. 4. Test a starter solenoid by applying current directly from the battery. 1  Remove the ignition switch wire from the solenoid and, using an insulated screwdriver, short the solenoid’s positive post to the terminal where the ignition switch connects. 2  Doing so will apply 12 volts directly from the battery.
1 Place the positive lead of the voltmeter at the positive solenoid connection and ground the voltmeter’s negative lead. 2  Then have a friend try to start the car. 3  When he or she turns the key, the voltmeter should read 12 volts. 4  If the starter isn’t getting 12 volts, the problem is with the battery or the ignition switch. 4. Test a starter solenoid by applying current directly from the battery. 1  Remove the ignition switch wire from the solenoid and, using an insulated screwdriver, short the solenoid’s positive post to the terminal where the ignition switch connects. 2  Doing so will apply 12 volts directly from the battery.
Common Solenoid Problems. Most vehicle starting problems are a result of a lack of current moving through the large magnetic coil of a starter solenoid. When you hear a clicking sound but the engine does not turn over, the battery does not have enough life to magnetize the large coil and pull the plunger into place. The movement of the plunger causes the starter's drive gear to move into mesh with the flywheel ring gear. This is what causes the motor to turn. The hold-in coil generates a much weaker magnetic field and holds the plunger in place. This saves battery power and reserves most of the battery's life for starting the car.