The suboccipital muscles are a group of muscles defined by their location to the occiput. Suboccipital muscles are located below the occipital bone. These are four paired muscles on the underside of the occipital bone; the two straight muscles (rectus) and the two oblique muscles (obliquus). The muscles are named. 1  Rectus capitis posterior major goes from the spinous process of the axis (C2) to the occipital bone. 2  Rectus capitis posterior minor goes from the middle of the posterior arch of the atlas to the occipit. 1 Rectus capitis posterior major goes from the spinous process of the axis (C2) to the occipital bone. 2  Rectus capitis posterior minor goes from the middle of the posterior arch of the atlas to the occipit. 3  Obliquus capitis superior goes from the transverse process of the atlas
There are four (4) muscles in the Suboccipital Group. They are the Rectus Capitis Posterior Major, Rectus Capitis Posterior Minor, Oblique Capitis Inferior, and Oblique Capitis Superior. Rectus Capitis Posterior Major Anatomical Attachments: Origin: Attaches to the spine of the second cervical vertebrae. The Suboccipital muscles as a Group (Rectus Capitis Posterior Major, Rectus Capitis Posterior Minor, Oblique Capitis Inferior and Oblique Capitis Superior) Vascular entrapment: According to Travell and Simons, the suboccipitals do not attribute to vascular entrapment.
Group of muscles located immediately below the occipital bone; include rectus capitis anterior muscle, rectus capitis posterior major and minor muscles, rectus capitis lateralis muscle, obliquus capitis superior and inferior muscles; innervated by suboccipital nerve. Synonym(s): musculi suboccipitales. suboccipital muscles, a small group of deep muscles in the upper cervical region at the base of the occipital bone that move the head. They include the rectus capitis posterior major, the rectus capitis posterior minor, the obliquus capitis inferior, and the obliquus capitis superior
We’re looking at a posterior view of the neck and also your head of course, you see here. And this is where the suboccipital muscles are located, just below this bone here, which is known as the occipital bone. Hence the name, suboccipital muscle. So in anatomy, we try to keep things very simple. 
The suboccipital triangle is a region of the neck bounded by the following three muscles of the suboccipital group of muscles 1  : Rectus capitis posterior major-above and medially. 2  Obliquus capitis superior-above and laterally. 3  Obliquus capitis inferior-below and laterally. The suboccipital triangle is a region of the neck bounded by the following three muscles of the suboccipital group of muscles :
The suboccipital muscles are located below your occipital bone, which lies in the lower back area of your skull. When the suboccipital muscles, which include the rectus capitis posterior major and minor and obliquus capitis superior and inferior, are strained or underdeveloped, pain in the head and neck are possible. Other causes of this discomfort include stress and incorrect posture.
Introduction. The suboccipital region is a muscle compartment, located inferior to the external occipital protuberance and the inferior nuchal line. These are anatomical landmarks on the occipital bone of the skull. The obliquus capitis inferior is the only suboccipital muscle that doesn’t have an attachment to the cranium. It instead inserts into the transverse process of the atlas on the inferoposterior part. Its origin is at the posterior tubercle of the posterior arch of the axis.