In 2010, Brasso brought out a new product, Brasso Gadgetcare. Gadgetcare is a versatile, non-abrasive gel that can be used on everything from LCD TV screens, laptop screens, computers, smart phones, and PDAs. The label of Australian Brasso lists Liquid Hydrocarbons 630g/L; Ammonia 5g/L, whereas the Material Safety Data Sheet for Brasso in North America lists: isopropyl alcohol 3-5%, ammonia 5-10%, silica powder 15-20% and oxalic acid 0-3% as the ingredients.
Brasso can also be used to polish out scratches in plastics 1  : It is used to polish CDs, DVDs, screens, and pools in order to repair scratches. 2  Brasso can also be used on Lego minifigures to remove markings. 3  Brasso has also been used by watch enthusiasts to polish scratches out of acrylic crystals on watches. The label of Australian Brasso lists Liquid Hydrocarbons 630g/L; Ammonia 5g/L, whereas the Material Safety Data Sheet for Brasso in North America lists: isopropyl alcohol 3-5%, ammonia 5-10%, silica powder 15-20% and oxalic acid 0-3% as the ingredients.
Share. Brass is any alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with zinc. In some cases, copper with tin is considered a type of brass, although this metal historically has been called bronze. This is a list of common brass alloys, their chemical compositions and the uses of the different types of brass. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. 
A multi-purpose metal polish for a variety of metals including brass, copper, stainless steel, chrome, pewter, and bronze. Brings luster to your home. Brasso Metal Polish is so gentle on most metals, it will not scratch or mar them, however, it is not recommended for use on aluminum. Excellent for cleaning, polishing, and protecting metals in one quick step. Clean every day and special occasion items for a long-lasting, brilliant shine. Brasso Brass, Copper and Metal Polish. Wipes away tarnish on most metals quickly and easily, leaving a brilliant shine. Use it on metal furniture, lamps, door handles, chrome and stainless steel trim, appliances, carpet rods, copper-bottom cookware, steel sinks, and more.
History [edit]. Brasso has been in use for over 100 years, and originated in Britain in 1905. In 1904 Reckitt & Sons ' senior traveller, W.H. Slack, visited the company's Australian branch, where he discovered such a product in use. The label of Australian Brasso lists Liquid Hydrocarbons 630g/L; Ammonia 5g/L, whereas the Material Safety Data Sheet for Brasso in North America lists: isopropyl alcohol 3-5%, ammonia 5-10%, silica powder 15-20% and oxalic acid 0-3% as the ingredients.
A. For unlacquered solid brass: 1. Apply brass cleaner (liquid, wadding or solid) using a clean, soft cloth, or use a jeweler's rouge pad. Apply cleaner to a small area at a time. Buff along the grain of the metal using a clean, soft cloth. 2. Quickly remove the cleaner by buffing the area with a clean, soft cloth
#19558 Page 1 of 7 Issue date 19-Dec-2012 Severe 4 Serious 3 Moderate 2 Slight 1 Minimal 0 MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET. 1. Product and Company Identification space Product Name BRASSO® Metal Polish space CAS # Mixture space This MSDS is not applicable for consumer use of our products. For consumer use, all precautionary and first aid language is provided on the product label in accordance with the applicable government regulation.
Brasso is a metal polish designed to remove tarnish from brass, copper, chrome and stainless steel. It is available either directly as a liquid or as an impregnated wadding pad. The label of Australian Brasso lists Liquid Hydrocarbons 630g/L; Ammonia 5g/L, whereas the Material Safety Data Sheet for Brasso in North America lists: isopropyl alcohol 3-5%, ammonia 5-10%, silica powder 15-20% and oxalic acid 0-3% as the ingredients.