One of the key differences between African and Asian elephants is the tusks. All African elephants, male and female, have tusks whereas only some Asian males have tusks. About 50% of Asian females have short tusks known as tushes – which have no pulp inside. Elephants use their tusks for a variety of tasks. Principally, they are formidable weapons against potential predators like the tiger (although tigers will only ever attack young or juvenile elephants) or in battle against other elephants.
The visible, ivory part of the tusk is made of dentine with an outer layer of enamel. Elephant ivory is unique which when viewed in cross-sections reveals criss-cross lines that form a series of diamond shapes. Elephants tusks never stop growing so some old bulls display enormous examples. Elephants use their tusks for a variety of tasks. Principally, they are formidable weapons against potential predators like the tiger (although tigers will only ever attack young or juvenile elephants) or in battle against other elephants.
The material in elephant tusks is called ivory, and these tusks grow as the animal grows. The ivory is formed from the dentine of the elephant, and also from that of the hippo … , the walrus, the narwhal, and the now-extinct mammoth. About 15% of female narwhals have these tusks. The truth is, scientists don't yet know why m … ost males have them, and most females don't. They do, however, know that the so-called tusk is really a tooth that has grown through the upper lip.
False! Only the tusks are made of ivory—an extremely dense dentine covered with a carveable calcified rind called cementum. The rest of the elephant’s teeth are made from enamel, dentin and pulp, like ours. Only two thirds of the elephant’s tusk is made of ivory and is visible while the elephant is living. The base of the tusk is embedded in the skull and made of pulp, blood and nerves —like the roots of our own teeth.
Usually in mammals tusks are enlarged canine teeth, but in elephants they are actually elongated incisors and are essentially no different from other teeth. One third of the tusk is actually hidden from view, embedded deep in the elephant’s head. Elephants use their tusks for a variety of tasks. Principally, they are formidable weapons against potential predators like the tiger (although tigers will only ever attack young or juvenile elephants) or in battle against other elephants.
Almost all male narwhals have a tusk, but only about 15 percent of female narwhals do. There's still so much we don't know, and the narwhal isn't the easiest animal to study. The narwhal tooth is the only straight tusk in the world -- all other known tusks are curved. It's also one of the only spiral teeth. The left tooth comes up through the jaw and corkscrews through the lip. The Narwhal Tusk. The narwhal's tusk isn't unique at first glance. Elephants, rhinos and walruses all have these long, protruding teeth. But this one is different from any other tooth you've ever seen. Contemplate your own teeth for a second.
Tusks have a variety of uses depending on the animal. Social displays of dominance, particularly among males, are common, as is their use in defence against attackers. Elephants use their tusks as digging and boring tools. Walruses use their tusks to grip on ice and to haul out on ice. Tusks are elongated, continuously growing front teeth, usually but not always in pairs, that protrude well beyond the mouth of certain mammal species. They are most commonly canines, as with warthogs, pig, and walruses, or, in the case of elephants, elongated incisors. In most tusked species both the males and the females have tusks although the males' are larger. Tusks are generally curved, though the narwhal 's sole tusk is straight and has a helical structure. In the elephant, the tusks were originally second incisors. Continuous growth is enabled by formative tissues in the apical openings of the roots of the teeth
The material in elephant tusks is called ivory, and these tusks grow as the animal grows. The ivory is formed from the dentine of the elephant, and also from that of the hippo … , the walrus, the narwhal, and the now-extinct mammoth. Ivory has been used for a number of decorative purposes. It has been carved into beads, buttons and a wide variety of ornament