Finally, the effect of the intestinal epithelial cell on T effector cell proliferation and differentiation are examined in the context of IBD with particular focus on T regulatory cells and the two-way interaction between the intestinal epithelial cell and certain immune cell populations. 
Intestinal Absorptive Cells. Absorptive cells, or enterocytes, are the predominant epithelial cell type lining the lumen of the small intestine and colon. These cells are specialized for absorption of nutrients across the apical plasma membrane and export of these same nutrients across the basal plasma membrane. Goblet cells, which stand alone within a surface epithelium, are a characteristic feature of the intestine (as well as the respiratory tract and the female reproductive tract). Epithelial cells which are specialized to secrete mucus are called mucous cells.
Structure [edit]. The epithelium is part of the intestinal mucosa layer. In the small intestine this takes the form of villi but these are not present in the colon. In both parts of the mammalian intestine, the mucosa is covered by a single layer of epithelial cells that is renewed every 4–5 days.
The mucosa of the small intestine is lined by a simple columnar epithelium which consists primarily of absorptive cells (enterocytes), with scattered goblet cells and occasional enteroendocrine cells. In crypts, the epithelium also includes Paneth cells and stem cells. The mucosa of the small intestine is characterized by evagination into plicae and villi, which increase the surface area for nutrient absorption, and by short tubular invaginations, the crypts, which provide a protected site for
Goblet cells are scattered among the absorptive cells in the epithelium of the small intestine and colon. These epithelial cells are specialized for secretion of mucus, which facilitates passage of material through the bowel. The name goblet refers to the cell's shape, narrow at the base and bulging apically. Goblet cells, which stand alone within a surface epithelium, are a characteristic feature of the intestine (as well as the respiratory tract and the female reproductive tract). Epithelial cells which are specialized to secrete mucus are called mucous cells.
Key points. 1  Intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) provide a physical and biochemical barrier that segregates host tissue and commensal bacteria to maintain intestinal homeostasis. 2  Secretory IECs support this function through the secretion of mucins and antimicrobial peptides. Sampling of luminal contents by IECs. Despite the barrier function supported by IECs (Box 2), the intestinal epithelium includes specialized adaptations that conflict with the concept of complete segregation between host immune cells and microorganisms.
Intestinal epithelial cells are the cell boundary between the external environment and tissues of the gastrointestinal tract. From this interface the epithelial cells have evolved processes that help guide whether inflammation or an immune response will occur in the intestines. Figure 1. Architecture of the intestinal epithelium. The intestinal epithelium is a single‐cell thick layer of columnar epithelial cells lining the villi and crypts of the small intestine and crypts of the large intestine.
THE HUMAN DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. EPITHELIAL CELLS. ORGANS. TISSUES. Epithelial cells are highly specialized cells that line the small intestine. They help with the process of absorption of water, glucose molecules and mineral ions. The cells surface if highly folded, since this greatly increases the surface area of the cell. A picture of the small intestine. TISSUES. A tissue is a group of similar cells performing a particular function. Simple tissues are composed of one type of cell, while; Compound tissues are composed of more than one type of cell.