(Redirected from Trust deed (real estate)). In real estate in the United States, a deed of trust or trust deed is a deed wherein legal title in real property is transferred to a trustee, which holds it as security for a loan (debt) between a borrower and lender. The equitable title remains with the borrower. 
DEFINITION of 'Warranty Deed'. A document that may be used to legally transfer property. A warranty deed states that the owner can legally transfer the property and that no other entity has a claim or lien on it. These deeds are typically used in property sales and make warranties about the property’s title.
A written instrument, which has been signed and delivered, by which one individual, the grantor, conveys title to real property to another individual, the grantee; a conveyance of land, tenements, or hereditaments, from one individual to another. 6th. The redendum is that part of the deed by which the grantor reserves something to himself, out of the thing granted, as a rent, under the following formula, Yielding and paying. 7.-5th. The conditions upon which the grant is made.
Warranty Deed In a warranty deed the grantor inserts covenants for title, promising that such title is good and clear. The customary covenants of title include warranty of seisin, Quiet Enjoyment, the right to convey, freedom from encumbrances, and a defense of the title as to all claims. 6th. The redendum is that part of the deed by which the grantor reserves something to himself, out of the thing granted, as a rent, under the following formula, Yielding and paying. 7.-5th. The conditions upon which the grant is made.
A general warranty deed not only conveys to the grantee all of the grantor's interest in and title to the property but also guarantees that if the title is defective or has a cloud on it, such as a mortgage claim, tax lien, title claim, judgment, or mechanic's lien, the grantee may hold the grantor liable. In a special warranty deed, the grantor guarantees to the grantee that the grantor has done nothing during the time he held title to the property that might in the future impair the grantee's title.
deed. Legal document (instrument) by which an asset owner (the grantor) transfers his or her right of ownership (title) in an asset to another party (the grantee). To be enforceable, a deed must (1) state on its face that it is a deed, (2) accurately describe the property which is the subject matter of the deed, (3) be validly signed (executed) in presence of the prescribed number of witnesses, and (4) be handed over (delivered) to the grantee as a deed.
A special warranty deed conveys the grantor's title to the grantee and promises to protect the grantee against title defects or claims asserted by the grantor and any persons whose right to assert a claim against the title arose during the period in which the grantor held title to the property. In a special warranty deed, the grantor guarantees to the grantee that the grantor has done nothing during the time he held title to the property that might in the future impair the grantee's title.
BREAKING DOWN 'Warranty Deed'. A warranty deed usually includes a legal description of the property, the names of the grantor (who is transferring the property) and grantee (who is taking ownership), and language conveying ownership from the grantor to the grantee. A warranty deed states that the owner can legally transfer the property and that no other entity has a claim or lien on it. These deeds are typically used in property sales and make warranties about the property’s title.
Definition. Legal document (instrument) by which an asset owner (the grantor) transfers his or her right of ownership (title) in an asset to another party (the grantee). To be enforceable, a deed must (1) state on its face that it is a deed, (2) accurately describe the property which is the subject matter of the deed, (3) be validly signed (executed) in presence of the prescribed number of witnesses, and (4) be handed over (delivered) to the grantee as a deed.
A deed is the written document which transfers title (ownership) or an interest in real property to another person. The deed must describe the real property, name the party transferring the property (grantor), the party receiving the property (grantee) and be signed and notarized by the grantor. The legal definition of the property being conveyed. This is contained in the deed where the grantor obtained title to the property and should be used in the deed where the grantor conveys the property exactly as written in the grantors deed unless not all of the property is being conveyed. Life Estate.