Wiktionary (4.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: compass rose (Noun). (Navigation) A graduated circle, usually marked in degrees, indicating directions and printed or inscribed on an appropriate medium. Today, the idea of a compass rose is found on, or featured in, almost all navigation systems, including nautical charts, non-directional beacons, VHF omnidirectional range systems, global-positioning systems, and similar equipment and devices.
Definition of COMPASS ROSE. : a circle graduated to degrees or quarters and printed on a chart to show direction. ADVERTISEMENT.
The Compass Rose is a tool used to show the directions on a map. It is as important as the key is to reading and interpreting a map. The official definition is as follows: A compass rose is a circle or similar design which includes graduated degrees or quarter points (intermediate directions), printed on a chart or map for reference. 
Compass rose. A compass rose, sometimes called a windrose, is a figure on a compass, map, nautical chart or monument used to display the orientation of the cardinal directions—North, East, South and West—and their intermediate points. Today, the idea of a compass rose is found on, or featured in, almost all navigation systems, including nautical charts, non-directional beacons, VHF omnidirectional range systems, global-positioning systems, and similar equipment and devices.
noun. 1  a circle or decorative device printed on a map or chart showing the points of the compass measured from true north and usually magnetic north. 1 a circle or decorative device printed on a map or chart showing the points of the compass measured from true north and usually magnetic north.
A common compass rose as found on a nautical chart showing both true north and magnetic north with magnetic variation. Also notice the correspondence between the thirty-two point rose (inner circle) and the modern 0-360° graduation. The rose term arises from the fairly ornate figures used with early compasses. Older sources sometimes use the term compass star, or stella maris (star of the sea), to refer to the compass rose.
Today, the idea of a compass rose is found on, or featured in, almost all navigation systems, including nautical charts, non-directional beacons (NDB), VHF omnidirectional range (VOR) systems, global-positioning systems (GPS), and similar equipment. The rose term arises from the fairly ornate figures used with early compasses. Older sources sometimes use the term compass star, or stella maris (star of the sea), to refer to the compass rose.
A compass rose is a design on a map that shows directions. It shows north, south, east, west, northeast, northwest, southeast, and southwest. On the compass rose above, only north is filled in. Fill in the rest of the directions on the compass rose, using the standard abbreviations: N=North, S=South, E=East, W=West, NE=Northeast, NW=Northwest, SE=Southeast, SW=Southwest.
A compass is an instrument used for navigation and orientation that shows direction relative to the geographic cardinal directions, or points. Usually, a diagram called a compass rose, shows the directions north, south, east, and west as abbreviated initials marked on the compass. When the compass is used, the rose can be aligned with the corresponding geographic directions, so, for example, the N mark on the rose really points to the north. Frequently, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in degrees are shown on the compass.