The ABO Blood Group System. There are four major blood groups determined by the presence or absence of two antigens – A and B – on the surface of red blood cells: 1  Group A – has only the A antigen on red cells (and B antibody in the plasma). 2  Group B – has only the B antigen on red cells (and A antibody in the plasma). In addition to the A and B antigens, there is a third antigen called the Rh factor, which can be either present (+) or absent (–). In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients.
AB0 blood grouping system. According to the AB0 blood group system there are four different kinds of blood groups: A, B, AB or 0 (null). Blood group A. If you belong to the blood group A, you have A antigens on the surface of your red blood cells and B antibodies in your blood plasma. Individuals have different types and combinations of these molecules. The blood group you belong to depends on what you have inherited from your parents. There are more than 20 genetically determined blood group systems known today, but the AB0 and Rh systems are the most important ones used for blood transfusions.
1 Blood group A individuals have the A antigen on the surface of their RBCs, and blood serum containing IgM antibodies against the B antigen. 2  Therefore, a group A individual can receive blood only from individuals of groups A or O (with A being preferable), and can donate blood to individuals with type A or AB. These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the blood group system. Some of these antigens are also present on the surface of other types of cells of various tissues.
Introduction. There are four main blood groups (types of blood): A, B, AB and O. Your blood group is determined by the genes you inherit from your parents. Blood group test. To work out your blood group, your red cells are mixed with different antibody solutions. If, for example, the solution contains anti-B antibodies and you have B antigens on your cells (you are blood group B), it will clump together.
O positive is the most common blood type. Not all ethnic groups have the same mix of these blood types. Hispanic people, for example, have a relatively high number of O’s, while Asian people have a relatively high number of B’s. The mix of the different blood types in the U.S. population is: In addition to the A and B antigens, there is a third antigen called the Rh factor, which can be either present (+) or absent (–). In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients.
Blood type (or blood group) is determined, in part, by the ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells. A blood type (also called a blood group) is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the blood group system. Some of these antigens are also present on the surface of other types of cells of various tissues. Several of these red blood cell surface antigens can stem from one allele (or an alternative version of a gene) and collectively form a blood group system
There are four main blood groups defined by the ABO system: 1  blood group A has A antigens on the red blood cells with anti-B antibodies in the plasma. 2  blood group B has B antigens with anti-A antibodies in the plasma. 3  blood group O has no antigens, but both anti-A and anti-B antibodies in the plasma. Blood group test. To work out your blood group, your red cells are mixed with different antibody solutions. If, for example, the solution contains anti-B antibodies and you have B antigens on your cells (you are blood group B), it will clump together.