Like all vaccines, Bordetella works by exposing your pet to a small dose of nonpathogenic bordetella bacteria either by injection or by nose drops. The intranasal vaccine usually contains a modified live parainfluenza virus and a strain of Bordetella that does not cause disease. Due to the nature of their environment, dog parks, boarding facilities and veterinary offices are likely sources of kennel cough, which is why boarding facilities require dogs and cats to be up-to-date on their Bordetella vaccine prior to lodging.
The Bordetella vaccine does not cover all strains of canine flu or upper respiratory infections, cautions Dunbar. It does cover the Bordetella bacteria, which is one of the most common causes of upper respiratory infections.. Due to the nature of their environment, dog parks, boarding facilities and veterinary offices are likely sources of kennel cough, which is why boarding facilities require dogs and cats to be up-to-date on their Bordetella vaccine prior to lodging.
Canine parainfluenza-Bordetella bronchiseptica vaccine immunogenicity. Chladek DW, Williams JM, Gerber DL, Harris LL, Murdock FM. The immunogenicity and safety of 3 serials of a canine parainfluenza (CPI) virus-Bordetella bronchiseptica vaccine was evaluated. Each serial was used to vaccinate 10 dogs with single doses given intranasally. Dogs showed a primary serologic response to CPI virus and B bronchiseptica after vaccination and an anamnestic response to the bacterium after challenge exposure. Adverse local or systemic reactions attributable to the bivalent vaccine were not observed in the vaccinated dogs.
At Heritage Veterinary Clinic we offer two types of vaccinations for dogs. C3 vaccination covers Parvovirus, Distemper and Canine Infectious Hepatitis. A C5 vaccination covers those in a C3 vaccination plus additional cover for Bordetella and Canine parainfluenza virus.
Puppy Package 2: (5 in 1 DHPP) (8 to 11 weeks of age) $45.00 The 5 in 1 vaccination provides protection from Distemper, Hepatitis (Adenovirus type 2), Parainfluenza and Parvovirus. The package also includes a Bordetella vaccination which provides protection against kennel cough and deworming. Adult Dog Package 1: (6 in 1 DHLPP), Rabies, Bordetella and Heartworm occult $ 6 5.00 * (6 months of age and older) The 6 in 1 vaccination provides protection from Distemper, Hepatitis (Adenovirus type 2), Parainfluenza, Parvovirus, and Leptospirosis.
Along with Bordetella bronchiseptica (a bacterium) and parainfluenza (a virus), canine adenovirus type 2 (CAV-2) is one of the reasons dogs get kennel cough, which can cause coughing, fever, and a runny nose. A vaccine against CAV-2 is readily available and generally a part of a combination vaccine for other diseases. 
For the vaccination of healthy dogs 6 weeks of age or older for the prevention of diseases caused by Canine Distemper, Adenovirus Types 1/2, Parainfluenza, Parvovirus and 4 strains of Lepto. Subcutaneous. Annual Revaccination: Modified Live. Do not vaccinate pregnant animals. For the vaccination of healthy dogs 6 weeks of age or older for the prevention of diseases caused by Coronavirus, Canine Distemper, Adenovirus Types 1/2, Parainfluenza, Parvovirus and 4 strains of Lepto. Subcutaneous. Annual revaccination: Modified Live/ Killed.
The Canine Parainfluenza Bb Vaccine is recommended for the vaccination of healthy dogs as an aid in the prevention of canine Upper Respiratory Infection (Kennel Cough) caused by canine Parainfluenza and Bordetella bronchiseptica. 1 The Canine Parainfluenza Bb Vaccine is an aid in the prevention of canine Upper Respiratory Infection (Kennel Cough) caused by canine Parainfluenza and Bordetella bronchiseptica.