Kielbasa is literally the Polish word for sausage, although native Poles consider it to be a generic term, much like asking for a non-specific soda in a restaurant. There are dozens of varieties available, so shoppers would need to know the specific name of the sausage they desire. Dried marjoram, which is often included in kielbasa. Kielbasa can be used in gumbo. Kidney beans, which can be served with rice and kielbasa. Garlic, which is used in making kielbasa. True kielbasa is stuffed in a large hot dog casing and precooked before being sold.
Kielbasa is also one of the most traditional foods served at Polish weddings. Popular varieties include: 1  kabanosy, a thin, air-dried sausage flavoured with caraway seed, originally made of pork. 2  kiełbasa wędzona, polish smoked sausage, used often in soups. 3  krakowska, a thick, straight sausage hot-smoked with pepper and garlic; its name comes from Krakow.  kraków Sausage is a staple of Polish cuisine and comes in dozens of varieties, smoked or fresh, made with pork, beef, turkey, lamb, chicken or veal with every region having its own speciality. Of these, the Kiełbasa Lisiecka, produced in Małopolskie, has, since late 2010 had PGI protection.
Polish for sausage. This Polish sausage comes in a few varieties, fresh, smoked, mostly containing pork, but may also contain beef. They are flavored with garlic, pimento and cloves. Kielbasa comes in thick 2-inch diameter links, and is usually sold precooked, and sometimes fresh. 
It is also often misunderstood. Kielbasa is the Polish general name for “a sausage”. You can not walk into a Polish store and say: “please give me a pound of kielbasa”. The sales lady surrounded by 50 different kinds of kielbasa will inevitably reply: “yes, but which one”? It is like going into a deli and asking for some cheese. If you add an ingredient that you or your children like into your sausage it is fine and you have the full right to say that you have made a better sausage than the famous Polish Smoked Sausage. You may say that your grandfather who came from Poland made the best Polish sausage in the world and we honor that.
Directions. 1  If the kielbasa is frozen, thaw it a little. 2  Place fresh kielbasa in pot with 1 quartered onion, several peppercorns, garlic cloves, 1 teaspoon marjoram (optional) and half a bay leaf. 3  The addition of spices helps replace the seasoning that boils out during cooking. 4  Add enough boiling water to cover. 1 If the kielbasa is frozen, thaw it a little. 2  Place fresh kielbasa in pot with 1 quartered onion, several peppercorns, garlic cloves, 1 teaspoon marjoram (optional) and half a bay leaf. 3  The addition of spices helps replace the seasoning that boils out during cooking
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Kielbasa sausage is simply Polish sausage, word kielbasa means sausage in Polish. Polish sausage is usually made of pork with spices and garlic and slowly smoked in the wood smoker. Andouille is  considered to be a Cajun type of sausage that is mostly used in  jambalaya and gumbo. Kielbasa is a Polis … h sausage that can be made  of beef or pork that contains a small amount of clove and paprika.  It contains a heavy amount of garlic as well.
Sliced kielbasa can be combined with sauerkraut in a large pot and heated through on a stove top. Because this sausage is precooked, it can be boiled, pan-fried, broiled or grilled without concern about raw or undercooked pork. Dried marjoram, which is often included in kielbasa. Kielbasa can be used in gumbo. Kidney beans, which can be served with rice and kielbasa. Garlic, which is used in making kielbasa. True kielbasa is stuffed in a large hot dog casing and precooked before being sold.
Kielbasa: 1  Also known as kielbasy or Polish sausage. 2  Is commonly made of pork, or a combination of pork and beef. 3  Has a strong garlic flavor, along with pimentos, cloves, or marjoram. 4  Is often paired with sauerkraut. 5  Is either unsmoked or lightly smoked. 1