I have successfully made my own Dubbin: I rendered sheep fat for the tallow (beautiful white stuff-also good for cooking and preparing cast iron cookware), and then I added Beeswax and Neatsfoot oil and a few other extras. 1 DUBBIN Can be used over any non-sealing finish, such as spirit dyes and water based dyes as well as water based inks. 2  DUBBIN allows leather to become supple without loosing its shape-it helps the leather to stay alive and always as beautiful as new.
Dubbin is made from tallow, natural wax and OIL. The waxes commonly used are beeswax, paraffin or canubra. I used it for 10+ years on my lacrosse stick leathers, and I live in Oz :). No more explanations about how to use it, what it's amde of, etc, etc please. Lacrosse players use it on their equipment. Dubbin is primarily used to keep leather supple and somewhat waterproof and not as you say, to keep stitching in good condition. It's made from various ingredients, the most common being tallow (animal fat) and bee or paraffin wax.
1 DUBBIN brings out a deep glowing color in leather. 2  In un-dyed leather it will cause the leather to turn a golden honey color when exposed to light. 3  DUBBIN is very good for your hands-especially in winter. 4  I always apply it by hand-it allows me to regulate exactly how much I put on. 1 DUBBIN Can be used over any non-sealing finish, such as spirit dyes and water based dyes as well as water based inks. 2  DUBBIN allows leather to become supple without loosing its shape-it helps the leather to stay alive and always as beautiful as new.
Dubbin is used to waterproof and soften leather shoes. Dubbin is made from wax, oil and tallow. 1  Howto & Style. 
While there are many proprietary products now on the market currently dubbin was originally a mixture of variously wax/fat and oil. It’s function, whatever the composition, is to soak into the leather and and form a flexible waterproof barrier. Dubbin. Home / Boot cleaning / Dubbin. This page was last updated: 15th March 2011. Dubbin, a contraction of the word ‘dubbing’ which describes the action of applying wax to leather (dub – to dress leather), dates back certainly to medieval times and is used to waterproof and soften leather.
This is a myth. Stitching is made from synthetic man made fibres and does not rot. Dubbin will make your boots slightly tacky/sticky, and dirt it likely to stick to it. It is thought that abrasion is likely to put addition stress on the stitching. However it is not the Dubbin itself that causes rotting. 
A common leather conditioner is dubbin. This is a waxy product that has been in use since medieval times. It was, and still is, used to soften leather and make it waterproof. It also deepens the color of the leather. Leather Conditioner Ingredients. A common leather conditioner is dubbin. This is a waxy product that has been in use since medieval times... 1  Caring for Your Leather Shoes.
A recipe for Dubbin. One of the disadvantages of living out in the sticks is that when and idea or urge pops into your head and you need to purchase something to complete it, you need to be patient. I had a bit of a browse on tinternet to find out if you could make it. turns out it is made from tallow, beeswax and fish or mink oil. Found a website where they make their own and got the recipe, tweaked it a bit and Bob's your uncle, got it made, Go Mel !!