Spirometry. Spirometry is the first and most commonly done lung function test. It measures how much and how quickly you can move air out of your lungs. For this test, you breathe into a mouthpiece attached to a recording device (spirometer). Lung Function Tests. Guide. Lung function tests (also called pulmonary function tests, or PFTs) check how well your lungs work. The tests determine how much air your lungs can hold, how quickly you can move air in and out of your lungs, and how well your lungs put oxygen into and remove carbon dioxide from your blood.
They provide your physician needed information to help diagnose disease, measure the severity of lung problems, recommend treatments, and follow your progress. Most insurance carriers, Medicare and Medicaid cover the cost of your PFT. A PFT is performed to: 1  Evaluate how well your lungs and airways function. 2  Diagnose certain lung disease, such as asthma or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 3  Evaluate a patient’s lung function before surgery. Before a Pulmonary Function test, it is important not to do anything that might disturb your lung function before your test. 1  Avoid smoking for several hours prior to your test. 2  Avoid heavy meals before your test. 3  Stop using inhalers, breathing treatments and sedatives for at least 4 hours prior to your test.
Pulmonary Function Testing (PFT) is a complete evaluation of the respiratory system including patient history, physical examinations, chest x-ray examinations, arterial blood gas analysis, and tests of pulmonary function. Pulmonary function testing in patients with neuromuscular disorders helps to evaluate the respiratory status of patients at the time of diagnosis, monitor their progress and course, evaluate them for possible surgery, and gives an overall idea of the prognosis.
Arterial blood gases (ABGs) are a helpful measurement in pulmonary function testing in selected patients. The primary role of measuring ABGs in individuals that are healthy and stable is to confirm hypoventilation when it is suspected on the basis of medical history, such as respiratory muscle weakness or advanced COPD. Pulmonary function testing in patients with neuromuscular disorders helps to evaluate the respiratory status of patients at the time of diagnosis, monitor their progress and course, evaluate them for possible surgery, and gives an overall idea of the prognosis.
The primary purpose of pulmonary function testing is to identify the severity of pulmonary impairment. Pulmonary function testing has diagnostic and therapeutic roles and helps clinicians answer some general questions about patients with lung disease. PFTs are normally performed by a respiratory therapist. Pulmonary function testing in patients with neuromuscular disorders helps to evaluate the respiratory status of patients at the time of diagnosis, monitor their progress and course, evaluate them for possible surgery, and gives an overall idea of the prognosis.
Respiratory Care. Our Respiratory Care Department offers a full range of inpatient therapeutic and diagnostic services, including a full range of pulmonary function testing. Our therapists also provide pulmonary education such as Living with COPD and the Asthma Awareness Program.. 
A A A. Lake Regional offers diagnosis and treatment options for individuals who have lung disease or respiratory conditions, such as COPD, asthma, bronchitis or emphysema. Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) measure how well the lungs are moving air in and out. 
Pulmonary function tests (also called PFTs or breathing tests) evaluate how well your lungs work. They help determine how much air your lungs can hold, how quickly you can move air in and out of your lungs, how deep of a breath you can take, and how well oxygen diffuses in and out of your lungs. Before a Pulmonary Function test, it is important not to do anything that might disturb your lung function before your test. 1  Avoid smoking for several hours prior to your test. 2  Avoid heavy meals before your test. 3  Stop using inhalers, breathing treatments and sedatives for at least 4 hours prior to your test.