1 Interior paint itself costs anywhere from $12-$50 or more a gallon, depending on the quality. 2  Painting a 12x12-foot room, both walls and ceiling, can require $25-$100 worth of paint, plus $10-$50 for primer, brushes, rollers, drop clothes and other supplies. A rate of no less than $1.80/sf including materials is realistic, acceptable and more than fair for a qualified professional to paint rooms with 9' ceilings. Expect to pay $1 extra per square foot for 9'- 15' and $2.50 extra for 15' +. Some additional costs for extreme conditions will raise that amount.
As a painting contractor or cost estimator, you want to know the accurate cost of painting work in a residential or commercial painting project. Our PaintCOST Estimator for Excel is the most effective, time-saving and complete painting estimator in the market today. You can now work in a single MS Excel environment to quickly create, build, and manage your cost estimates. Experience the built-in Space Calculator. Figure Material and Labor prices
The Brat’s Paint Cost Estimator’s core processes, calculations, and functionality are built using more than 30 years of experience and knowledge in the painting industry. Brat Paint Pro allows you to quickly and accurately create an on-site estimate for painting projects. 
Mural and Trompe L'oeil Costs. Specialty painting by the hour costs between $40 to $50 on average. Paint might range between $75 to $90, costing an additional $40 to $50 per hour. The painter's skill and experience are also determining factors in the cost of specialty painting. While a freelance artist might charge $25 to $30 an hour, a very skilled professional might charge $80 or more. Some painters might also charge $60 or more for a consultation. Paint costs will be determined by the quantity of paint and primer required to complete your project, as well as the quality of the paint you choose. You can use this paint calculator to estimate how much paint you will need..
For a basic 125 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint a House Exterior ranges between $1.25 - $2.63 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Paint a House Exterior! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your House Exterior Painting project.
Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost to paint a home interior is $1,671, with most homeowners spending between $966 and $2,426. Interior House Painting Cost Factors. Generally, it will take a minimum of two gallons of paint to cover a room. At the highest end, paint will cost anywhere between $30 and $60 per gallon and come in three different finishes: flat, semi-gloss or high-gloss. Flat finishes are the least shiny and are best suited for areas requiring frequent cleaning
Time for planning, equipment and material acquisition, area preparation and protection, setup and cleanup are also included. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint Rooms ranges between $2.63 - $5.60 per square foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 
1 For example, if it takes you 10 seconds per square foot to paint a bare wall, a wall 12 foot (3.7 m) long by 10 foot (3.0 m) high, plus the time it might take to mask the wall and reload your brush or roller, and you can estimate 40 minutes for that wall. Add this into your labor estimate. 1  For example, if running your office and paying your operating expenses costs $5,000 per year, and you expect to do 100 jobs in the year, to pass all the burden of expenses to your customers you would have to add $50 to every job. 2  Add in transportation and any other daily fees.