When the seeds are removed from the fruit, they may be covered with pulp or sugars. These materials need to be rinsed from the seeds to avoid fungus. The best way to do this is to place the seeds in a strainer, add two or three drops of dishwashing soap and use your fingers to rub them around the strainer. As long as the watermelon you are taking seeds from is not a hybrid, you should be able to produce watermelons exactly like the parent.
Iron. Roasted watermelon seeds come packed with iron. Just an ounce of seeds contains approximately 2 milligrams of iron -- 25 percent of the recommended daily iron intake for men and 11 percent of the RDA for women, according to the NYU Langone Medical Center. Like many other seeds and nuts, watermelon seeds provide a source of healthy unsaturated fat. The seeds' main benefits, though, come from their mineral content. Consume roasted watermelon seeds as a source of essential minerals to help maintain healthy tissue and prevent disease.
Watermelon Seeds. There are many benefits to eating watermelon, but many may be unaware of the benefits of eating watermelon seeds. The next time you eat a watermelon containing seeds, don't spit the seeds out and throw them away. Instead, use them to make a healthy snack or beverage. Watermelon seeds are packed with nutrients. Learn what they are and see why eating watermelon seeds can benefit your health. Know how to roast the seeds and how to prepare a healthy cup of tea with them.
Although many people spit out the seeds when eating watermelon, these small kernels can be a rich source of nutrition. Watermelon seeds are not optimal for every diet plan due to the rich fat content, but watermelon seeds do provide nutritional benefits that can make them a valuable addition to your diet plan. Watermelon seeds can be healthy for you because they are a rich source of dietary fat. Each 1 oz. serving of watermelon seeds provides 13.4 g of dietary fat. Most of this fat is unsaturated, as only 2.7 g comes from saturated fat, which may increase your risk of heart disease
Watermelon Seed Tea. Besides eating watermelon seeds, you can prepare a cup of tea. Watermelon seed tea is said to be a diuretic and can benefit the kidneys. Pour 2 cups of boiling water over 1 tablespoon of crushed watermelon seeds, cover, steep for about 15-20 minutes, and strain. Watermelon seeds are packed with nutrients. Learn what they are and see why eating watermelon seeds can benefit your health. Know how to roast the seeds and how to prepare a healthy cup of tea with them.
Each ounce of roasted watermelon seeds provides you with 146 milligrams of magnesium -- 35 percent of the RDA for men and 46 percent for women, according to the Linus Pauling Institute. Like many other seeds and nuts, watermelon seeds provide a source of healthy unsaturated fat. The seeds' main benefits, though, come from their mineral content. Consume roasted watermelon seeds as a source of essential minerals to help maintain healthy tissue and prevent disease.
You can save the seeds from your watermelon to grow more plants, but you'll have to wait until next spring to plant them. If you save the seeds from a grocery store melon, you might be surprised at the variety of fruit you produce. 
DIETARY FAT. Watermelon seeds can be healthy for you because they are a rich source of dietary fat. Each 1 oz. serving of watermelon seeds provides 13.4 g of dietary fat. Most of this fat is unsaturated, as only 2.7 g comes from saturated fat, which may increase your risk of heart disease