Different kinds of arthritis can cause a painful swelling of your fingers and toes. Because of the way it makes your digits look, this symptom is sometimes called “sausage fingers.” The medical name for it is “dactylitis.”. Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) also sometimes causes sausage-like swelling of the fingers. While joint swelling in the fingers and toes is a common symptom of RA, the “sausage-like” symptoms and appearance may—or may not—be present. If you think you may have dactylitis, talk to your doctor. Your doctor can help confirm a diagnosis based on your swelling patterns and other symptoms you may be experiencing.
Swollen fingers and hands may be a sign of hyponatremia, but other signs, such as confusion and vomiting, are more prominent than is swelling. Drinking too much water, particularly during a marathon or similar long, strenuous event, may cause your body's sodium to become so diluted that you become hyponatremic. 
When swelling in your fingers is present for a significant period of time, continues to worsen or has no obvious cause -- such as an injury or insect bite -- see your physician as soon as possible to determine the underlying cause and begin treatment. Infection. An infection on the wrist, hand or fingers may cause swelling, depending on the severity of the infection. The skin may also feel hot to the touch and may be painful.
Two Parts: Treating Swollen Fingers Diagnosing Your Swelling. Swollen fingers may result from an injury or from edema, a common medical condition that causes excess fluid to be stored in various locations of the body, including the hands, feet, ankles and legs. 3. Rub your swollen fingers. Massage the tissues in the swollen fingers toward your heart. Use strong, firm rubbing motions. A hand massage will stimulate the muscles and blood flow to your fingers, which will help push out the excess fluid that causes your fingers to swell.
Elevate your hands and fingers. Swelling can be caused by poor circulation or blood that stagnates in your hands. Elevating your hands will help any accumulated blood flow back down to the body. 1  Raise your swollen fingers above your heart for 30 minutes at least 3 or 4 times per day to treat severe edema. 3. Rub your swollen fingers. Massage the tissues in the swollen fingers toward your heart. Use strong, firm rubbing motions. A hand massage will stimulate the muscles and blood flow to your fingers, which will help push out the excess fluid that causes your fingers to swell.
Hand swelling is a sign of fluid buildup or inflammation of the tissues or joints of the hand. Hand swelling, which is also called edema, can also result from serious infections, trauma, and other abnormal processes. 
General Tso's chicken, lots of chips and guac, or anything fried could be the cause of your frankfurter fingers. Your body likes to keep a consistent salt-to-water balance. Taking more salt in means your body compensates by retaining more water, which explains the swelling, Utset says. Here are some of the reasons your fingers are swelling, and when a call to your doctor may be appropriate.
Because a swollen finger can be a sign of a serious infection or inflammation, you should talk with your medical professional about your symptoms. If you experience finger swelling with pain, redness, or warmth, seek prompt medical care. Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care. A swollen finger is a sign of fluid buildup or inflammation of the tissues or joints of the finger. Finger swelling can result from serious infections, inflammation, trauma, and other abnormal processes.
Some of the most common causes of swelling fingers include arthritis, fluid retention, and pregnancy. In addition, finger edema can be caused by cardiac problems, abnormal kidney function, and allergies. Before treatment can be implemented to reduce swelling, a thorough medical examination must take place. Pregnant women often experience swollen fingers and feet. Swelling fingers may be indicative of a cardiac problem. Swelling fingers may be a sign of an allergic reaction. A problem with the kidneys can cause bloated or swollen hands. Swelling fingers can be a sign of kidney problems that require dialysis to treat. Arthritis is a common cause of swelling fingers