京都吉泉 おせち料理. Japanese New Year’s, or O-shogatsu is a celebration with ancient roots and perhaps the most prominent aspect of it is food and drink. Osechi ryori, or New Year’s cuisine is preserved food and is intended to last for several days. Osechi is richly fortified with cultural metaphor and visual symbolism. Osechi ryori is hozonshoku, or preserved food and still resembles what Japanese ate many centuries ago. Salt, vinegar and simmering is used to preserve the osechi food
Osechi Ryorii is a Japanese New Year's foods,in Japan It's a Japanese tradition to prepare and eat Osechi Ryori throughout the New Year's holiday,this colorful Osechi Ryori dishes are packed in layers of lacquer boxes called JUBAKO... 1  Howto & Style. 
Osechi-ryori is the name given to specially-prepared New Year fs dishes eaten during the first three days of January. These various kinds of beautifully-prepared dishes are set in multi-tiered lacquer boxes. In Japan, since ancient times, there had been court events which offered food to the gods at banquets on Sechinichi (*), the days that mark the turning of the seasons. The dishes that were served at the court events were called Osechiku, which is the origin of Osechi-ryori.
Osechi ryori is a traditional style of cooking based on ancient methods of preserving food, such as curing in salt or vinegar, or simmering in sweetened soy sauce and sake. In osechi-ryori, vegetables predominate, as well as grilled fish such as tai (sea bream) and buri. All are prepared to be eaten at room temperature, and can be kept for several days without refrigeration. These morsels are tightly packed into exquisite lacquer boxes called jubako.
It is often said that Osechi-ryori is eaten at the New Year so women can take a rest for at least three days. However, this practice originally came from the fact that we were supposed to refrain from cooking in kitchens so as not to make noise, while welcoming the gods during the New Year. In Japan, since ancient times, there had been court events which offered food to the gods at banquets on Sechinichi (*), the days that mark the turning of the seasons. The dishes that were served at the court events were called Osechiku, which is the origin of Osechi-ryori.
With a history reaching back a thousand years, the traditional New Year's celebration is sprinkled with symbolism, and that symbolism is particularly evident in typical New Year's food. Osechi ryori is what most people in Japan eat at the beginning of the new year. Regardless of how many times you splurge at Nobu, osechi isn't something you'll ever find on a Japanese menu. Its time and place are the first few days in January, in the Japanese home. Osechi ryori was originally a way for housewives (and their families) to survive the first several days of the New Year, when stores throughout Japan were closed. The foods that make up osechi can be prepared in advance and then sit out in a cool area for a few days without spoiling.
View More. Japanese New Year's food is called osechi-ryori, and colorful dishes are packed in layers of lacquer boxes, called jubako. The kinds of osechi dishes prepared at Japanese homes vary from region to region. 
Osechi-ryōri (御節料理 or お節料理) are traditional Japanese New Year foods. The tradition started in the Heian Period (794-1185). Osechi are easily recognizable by their special boxes called jūbako (重箱), which resemble bentō boxes. Like bentō boxes, jūbako are often kept stacked before and after use. 
Osechi Ryori (お節料理) is a subset of Japanese cuisine made up of dishes that are traditionally eaten on Oshogatsu (New Year’s). Since it was historically taboo to cook on New Year’s day, Osechi dishes are typically stewed with lots of sugar, or they are vinegared to preserve them. 
Osechi-ryori is a dish that is cooked before New Year's Eve to eat on New Years Day. On New Years Day, the God of the Year, named Toshigami comes to the world and the world starts a new year. The god came through a special gate, a Kadomatsu, into our world. He is god of agriculture. It is one of the most important annual events in Japan. Osechi food is packed in colorful lacquer boxes called jubako. Each dish and ingredient in osechi has a meaning, such as good health, fertility, good harvest, happiness, long life, and so on.