The newly named La Brea Tar Pits Museum (located in the George C. Page Museum building) displays Ice Age fossils — including saber-toothed cats, dire wolves and mammoths — from 10,000 to 40,000-year-old asphalt deposits. The La Brea Tar Pits and Museum is currently excavating and studying a cache of recently unearthed fossils known as Project 23, an endeavor that could double the Museum’s already tremendous collection of more than three million Ice Age specimens and inform decades of new research.
About the Museum. Located in the heart of metropolitan Los Angeles, the La Brea Tar Pits are one of the world’s most famous fossil localities. The La Brea Tar Pits and Museum is currently excavating and studying a cache of recently unearthed fossils known as Project 23, an endeavor that could double the Museum’s already tremendous collection of more than three million Ice Age specimens and inform decades of new research.
The Pitch Lake is beside the village of La Brea, in southwestern Trinidad. It is the largest of the world's three natural asphalt lakes, the others being the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles and Lake Guanoco in Venezuela. The lake is approximately 250 feet deep, with a surface area of 100 acres. The liquid asphalt is black and viscous, but the surface is semisolid, and can be walked on.
There are only a few known large asphalt lakes worldwide: 1  Pitch Lake at La Brea, Trinidad and Tobago. 2  Lake Bermudez at Libertador, Estado Sucre, Venezuela. 3  La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles, California, US. 4  McKittrick Tar Pits at McKittrick near Bakersfield, California, US. 
Rancho La Brea (colloquially known as the La Brea Tar Pits) is one of the world's most famous fossil localities, recognized for having the largest and most diverse assemblage of extinct Ice Age plants and animals in the world. The fossiliferous asphalt seeps are located in the heart of Los Angeles' Miracle Mile, in the southwest corner of what was once the Mexican land grant of Rancho La Brea. The Rancho La Brea collections are housed on-site at the George C. Page Museum at the La Brea Tar Pits in Hancock Park.
The La Brea Tar Pits Museum, Hancock Park, interprets La Brea. The La Brea Tar Pits Museum, part of the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, was built next to the tar pits in Hancock Park on Wilshire Boulevard. Construction began in 1975, and the museum opened to the public in 1977. It tells the story of the tar pits and presents specimens from them. Rancho La Brea is the most famous, but two other asphalt pits in southern California contain fossils: the Carpinteria Tar Pits in Carpinteria, Santa Barbara County and the McKittrick Tar Pits in McKittrick, in Kern County.
The La Brea Tar Pits, Los Angeles. When the photograph below was taken, the location depicted was described as the Salt Creek oilfields, 7 miles west of Los Angeles.. Today, this spot is in the middle of downtown Los Angeles, eloquent testimony to urban sprawl, but the pools and deposits of asphalt still remain. 
Read more in Santa Barbara and Oil Seeps. Today, the Page Museum, located at the Rancho La Brea Tar Pits in the heart of Los Angeles, is one of the world’s most famous sources of fossils, recognized for having the largest and most diverse assemblage of extinct Ice Age plants and animals. 