Name Chinmay generally means Full of knowledge or Supreme consciousness, is of Indian origin, Name Chinmay is a Masculine (or Boy) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Jain or Hindu by religion. Name Chinmay belongs to rashi Mithun (Gemini), Meen (Pisces) with dominant planet Jupiter (Guru) and Nakshatra (stars) Revathi. Find qualities of Gemini (Mithun), Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Chinmay or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mithun (Gemini), Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs.
[ syll. (c)hin-may, ch-inm-ay ] The baby boy name Chinmay is pronounced as CH-IH NM EY - †. Chinmay's language of origin is Sanskrit. Chinmay is of the meaning 'blissful'. A form of Chinmay is the name Chinmayananda. Chinmay is not widely used as a baby name for boys. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
You are cheerful and friendly, but are apt to have an emotional life. You like to have several lines of effort going at once. You are a good talker and promoter and seldom worry over anything. At times, you can be impatient, and impulsive. You have the ability to bring an idea to completion. You can express yourself joyously and constructively. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME.
Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Chinmay in Hindu origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Hearing not up to mark. When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Hearing not up to mark. When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.
Meaning of name Chinmay, Origin of name Chinmay, Personality of name Chinmay, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Chinmay and adorable Baby boy Photos of Chinmay. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Chinmay is lucky! 
The eyeballs of a baby normally look larger as compared to the size of the head of the baby and or its complete size. This is because their eye balls as compared to human eye balls are just about 75%. This means only 25% eye balls grow at a later stage. Hearing not up to mark. When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.
Meaning of Indian name: Chinmay. Meaning of the name Chinmay is 'The supreme being'. Chinmay is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Chinmay is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Chinmay