The most common symptoms of withdrawal are a heightened sensitivity to pain, sleeplessness, a lethargic feeling, and uncontrollable muscle movements. You will also feel an overwhelming sense of nausea, headaches, and moderate to severe muscle aches and cramps. At this point, if you try to stop using codeine, your body is going to react making you feel the need to continue its use. The withdrawal symptoms of codeine addiction can vary in strength as well as interrupt your ability to accomplish even the smallest of tasks. The symptoms of withdrawal can also lead to impaired social function because you may not feel the ability, or the want, to interact with other people
Codeine withdrawal typically starts within 12-24 hours after the last dose. Acute withdrawal symptoms peak between 48 and 72 hours and generally subside within a week; however, withdrawal syndrome can potentially affect a person for weeks or months after the initial Codeine withdrawal phase. Codeine withdrawal symptoms are similar to those experienced in heroin withdrawal. The effects are so similar, that a heroin addict may try and get their hands on codeine to ward off the effects of a
1 People addicted to codeine will experience withdrawal symptoms when they are no longer able to use the drug anymore (i.e., when their prescription runs out). 2  Withdrawal is a hallmark of physical dependency and addiction. 
Codeine Withdrawal. Codeine withdrawal is when individuals experience physical and psychological symptoms as a result of abrupt cessation of use of the opiate drug Codeine. Codeine is an opiate which metabolizes into morphine in the body, and is used for its pain relieving properties. Codeine withdrawal symptoms are similar to those experienced in heroin withdrawal. The effects are so similar, that a heroin addict may try and get their hands on codeine to ward off the effects of a
Signs and Symptoms of Codeine Abuse. Codeine is a moderately strong opiate drug that is used in pain relief and for the suppression of coughs. But strong or weak, it is still an addictive drug with many symptoms of use in common with other opiates. The road to addiction to codeine usually starts with an increasing tolerance to the drug. If a codeine user becomes addicted, he may go back to the doctor to get a higher dosage of this drug. If the doctor refuses or even cuts him off without addressing the addiction, the person may turn to criminal activities to avoid withdrawal symptoms and sickness.
Isolating yourself is very dangerous when you are going through the withdrawal symptoms of Codeine as they can cause you to experience a seizure or fall into a coma. Help is standing by 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call 1 (888) 460-6556 Toll Free. Privacy Guaranteed. At this point, if you try to stop using codeine, your body is going to react making you feel the need to continue its use. The withdrawal symptoms of codeine addiction can vary in strength as well as interrupt your ability to accomplish even the smallest of tasks. The symptoms of withdrawal can also lead to impaired social function because you may not feel the ability, or the want, to interact with other people
Symptoms can begin with a few hours of the last codeine dose taken, peak within 36 to 72 hours, and last for up to a week or more. Everyone’s experience with opiate withdrawal symptoms will vary; not everyone will experience all the symptoms listed above or experience them intensely. Codeine Abuse and Dependence. Codeine may be prescribed in the form of cough syrup to those who are struggling with cold and flu symptoms or in pill form for pain management. Though cough syrup containing codeine is rarely sold on the street, the pills are not hard to access on the black market.
Codeine withdrawal: Introduction. Codeine withdrawal: Symptoms that occur when Codeine use is discontinued or reduced. Codeine is a sedative pain-killer. Symptoms may vary depending on the level of dependence. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Codeine withdrawal is available below.