The best way to germinate celery seeds is by starting the plants indoors in seed flats. Celery seeds take 14 to 21 days to germinate and emerge from the soil. When starting seeds indoors, use a seed-starting flat filled with a soil-less seed-starting mix. Commercial seed-starting mixes are designed to be porous, sterile and to provide good drainage, all important factors for good germination rates. When celery seedlings grow 6 inches tall, about 10 to 12 weeks after starting seeds, they are ready to transplant out into the garden. When planting in spring, wait until the might temperatures are consistently above 55 degrees Fahrenheit and day temperatures range between 70 and 75 degre
Start seeds early. Chances are your local purveyor of vegetable transplants won’t be carrying celeriac, so if you want to grow this European favorite, you’ll have to start it from seed. It requires a long growing season (120 days) and can take two to three weeks to germinate. 
Start your celery seeds indoors about 10 to 12 weeks before the last spring frost. You can sow the seeds in peat pots with several seeds per cell to ensure that at least one will germinate into a seedling. 1 Celery seeds need a lot of light to germinate. 2  Water the peat pots to moisten the soil after planting your seeds. 3  Place your seeds in a warm place so that the soil stays between 70 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit until the seeds germinate. 4  This should take two to three weeks
Generally seeds take between 7 and 14 days to germinate. There are of course exceptions, some varieties can germinate within 2 days if con … ditions are right, where as others can take literally years to germinate-even if conditions are right. 15 people found this useful. If you want to plant (or have recently planted) seeds and want to know how long it will be before you start to see some green shoots, there is no quick answer. In temperate countries, most commercially sold garden flower seeds can be expected to germinate in somewhere between 14 to 30 days.
Starting Celery Seeds. Because a celery plant has such a long maturity time, unless you live in a location with long growing seasons, you need to start celery seeds indoors at least 8 – 10 weeks before the last frost date for your area. Celery seeds are tiny and tricky to plant. Unless you live in a location that is ideal to grow celery plants, you are best planting your celery where it will get 6 hours of sun, but preferably somewhere that the celery plant will be shaded for the hottest part of the day. Also, make sure that where you will be growing celery has rich soil.
In Mississippi, perhaps you would want to plant in late fall for harvest during mid-winter. Also, you could start the seeds indoors 10 to 12 weeks (2-1/2 to 3 months) before your last frost so the plants do not need that much time out in the garden. There are varieties that mature quicker and can take the summer heat. I would think it might be challenging in Mississippi. Celery needs a long time to grow in mostly cool weather—usually up to 130 to 140 days. Celery enjoys cool nights around 50 degrees F and moderate daytime temps of about 60 to 70 degrees.
About a minimum of 90 days are required to grow good celery plants. Celery seed is small and germinates slowly. Start seeds for transplanting several weeks before you expect to plant celery in your garden. Start celery indoors 10 weeks before last frost. Soak celery seed for 24 hours, scatter seeds on soil mix and lightly cover with 1/8” of soil, as light is needed for germination along with a soil temperature of 21°C (70°F) and constant moisture. Celery will take 7-14 days to germinate. When seedlings are about 1“ tall, transplant to individual pots