As the heart beats, it pumps blood through a system of blood vessels, called the circulatory system. The vessels are elastic tubes that carry blood to every part of the body.
Oxygen-rich blood moves through your pulmonary veins to the left side of your heart and out of the aorta to the rest of your body. Capillaries in the lungs also remove carbon dioxide from your blood so that your lungs can breathe the carbon dioxide out into the air.
In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system.
The vascular system, also called the circulatory system, is made up of the vessels that carry blood and lymph through the body. The arteries and veins carry blood throughout the body, delivering oxygen and nutrients to the body tissues and taking away tissue waste matter.
Circulatory. The circulatory system consists of your heart, veins and arteries and is responsible for transporting nutrients throughout your body. The heart pumps the blood through the network of veins and arteries to carry oxygen and nutrients to all parts of the body.
The circulatory system consisting of the heart, arteries, capillaries, and veins, is the pumping mechanism that transports blood throughout the body. In the heart, the left ventricle contracts, pushing red blood cells into the aorta, the body's largest artery.
Capillaries. Tiny blood vessels between arteries and veins that distribute oxygen-rich blood to the body. Blood moves through the circulatory system as a result of being pumped out by the heart. Blood leaving the heart through the arteries is saturated with oxygen. The arteries break down into smaller and smaller branches in order to bring oxygen and other nutrients to the cells of the body's tissues and organs.
As the heart beats, it pumps blood through a system of blood vessels called the blood circulatory system. The vessels are elastic tubes that carry blood to every part of the body and are made up of four subsystems.