Patients with tuberculosis of the lungs have a prolonged illness with fever, cough, night-sweats, weight loss and may occasionally cough up blood. As the disease progresses, symptoms get worse and shortness of breath ensues. Untreated disease can be fatal.
TB symptoms include: 1  cough that is worse in the morning (sometimes with hemoptysis, blood in the sputum), 2  chest pain, 3  breathlessness, 4  night sweats, and. 5  signs of pneumonia.
Active tuberculosis (TB) disease is a serious infection that usually affects the lungs. Anyone can develop active TB, but you are more likely to develop it if you are already in poor health or have a poor immune system. With treatment, most cases are cured. Without treatment, TB may progress or be fatal.
Because the bacteria that cause tuberculosis are transmitted through the air, the disease can be contagious. Infection is most likely to occur if you are exposed to someone with TB on a day-to-day basis, such as by living or working in close quarters with someone who has the active disease.
When a person breathes in TB bacteria, the bacteria can settle in the lungs and begin to grow. From there, they can move through the blood to other parts of the body, such as the kidney, spine, and brain. TB disease in the lungs or throat can be infectious.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs. But TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain.
TB is spread through the air from one person to another. TB germs are passed through the air when someone who is sick with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, speaks, laughs, sings, or sneezes. Anyone near the sick person with TB disease can breathe TB germs into their lungs. TB germs can live in your body without making you sick. This is called latent TB infection.
When TB germs are active (multiplying in your body), this is called TB disease. These germs usually attack the lungs. They can also attack other parts of the body, such as, the kidneys, brain, or spine. TB disease will make you sick. People with TB disease may spread the germs to people they spend time with every day.