The Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) is a defined contribution plan for United States civil service employees and retirees as well as for members of the uniformed services. As of December 31 2013, there were approximately 4.6 million participants, and nearly $407 billion in assets under management. The catch-up contributions are tax-deferred and allow age eligible participants to defer up to $22,500 (for 2012) in their TSP account. However, unlike the regular TSP contribution, this election does not automatically renew each year; the employee must specifically make a new election each year.
In some countries, a teaspoon (occasionally teaspoonful) is a unit of volume, especially widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions. In English it is abbreviated as tsp. or, less often, as t. , ts. , or tspn. If a recipe calls for a level teaspoon of a dry ingredient (salt, flour, etc.), this refers to an approximately leveled filling of the spoon, producing the same volume as for liquids.
Upon separation, any balances less than $200 (but at least $5) will be automatically cashed out in a single payment; amounts less than $5 are not automatically cashed out and are forfeited to the TSP, but the participant may later request payment. The catch-up contributions are tax-deferred and allow age eligible participants to defer up to $22,500 (for 2012) in their TSP account. However, unlike the regular TSP contribution, this election does not automatically renew each year; the employee must specifically make a new election each year.
Similar spoons include the tablespoon and the dessert spoon, the latter intermediate in size between a teaspoon and a tablespoon, used in eating dessert and sometimes soup or cereals. Much less common is the coffee spoon, which is a smaller version of the teaspoon, intended for used with the small type of coffee cup. If a recipe calls for a level teaspoon of a dry ingredient (salt, flour, etc.), this refers to an approximately leveled filling of the spoon, producing the same volume as for liquids.
TSP Lifecycle Funds. The five TSP Lifecycle Funds are target retirement date funds, invested in a professionally designed mix of domestic and international stocks, bonds and government securities. Each L Fund is invested in the five individual TSP funds (G, F, C, S, and I Fund). TSP Funds. There are currently 10 investment funds in the Thrift Savings Plan. Five are individual stock and bond funds, and the other five are target retirement date funds. The table below summarizes the historical performance and risk characteristics of the five primary TSP Investment Funds [1] .
Store SKU # 727266. Use TSP Heavy-Duty Cleaner to clean and prepare your Home, Decks and Siding for painting. The cleaner removes Dirt,Grease,Grime,Soot and Chalked Paint. It is compatible with washable walls, floors and woodwork including decks and siding. It is specially formulated to control lead paint dust. 
A plastic tablespoon and teaspoon. Cookbook | Recipes | Ingredients | Units of measurement | Equipment. A tablespoon is a unit of measure equal to 1/16 cup, 3 teaspoons, or 1/2 fluid ounce in the USA. It is either approximately or (in some countries) exactly equal to 15 mL.  Tablespoon  may be abbreviated as T (note: uppercase letter), tbl, tbs or tbsp. A typical large dinner spoon is about 1 tablespoon in size
A cup of coffee with coffee spoon. A teaspoon, as an item of cutlery, is a small spoon, commonly part of a silverware (usually silver plated, German silver or now, stainless steel) place setting, suitable for stirring and sipping the contents of a cup of tea or coffee, or adding a portion of loose sugar to it. If a recipe calls for a level teaspoon of a dry ingredient (salt, flour, etc.), this refers to an approximately leveled filling of the spoon, producing the same volume as for liquids.
The TSP is one of three components of the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS; the others being the FERS annuity and Social Security) and is designed to closely resemble the dynamics of both private sector 401(k) and Roth 401k (new Roth TSP implemented in May 2012) plans. The catch-up contributions are tax-deferred and allow age eligible participants to defer up to $22,500 (for 2012) in their TSP account. However, unlike the regular TSP contribution, this election does not automatically renew each year; the employee must specifically make a new election each year.