Lua (pronounced LOO-ah) means Moon in Portuguese. As such, it is neither an acronym nor an abbreviation, but a noun. More specifically, Lua is a name, the name of the Earth's moon and the name of the language. Like most names, it should be written in lower case with an initial capital, that is, Lua. Lua is a fast language engine with small footprint that you can embed easily into your application. Lua has a simple and well documented API that allows strong integration with code written in other languages. It is easy to extend Lua with libraries written in other languages
This book has a collection providing an on-demand. PDF version as well as a. printed book. Lua (not LUA, which is incorrect although common) is a powerful, fast, lightweight and embeddable programming language. It is used by many frameworks, games and other applications. While it can be used by itself, it has been designed to be easy to embed in another application. 
Lua is a proven, robust language. Lua has been used in many industrial applications (e.g., Adobe's Photoshop Lightroom), with an emphasis on embedded systems (e.g., the Ginga middleware for digital TV in Brazil) and games (e.g., World of Warcraft and Angry Birds). Lua is a fast language engine with small footprint that you can embed easily into your application. Lua has a simple and well documented API that allows strong integration with code written in other languages. It is easy to extend Lua with libraries written in other languages
1 MediaWiki uses Lua as a new templating language, which is used on Wikipedia and other wikis. 2  The Moonbridge Network Server for Lua Applications in combination with WebMCP, a web development framework, allows complex web applications to be written in Lua (used by LiquidFeedback). Lua is intended to be embedded into other applications, and provides a C API for this purpose. The API is divided into two parts: the Lua core and the Lua auxiliary library. The Lua API's design eliminates the need for manual reference management in C code, unlike Python 's API.
Lua (/ˈluː.ə/ LOO-ə) is a lightweight, reflective, imperative and functional programming language, designed as a scripting language with extensible semantics as a primary goal. The name comes from the Portuguese word lua meaning “moon”. 
Lua (/ˈluːə/ LOO-ə, from Portuguese: lua [ˈlu.(w)ɐ] meaning moon) is a lightweight multi-paradigm programming language designed as a scripting language with embeddability and extensibility as primary goals. Lua is cross-platform since it is written in ANSI C, and has a relatively simple C API. Lua is intended to be embedded into other applications, and provides a C API for this purpose. The API is divided into two parts: the Lua core and the Lua auxiliary library. The Lua API's design eliminates the need for manual reference management in C code, unlike Python 's API.
Lua is embeddable. Lua is a fast language engine with small footprint that you can embed easily into your application. Lua has a simple and well documented API that allows strong integration with code written in other languages. It is easy to extend Lua with libraries written in other languages
Lua is an extremely fast, simple and powerful scripting language designed, implemented, and maintained at PUC-Rio in Brazil. The strengths of Lua have been well-proven by its usage in many time-critical applications, including real-time strategies such as World of Warcraft. In terms of syntax, Lua is close to the Pascal family of programming languages (Pascal, ADA, Delphi). There is no syntax sugars, such as prefix/postfix operators or assignments as part of expressions, as in C++.
Categories. Lua (from the Portuguese word for moon) is the scripting language used by World of Warcraft for Interface Customization. Only a subset of version 5.1 of the official Lua specification is implemented, and should suit most addon maker's needs. Programming in Lua. the definitive Lua guide by Roberto Ierusalimschy. Online version. lua-users. Lua user group with a Wiki which includes a FAQ, tutorials and extended help on many topics. The group also hosts a mailing list (with past archive) and a IRC channel, #lua at irc.freenode.net.