Answer by Eclair39. Confidence votes 52.5K. It's not called a baby until week 38 of pregnancy or when it's born (even if it's before week 38). Medically it's not considered alive as in positive pregnancy until the egg is attached and you are actually pregnant. 
They KNOW-a developing fetus is a living human developing. Ask the medical community-if the fetus dies in the womb-the fetus was alive before death. But according to insanity, if the baby is not wanted and most times not born, the baby is not alive or a life. A fetus isn't exactly alive since it has no heart beat until a certain period of time. Yes, it is a step in the formation of a human being but its only step which we've all gone through.
Viability is not when a fetus is considered a baby but at birth which has been as early as 20-21 weeks in some recent cases while viability is still considered around 27weeks with a good neonatal ICU (NICU). The only scientific definition is a baby is now a baby is at birth. It is all relative to the individual. Some believe conception, others not until the baby takes it's first breath. If you look at state laws, that is their definition that a baby isn't a baby but a fetus until it draws it
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Of course the human fetus is alive, meaning viable, at conception. However, you used the term baby which has human connotations. Technically it is not viable outside the womb and therefore it is still considered a part of the mother and not a separate individual. So it is a mass of living cells
Some people consider a fetus to be a baby from the moment of conception. Others consider the fetus to be a baby roughly 10 days after conception at implantation, where the fertilised egg implants in the lining of the womb. Other consider the fetus to be a baby at around 6 weeks, when there is a visible heart beat. 
Although many states now have fetal homicide laws, there are a wide variety of differences about when a fetus is considered living. In Missouri and 17 other states, the laws recognize a fetus as living at the time of conception. 
A fetus in fetu can be considered alive, but only in the sense that its component tissues have not yet died or been eliminated. Thus, the life of a fetus in fetu is akin to that of a tumor in that its cells remain viable by way of normal metabolic activity. 
To start, the baby isn't considered a fetus until 2 months. For the first month it is a zygote. There is no straight answer to this question. During the 6th week, the heart begins to beat so you could consider this a milestone to mark the transition into it becoming a baby. It is all relative to the individual. Some believe conception, others not until the baby takes it's first breath. If you look at state laws, that is their definition that a baby isn't a baby but a fetus until it draws it
Considering the idea that there is a precise time when a fetus acquires the right to live sounds strange, however, many state abortion laws ban abortion after a certain point in pregnancy. These laws are based on the viability of the fetus. Implantation. 'Quickening'. This is when the fetus first moves in the womb--about 16 to 17 weeks after fertilization. The idea came from a now abandoned Christian theory that this was the moment that the fetus acquired its soul.
June 11, 2013 at 7:11 am. LEGALLY, it’s very simple: A fetus is considered a living human being when it takes it’s first breath. This is why abortion is legal, your not killing a person. And why partial birth abortions are legal, as again you kill the fetus immediately as it’s born so it’s not a person. In the US, as long as the fetus is not born yet, it’s not considered a legal human being.Now, there are plenty of people who consider all fetuses and even zygotes to be human, but you asked about legal status.By the way, it’s spelled Roe, not Row.