Mood Swings in Pregnancy: Mood Swings in Pregnancy are the change in mental state from positive to negative and back again. See detailed information below for a list of 14 causes of Mood Swings in Pregnancy, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Mood Swings in Pregnancy: Causes. Of the 14 causes of Mood Swings in Pregnancy that we have listed, we have the following prevalence/incidence information: 1  0 causes are very common diseases. 2  0 causes are common diseases. 3  0 causes are uncommon diseases. 4  0 causes are rare diseases. 5  0 causes are very
Mood Swings During Pregnancy: Causes and Treatment. If you are pregnant or are supporting someone through pregnancy, you probably have had some experience with mood swings. You are not alone; mood swings during pregnancy are common. Mood swings are mostly experienced during the first trimester between 6 to 10 weeks and then again in the third trimester as your body prepares for birth.
Mood changes during pregnancy can be caused by physical stresses, fatigue, changes in your metabolism, or by the hormones estrogen and progesterone. Significant changes in your hormone levels can affect your level of neurotransmitters, which are brain chemicals that regulate mood. Mood swings are mostly experienced during the first trimester between 6 to 10 weeks and then again in the third trimester as your body prepares for birth.
Mood swings can be associated with psychiatric conditions, substance abuse, medication side effects, or chronic medical conditions. Mood swings are common with medications, medical conditions, and substances that affect the central nervous system. They can be associated with conditions that can deprive the brain of nutrients and oxygen. Mood swings can also occur with hormonal changes.
Mood swings during early pregnancy. Mood swings during early pregnancy are fairly common. This may be due to hormonal shifts, fatigue, stress and anxiety, or any combination of the above. Classic symptoms of pregnancy include breast tenderness, fatigue, nausea and/or vomiting, and a missed period. If you are having mood swings combined with the above symptoms, you may indeed be pregnant. Ask any pregnant woman if she has had mood swings during her pregnancy and you will most certainly hear yes. Although not all women experience moodiness and irritability, most will experience at least some degree of mood swings during pregnancy. Whether moods swings is an actual symptom of pregnancy is debatable.
Understanding Mood Swings and Early Signs of Pregnancy. Mood swings are drastic changes in emotional state that are often inexplicable. The most common causes of mood swings are hormonal imbalance caused by things such as PMS, pregnancy, menopause, or thyroid disorders. However, mood swings are also a natural reaction to certain circumstances and emotional upheaval. Due to the link between mood swings and hormonal issues, they are often a symptom evident in newly pregnant women. Mood swings can often leave a woman feeling anxious and depressed and can have an adverse impact on personal relationships.
If you’re pregnant, you probably know all about having mood swings. If you’re not pregnant and are living with someone who is, you too probably know all about mood swings. Mood swings are a very common pregnancy symptom. One second you’re excited about the baby’s arrival, the next you’re wondering if this was a terrible idea. One day you’re buying shirts that say “#1 Mom,” and then next day you feel like you are the worst mother on earth.
It's common to have mood swings during pregnancy, because of hormonal changes that affect your levels of neurotransmitters (chemical messengers in the brain) and the broad range of feelings you may have about becoming a parent. Everyone responds differently to these changes. 
Blame it on the changing hormones of pregnancy. Watch out for mood swings during your first and third trimesters -- but be aware they can occur anytime. And, if you had premenstrual syndrome (PMS) before you got pregnant, be prepared. Your pregnancy may make your PMS-type mood swings more severe. 1 Remind yourself -- and your partner -- that mood swings are a normal part of pregnancy. 2  This will make it easier for both of you to weather them. 3  Ask for support from your partner, family, and friends.