A protein molecule can be formed of a single polypeptide chain or more. Each polypeptide chain comprises a long and continuous string of amino acids that are held together by peptide bonds. These bonds are formed between the carboxyl (-COOH) group of one amino acid and the amino (-NH2- group) of the adjacent amino acid. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Although rRNA is paramount in the process of translation, protein factors also are required for the efficient synthesis of a protein. Protein factors participate in the initiation, elongation, and termination of protein synthesis. P-loop NTPases of the G-protein family play particularly important roles. i think its when it binds the mRNA together To put it in two sentences: 1. Ribosomes are the place where Protein Synthesis takes place. 2. In the Ribosome, the mRNA, tRNA, … and Amino Acids meet to form a Protein. 3. The Ribosome is the main organizing center for Protein Synthesis.   Source(s): Biochemist.
The primary structure of a polypeptide of protein determines its secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structures. Primary Structure. The primary structure of polypeptides and proteins is the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain with reference to the locations of any disulfide bonds. For example: gly-gly-ser-ala. is the primary structure for a polypeptide composed of glycine, glycine, serine, and alanine, in that order, from the N-terminal amino acid (glycine) to the C-terminal amino acid (alanine).
For this reason, we often use the word polypeptide to describe an amino acid chain. A polypeptide is a chain of amino acids linked together by peptide bonds. 'Poly' means 'many,' just like in the word 'polymer,' and 'peptide' refers to a peptide bond, so a molecule with many peptide bonds is called a polypeptide. If a polypeptide is the final product that we get from translation, then the peptide bonds are like the mixing of the ingredients in our skillet. It's made of ribosomal RNA, or rRNA, and protein. Ribosomes are located on the rough endoplasmic reticulum, or RER, that surrounds a cell's nucleus. In fact, ribosomes are the reason that the RER is called rough; they give the endoplasmic reticulum a rough appearance when viewed under a microscope.
Building a polypeptide: As we noted for nucleic acids, a polymer is a chain of subunits, monomers, linked together by chemical bonds. The bond between two amino acids is known as a peptide bond. Two amino acids, joined together by a peptide bond, is known as a dipeptide. An amino acid polymer is known as a polypeptide.
Genetic translation results in a chain of amino acids, which are linked together by peptide bonds. Translation occurs inside the ribosomes, which are tiny organelles on the rough endoplasmic reticulum. A ribosome is a complex protein made of two subunits. It's made of ribosomal RNA, or rRNA, and protein. Ribosomes are located on the rough endoplasmic reticulum, or RER, that surrounds a cell's nucleus. In fact, ribosomes are the reason that the RER is called rough; they give the endoplasmic reticulum a rough appearance when viewed under a microscope.
Proteins are composed of α-amino acids linked together by peptide bonds into polypeptide chains. An amino acid is characterized by an amino group (-NH2) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) linked to a carbon, known as the α-carbon. Also attached to the α-carbon is a H and various R-groups or side-chains. Two amino acids, joined together by a peptide bond, are known as a dipeptide. An amino acid polymer is known as a polypeptide. A polypeptide can be composed of 20 different possible monomers that can, in theory, be linked together in any imaginable order.
Proteins play important roles within our cells. Each protein is made up of at least one polypeptide chain. This lesson will discuss the synthesis of polypeptide chains and will emphasize the relationship between its structure and function. Each polypeptide chain is a series of amino acids joined together in a specific sequence. Because each amino acid has a unique R group, a particular amino acid sequence creates a polypeptide whose function is dependent upon its chemical structure.
The differences in these R groups are what help give a polypeptide chain its structure and ultimately its function. The order and arrangement of these amino acids in a polypeptide chain will produce different chemical structures. A protein's structure is essential to its function. Each polypeptide chain is a series of amino acids joined together in a specific sequence. Because each amino acid has a unique R group, a particular amino acid sequence creates a polypeptide whose function is dependent upon its chemical structure.
Building a polypeptide: Polymers are chains of subunits, monomers, linked together by chemical bonds. The bond between two amino acids is known as a peptide bond. Two amino acids, joined together by a peptide bond, are known as a dipeptide. An amino acid polymer is known as a polypeptide. A polypeptide can be composed of 20 different possible monomers that can, in theory, be linked together in any imaginable order.