Throughout the fifteen medical marijuana states that have or will have operating dispensaries, many have non-refundable application fees in the thousands on top of the annual licensing fees. Washington DC requires $5,000 to apply and $10,000 to license. New Mexico requires a $1,000 application fee and up to $30,000 licensing. In Connecticut, it will cost a whopping $25,000 fee to apply to be a grower and $75,000 a year to maintain the license.
City marijuana business licenses are valid for one year. Businesses are required to renew their city license within 60 days of its expiration date. To renew a city-issued retail marijuana business license, follow these steps: 1. Complete the Retail Marijuana Renewal form. 2. Bring the Retail Marijuana Renewal Form along with all supporting documents and the required annual license fee to Denver Excise & Licenses. 3
Renewal Fees and Forms. Renewal applicants will need to pay a $3,000 annual license fee at the time of renewal. Checks should be made payable to the Manager of Finance and should be submitted to Denver Excise and Licenses along with their completed city license renewal form. 2. Bring the Medical Marijuana Renewal form along with all supporting documents and the required annual license fee to Denver Excise and Licenses. 3. You will be issued a new license. Please Note-Medical Marijuana businesses are also required to renew their state-issued license on an annual basis.
Nevada will charge $3,000 annually to producers. New Mexico requires a $1,000 application fee and up to $30,000 licensing. In Connecticut, it will cost a whopping $25,000 fee to apply to be a grower and $75,000 a year to maintain the license.
For a medical marijuana card renewal in Arizona, you will be required to submit similar information as was required in the original medical marijuana card application; however, there are several documents that must be renewed or current: – You will need to obtain and submit a new current physician certification. 
The state cost of the Medical Marijuana Identification Card (MMIC) application fee is currently set at $66.00 per card for non Medi-Cal patients and $33.00 per card for Medi-Cal patients. Each county then adds their administration fee to the state cost. 
City marijuana business licenses are valid for one year. Businesses are required to renew their city license within 60 days prior of its expiration date. To renew a city-issued Medical Marijuana Business License, follow these steps: 1. Complete the Medical Marijuana Renewal Form. 2. Bring the Medical Marijuana Renewal form along with all supporting documents and the required annual license fee to Denver Excise and Licenses. 3. You will be issued a new license. Please Note-Medical Marijuana businesses are also required to renew their state-issued license on an annual basis.
How much does a license cost? The law establishes a license application fee at $266 and a $1,062 renewal fee for each of the three licenses; marijuana producer, marijuana processor and marijuana retailer. Can I hold all three license types? Having all three licenses is not permitted under I-502.
MedMar Medical LLC (DPH Registration Number D11021) was formed to permit qualified patients to possess and use marijuana for medical purposes. Qualifying patients using medical marijuana (“MMJ”) and seeking access to dispensaries must possess a Massachusetts Department of Health (“DPH”) issued license. 
You must make an appointment with your qualified health care provider in order to begin the registration process. Your provider will evaluate you to determine if you are qualified for the medical use of marijuana. If you are qualified, your provider will issue you a certification through the MMJ Online System. 