An Associates Sonography Degree is a blend of coursework with hands-on clinical rotations. Many programs will offer the opportunity to specialize in one particular area of the ultrasound profession, such as General (abdomen, obstetrics and gynecology), Vascular or Cardiac. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
Welcome to the most complete directory on the Web of Ultrasound tech schools and programs. Learn to become an ultrasound technician, and then search from 262 accredited schools across the country. You can scroll down to see the listings. During your ultrasound technician training, you have the ability to earn a certificate, an associate degree, or a bachelor's degree. In addition to on campus options, you also have the ability to choose from online ultrasound tech schools to complete your desired degree. Ultrasound technician schools require that you have a high school diploma or a GED. Depending on the level of degree you are studying for, you may need to take a year of basic courses such as communications, logic and mathematics, psychology, biology and chemistry.
Explore Ultrasound Technician Degree Programs. The sonography degree that you pursue depends on your personal interests and job goals. In many cases, an Associate’s Degree is enough to secure a position in this rapidly growing field. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
Training to become an ultrasound technician may be done through a formal education program or through military training. The most common training is an associate's degree program, although there are bachelor's degree and 1-year certificate programs available. Most ultrasound technicians train through associate's degree programs, although bachelor's degree and certificate programs are also available. Employers often prefer to hire ultrasound technicians who hold professional certification, available in various specialty areas
Essential Information. Ultrasound technicians, also called diagnostic medical sonographers or sonographers, operate equipment that utilizes sound waves to create images of the body's internal structures. Ultrasound is commonly used in obstetrics, but it can also diagnose other medical conditions. Most ultrasound technicians train through associate's degree programs, although bachelor's degree and certificate programs are also available. Employers often prefer to hire ultrasound technicians who hold professional certification, available in various specialty area
3. Earn a great salary. Your ultrasound technician training will qualify you for a job with great salary potential. According to the 2014 data from Salary.com, the middle 50 percent of ultrasound technicians earn between $62,037 and $74,566. 4. Use your skills to help people
When people think of ultrasound technicians (also known as sonographers or ultrasound technologists), they often visualize the TV shows, movies, or ads they’ve seen where ultrasound is used during pregnancy to give parents a peek inside the womb to view the moving and growing baby. 
2. Complete an accredited Ultrasound Technician program. Find a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP), and get your Associate's Degree or complete a postgraduate certificate program. 1  If you're shifting careers in the health care industry, or you're a high-school graduate, you can take a one-year program. 1 Note that some colleges may require you to complete a Certified Nursing Associate (CNA) course before being accepted into a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer (DMS) program. 2  If you already have a Bachelor’s degree or Associate’s degree and want to become an ultrasound technician, the diploma program may be the best option.
Ultrasound technologists should complete an accredited training program. Depending on the program, it can take anywhere from one to four years to complete. Accredited ultrasound programs can be found at community colleges (a two-year associate’s degree) or four-year institutions (a bachelor’s degree). Accredited certificate programs are also available for people who have previous healthcare degrees and usually take 12 to 15 months.