How to write a fable. 1  1. HOW TO WRITE A FABLE. 2  2. 3  Fables… … a story that teaches a lesson …characters are animals …animals talk 4  ***. 3. 5  4. 6  5. 7  6. 8  Setting… Where/ When story takes place SETTING SEASON TIME PLACE SUMMER / WINTER SPRING / AUTUMN DAY NIGHT DUSK / DAWN NOON / MIDNIGHT OCEAN SCHOOL DESERT FOREST. 9  7. 
Part 1 of 3: Outlining the Basics of Your Fable. 1. Choose the moral. Because the moral is the crux of a fable, it’s often helpful to begin outlining your fable by determining the moral. The moral of a fable should relate to or reflect on a culturally pertinent issue that will resonate with many people.
5. Introduce the stakes of the story. Tell your reader what is at stake in your story from the very first line or paragraph. In a short story, you only have so much time to develop your ideas, so if you start with the dramatic tension of the story, you can work backwards to explain why it's so important. 1 Once you do this, you'll have a better sense of whether the opening is working or not. 2  See if you can start later in the story. 3  The first few pages of a rough draft of a story can often just be the writer's way of clearing his throat before he can cut to the heart
Decide on the cast of characters. Determine who or what the characters in your fable will be and what traits will define them. 1  Because fables are meant to be simple and concise, don’t aim for complex or multi-faceted characters. 1. Choose the moral. Because the moral is the crux of a fable, it’s often helpful to begin outlining your fable by determining the moral. The moral of a fable should relate to or reflect on a culturally pertinent issue that will resonate with many people.
1 Read your story twice. 2  First, read it to yourself without marking it, and then read it with a pen to mark any places where you want to cut passages or where you'll need to add information to bring the story together. 3  Once you do this, you'll have a better sense of whether the opening is working or not. 1 Once you do this, you'll have a better sense of whether the opening is working or not. 2  See if you can start later in the story. 3  The first few pages of a rough draft of a story can often just be the writer's way of clearing his throat before he can cut to the heart of
When the plot of the fable has resolved itself, set out the moral or lesson of the story. 1  In fables, the moral of the story is typically stated in a single, pithy sentence. 2  Aim to state the moral in a way that summarizes both the problem, the resolution, and what should be learned from that resolution. 1. Choose the moral. Because the moral is the crux of a fable, it’s often helpful to begin outlining your fable by determining the moral. The moral of a fable should relate to or reflect on a culturally pertinent issue that will resonate with many people.
1 As the characters will be the primary vehicle for the fable’s moral, choose characters that will most clearly relate to that moral. 2  In The Tortoise and the Hare the characters are, as the title indicates, a tortoise and a hare. 1. Choose the moral. Because the moral is the crux of a fable, it’s often helpful to begin outlining your fable by determining the moral. The moral of a fable should relate to or reflect on a culturally pertinent issue that will resonate with many people.
Process. To write a fantastic fable, let's review what we already know about fables: 1  In fables, the animal characters often talk and act like people. 2  Most often, the main character makes a mistake that helps him or her learn a lesson. 3  Fables usually end with a moral, which is a statement that sums up the lesson in the story. I want to write a fable about a bird and a worm. I'll write that in the Characters section. Next, I'll think about the plot, and write down the events in the Plot section. First, the bird sees the worm in a garden. The bird wants to eat the worm.
The idea that to start writing you first need to write One True Sentence is one that lots of authors and story theorists have used and found to work: 1  Ernest Hemingway called it one true sentence. 2  In Story, Robert McKee calls it the controlling idea. 3  In The Art of Dramatic Writing, Lajos Egri calls it the premise. And because it’s your story, you can metaphorically grab the reader by the shoulders and shake them until they listen. Storytelling is the creative demonstration of truth. A story is the living proof of an idea, the conversion of idea to action.
However, if your story is more action based, starting a story with dialougue may be useful since it automatically draws the reader to what is happening. I call it Set Backwards: You immediately go into action and set the scene as the story progresses. Other ways to improve a story is to use all five senses. 