Best Answer: That would depend on the operating hours of the facility. If they're open 24 hours, then 24 hours would be acceptible. The child care providers should know. There have to be acceptions for parents who work long shifts (12 hours). It's not the best thing for the child but sometimes it's necessary. 
Issue Summary: The maximum number of authorized care hours is being decreased from 100 to 90 hours per pay period per child for all CDC providers. The maximum allowable provider billing limits is also being reduced for in-home day care aides, relative care providers, family and group child care homes. 
People who must list with the division are those who are compensated to provide regular child care (at least four hours per day, three or more days a week, for three or more consecutive weeks or four hours a day for 40 or more days in a 12 month period) in their own homes for 1-3 unrelated children. Licensed Child Care Homes provide care for less than 24 hours per day for 7-12 children under 14 years old in the permit holder’s own home.
1 Any kind of day care can be good for your child if the care provides the warmth, supervision and individual attention your child needs. 2  In fact, you may want to use more than one kind of care for your children-for example, in-home care for your infant and center-based care for your preschooler. 
You can have your child in daycare for as many hours as your daycare provider will allow. There are some children at my daughters daycare who are there 14 hours a day. No it is no illegal. sorry I jumped to conclusions, My apologies. If the daycare is open those hours, then yes. There is no law that stipulates how many hours your child can be in daycare. And if its only three days a week your still get good Quality time with your child. Source(s): Pround parent with a child in daycare. DnR · 6 years ago
Licensed Facilities include day care and 24 hour residential care. Licensed Child Care Homes provide care for less than 24 hours per day for 7-12 children under 14 years old in the permit holder’s own home. All types of licensed facilities have published standards they are required to follow and are routinely monitored and inspected
Child care center means the same as a child day care center or a facility providing regularly scheduled care for a group of children one month of age through twelve years of age for periods less than twenty-four hours. (a) Be at least sixteen years of age or older; and. (b) Care for children under the direct supervision of a lead child care staff person at all times. (2) You may count the volunteer in the staff-child ratio when the volunteer meets staff qualification requirements and is sixteen years of age or older.
If you believe a child should not be in daycare more than a certain amount of hours, then you must provide care that does not allow this. You may also want to charge a rate for a set amount of hours for example 9 hours. Parents can then decide if it will be feasible for them to adhere to this amount of hours. 