As intestinal metaplasia (IM) of the stomach is a risk factor in developing intestinal-type gastric cancer, the question of reversibility is vital. Of the different types of metaplasia in the stomach, intestinal-type is the most common and it is associated with H pylori infection and bile reflux. Experimentally, irradiation induces IM.
(April 2014). Metaplasia (Greek : change in form) is the reversible replacement of one differentiated cell type with another mature differentiated cell type. The change from one type of cell to another may generally be a part of normal maturation process or caused by some sort of abnormal stimulus. Normal physiological metaplasia-such as that of the endocervix is highly desirable. The medical significance of metaplasia is that in some sites where pathological irritation is present cells may progress from metaplasia, to develop dysplasia, and then malignant neoplasia (cancer).
Description of Metaplasia. Metaplasia: A change of cells to a form that does not normally occur in the tissue in which it is found. Source: National Institute of Health. Metaplasia: transformation of a normal to a similar but abnormal mature cell type. Source: CRISP
myeloid metaplasia the occurrence of myeloid tissue in extramedullary sites; specifically, a syndrome characterized by splenomegaly, anemia, nucleated erythrocytes and immature granulocytes in the circulating blood, and extramedullary hematopoiesis in the liver and spleen. metaplasia. myeloid metaplasia a syndrome characterized by myeloid tissue in extramedullary sites with nucleated erythrocytes and immature granulocytes in the circulating blood and extramedullary hematopoiesis in the liver and spleen, as well as anemia and splenomegaly.
metaplasia. the change in the type of adult cells in a tissue to a form abnormal for that tissue. adj., adj metaplas´tic. agnogenic myeloid metaplasia the primary or idiopathic form of myeloid metaplasia, which is often accompanied by myelofibrosis; it is considered one of the myeloproliferative disorders. metaplasia. myeloid metaplasia a syndrome characterized by myeloid tissue in extramedullary sites with nucleated erythrocytes and immature granulocytes in the circulating blood and extramedullary hematopoiesis in the liver and spleen, as well as anemia and splenomegaly.
Definition of METAPLASIA. 1. : transformation of one tissue into another. 2. : abnormal replacement of cells of one type by cells of another. — meta·plas·tic \-ˈplas-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Intestinal metaplasia (IM) of the stomach is a risk factor in developing intestinal-type gastric cancer and hence the question of reversibility is vital. Of the different types of metaplasia in the stomach, intestinal-type is the most common and it is associated with H pylori infection and bile reflux. Experimentally, irradiation induces IM.
Metaplasia is not synonymous with dysplasia and is not directly considered carcinogenic. It is also contrasted with heteroplasia, which is the abnormal growth of cytologic and histologic elements without a stimulus. Normal physiological metaplasia-such as that of the endocervix is highly desirable. The medical significance of metaplasia is that in some sites where pathological irritation is present cells may progress from metaplasia, to develop dysplasia, and then malignant neoplasia (cancer).