About the digestive process. The stomach, the small intestine and large intestine work together to process food and water. The process begins in your mouth when food is broken down by chewing. The addition of saliva in your mouth begins the chemical processing that also takes place. Then, the food travels down the esophagus to your stomach. Small intestine. Once chyme leaves your stomach, it enters the small intestine, where it is broken down further. The normal length of the entire small intestine is approximately 12 to 21 feet, compared with less than 7 feet in many people with Short Bowel Syndrome.
The small intestine is part of the gastrointestinal tract. Chyme from the stomach empties into the small intestine. The small intestine is responsible for most chemical digestion of food, and absorption of nutrients including proteins, lipids (fats) and carbohydrates. Once the small intestine has extracted the nutrients, the remaining waste proceeds to the large intestine before being expelled from the body. The digested food passes into the capillaries and lymphatic vessels in the wall of the intestine. Nutrients such as glucose and amino acids are absorbed into capillaries, while fats are absorbed into the lymph vessels. The ileum is the last section of the small intestine. It mainly absorbs vitamin B12 and bile salts.
The small intestine is the location in the body where the majority of the nutrients from ingested food are absorbed. Whereas the stomach is responsible for the churning and mechanical breakdown of food, the small intestine is very important for absorption. The parts of the small intestine include the duodenum, jejunum and the ileum. The duodenum is a segment of intestine between the stomach and the jejunum that is very active in digestion where many different enzymes mix from the stomach, liver, gallbladder and pancreas.
By the time food leaves your small intestine all the nutrients in your food will have entered your bloodstream. All that remains is indigestible food which is passed from your small intestine to your large intestine for further processing. Function: Chemical digestion of food and absorption of nutrients into your blood. Longest section of your digestive tract. Your small intestine is around five metres long, making it the longest section of your digestive tract. Although it is longer than your large intestine it has a smaller diameter.
In the small intestine, the food is digested for the last  time in the digestive system. Bile, pancreatic juice and intestinal  juice are let into the small intestine when t … he food enters the  small intestine. The bile acid is the greenish liquid that that  breaks down the large fat molecule into small fat molecule. The  intestinal and pancreatic juice contain protease, carbohydrase and  lipase. When food enters the small intestine it is absorbing the nutrients. Your bile and pancreas, liver and gallbladder help aid in breaking down nutrients and absorption. The nutrients from food are carried to the bloodstream for delivery where the nutrients are needed. The large intestine pretty much just reabsorbs
The chyme, or partially digested food from the stomach, is pushed along the small intestine by muscle contractions called peristaltic waves. Most of the chemical digestion and breakdown of the food happens in the duodenum. Food is mixed with bile from the gallbladder and digestive juices from the pancreas. The digested food passes into the capillaries and lymphatic vessels in the wall of the intestine. Nutrients such as glucose and amino acids are absorbed into capillaries, while fats are absorbed into the lymph vessels. The ileum is the last section of the small intestine. It mainly absorbs vitamin B12 and bile salts.
Your large intestine is the final part of your digestive tract. Undigested food enters your large intestine from your small intestine. It then reabsorbs water that is used in digestion and eliminates undigested food and fibre. This causes food waste products to harden and form faeces, which are then excreted. 
To move into the small intestine, chyme must pass through the pyloric sphincter. From here it enters the duodenum, the first part of the small intestine. The liver mixes in bile, which helps break down fats in the food. The pancreas also secretes digestive enzymes that aid in digestion. Most of the nutrients are absorbed from the small intestine and moved into the blood stream via a system of small folds, called vili. After the food moves through the small intestine it enters the large intestine. The large intestine is named for the diameter of the cavity and not for the length. 