The term supervolcano implies a volcanic center that has had an eruption of magnitude 8 on the Volcano Explosivity Index (VEI), meaning the measured deposits for that eruption is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles). The VEI scale was created as a general measurement of the explosivity of an eruption. The docudrama Supervolcano dramatically explores the impact of a large caldera-forming eruption at Yellowstone. The scale of the portrayed eruption is similar to the eruption of the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff at Yellowstone 2.1 million years ago.
Composite volcanoes. Characteristics of a composite volcano. 1  Composite volcanoes are made up of alternating layers of lava and ash (other volcanoes just consist of lava). 2  They are usually found at destructive [destructive boundaries: The boundary of two plates which are moving towards each other. Shield volcanoes. The characteristics of a shield volcano. 1  Shield volcanoes are usually found at constructive [constructive boundaries: Areas between two crustal plates that are moving away from each other, causing new crustal rocks to form.
Yellowstone. A hydrothermal feature at Yellowstone. Yellowstone is one example of a supervolcano. Three huge eruptions have happened in the last 3 million years. the last eruption was 630,000 years ago, and was 1,000 times bigger than the Mount St Helens eruption in 1980. 1 it erupts at least 1,000 km 3 of material (a large volcano erupts around 1 km 3). 2  it forms a depression, called a caldera [caldera: A cauldron / depression shaped tectonic feature usually formed from the collapse of a magma chamber.
The essential feature of a composite volcano is a conduit system through which magma from a reservoir deep in the Earth's crust rises to the surface. The volcano is built up by the accumulation of material erupted through the conduit and increases in size as lava, cinders, ash, etc., are added to its slopes. Shield volcanoes, the third type of volcano, are built almost entirely of fluid lava flows. Flow after flow pours out in all directions from a central summit vent, or group of vents, building a broad, gently sloping cone of flat, domical shape, with a profile much like that of a warrior's shield
A caldera is a crater formed after the eruption of a volcano. Some characteristics would be depressed ground and a depression that is located over a hot spot where a volcano u … sed to be. The volcano is built up by the accumulation of material erupted through the conduit and increases in size as lava, cinders, ash, etc., are added to its slopes. Shield volcanoes, the third type of volcano, are built almost entirely of fluid lava flows.
A volcano is :An opening in the Earth's crust from which lava, ash, and hot gases flow or are ejected during an eruption.A usually cone-shaped mountain formed by the materials … issuing from such an opening. Volcanoes are surficial manifestations of thermal processes occurring inside the Earth. The volcano is built up by the accumulation of material erupted through the conduit and increases in size as lava, cinders, ash, etc., are added to its slopes. Shield volcanoes, the third type of volcano, are built almost entirely of fluid lava flows.
A supervolcano is a volcano on a massive scale. It is different from a volcano because: 1  it erupts at least 1,000 km 3 of material (a large volcano erupts around 1 km 3). 2  it forms a depression, called a caldera [caldera: A cauldron / depression shaped tectonic feature usually formed from the collapse of a magma chamber. ] ( 3 a volcano forms a cone shape). 1 it erupts at least 1,000 km 3 of material (a large volcano erupts around 1 km 3). 2  it forms a depression, called a caldera [caldera: A cauldron / depression shaped tectonic feature usually formed from the collapse of a magma chamber.
An eruption is classified as a VEI 8 if the measured volume of deposits is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles). Therefore a supervolcano is a volcano that at one point in time erupted more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of deposits. Yellowstone, like many other supervolcanoes, has also had much smaller eruptions. The cartoon shows a comparison of eruption sizes, including the three largest from Yellowstone. The docudrama Supervolcano dramatically explores the impact of a large caldera-forming eruption at Yellowstone. The scale of the portrayed eruption is similar to the eruption of the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff at Yellowstone 2.1 million years ago.
Caldera Volcanoes. View a satellite map of the Yellowstone Caldera. Caldera volcanoes are the Extreme Volcanoes. These are the most powerful and catastrophic types of volcanoes in a category by themselves because of the unique way in which they form. This type of volcano is shaped more like an inverse volcano. An enormous magma chamber bulges up beneath the ground from the extremely high pressures of the trapped gases within. 