Task Bar. The task bar was introduced with Windows 95 and has been part of every version of Windows since then. It is the bar that spans the bottom of the screen and contains the Start button on the left side and the systray on the right. The task bar also includes the current time on the far right side and can hold shortcuts to programs directly to the right of the Start button.
In the graphical user interface (GUI) for a computer operating system or application, a taskbar is a visual device on the desktop that typically shows the user which applications (task s) are currently active and running.
The task bar was introduced with Windows 95 and has been part of every version of Windows since then. It is the bar that spans the bottom of the screen and contains the Start button on the left side and the systray on the right. The task bar also includes the current time on the far right side and can hold shortcuts to programs directly to the right of the Start button.
Definition of:Win Taskbar. The Windows Taskbar is the row of buttons often found across the bottom of the screen, although it can be relocated to the top or either side, and it can even be hidden until the user moves the mouse pointer to the edge of the screen.
Taskbar. A bar located at the bottom of the screen first introduced with Microsoft Windows 95 and found in all the versions of Windows that followed. The Taskbar allows the user to locate and launch programs through the Start button or view any program that is currently open.
task·bar. n. A row of buttons or graphical controls on a computer screen that represent open programs, among which the user can switch back and forth by clicking on the appropriate one.
task·bar. n. A row of buttons or graphical controls on a computer screen that represent open programs, among which the user can switch back and forth by clicking on the appropriate one.
taskbar. n. 1. (Computer Science) a row of selectable buttons and icons typically running along the bottom of a computer screen, displaying information such as the names of running programs.