Jamaica is a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary democracy based on the Westminster model, with a functional two-party system. Under this system of government, the prime minister and his cabinet are responsible to the legislature, and universal suffrage exists for citizens over the age of eighteen. 
Jamaica's government is a Commonwealth, Constitutional, and Parliamentary Democracy with 81 members in its legislature. Executive elections are every 5 years. The percent of seats in Jamaican parliament held by women is 29% lower than the global average, 17% . 
Government. Jamaica is a parliamentary democracy governed under the constitution of 1962. It has a bicameral Parliament made up of a 21-member Senate and a 60-member House of Representatives. The prime minister is the head of government. The head of state is the British monarch, as represented by the governor-general. 
Jamaica is a constitutional monarchy with the monarch being represented by a Governor-General.[ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor-Ge... All the members of the Cabinet are appointed by the Governor-General on the advice of the Prime Minister. Jamaica's current Constitution was drafted in 1962 by a bipartisan joint committee of the Jamaican legislature. It came into force with the Jamaica Independence Act, 1962 of the United Kingdom Parliament, which gave Jamaica political independence.
Jamaica is a Parliamentary Democracy and Constitutional Monarchy with the Queen of England as the ceremonial Head of State. Jamaica has a constitutional parliamentary democracy. this is by iliana soler.   it
Government Name: Jamaica. Constitution: Adopted: 1962; The constitution establishes a parliamentary system based on the United Kingdom, but as politically independent. Outlines the rights of citizens and the structure of the government. 
Jamaica Government. government is known as a parliamentary democracy which is based on a representational system of government. Jamaica government is a constitutional monarchy and as a unitary state is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Jamaica Government Jamaica government is known as a parliamentary democracy which is based on a representational system of government. Jamaica government is a constitutional monarchy and as a unitary state is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations.
Jamaica is a parliamentary democracy governed under the constitution of 1962. It has a bicameral Parliament made up of a 21-member Senate and a 60-member House of Representati … ves. The prime minister is the head of government. The head of state is the British monarch, as represented by the governor-general.
Jamaica Government type. Factbook Countries Jamaica Government. Government type: constitutional parliamentary democracy and a Commonwealth realm. Definition: This entry gives the basic form of government. Definitions of the major governmental terms are as follows. (Note that for some countries more than one definition applies.):