I think a realistic budget is $50 per person per day. Some days will be lower, if you watch what you are doing... but when you add in snacks, a bottle of water or 2 - you are going to hit $50.00. I work in NY and between coffee (not Starbucks), and lunch and water I spend approximately $13.00 a day. For dinner, I think you have to budget $20 per person for a simple meal at a decent restaurant; go up to $50 per person for a splurge at a nice prix-fixe with one glass of wine and coffee (a place like Vice Versa or Roberto Passon).
I would budget about 15€/day ($20/day) for sightseeing. Here is a list of admissions prices at some popular attractions in Europe so you can get a feel of how much you’re going to pay: 1  Louvre Museum – Paris: 9.50€ ($13.50). 2  Centre Pompidou Museum – Paris: 12€ (16.50). 
For example, an advance-purchase Greyhound bus ticket for travel in October from Raleigh, N.C., to New York cost $45 versus $52.95 to fill up a 15-gallon tank at the average East Coast gas price of $3.53 a gallon (and you'll need to fill up more than once for a drive of that distance). Several hotels offer great rates (by New York standards, that is) on accommodations with shared baths. For example, you can get a room for two at The Jane for $145 a night if you're willing to share a bathroom -- whereas rooms at The Jane with private bathrooms cost at least $325.
Year after year, it tops Kiplinger's list of costliest places to live. Just visiting it can cost an arm and a leg. The average daily hotel room rate is $281, and the average cost of dinner in a restaurant is $43 per person, according to the city's official marketing and tourism organization NYC & Company. Add in the cost of other meals, transportation and entertainment, and you could easily spend $500 a day in the Big Apple. Several hotels offer great rates (by New York standards, that is) on accommodations with shared baths. For example, you can get a room for two at The Jane for $145 a night if you're willing to share a bathroom -- whereas rooms at The Jane with private bathrooms cost at least $325.
Top 25 Ways to Save on New York City Travel. The Big Apple has a reputation as a pricey vacation destination, and that's not entirely undeserved -- the average rate at a New York City hotel is a whopping $204 a night (according to a recent Hotels.com Price Index report) -- the most expensive in the U.S. 
The majority of a traveler's money is often spent in restaurants. New York City is filled with expensive restaurants, diners and coffee houses; but if a budget traveler sticks to authentic New York street food, a meal can cost as little as $3 to $5. Choose your transportation to New York City wisely. New York can be reached by plane, train and bus. How close you are to New York and how much time you have to travel there will be the deciding factor on how you should get to the city. Taking the bus is almost always the cheapest route, but bus rides can be lengthy
How to Visit New York City on a Budget. Millions of tourists from around the world visit New York City every year, and it's no wonder they contribute more than a billion dollars to the city's economy. However, you don't have to break the bank to visit the Big Apple.
In one full month in Thailand, I spent THB7,392 on food, or about $235. This works out to a daily average of $7.50, or $2.50 per meal ! Many people in western countries can spend $50 on food per day from eating out; on average, I spent $52.50 per week! This number does not reflect the price of alcohol, except for the occasional beer with dinner.
A fellow traveler comments: Spending money-NY-how much? (Source: TripAdvisor). If I were to hazard a guess, if you are planning to keep it on a really low but reasonable side, I would budget somewhere between $50 to $100 per person per day on activities. Add another $50 to $75 on food. Dining at restaurants will definitely be more expensive. But it does not have to be cut-throat. You can find some really hearty ethnic meals (or call them soul food if you want) for under $10, while some midrange restaurants have great table service starting from as low as $10 to $15 per person for a dinner.