Simply defined, arthritis is inflammation of one or more of your joints. The most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, but there are more than 100 different forms. Healthy joints move easily because of a smooth, slippery tissue called articular cartilage. Cartilage covers the ends of bones and provides a smooth gliding surface for the joint. The two most common forms of arthritis from disease are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis is much more common and generally affects older people. Also known as wear and tear arthritis, osteoarthritis causes cartilage to wear away. It appears in a predictable pattern in certain joints. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease that can affect many parts of your body. It causes the joint lining (synovium) to swell, which causes pain and stiffness in
Arthritis is inflammation of one or more of your joints. It can cause pain and stiffness in any joint in the body, and is common in the small joints of the foot and ankle. There are more than 100 forms of arthritis, many of which affect the foot and ankle. 
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Several other diseases have symptoms similar to osteoarthritis (OA). They include: A doctor can often distinguish between OA and other conditions using a physical exam and x-rays. 1  Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that can cause pain in the joints.
1 Osteoarthritis does not usually cause much swelling but may cause a little, especially in the knees. 2  Deformed joints. 3  Joints can start to look like they are the wrong shape, especially as arthritis gets worse. 4  Reduced range of motion and loss of use of the joint. 1 This happens a lot with arthritis in the knee. 2  Swelling. 3  Osteoarthritis does not usually cause much swelling but may cause a little, especially in the knees. 4  Deformed joints. 5  Joints can start to look like they are the wrong shape, especially as arthritis gets worse. 6
The disease that may be most similar to osteoarthritis is rheumatoid arthritis. While their symptoms are similar, the causes of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis are strikingly different. The former occurs primarily due to wear and tear on the joint. Several other diseases have symptoms similar to osteoarthritis (OA). They include: A doctor can often distinguish between OA and other conditions using a physical exam and x-rays. 1  Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that can cause pain in the joints.
Osteoarthritis is a progressive form of arthritis that is characterized by breakdown of the cartilage in joints. Osteoarthritis is abbreviated OA and is also known as degenerative joint disease and wear and tear arthritis. Osteoarthritis Diagnosis. To diagnose osteoarthritis, the doctor will review your symptoms and examine your joints for swelling, redness, warmth, and range of motion. X-rays or other imaging tests can be used to determine the extent of joint damage and/or rule out other joint problems.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a form of degenerative joint pain caused by wear and tear on your joints. As you age, the cartilage that cushions your joints starts to wear down, causing the bones to rub together. The bone-on-bone action leads to inflammation of the joints. 
Symptoms of osteoarthritis can range from mild to severe. They may include: 1  Pain. 2  Your joints may ache, or the pain may feel burning or sharp. 3  For some people, the pain may come and go. 4  Constant pain or pain while you sleep may be a sign that your arthritis is getting worse. 5  Stiffness. 6  When you have arthritis, getting up in the morning can be hard. 1 This happens a lot with arthritis in the knee. 2  Swelling. 3  Osteoarthritis does not usually cause much swelling but may cause a little, especially in the knees. 4  Deformed joints. 5  Joints can start to look like they are the wrong shape, especially as arthritis gets worse. 6  Reduced range of motion and loss of use of the joint.
Osteoarthritis. Sometimes called degenerative joint disease or “wear and tear” arthritis, osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common chronic condition of the joints. It occurs when the cartilage or cushion between joints breaks down leading to pain, stiffness and swelling. pain. 