Lemongrass essential oil is extracted through the process of steam distillation of dried lemongrass. Lemongrass is known by the scientific names Cymbopogon Citratus or Andropogon Citratus. The main constituents of its essential oil are Myrcene, Citronellal, Geranyl Acetate, Nerol, Geraniol, Neral, Limonene and Citral. This property of Lemongrass, which comes from its essential oils, is widely known and utilized. It is often served in tea for this very purpose. Antiseptic: The antiseptic properties of Lemongrass Oil make it a good application for external and internal wounds as well as an ingredient of antiseptic lotions and creams.
I love cooking and baking with essential oils. They are a kitchen pantry essential! That’s because there are so many benefits to incorporating these oils into your recipes, from their amazing flavors and smells to their antioxidant levels and immune boosting properties. 
Caution: There are hot oils in this blend. Make sure to always blend it with a carrier oil. Best to not use topically on children under age 3. Rocky Mountain Oils’ Immune Strength contains essential oils that have a long history of use for boosting the immune system and keeping people healthy. The herbs were often worn and prescribed by physicians to help people fight off many diseases, including the plague. Make sure your skin can handle the oil/blend before using. Massage a drop or two of Rocky Mountain Oils’ Immune Strength in a carrier oil, into the thymus, on the feet, and under the arms to strengthen the immune system. Apply onto the throat, around ears, stomach, and intestines.
There are many essential oils with anti-depressant, anti-viral and immune boosting properties. These essential oils have traditionally been used throughout history to protect the body from viruses and then assist the body to fight off the symptoms of the flu once exposed. We also know that when an individual is holistically positive their immune systems are much stronger compared to a holistically negative individual, therefore essential oils that are anti-depressant and uplifting are stongly recommended as well, for these indiviiduals.
Just about all essential oils will help the immune system. Since all of them have anti viral, anti bacterial and anti fungal properties to varying degrees-they will help keep most infections to a minimum. One of the most beneficial ways for you to get the most from your essential oils is by diffusing them. This group of essential oils for the most part are fairly strong and are suggested to be used when you have been exposed to viruses or other disease producing organisms. This next group are actually the oils that may help your body build up your
Especially lemongrass, with it's immune system and digestive system benefits-it even reduces cellulite! Fresh lemon grass is better than powdered or dried and the most potent form is lemongrass essential oil. 
One important way to assist your immune system is a lymphatic massage that uses essential oils. Lymph nodes are located around the body, particularly in the throat, groin, breasts, and under the arms. They are like filtering centers for cleansing the blood. Massage your legs from your feet up to the groin. Essential oils for the immune system: bergamot, grapefruit, lavender, lemon, myrrh, rosemary, tea tree, thyme. 1  Aromatherapy: Here you will learn about aromatherapy, how it works, what part essential oils play, and how to use aromatherapy.
Uses of Lemongrass Oil. Lemongrass oil is a great addition to various skin care and cosmetic products, such as soaps, deodorants, shampoos, lotions, and tonics. It also works as an air freshener and deodorizer, especially when blended with other essential oils like geranium or bergamot. 1 Get two lemongrass stalks and remove the leaves. 2  Crush the stalks using a mortar and pestle (or any heavy object) to release the oil. 3  Fill a jar with your carrier oil of choice and put the crushed stalk in it.
Other Benefits: Lemongrass essential oil helps to cure cellulite, fungal infections and digestive problems, while simultaenously reducing excessive perspiration. A Few Words of Caution: It is likely to irritate the skin and produce other types of irritations too. This property of Lemongrass, which comes from its essential oils, is widely known and utilized. It is often served in tea for this very purpose. Antiseptic: The antiseptic properties of Lemongrass Oil make it a good application for external and internal wounds as well as an ingredient of antiseptic lotions and creams.
Analgesic: Things that are considered an analgesic reduce pain and inflammation. Lemongrass Essential Oil helps relieve pain in muscles and joints, as well as toothaches and headaches resulting from viral infections like cough, cold, influenza, fever, and various poxes. This property of Lemongrass, which comes from its essential oils, is widely known and utilized. It is often served in tea for this very purpose. Antiseptic: The antiseptic properties of Lemongrass Oil make it a good application for external and internal wounds as well as an ingredient of antiseptic lotions and creams.