Heathrow Airport is located about 20 miles west of central London  and Gatwick Airport is located about 30 miles south of central  London. Both airports have excellent trans … port connections to  central London. The City of London is a small portion of the metropolitan region of London, which is located in England, in the United Kingdom. There are also many other cities and towns arou … nd the world that are called London because they were settled by or built by people from England.
London City Airport is the closest airport to Central London. Find out about airport facilities and how to get there and back. London City Airport (LCY) is one of the easiest and most accessible airports in London owing to its location just 9.5km (6 miles) east of Central London and 4.8km (3 miles) from Canary Wharf. Tube. London City Airport is well-connected to the Tube network. The airport has its own stop on the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) , which takes you to Tube interchange stations such as Canning Town, Stratford and Bank. For more information visit the Transport for London (TfL) website.
Main article: London City Airport. Located in the London Borough of Newham City Airport is situated in London's disused Docklands, and is the closest to Central London, which limits its size-the airport has a single runway, which is very short. Located in the London Borough of Hillingdon, Heathrow is by far the largest of London's airports, and considered the international gateway into the United Kingdom. Heathrow has five terminals and two parallel runways.
London City Airport (IATA: LCY, ICAO: EGLC) is an international airport in London. It is located in the Royal Docks in the London Borough of Newham, some 6 NM (11 km; 6.9 mi) east of the City of London and a rather smaller distance east of Canary Wharf. In 2014, London City served 3.6 million passengers, an 8% increase compared with 2013 and a record total for the airport. It was the fifth busiest airport in passengers and aircraft movements serving the London area after Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and Luton and the 15th busiest in the UK
London City Airport has a single 1,500-metre (4,900 ft) long runway, and a CAA Public Use Aerodrome Licence (Number P728) that allows flights for the public transport of passengers or for flight training (but only for training necessary for the operation of aircraft at the airport). In 2014, London City served 3.6 million passengers, an 8% increase compared with 2013 and a record total for the airport. It was the fifth busiest airport in passengers and aircraft movements serving the London area after Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and Luton and the 15th busiest in the UK
London has five major airports: London Heathrow, London Stansted, London Gatwick, London Luton and London City. We have all the information you need about London's airport facilities, locations and connections. Browse all Airports. 
London City Airport is the only airport actually located in London. Situated just 11km east of the City of London, the crew pride themselves on quick passenger throughput, quoting a 20 minute check-in time for departure and 15 minute arrival time from plane to train. 
Located in Essex, Stansted is London's third busiest airport, being the fourth busiest in the United Kingdom, behind Manchester Airport, 26th busiest in Europe, and is one of the primary operational bases for Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair. Located in the London Borough of Hillingdon, Heathrow is by far the largest of London's airports, and considered the international gateway into the United Kingdom. Heathrow has five terminals and two parallel runways.