The Supreme Court decision led to a new test for obscenity that is still in use today. The Miller v. California decision held the following: 1  Obscene material is not protected by the First Amendment. 2  Roth v. United States, 354 U.S. 476, reaffirmed. After struggling for years to come to a consensus on what the law could actually consider to be obscene, the standard that was set in Miller v. California still stands today. Although this case didn’t directly involve comic books, it is still an extremely important decision for CBLDF’s own legal work.
Obscenity, on the other hand, is legally defined; however the legal definition is purposefully vague. Its current definition is based on what is commonly referred to as the Miller Test, which stems from the 1973 Supreme Court case Miller v. California (discussed later in this paper). In this case, the Supreme Court adopted a test with which material was to be found obscene if to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interest (Morgan, J., 2000, p. 52).
A comprehensive, legal definition of obscenity has been difficult to establish. Yet key components of the current obscenity test stem from a District Court case tried in 1933. United States v. The Supreme Court has repeatedly grappled with problematic elements of the Miller test for obscenity. However, to date, no standard has replaced it. In 1997, Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union 521 U.S. 844 (“ACLU I”) addressed obscenity in the field of new media.
[b]ut I know it when I see it ..... In the United States, the 1973 ruling of the Supreme Court of the United States in Miller v. California established a three-tiered test to determine what was obscene—and thus not protected, versus what was merely erotic and thus protected by the First Amendment. An obscenity is any utterance or act that strongly offends the prevalent morality of the time. It is derived from the Latin obscaena (offstage) a cognate of the Ancient Greek root skene, because some potentially offensive content, such as murder or sex, was depicted offstage in classical drama.
Arguably the most important in a series of late-twentieth-century Supreme Court cases laying down the definition of Obscenity and setting down the boundaries as to how and when communities could regulate obscene materials. Miller v. California, 413 U.S. 15, 93 S. Ct. 2607, 37 L. Ed. With all the confusion, the stage was set for the court to make a definitive statement on obscenity. This is what the court tried to do in Miller v. California. But for years after the decision was handed down, commentators debated whether the court had succeeded.
United States obscenity law deals with laws in the United States that relate to the regulation or suppression of what is considered obscenity. In the United States, discussion of obscenity revolves around pornography and raises issues of freedom of speech and of censorship. In Rosen v. United States (1896), the Supreme Court adopted the same obscenity standard as had been articulated in a famous British case, Regina v. Hicklin, [1868] L. R. 3 Q. B. 360.
It is possible to read the Court's opinion in Roth v. United States and Alberts v. California, 354 U.S. 476, in a variety of ways. In saying this, I imply no criticism of the Court, which in those cases was faced with the task of trying to define what may be indefinable. (In 1990, however, the Court--in a 6 to 3 decision--found that constitutional protection for private possession of pornography does not extend to pornography involving children.). Smith v California concerns what must be shown to convict a bookseller in an obscenity case.
1 , 383 U.S. 413 (1966) (This is an obscenity case in which Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure (commonly known as Fanny Hill), written by John Cleland in about 1750, was adjudged obscene in a proceeding that put on trial the book itself, and not its publisher or distributor. 1 Roth v. U. S. , 354 U.S. 476 (1957) (Obscenity is not within the area of constitutionally protected freedom of speech or press-either (1) under the First Amendment, as to the Federal Government, or (2) under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, as to the States.
Prior to Miller, judges testing for obscenity invoked the wisdom handed down by the Court in Roth v. United States 354 U.S. 476 (1957) . A landmark case, Roth ruled that obscene material was not protected by the First Amendment and could be regulated by the States rather than by a singular, Federal standard. The Supreme Court has repeatedly grappled with problematic elements of the Miller test for obscenity. However, to date, no standard has replaced it. In 1997, Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union 521 U.S. 844 (“ACLU I”) addressed obscenity in the field of new media.