1 Lec. 6 Medical Physiology Z.H.Al-Zubaydi Platelets Platelets are not cells in the strict sense. They are fragments of bizarre multinucleate cells called megakaryocytes, which pinch off thousands of anucleate platelets pieces that quickly seal themselves off from the surrounding fluids. The platelets appear as darkly staining, irregularly shaped bodies scattered among the other blood cells.
An abnormality or disease of the platelets is called a thrombocytopathy, which could be either a low number of platelets (thrombocytopenia), a decrease in function of platelets (thrombasthenia), or an increase in the number of platelets (thrombocytosis).
Thrombocyte is the medical term meaning platelet.   Related terms are thrombocytopenia (a sharp reduction in the number of platelets in the blood), and thromboc … ytosis (a pronounced increase in the number of thrombocytes in the blood). Platelets are also called Thrombocytes.
Like red cells, platelets (thrombocytes) have no nucleus. However, unlike red cells that originate in the marrow as nucleated cells and lose their nucleus, platelets are produced by budding off from a giant multinucleated marrow cell called a megakaryocyte.
Thrombocytopenia is the medical term meaning abnormally low platelet count. The symptoms include abnormal bleeding and in general the clotting process is extended … . The first places one normally sees these symptoms are the skin and digestive tract.
1 A Medical Definition of Blood Platelets A platelet is a small cell fragment, shaped like a disc, that circulates in mammal bloodstreams and plays a role in hemostasis, which leads to the development of blood clots.…. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Share to: 1  A Medical Definition of Blood Platelets A platelet is a small cell fragment, shaped like a disc, that circulates in mammal bloodstreams and plays a role in hemostasis, which leads to the development of blood clots.…. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.