Para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) is a chemical found in the folic acid vitamin and also in several foods including grains, eggs, milk, and meat. PABA is taken by mouth for skin conditions including vitiligo, pemphigus, dermatomyositis, morphea, lymphoblastoma cutis, Peyronie’s disease, and scleroderma. 1 PABA is FDA approved for this skin condition. 2  However, there is only limited evidence that it is effective. 3  Viral infection in the eye (herpes keratitis). 4  Early research suggests that using a specific PABA eye solution (Actipol) as eye drops can be effective for treating viral herpes infection in the eye.
PABA is the short form for Para-AminoBenzoic Acid. It is an antioxidant that is considered by some as a B complex vitamin, and sometimes called vitamin Bx. However it is not really a vitamin, but actually an amino acid that is part of folic acid. It can be made in the body by friendly intestinal bacteria. How PABA Benefits Health PABA is not considered an essential nutrient. Nevertheless it is found in foods such as liver and grains, and offers benefits rarely obtainable from other nutrients.
Para-aminobenzoic Acid (PABA) is also a member of the B vitamins, and is part of the folic acid molecule. PABA itself is readily available in food and is made by our intestinal bacteria. PABA is usually used along with biotin, pantothenic acid, and folic acid in the restoration of hair, often with vitamin E as well. PABA is also used to reduce aging of the skin and lessen wrinkles.
PABA, or para-aminobenzoic acid, was one of the first sunblocks that became widely available for purchase, appearing on shelves in the 1970s. But now, PABA is rarely used as a sunscreen ingredient, and the reason is not as scary as you might assume. PABA is a nutrient found in b-complex vitamins and in some multivitamin supplements. Grains, animal products, liver, kidney, molasses, mushrooms and spinach all contain PABA.
Uses. Para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) is a compound that is an essential nutrient for microorganisms and some animals, but has not been shown to be essential for people. PABA is considered by some to be a member of the vitamin B-complex, though its actions differ widely from other B vitamins. 
PABA is included in some vitamin supplements. Photo Credit vitamin pills image by Wilson Wong from Fotolia.com. Para-aminobenzoic acid, also known as 4-aminobenzoic acid and PABA, is a natural substance often included in sunscreen products and other skin care items. It also shows some potential as an oral supplement. Sources. PABA is not considered an essential nutrient, as noted by the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, or BIDMC. It is usually present in supplements that contain B vitamins, because it is a component of folic acid, or vitamin B-9.
Whole-grain foods are a good source of para-aminobenzoic acid. Para-aminobenzoic acid, or PABA, is a naturally occurring substance once thought to be a vitamin. Dubbed “vitamin Bx” because of this, PABA forms part of the chemical structure of folate, a B vitamin. PABA is essential for the growth of certain bacteria and can be synthesized by some naturally found in the gut. Chemically, it is a common ingredient in sunscreen, and medicinally it is used to treat scleroderma, an autoimmune disease characterized by fibrous changes in the skin, muscles and other body organs
PABA is an intermediate in the synthesis of folate by bacteria, plants, and fungi. Many bacteria, including those found in the human intestinal tract such as E. coli, generate PABA from chorismate by the combined action of the enzymes 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate synthase and 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate lyase. In the past, PABA was widely used in sunscreens as a UV filter. It is a UVB absorber, meaning it can absorb wavelengths between 290 and 320 nm. Patented in 1943, PABA was one of the first active ingredients to be used in sunscreen. The first in vivo studies on mice showed that PABA reduced UV damage.
4-Aminobenzoic acid (also known as para-aminobenzoic acid or PABA because the number 4 carbon in the benzene ring is also known as the para position) is an organic compound with the formula H 2 NC 6 H 4 CO 2 H. PABA, a white-grey crystalline substance, is only slightly soluble in water. In the past, PABA was widely used in sunscreens as a UV filter. It is a UVB absorber, meaning it can absorb wavelengths between 290 and 320 nm. Patented in 1943, PABA was one of the first active ingredients to be used in sunscreen. The first in vivo studies on mice showed that PABA reduced UV damage.