The formed elements consist of the cells and cell fragments. The erythrocytes (red blood cells), platelets, and leukocytes (white blood cells) are all considered formed elements. Erythrocytes do not contain a nucleus. During their development within the bone marrow, they have a nucleus. 
Report Abuse. Prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus (they have a nucleoid region). Prokaryotes make up the domains Eubacteria and Archaea (the third domain is Eukarya, and their cells do have a nucleus). In certain eukaryotes, I know of 2 cells types that don't have a nucleus
Best Answer: Cells can be devided into prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells. All prokaryotic cells do not contain a nucleus. Examples for these are bacteria. The human red blood cells at mature stages do not contain a nucleus either. But remember, at pre mature stages these cells did contain a nucleus which they lose later. 
Prokaryote is a group of cells that do not have nuclei. Bacteria do not have nuclei. Red blood cells do have nuclei when they are being made by the red bone marrow although after they leave they lose their nucleus. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prokaryote http://biology.about.com/od/cellanatomy/... Prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus (they have a nucleoid region). Prokaryotes make up the domains Eubacteria and Archaea (the third domain is Eukarya, and their cells do have a nucleus). In certain eukaryotes, I know of 2 cells types that don't have a nucleus
The most common type of cell which does not have a nucleus is a mature mamalian red blood cell. Avian, reptilian, and amphibian red blood cells have nuclei. Source(s): biology major. raymond m · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Such cells that have no membrane bound nucleus (or organelles) are called prokaryotes. On the other hand, cells that DO have a membrane bound nucleus and organelles are called eukaryotes.
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell contains the DNA, the genetic material of the cell. The DNA contains the information necessary for constructing the cell and directing the multitude of synthesis tasks performed by the cell in the process of life and reproduction. 
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. The function of the nucleus is to maintain the integrity of these genes and to control the activities of the cell by regulating gene expression —the nucleus is, therefore, the control center of the cell.
Not every cell in the human body contains DNA bundled in a cell nucleus. Specifically, mature red blood cells and cornified cells in the skin, hair, and nails contain no nucleus. As part of the maturation process, human red blood cells destroy their cell nuclei. Note that there is much more in blood than red blood cells. As a result, a blood sample does contain DNA due to the presence of other kinds of cells. Cornified cells in the skin, hair, and nails also contain no