Broiler chickens (Gallus gallus domesticus), or broilers, are a gallinaceous domesticated fowl, bred and raised specifically for meat production. The breeding stock (broiler-breeders) grow to maturity and beyond but also have welfare issues related to frustration of a high feeding motivation and beak trimming. Broilers are usually grown as mixed-sex flocks in large sheds under intensive conditions, but some breeds can be grown as free-range flocks.
Broiling is a cooking process which involves the use of very high heat for a short period of time. In addition to producing food quickly, broiling is also used for low fat cooking. As a general rule of thumb, thinner cuts of meat are more suitable for broiling, to ensure that the meat is cooked all the way through. The food being broiled is inserted, and the oven is turned to “broil.” Broiling directs intense heat at the food from directly above to quickly sear and cook it. The food may need to be turned if it is particularly thick, and it should be broiled in a sturdy cooking pan over a broiler tray.
Report Abuse. In some ovens (usually gas) the broiler is in the lower oven or the drawer-like compartment below the main oven. The gas flames are at the top of that compartment. If you don't have a lower oven or a drawer beneath the main oven the broiler element would be at the top of the oven compartment. Line the tray with aluminum foil (to ease clean up) and use your broil setting. If the compartment opens to a storage drawer, your broiler is inside the oven itself, at the top of the interior. Again, set oven to broil, after first adjusting your shelves to get as close to the flame as you want them.
How to Use a Broiler. A broiler is very similar to a grill, except the heating mechanisms are on top. Use a broiler to broil food directly under high temperatures and give the food a charred or glazed finish. Most of the steps and tips that can be applied to grilling food can also be used on a broiler. Ad
A charbroiler (also referred to as a chargrill, char-broiler or simply broiler) is a commonly used cooking device consisting of a series of grates or ribs that can be heated using a variety of means, and is used in both residential and commercial applications for a variety of cooking operations. 
Follow these four easy steps to better broiling. Broiling is a great method for getting grill-like results in the kitchen. Both grilling and broiling are fast and easy, and both use direct, high heat to brown and cook food. Broiling is like grilling, then, only turned on its head. In this video you'll learn how to broil in four easy steps. 
1 Always remove the broiler pan from the broiler compartment as soon as broiler pan cools. 2  Replace broiler pan and tray after cleaning. 3  Broiler pan and tray must be in place for any oven operation. 4  Do Not step on or apply weight to the broiler door when it is open. 5  This could damage the door. Your range is equipped with a variable broil feature which allows you to broil at temperatures from the broil setting to temperatures down to 350 degrees F. Broil with the door closed, for a cleaner, cooler kitchen. The smoke from broiling is consumed as it is drawn over a rod-type broiler element.
To broil in an oven, most people use an oven with a separate broiler rack, usually located beneath the oven. The food being broiled is inserted, and the oven is turned to “broil.” Broiling directs intense heat at the food from directly above to quickly sear and cook it. The food may need to be turned if it is particularly thick, and it should be broiled in a sturdy cooking pan over a broiler tray.
In some cases, the broiler/heating element is on the top of the oven. To use it, you'll need to move an oven rack to the highest possible position in the oven, which is typically 3-4 inches from the broiler. In other ovens, the heating element is on the bottom of the oven and the broiler is a separate compartment underneath the actual oven. Ours is a sliding tray that looks like a drawer under the oven. Turn on the broiler 5 or so minutes before cooking to give the oven (or broiler compartment) time to heat up-much like starting the grill and then lowering the lid. • Take a look at the heating element on your broiler when you use it for the first time.