The interest rates on delayed payment of service tax as per budget 2014 are: S.No. Period of delay. Rate of Simple Interest Per Annum. 1. Up to six months. 18 percent. 2. More than six months and up to one year. 18 percent for the first six months of delay; 24 percent for delay beyond
Earlier the rate of interest on the delayed payment of service tax was 18% p.a. irrespective of the time i.e. there was only one interest rate. But in budget 2014 has made changes in the rates as well as in the time period of payment of dues.
Interest Hammer on assessee-Illustrated. Interest on Service Tax is charged in accordance with the provisions of Section 75 of Finance Act 1994. Rate of Interest up to 01/10/2014 is simple interest of 18% per annum on delayed payment of tax (3% concession is available to small service providers).
3. More than one year. 18 percent for the first six months of delay; 24 percent for period beyond six months up to one year; 30 percent for any delay beyond one year. To illustrate, suppose, there is a delay of 15 months in payment of service tax of Rs 1 lakh by the assessee. The impact of rate change would be as under:
18 percent for the first six months of delay; 24 percent for period beyond six months up to one year; 30 percent for any delay beyond one year. Let’s understand the impact of the above change with an illustration. Suppose there is delay of 17 months in payment of service tax dues of Rs.50,000 by the assessee.
Interest is levied on the assessee when he delays the payment of service tax which is due and payable. If payment of service tax is delayed in accordance with the provisions of Section 68, Interest is charged at the rate not below ten per cent and not exceeding thirty-six per cent per annum.
Interest is levied on the assessee when he delays the payment of service tax which is due and payable. If payment of service tax is delayed in accordance with the provisions of Section 68, Interest is charged at the rate not below ten per cent and not exceeding thirty-six per cent per annum.