The problem with underpronation – or supination – is that the foot is not in the right position to allow for optimum weight distribution, and the structures of the foot which help with the cushioning of shocks (the foot arches and plantar fascia) cannot work efficiently. Underpronation can be caused by structural abnormalities in the feet or when previous injuries to the feet have damaged the tendons and muscles, or when there is muscle imbalance or a particularly tight Achilles tendon.
Underpronation. Underpronation is a term often used by runners, joggers and sports enthusiasts to describe the gait cycle when there is a lack of pronation. Pronation is the natural rolling motion of the foot as it moves from the heel to the toe, and it is important for shock absorption and proper weight distribution. Underpronation can be caused by structural abnormalities in the feet or when previous injuries to the feet have damaged the tendons and muscles, or when there is muscle imbalance or a particularly tight Achilles tendon.
Underpronation is a condition in which the foot does not optimally meet the ground when walking or running. Since it is not always obvious to the layman, a simple test of looking at the wear on old walking or running shoes can be used to roughly diagnose underpronation. An underpronator's shoes will have more wear on the outside edge, particularly toward the rear, demonstrating the location of impact when running.
Supination (or under-pronation) is the opposite of pronation and refers to the outward roll of the foot during normal motion. A natural amount of supination occurs during the push-off phase of the running gait as the heel lifts off the ground and the forefoot and toes are used to propel the body forward. “ A unique set of actions and reactions that your foot performs while in motion to support, cushion and balance your body .”. If you suffer from pronation or supination, or are seeking to prevent its occurrence it is important to follow the information in this article.
Pronation, Explained. Understanding your personal pronation type is crucial to choosing the proper running shoes. Wednesday, February 23, 2005, 12:00 am. If you have a normal arch, you're likely a normal pronator, meaning you'll do best in a stability shoe that offers moderate pronation control. Runners with flat feet normally overpronate, so they do well in a motion-control shoe that controls pronation. High-arched runners typically underpronate, so they do best in a neutral-cushioned shoe that encourages a more natural foot motion. Normal Pronation
Although pronation is a natural movement of the foot, the size of the runner's arch can affect its ability to roll, causing either supination (underpronation) or overpronation. If you have a normal arch, you're likely a normal pronator, meaning you'll do best in a stability shoe that offers moderate pronation control. Pronation is the inward movement of the foot as it rolls to distribute the force of impact of the ground as you run.
Pronation describes the way in which your foot moves as you walk or run. Generally, as you step down on your heel your foot rolls inward as you move forward; this helps your body absorb impact, especially when running. Underpronation means you aren't rolling enough, while overpronation means you are rolling too much. While some pronation is natural, too much can lead to injuries including problems with your feet, hips and back
There are three main types of pronation in human gait: neutral pronation, overpronation, and underpronation or supination. While both overpronation and supination occur while walking and standing, they are usually more pronounced and the effects amplified while running. Pronation or eversion is the inward roll of the foot (medial malleolus) while walking or running. Another way to look at pronation instead in terms of the degree of inward roll is in terms of where the foot pushes off at the end of each step, or at the end of the gait cycle.
Also called supination, underpronation can be thought of as walking on the outsides of the foot to an individually determined degree, though the intensity of the outward roll may be nearly unnoticeable to the observer at any moment. Since it is not always obvious to the layman, a simple test of looking at the wear on old walking or running shoes can be used to roughly diagnose underpronation. An underpronator's shoes will have more wear on the outside edge, particularly toward the rear, demonstrating the location of impact when running.
Underpronation. Again, the outside of the heel makes initial contact with the ground. But the inward movement of the foot occurs at less than fifteen percent (i.e., there is less rolling in than for those with normal or flat feet). Wednesday, February 23, 2005, 12:00 am. If you have a normal arch, you're likely a normal pronator, meaning you'll do best in a stability shoe that offers moderate pronation control. Runners with flat feet normally overpronate, so they do well in a motion-control shoe that controls pronation.