People with this name tend to be very warm and nurturing. They are extremely reliable and are often found taking care of others. They have a deep need to try and create harmony in their surroundings. Unfortunately, this can sometimes lead to getting taken advantage of. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kashika in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kashika in Nautical Flags page. Kashika is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ka-shi-ka. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Kashika Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kashika has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kashika to other names
The Life Path number derives from the birth date, and represents who one is at birth, and the inborn traits that they will take with them throughout life. It describes the nature of the name holder's life's journey. - Expression number. The letters-F, O, X. It describes the name holders inner yearnings, likes and dislikes. Although it is considered a core influence, it is less important than the Life Path or Expression / Destiny numbers because it reflects inner feelings that are kept private and are not frequently exposed to others.
காஷிகா; કાશિકા; ಕಾಶಿಕಾ; ਕਾਸ਼ਿਕਾ; കാശികാ; కాశికా; কাশিকা. Name Kashika generally means Shiny one, is of Indian origin, Name Kashika is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Kashika are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Kashika belongs to rashi Mithun (Gemini) with dominant planet Mercury (Buddh) and Nakshatra (stars) Sravana, Mrigashiras. Find qualities of Gemini (Mithun) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Kashika or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mithun (Gemini) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Kaushik, Koushik, Kaushika, Kaushiki, Keshika
Meaning of name Kashika, Origin of name Kashika, Personality of name Kashika, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Kashika and adorable Baby Photos of Kashika. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Kashika is lucky! 
Meaning of Indian name: Kashika. Meaning of the name Kashika is 'The shiny one'. Kashika is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Kashika is '6'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Kashika
There is so much more to learn about the name Kashika. Learn about name meanings, name origins, name popularity, famous namesakes and more on our Kashika Meaning & More page. Just for fun, see the name Kashika in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. It describes the name holders inner yearnings, likes and dislikes. Although it is considered a core influence, it is less important than the Life Path or Expression / Destiny numbers because it reflects inner feelings that are kept private and are not frequently exposed to others.