Generally, if the taxpayer receives distributions directly from the inherited IRA, the distributions are taxed, but the 10% penalty tax on premature withdrawals does not apply, even if the beneficiary is under the age of 59 1/2. Therefore, the money retained its character as an amount received by a beneficiary from an inherited IRA and the distribution was made to a beneficiary on account of a death. Thus the distribution was not subject to the 10% penalty tax.
4. Distributions from inherited IRAs are not subject to the 10% penalty. Distributions from inherited IRAs are not subject to the 10% early distribution penalty, regardless of the age of the beneficiary at the time the distribution occurs, Appleby said. 
Medical Insurance. If you are unemployed, you may take penalty-free distributions from your IRA to pay for your medical insurance. In order for the distribution amount to be eligible for the penalty-free treatment, you must meet these certain conditions: 1  You lost your job. IRS Levy. The 10% penalty normally charged for an IRA withdrawal is waived for amounts withdrawn from your IRA as a result on an IRS levy. Note the exception does not apply if you voluntarily withdraw the amount from your IRA to pay the taxes owed in order to avoid the levy. 9.
But there are a variety of ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty if you meet specific criteria: Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2. [Read: How to Save for Retirement on a Small Salary.]. College costs.
Withdrawals by beneficiaries are not subject to the 10-percent penalty for early withdrawals prior to age 59½. The penalty is waived for inherited IRAs. Most IRAs have a designated beneficiary that is an individual, which precludes the need for a probate proceeding. Based on the information you provided, I am not sure why the bank is not being cooperative. I suggest you speak to other officials at the bank or take them to court.
An early withdrawal is an IRA withdrawal taken before you reach age 59 ½, which is subject to a 10% penalty tax in addition to ordinary income taxes. Below are eight situations which may qualify you for an exception to the 10% penalty tax on an IRA early withdrawal. 1 If you inherit an IRA from a non-spouse, even if the IRA owner was under age 59 1/2, you will not have to pay the penalty tax on amounts withdrawn. 2  You will still have to include any IRA withdrawal in your adjusted gross income