Number of credits for a AA/AS Degree The number of credits that are required to complete an associate's degree will depend upon the state mandate and your program of study. T … ypically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. For example, the state mandate in New Jersey is now a minimum of 64 semester hours for an AA, AS, or AAS. However, there are some programs that require 70 or more semester hours
In the US, you not only need the approximate 120 credits necessary for a Bachelor of Engineering degree, but the proper courses must be taken and the degree is required by all … US licensing boards to be from an ABET accredited college or it is not recognized. For an Associates  degree, 60 semester credits, for a Bachelors 120 credits are  needed. This also depends on the college and d … egree specifics.
A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 120 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or university that operates on a regular two semester academic year which is the most common. For an Associates  degree, 60 semester credits, for a Bachelors 120 credits are  needed. This also depends on the college and d … egree specifics.
Both require completion of 120 credits, including a minimum of 60 credits for courses designated by The New School as Liberal Arts courses. Students who take 90 or more credits in designated Liberal Arts courses receive the BA degree. Students who take fewer than 90 credits in Liberal Arts courses receive the BS degree. Each student works out an individualized program of study in consultation with a faculty advisor. For example, if a student seeking the BA degree transfers 9 performing arts credits from another school, those credits will be counted toward the 30-credit maximum of non-liberal arts permitted for the bachelor of arts degree.
The minimum credit load for a full-time student is no less than 12 credits per semester. However, to complete the degree within the four years, a credit load of approximately 15 to 18 credits is recommended. T … ypically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. For example, the state mandate in New Jersey is now a minimum of 64 semester hours for an AA, AS, or AAS.
In general, for an Associates degree (Two years) most state mandates require 64 credits. For a Bachelors degree (four years) it is approximately 124 - 128 credits. I any case, … either degree will require the course work to be particular to a specific field of study. T … ypically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. For example, the state mandate in New Jersey is now a minimum of 64 semester hours for an AA, AS, or AAS.
With Core classes you get 40 credit hours unspecified Core classes, and depending on your program of study or major it's 92 credit hours for main Core classes and 32 credit hour for unspecified Elective courses. The minimum required credit hours for a Baccalaureate degree is a grand total of 180 credit hours. For an Associates  degree, 60 semester credits, for a Bachelors 120 credits are  needed. This also depends on the college and d … egree specifics.
Yes. In summary: 1  a full-time year of undergraduate study is normally 120 credits. 2  an Honours degree is normally at least 360 credits. 3  a full-time year of postgraduate study is normally 180 credits, reflecting the 12-month length of most Masters courses. 4  a Masters degree is normally at least 180 credits. 
However, to complete the degree within the four years, a credit load of approximately 15 to 18 credits is recommended. For individuals who work or who have other responsibilities that would prohibit them from attending full-time, completion of the degree may take twice as long. For an Associates  degree, 60 semester credits, for a Bachelors 120 credits are  needed. This also depends on the college and d … egree specifics.