Being indifferent means being dispassionate about the things that happen around you. Instead of being caught up in drama and emotion, enjoy the show! People all around you are getting involved in their own production -- how great it would be to sit back and watch, carefree. Think of life like a movie. In order to target this third you, you need to think of life like a movie. That is, you need to be a little less invested in what's going on. Emotions don't really have a place -- or if they do, they only skim the surface and don't have any real repercussions.
To be indifferent means you don't take sides, because you don't really care, or you are not interested. When they say they can't read you it means that you don't give away your feelings by your facial expression or body language. Best Answer: you do not seem to care one way or the other if you are indifferent.. hard to read means you proably do not show a lot of emotion and you keep your face the same, no smiles or frowns.
Anger means you care, even though you are caring in such a way as to negatively affect your partner. Relationships can, with some difficulty, survive lack of communication or communication problems. Communication is one of the key ingredients to a successful relationship. Cheating hurts most people not because of the act itself, but because of the basic violation of trust and respect in the relationship. The fact that it hurts, however, signals we care. If we didn’t care, it wouldn’t hurt us. Indifference is not caring what the other person does in a relationship. There are no arguments, so everything may seem okay on the surface. Arguing stops because you don’t care if you were right or felt hurt by another person’s words or actions
Through Creative Indifference you learn to disengage from your relationship in ways that circle back to revitalize it. It doesn't mean you stop caring about your partner or your relationship. To the contrary, Creative Indifference is a way to become less reactive to your own and your partner's behavior. It's about a paradox I've found that can restore passion and connection in a declining relationship. First, I'll describe some versions of the problem-and you're likely to identify with some of them yourself. For example, Nora, 43, who has a successful career as a free-lance magazine writer and has two children.
Though indifference is the opposite of love, it is not negative in all circumstances. Indifference is a response that is completely detached and therefore without emotional energy; it relies on rational feelings instead. Like most things in life, indifference needs balancing. 
Sometimes the killer of relationships isn’t a lack of trust, a lack of communication or arguing with your significant other. It’s simple indifference. A relationship can survive most things if both people involved in it are committed to the other person and act with respect toward the other. It can survive the death of our parents or the birth of a child. Cheating hurts most people not because of the act itself, but because of the basic violation of trust and respect in the relationship. The fact that it hurts, however, signals we care. If we didn’t care, it wouldn’t hurt us. Indifference is not caring what the other person does in a relationship. There are no arguments, so everything may seem okay on the surface. Arguing stops because you don’t care if you were right or felt hurt by another person’s words or actions
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: you do not seem to care one way or the other if you are indifferent.. hard to read means you proably do not show a lot of emotion and you keep your face the same, no smiles or frowns. Potential is what we all have but some people do not use i
But the reason that stands out as a major cause is something that many people are not aware of. It is indifference. Indifference in a relationship means not caring what the other person does or does not do, feel or does not feel. In short, when you just don’t care what the other person feels or is going through, you are indifferent. A relationship can survive angry arguments, differences in compatibility, lack of communication, and/or communication problems, even disregard with some difficulty.
If we didn’t care, it wouldn’t hurt us. Indifference is not caring what the other person does in a relationship. There are no arguments, so everything may seem okay on the surface. Arguing stops because you don’t care if you were right or felt hurt by another person’s words or actions. 