For a tasty change of pace, try making a batch of pineapple preserves. Pineapple is packed with vitamin C and makes a tangy preserve you can spread on toast, crackers or muffins. There are some preparation steps you must follow to ensure your equipment is free from contamination so your preserves are safe to consume. Peel and core the pineapple with a sharp knife or pineapple corer. Slice the pineapple into rings with a sharp knife and chop it coarsely. Combine the sugar and water in a saucepan. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring constantly.
Preserves are chunkier than jam, and jelly. But they all have pectin to give them body. If you use the juice, you'll have liquid and no body to it at all. You'd do better using the crushed pineapple and draining the juice. But, you can buy pineapple or apricot-pineapple preserves wherever you buy your regular jam and jelly.
To make pineapple preserves, pineapple, complete with juice, can be boiled in a pan with sugar until the mixture thickens. The preserves are constantly stirred while boiling. Doneness may be determined by the thickness or the temperature of the mixture. Once complete, the mixture is poured into jars and allowed to cool. The simplest versions of pineapple preserves use just pineapple and sugar. Either fresh or canned pineapple can be used, but the juice should be preserved from both. If canned, the pineapple is usually crushed, whereas fresh pineapple is cut into small cubes. Most versions also add lemon juice and, sometimes, vanilla
1 Pour immediately into hot sterilized jars; wipe rims with a clean cloth, place lids and screw on bands fingertip-tight. 2  Process jars in a water-bath canner for 5 minutes. 3  Place jars on a clean towel. 4  Cover with towel to prevent drafts and let cool undisturbed for 24 hours. 1 Bring pineapple and sugar to a boil in a large saucepan and cook 20 minutes, stirring constantly until thickened or until the temperature reaches 220F on a thermometer (this is the jelling stage at sea level).
1 Add the pineapple pulp and water. 2  Let them cook for 20 minutes on medium flame. 3  Stir frequently. 4  The pineapple pulp should become soft. 5  Now add the sugar and lime juice. 6  Let the mixture cook for 30 minutes. 7  The mixture is thickened and jam is ready to be stored. 8  Spoon the jam into a jar with a tight-fitting lid. Instructions. 1  Peel the Pineapple and grate the pulp out of it. 2  Heat the pan. 3  Now add the sugar and lime juice. 4
The pineapple jam can be eaten as a spread on toast, and as a filling for bread, buns, biscuits, cakes, tarts and other pastries. It can be used to make ice creams, yogurts, milk shakes and cocktails. This is a tasty food with many health benefits. The pineapple pieces are put in a pan of water, and the pan is heated until half of the water has evaporated and the pineapple pieces have become tender. If a smooth jam is required, the pineapple pieces may be mashed or processed in a blender.
Similar to jelly and jam, pineapple preserves are a type of condiment made with pineapple. Unlike jelly, which uses fruit juice, and jam, which uses fruit pulp, preserves are made with actual fruit pieces, and so are chunkier than the other alternatives. The simplest versions of pineapple preserves use just pineapple and sugar. Either fresh or canned pineapple can be used, but the juice should be preserved from both. If canned, the pineapple is usually crushed, whereas fresh pineapple is cut into small cubes. Most versions also add lemon juice and, sometimes, vanilla
Peel the pineapple and grate the flesh -- you should end up with about 2 cups. Put the pineapple and water in a small saucepan and cook over medium-low heat until the pineapple is soft, about 35 minutes. Add the sugar and lime juice and stir to combine. Cook until the mixture has thickened, about 45 to 60 minutes. Spoon the jam into a 16-ounce jar with a tight-fitting lid. Store it in the refrigerator for up to 3 months. 
Top 10 facts about the world. Pineapple jam is a jam made with pineapple, a tropical fruit that is known botanically as Ananas comosus. Native to Brazil and Paraguay, this fruit is widely cultivated in Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, South America, and parts of North America. The pineapple pieces are put in a pan of water, and the pan is heated until half of the water has evaporated and the pineapple pieces have become tender. If a smooth jam is required, the pineapple pieces may be mashed or processed in a blender.