civil rights. n. those rights guaranteed by the Bill of Rights, the 13th and 14th Amendments to the Constitution, including the right to due process, equal treatment under the law of all people regarding enjoyment of life, liberty, property, and protection. Personal liberties that belong to an individual, owing to his or her status as a citizen or resident of a particular country or community. The most common legal application of the term civil rights involves the rights guaranteed to U.S. citizens and residents by legislation and by the Constitution.
Full Definition of CIVIL RIGHTS. : the nonpolitical rights of a citizen; especially: the rights of personal liberty guaranteed to United States citizens by the 13th and 14th amendments to the Constitution and by acts of Congress. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Basic rights that fundamentally and inherently belong to each individual. Human rights are freedoms established by custom or international agreement that impose standards of conduct on all nations. Human rights are distinct from civil liberties, which are freedoms established by the law of a particular state and applied by that state in its own jurisdiction.
Example Sentences Including 'civil rights'. ever, there was an effort to raise funds for civil rights campaigns, Duane managed to wheedle a four-figure check from his mother. There are some things which are more important to the world than the civil rights of a couple of hundred Berliners. The cause of civil rights was growing stronger in direct ratio to the disintegration of the hippie movement. 
Use civil rights in a sentence. Show more usage examples... Many countries protect individual citizen's civil rights via some type of constitutional guarantee, such as the American Bill of Rights which are the first ten amendments to the Constitution. 
by FreeAdvice staff. The difference between a civil offense and a criminal offense are usually defined by the nature of the offense and the punishment assessed. Civil offenses involve violations of administrative matters. The Federal Trade Commission frequently imposes civil fines on companies that violate consumer statutes. Civil Offense vs. Criminal Offense. Criminal offenses, on the other hand, arise from the violation of local ordinances or state or federal statutes prohibiting certain conduct. A criminal offense can involve a fine, an arrest, or confinement in jail or prison.
Criminal Civil Rights Violation Law & Legal Definition. A criminal civil rights violation refers to an offense that occurs as a result of the use of force or the threat of force by the offender against a victim. For instance an assault committed because of the victim's race or sexual orientation. 
Civil Civil Rights Violation Law & Legal Definition. A civil civil rights violation refers to an offense that occurs when the fundamental freedoms or civil liberties of an individual or a class of people is violated. 
Download article as a PDF. Civil rights are the rights of individuals to receive equal treatment (and to be free from unfair treatment or discrimination) in a number of settings -- including education, employment, housing, and more -- and based on certain legally-protected characteristics. 