The couple recently listed their Malibu house on the market, which initially sparked the rumors that they were separating and getting divorced. Yolanda has also solidified the rumors by getting rid of Foster as her last name, and she’s now started using Hadid, her previous married name. Yolanda is David’s fourth wife [they got married in 2011], so David’s clearly used to divorce. 
And Yolanda is suddenly using her former married name, Hadid — not Foster! Still, David’s rep previously called the rumors of a split “totally not true.”. PHOTOS: Fraud, Feuds & Fights — 27 Reality Stars Who Are Out Of Control. As RHOBH fans know, though, Yolanda, who had three kids with her wealthy former husband, Mohamed Hadid, has had trouble involving David, 64, in her reality show. On the housewives’ recent trip to Puerto Rico, the others called out Yolanda for not having her husband around.
(Photo: Bravo). Married life has been no picnic for some of Real Housewives of Beverly Hills cast. Yolanda Foster can deny all the David divorce gossip she likes, but there is no arguing with her name change in the credits of the new Lady Gaga video. Adreienne Malloof is still dealing with her split from ex Paul Nassif; the former Housewife has had to file a restraining order to keep creepy Paul away from her.
Introducing Ms Hadid: Yolanda (L) joined her Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills co-stars in the new Lady Gaga video G.U.Y. However, it infuriated her husband Bruce Jenner so much that she back down and while the couple have since split, she has kept the name Jenner. They've only been married since 2011 but Yolanda Foster caused concern for her union with David Foster by reverting to her former name.
And in a surprising name change, Yolanda was credited as Yolanda Hadid in the credits for Lady Gaga's housewives-filled new video--not Foster, which she normally goes by professionally. Yolanda Foster can deny all the David divorce gossip she likes, but there is no arguing with her name change in the credits of the new Lady Gaga video. Adreienne Malloof is still dealing with her split from ex Paul Nassif; the former Housewife has had to file a restraining order to keep creepy Paul away from her.
Yolanda Foster appeared to drop her married name in the credits for the new Lady Gaga video for her ex-husband's surname Hadid but it turned out to be a mistake by Gaga's team. They've only been married since 2011 but Yolanda Foster caused concern for her union with David Foster by reverting to her former name.
And in a surprising name change, Yolanda was credited as “Yolanda Hadid” in the credits for Lady Gaga’s housewives-filled new video — not Foster, which she normally goes by professionally. Yolanda and most of the other RHOBH cast members did cameos in Gaga’s video called “G.U.Y.–An Artpop Film.”. As RHOBH fans know, though, Yolanda, who had three kids with her wealthy former husband, Mohamed Hadid, has had trouble involving David, 64, in her reality show. On the housewives’ recent trip to Puerto Rico, the others called out Yolanda for not having her husband around.
Yolanda explained David had made it clear the show was beneath him! Meanwhile, as Radar has reported, Yolanda has ramped up her efforts to thrive on RHOBH as sources said she’s lobbied for Mohamed Hadid’s fiance, Shiva Safai, to join the show. Exclusives Lady GaGa The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills Yolanda Foster. As RHOBH fans know, though, Yolanda, who had three kids with her wealthy former husband, Mohamed Hadid, has had trouble involving David, 64, in her reality show. On the housewives’ recent trip to Puerto Rico, the others called out Yolanda for not having her husband around.
The 50-year-old reality TV star joined her Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills co-stars in the new Lady Gaga video but in the closing credits she is referred to as Yolanda Hadid (her ex-husband Mohamed's surname) rather than Foster which she has been using since marrying David, 64. They've only been married since 2011 but Yolanda Foster caused concern for her union with David Foster by reverting to her former name.
In 1994 she moved to Los Angeles and started her family with former husband, Mohamed Hadid, with whom she has 3 children, Gigi, Bella and Anwar. On the mystical day of 11-11-11, Yolanda married the love of her life, producer, songwriter and 16-time Grammy Award-winner, David Foster. 