Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months. So, when will you get your period? Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months. Your specific situation will be different than any other womans.
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. 1 Your period suddenly stops for more than 90 days. 2  Your periods become very irregular after having had regular, monthly cycles. 3  Your period occurs more often than every 21 days or less often than every 35 days. 4  You are bleeding for more than 7 days.
Don't worry if your early periods have longer cycles or don't follow a schedule. This irregularity is normal for at least the first 2 years. Your periods should become more regular within two years after you start menstruating. Some teens have a 28-day cycle; some have a 24-day cycle; others have a 30- to 34-day cycle. All of these are normal. For young teens, cycles can range from 21 to 45 days. For adults, it can be 21-35 days
You should expect to get your period about four weeks after a D&C and you might expect to see your period around six weeks after a miscarriage that did not require a D&C. So, when will you get your period? Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months. Your specific situation will be different than any other womans.
The average menstrual cycle is about 28 days, but cycles that are 21–45 days also are normal. It may take 6 years or more after your period starts for your cycle to get regular. If you do this every month, you may notice a pattern. It may become easier to tell when you will get your next period. When you first start having your period, it may last only a few days. Your first few periods may be very light. You may only see a few spots of reddish brown blood. Anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal.
39 Followers. A. By convention, the first day of your period is the first day of your menstrual cycle. Around day 7 several eggs start to develop in your ovaries. However, only one egg will predominate and be release when you ovulate. For the average menstrual cycle, which is 28-32 days ovulation occurs on day 14
Menstrual Cycle. Your menstrual cycle usually lasts about 28 days, give or take a few. This means that you should get your period about every 3 1/2 or 4 weeks. When you first get your period it can be a little wacky, like skipping a month or coming after only 21 days. After a while, your cycle will probably become more predictab
Day one of the menstrual cycle is always the first day of your period. If you spot before your period has come, that is not counted. The days between the first day of your period and ovulation is called the ‘follicular phase’. Generally this is 14 days long, but varies woman to woman. 