When A ‍ '​s will is executed, under a distribution per stirpes, C and D each receive one-third of the estate, and B1 and B2 each receive one-sixth. B1 and B2 constitute one branch of the family, and collectively receive a share equal to the shares received by C and D as branches (figure 1). Comparison between per stirpes inheritance and per capita by generation inheritance. On the left, each branch receives one third of the estate. On the right, A ‍ '​s only surviving descendant, C, receives one third of the estate. The remaining two thirds are divided among the descendants in the next generation.
Definition. A method for distributing the estate of a deceased individual. Per stirpes (which is Latin for per branch) specifies that each branch of the deceased person's family receives an equal share of the estate, regardless of how many people are in that branch.
Answer: “Per stirpes” is a term used in wills to describe how property should be distributed when a beneficiary (who has children) dies before the will maker. Here’s how per stirpes works. Fred leaves his house jointly to his son Alan and his daughter Julie. But Alan dies before Fred, leaving two young children. 
An estate of a decedent is distributed per stirpes if each branch of the family is to receive an equal share of an estate. When the heir in the first generation of a branch predeceased the decedent, the share that would have been given to the heir would be distributed among the heir's issue in equal shares. Comparison between per stirpes inheritance and per capita by generation inheritance. On the left, each branch receives one third of the estate. On the right, A ‍ '​s only surviving descendant, C, receives one third of the estate. The remaining two thirds are divided among the descendants in the next generation.
Per Stirpes Law & Legal Definition. Per stirpes is a Latin term meaning by roots, or by representation. The term is often used in wills and trusts to describe how to carry out a distribution when a beneficiary dies before the person whose estate is being divided. State laws of descent and distribution govern intestate distribution and describe any per stirpes distribution that may take place a person in the line of descent is deceased and their children are able to step into their place in the line of inheritance. Literally, the term per stirpes means by roots or by stock. When used in a will it relates to the distribution of the testator’s property. Per stirpes is defined as proportionally divided between beneficiaries according to their deceased ancestor's share
The phrase per stirpes and per capita signify how an estate is to be distributed among a class of beneficiaries. Per capita indicates that the estate is to be distributed by head-meaning that one share is to be paid to each beneficiary in the class specified who is alive at the date of distribution. Latin: by the plant. Related Terms: Per Capita, Stirpes, Issue. Per stirpes means through or by roots or stocks, by representation. Therefore, the expression per stirpes and not per capita describes or designates a mode or method by which gifts to substituted legatees are to be distributed.
Per stirpes is the Latin term that literally means “by the roots.” If an estate is distributed per stirpes, each living member of a group of beneficiaries closest to the person making the distribution will receive an equal share of the estate. P er stirpes and per capita are commonly used terms in wills, trusts, and intestate distribution statutes to describe how a deceased person’s estate is to be distributed to his or her beneficiaries or heirs. But figuring out what these words mean can get a bit confusing.
A per stirpes distribution is usually contrasted with a per capita distribution. A per stirpes distribution allows the share going to the pre-deceased beneficiary to continue to flow down through the family branch, class or group the beneficiary represented-down to the nexts-of-kin. Latin: by the plant. Related Terms: Per Capita, Stirpes, Issue. Per stirpes means through or by roots or stocks, by representation. Therefore, the expression per stirpes and not per capita describes or designates a mode or method by which gifts to substituted legatees are to be distributed.