So, at that time, LA served as the designation for Los Angeles International Airport. But, with the rapid growth in the aviation industry, the designations expanded to three letters, and LA became LAX. The letter X does not otherwise have any specific meaning. It's called LAX because that is how is has been designated. Like LHR is London Heathrow or Newark is EWR or Chicago Ohare is ORD or Dulles Washington is IAD or Montreal is YUL. Sometimes it does not make sense because it does not have to.
While LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, other airports, including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, and LA/Ontario International Airport, also serve the region. It is also notable for being one of few U.S. airports with four parallel runways. LAX serves as a hub for American Airlines, United Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Great Lakes Airlines, and Virgin America. The airport also serves as a focus city for Allegiant Air, Air New Zealand, Qantas, Southwest Airlines, and Volaris.
It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX, with the letters pronounced individually. LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific Ocean in the neighborhood of Westchester, 16 miles (26 km) from Downtown Los Angeles. It is owned and operated by Los Angeles World Airports, an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports. LAX serves as a hub for American Airlines, United Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Great Lakes Airlines, and Virgin America. The airport also serves as a focus city for Allegiant Air, Air New Zealand, Qantas, Southwest Airlines, and Volaris.
The letters LAX is the IATA identifier code for Los Angeles International Airport. This code is used to identify the airport in radio communications and in navigation equipment & charts. When the airport was founded in 1928, it was given the simple 2-letter identifier LA for Los Angeles, however in the late 1940's these identifier codes were standardized across the US as 3-letter codes. 1 Although there are other airports serving the city, LAX i…. 2  LAX Hotels: Los Angeles Airport Marriott LAX is one of the main travel hubs in the country and the world. 3  For people visiting the second-largest city in the United States, there are a number of hotels close to the a….
Every airport is assigned a three letter code by IATA or the FAA or similar organization. It's called LAX because that is how is has been designated. Like LHR is London Heathrow or Newark is EWR or Chicago Ohare is ORD or Dulles Washington is IAD or Montreal is YUL. Sometimes it does not make sense because it does not have to. These are arbitrarily assigned three letter airport codes
Before the 1930s, existing airports used a two-letter abbreviation based on the weather station at the airports. So, at that time, LA served as the designation for Los Angeles International Airport. But, with the rapid growth in the aviation industry, the designations expanded to three letters, and LA became LAX. The letter X does not otherwise have any specific meaning in this identifier. 
Every airport in the world has a unique three letter abbreviation that distinguishes it from all other airports. These IATA Airport Codes are designated by the International Air Transport Association. (Hence the IATA part.) LAX is the abbreviation for Los Angeles International. I was just wondering to myself the other day why LAX was known so widely by it's code. I often refer to towns in my area by their codes because I know them and it's my own form of shorthand. 
1 LAX Hotels: Los Angeles Airport Marriott LAX is one of the main travel hubs in the country and the world. 1 Although there are other airports serving the city, LAX i…. 2  LAX Hotels: Los Angeles Airport Marriott LAX is one of the main travel hubs in the country and the world. 3  For people visiting the second-largest city in the United States, there are a number of hotels close to the a….
Some airports have letter-number combinations.). Usually the identifier is similar to the city or airport name so as to make it easy to remember. For example, Lancaster, CA's William J. Fox Municipal Airport is WJF, San Diego is SAN, Las Vegas is LAS, Santa Monica is SMO, and Los Angeles International Airport is LAX. As far as airport renaming, I wouldn't think it would be so complicated. In Cleveland, for instance, the main airport is called Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. The three-letter designator is just CLE, no reference to Hopkins, and most of the signs on the freeway, busses, etc. just say Airport.