1 Camels are herbivores. 2  Because they live in the dessert, they have to be able to eat desert plants. 3  Thorny cacti would cause other animals a great deal of difficulty. 4  Humans have used camels for their wool, milk, meat, leather, and even dung that can be used for fuel. 1 Another camel lives in Australia. 2  They are feral, or wild, camels and they were dromedary camels that were imported to provide transportation. 3  They have become a pest because they are eating the natural vegetation.
Camels are mammals with long legs, a big-lipped snout and a humped back. There are two types of camels: dromedary camels, which have one hump, and Bactrian camels, which have two humps. Camels' humps consist of stored fat, which they can metabolize when food and water is scarce. The dromedary camel, also called an Arabian camel, can be found in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bactrian camel lives in Central Asia. No matter the type, camels are usually found in the desert, prairie or steppe.
1 Camels are even-toed ungulates that have one or two humps. 2  The one-humped camel, or dromedary camel, is found in the Arabian deserts of the Middle East and North Africa, while the two-humped camel, or Bactrian camel, is native to the Gobi Desert in China and the Bactrian steppes of Mongolia. 1 Another camel lives in Australia. 2  They are feral, or wild, camels and they were dromedary camels that were imported to provide transportation. 3  They have become a pest because they are eating the natural vegetation.
The two types of camel are found in different parts of the world. The dromedary camel, also called an Arabian camel, can be found in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bactrian camel lives in Central Asia. No matter the type, camels are usually found in the desert, prairie or steppe.
Both camels are herbivores, and they have the ability to eat thorny, prickly, or dry shrubs and grass that many other animals can’t. Bactrian camels have also been known to eat the bones and skin of animals that have been killed by carnivores, but only when there is no other food available. 
Camels aren't picky about what they eat. Their thick lips allow them to eat things that most other animals couldn't, such as thorny plants. Camels are herbivores, though, so you won't find them eating meat. Filling up on water, when it's available, is very important for camels. The dromedary camel, also called an Arabian camel, can be found in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bactrian camel lives in Central Asia. No matter the type, camels are usually found in the desert, prairie or steppe.
Diet and Habitat. Camels are herbivores, they most commonly eat grasses and desert plants, although there are stories of camels consuming tents and just about anything else around. The inside of their mouth is lined with very thick skin that allows them to chew up thorny plants that other animals cannot consume. 
[Sand Grouse] Though there are many small desert herbivores, there are also some large desert herbivores as well. The camel is one example of a large desert herbivore; they eat coarse grass and thorny shrubs. If camels can’t find the producers they need for food they can also use the food stored in their humps. [Camel] Herbivores in the Water [Water snails] [Shrimp] [Crab] In underwater ecosystems there are many different herbivores. The herbivores in these ecosystems mainly eat algae and phytoplankton. Herbivores like squirrels eat grass and small plants near the ground and are called grazers. Herbivores that eat leaves, shoots, and twigs are called browsers. Very large animals like elephants, rhinos, and moose are grazers an
Camel Classification and Evolution The Camel (also known as the Dromedary Camel, the Arabian Camel and the One-Humped Camel) is a large hoofed animal that is most commonly found in the hot deserts of Northern Africa and the Middle East. Camel Relationship with Humans Camels have been used for thousands of years by people both for transporting goods across the desert and as a good source of milk and meat. Their woolly hair can also be used to make clothing along with their leathery hides.
Herbivores don’t always eat the same things. Herbivores like squirrels eat grass and small plants near the ground and are called grazers. Herbivores that eat leaves, shoots, and twigs are called browsers. Very large animals like elephants, rhinos, and moose are grazers and browsers.