Most bruises form when small blood vessels (capillaries) near the skin's surface are broken by the impact of a blow or injury — often on the arms or legs. When this happens, blood leaks out of the vessels and initially appears as a black-and-blue mark. Eventually your body reabsorbs the blood, and the mark disappears.
A bruise is a traumatic injury of the soft tissues that results in breakage of the local capillaries and leakage of red blood cells. In the skin, bruising can be seen as a reddish-purple discoloration that does not blanch when pressed upon. This discoloration leads to the classic black and blue appearance.
Easy bruising can occur when the blood vessels are weakened by diseases (such as scurvy), medications (such as aspirin, prednisone, and prednisolone), and aging. Easy bruising can also occur because of absent or deficient blood-clotting elements.
View full size image. A contusion, or bruise, is a reddish-purple discoloration of the skin that doesn't blanch, or turn white or pale, when pressed upon. Bruises typically form when a localized injury, such a blow or impact, causes capillaries to break open and leak red blood cells under the skin.
A bruise is medically termed a contusion. Bruises are typically a result of some degree of injury to the blood vessels in the skin. Easy bruising may be a result of a seemingly insignificant compression of skin or there may be no skin injury recollected.
Hi, As we get older, it is common to experience easy bruising. Factors such as aging capillaries or thinning skin, and even certain diet supplements and medications(aspirin, warfarin, etc) may cause easy bruising. Bruising may also indicate something more serious, such as a blood-clotting problem or a blood disease.
Bruising occurs when blood vessels under the skin break or burst due to a knock or injury. When damaged, the capillaries leak blood under the skin, and purplish or red bruising results. The colors of the bruise will change as the swelling dies down and the bruise fades.