Unrelated Business Income Tax (UBIT) in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code is the tax on unrelated business income, which comes from an activity engaged in by a tax-exempt 26 USCA 501 organization that is not related to the tax-exempt purpose of that organization. 
Congress designed UBTI to remove this advantage. Any income not related to the primary purpose of a tax-exempt entity, such as an IRA, can be UBTI. The IRS taxes UBTI using trust rates, which are steep. In 2013 the top trust tax rate of 39.6 percent kicks in on a mere $11,950 of income. The IRS exempts the first $1,000 of UBTI from taxes.
The trap IRAs are most likely to fall into is what the tax code calls unrelated business taxable income (UBTI). When an IRA earns gross UBTI exceeding during a year $1,000, it must file a Form 990-T and pay income taxes at the corporate tax rates. An IRA also must pay estimated income taxes during the year if the tax is expected to exceed $500. If all the UBTI earned by the IRA during the year exceeds $1,000, the tax obligation is triggered. Also, the $1,000 limit applies to the IRA, not per taxpayer. When you have more than one IRA, each IRA has its own $1,000 UBTI limit.
IRAs. Since IRAs are, until distribution, exempt from tax, UBTI applies to certain types of income received within an IRA account as well (all of this applies to Roth IRAs as well as traditional IRAs). The IRS Code defines any active trade or business to unrelated to the IRA’s tax-exempt purpose. If the IRA generates gross income of $1,000 or more during the tax year, the IRA must file Form 990-T by April 15 of the following year, just like individual tax returns.
An IRA is most likely to be taxed when it earns unrelated business taxable income (UBTI). The UBTI rules apply to all qualified retirement plans, not just traditional IRAs. If an IRA earns UBTI exceeding $1,000 it must pay income taxes on that income. The IRA might have to file Forms 990-T or 990-W. It also must pay estimated income taxes during the year if the UBTI exceeds $500. The IRA owner essentially will be taxed twice on UBTI
1 Your options if your suffer a net operating loss (NOL) or have less than $1,000 in unrelated business taxable income. 2  The ability to write off expenses and depreciation for rental properties that incur UBIT within an IRA. 3  The trust tax rates that your IRA is taxed when it incurs UBIT. If your IRA owns an asset or interest that produces unrelated business taxable income (UBIT), your IRA may be subject to an unrelated business income tax (UBIT) pursuant to Section 511 of the Internal Revenue Code. UBIT applies if ALL of the following are true: Generally, IRA investments that can generate UBIT include:
An individual retirement account can invest in a wide range of assets, including units of master limited partnerships. Although IRAs shield investment income from current taxes, MLPs can generate unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, that can require your IRA to make tax payments. The IRS taxes UBTI using trust rates, which are steep. In 2013 the top trust tax rate of 39.6 percent kicks in on a mere $11,950 of income. The IRS exempts the first $1,000 of UBTI from taxes.
I have an MLP in my IRA with unrelated business gross income of greater than $1,000, but unrelated taxable income (UBTI) is negative or way less than $1,000. If the IRA generates gross income of $1,000 or more during the tax year, the IRA must file Form 990-T by April 15 of the following year, just like individual tax returns.