Cyclohexene and cyclohexane are both insoluble in water and bases. Cyclohexene is insoluble in weak acids and soluble in strong acids and is thus considered a neutral compound … . Cyclohexane is insoluble in everything, and is considered an inert compound.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cyclohexane is not soluble in, or miscible with water. Given the general rule of like dissolves like, a quick check of the chemical structure of cyclohexane suggests that it is extremely low in polarity. It is a completely symmetrical saturated 6 membered ring containing carbon and hydrogen only. Cyclohexene is insoluble in weak acids and soluble in strong acids and is thus considered a neutral compound. Cyclohexane is insoluble in everything, and is considered an inert compound.
Likewise, if the liquid organic compound is insoluble in the solvent, then they are immiscible. You will test the solubility of the hydrocarbons and alcohols in water and in hexane. Each of the three classes of hydrocarbons has different chemical reactivity. Aromatic hydrocarbons are mainly obtained from coal, although small amounts are also obtained from petroleum.The solubility of a substance (the solute) in a solvent is an important chemical principle in the organic chemistry. Solubility can generally be predicted based on the “like dissolves like” rule.
Ans:Cyclohexene and cyclohexane are both insoluble in water and bases. Cyclohexene is insoluble in weak acids and soluble in strong acids and is thus considered a neutral compound. Cyclohexane is insoluble in everything, and is considered an inert compound.
The solubility of a substance pertains to the amount of a given substance that will dissolve in a given solvent. If more than 0.1 g of that substance dissolves in 100 mL solvent, that sample is soluble, and if less than 0.1 g dissolves, it is insoluble. The solute is the one to be dissolved and the solvent is the base substance. Miscibility is also encountered in this topic.
Chemical reactions of alkanes and alkenes Purpose: 1) to demonstrate that different classes of organic molecules undergo different characteristic reactions, 2) To compare the reactivity of a single bond vs. a double bond. Cyclohexane, cyclohexene, and bromine are pungent and toxic. Proper ventilation is necessary. 
Cyclohexene and cyclohexane are both insoluble in water and bases. Cyclohexene is insoluble in weak acids and soluble in strong acids and is thus considered a neutral compound … . Cyclohexane is insoluble in everything, and is considered an inert compound. 5 people found this useful. Cyclohexane is a nonpolar solvent. Benzoic acid is polar since its carboxyllic tail-COOH can be deprotonated to COO-. This charge will not only attract other polar molecules … of itself, but it will also push away cyclohexane and other molecules with no polarity.
Hydrocarbons are non-polar. Water is polar. So from “like dissolves like” you wouldn’t expect any of these three to be very soluble in water. In fact, unsaturated and aromatic hydrocarbons are slightly soluble in water-the solubility of toluene in water is ~500mg/L – not very much. Cyclohexene is even less than that. Cyclohexane is completely insoluble in wate
2. Put 2 mL of water in one test tube and 2 mL of cyclohexane in a different test tube. If the substance you are to test is a solid, put 1 spatula tip-full (this is a very small amount) into each tube. If the substance is a liquid, put 10 drops of it in each tube. In contrast, molecules of cyclohexane are nonpolar and cannot form hydrogen bonds. Cyclohexane is a typical nonpolar solvent. The substances that you will try to dissolve will be of three bonding types: ionic, such as NaCl; nonpolar covalent, such as paraffin wax; and polar covalent, such as ethanol.