After quarreling with Congress over Reconstruction in the South, Johnson was impeached by the House of Representatives. When he went to trial in the Senate, he was acquitted by one vote. The only other president to be impeached was Bill Clinton in December 1998.
Answer Yes, Andrew Johnson (NOT Lyndon Johnson) was the first of two US Presidents to be impeached in 1868 by the House of Representatives. He was acquitted by a single vote … in his Senate trial. Answer Yes, he was. But he was not taken out of office.
The first president to be impeached was Andrew Johnson, in 1868. Johnson was the 17th President of the United States. He was Vice President under Abraham Lincoln, and became President after Lincoln's assassination in April, 1865, near the end of the US Civil War.
Impeachment of Presidents Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton. In 1867 the 17th U.S. President Andrew Johnson, successor to the Presidency when Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, became the first President in American History to be impeached. Over One Hundred and Thirty years later history would repeat itself.
Answer Yes, Andrew Johnson (NOT Lyndon Johnson) was the first of two US Presidents to be impeached in 1868 by the House of Representatives. He was acquitted by a single vote … in his Senate trial. Answer Yes, he was. But he was not taken out of office.
In 1868 the House of Representatives impeached Andrew Johnson due to his views on the south and the Confederates, but he was acquitted by a single vote. The only other President to be impeached was Bill Clinton on December 19 1998 by the House of Representatives on grounds of perjury. Bill Clinton was also acquitted, there have not been any successful impeachments of American Presidents to this date.
The U.S. House of Representatives votes 11 articles of impeachment against President Andrew Johnson, nine of which cite Johnson’s removal of Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, a violation of the Tenure of Office Act. The House vote made President Johnson the first president to be impeached in U.S. history.