(C) Retail establishment means a place of business open to the general public for the sale of goods or services. Retail establishment does not include a filling station or service station, with a structure of eight hundred square feet or less, that has an employee toilet facility located within that structure. 4173.01 Retail establishment restrooms definitions. As used in this chapter: (A) Customer means an individual who is lawfully on the premises of a retail establishment.
Report Abuse. Retail stores do not have to have public restrooms. I guess the people are upset because they are spending money in your store whereas, they might not want to spend money in the restaurant next door which they have to do in order to use the restrooms. They have to clean it and stock it with soap and TP. I think it's a much appreciated courtesy when a retail store provides a public restroom. Since you can't do that, your manager might chat with the restaurant owner about chipping in for cleaning/supplies. Arggg · 5 years ago.
Retail stores don't have to provide restrooms, but showing them next door to a restaurant is tacky. How do the restaurant people feel about letting everyone in the neighborhood use their restroom? They have to clean it and stock it with soap and TP. I think it's a much appreciated courtesy when a retail store provides a public restroom. Since you can't do that, your manager might chat with the restaurant owner about chipping in for cleaning/supplies. Arggg · 5 years ago.
There is no law requiring a retail establishment to have public restrooms. As for restaurants, the law varies from locale to locale about how many square feet, number of patrons, and physical location, whether or not they are required to have public toilets. By law can a store lock public restrooms and deny customers from using them or do the store have the right to deny customers from using them. This is for the state of California, if you know the answer, could you please provide the evidence. Thank you!!! Add your answer. Source.
4173.02 Use by certain customers of employee restrooms. (A) Any retail establishment that has a toilet facility for its employees is encouraged to permit a customer to use that facility during normal business hours if the toilet facility is reasonably safe and all of the following conditions are met: 4173.01 Retail establishment restrooms definitions. As used in this chapter: (A) Customer means an individual who is lawfully on the premises of a retail establishment.
__________________. For employees at the work place, access to building toilet facilities is covered by well enforced Federal Regulations. For customers or visitors to a business establishment, toilet access is covered mostly at the state and local level. A few states and some municipalities have, or are considering, laws requiring 'customer' restroom access. 
(a) A retail establishment or an employee of a retail establishment is not civilly liable for any act or omission in allowing a customer that has an eligible medical condition to use an employee toilet facility that is not a public restroom if the act or omission meets all of the following: (4) The employee toilet facility is not located in an area where providing access would create an obvious health or safety risk to the customer or an obvious security risk to the retail establishment. (5) A public restroom is not immediately accessible to the customer.
While restrooms are needed in most food-serving establishments by law, not all retail stores are required to provide restrooms for customers. Store restroom requirements are based on square footage, occupancy, local and state laws. (David Lentz/iStock/Getty Images). 
Retail establishment means a place of business open to the general public for the sale of goods or services. Retail establishment does not include a filling station or service station, with a structure of 800 square feet or less, that has an employee toilet facility located within that structure. (4) The employee toilet facility is not located in an area where providing access would create an obvious health or safety risk to the customer or an obvious security risk to the retail establishment. (5) A public restroom is not immediately accessible to the customer.