It is on the Sokolnicheskaya Line, between Krasnye Vorota and Krasnoselskaya stations. It is located under Komsomolskaya Square, between the Leningradsky, Yaroslavsky, and Kazansky railway terminals. The station was named for the workers of the Komsomol youth league who helped to construct the first Metro line. It has a transfer at the-same-called-station on the Koltsevaya Line. Komsomolskaya was built using the cut and cover method, with construction beginning on 3 May 1933. Temporary bridges were built over the construction site to avoid disrupting traffic, especially the numerous tram routes in the area
Due to Komsomolskaya's location under a major transit hub, the station was built with an unusual upper gallery above the platform to help handle rush crowds. The station has tall pillars faced with pinkish limestone and topped with bronze capitals displaying the emblem of the Komsomol league. The station was named for the workers of the Komsomol youth league who helped to construct the first Metro line. It has a transfer at the-same-called-station on the Koltsevaya Line. Komsomolskaya was built using the cut and cover method, with construction beginning on 3 May 1933.
Komsomolskaya Moscow Metro Station. Komsomolskaya Moscow metro station is one of the most beautiful subway stations we have. In fact, there are two such stations in our metro-one is located on the ring line (Koltsevaya), and the other one sits on Sokolnicheskaya line that's colored in red on Moscow metro map. The passage will lead you to Komsomolskaya-Radialnaya metro station, the one that's on Sokolnicheskaya line. There's nothing much to say about it, as it has much simpler and cheaper looks, but the cool thing is the station has two levels.
Second, Komsomolskaya Moscow metro station has an exit to Komsomolskaya square that is shared by Moscow's main rail terminals-Leningradsky, Yaroslavsky and Kazansky. We even call it Tree Station Square, and in fact this name is more popular than the official one. The passage will lead you to Komsomolskaya-Radialnaya metro station, the one that's on Sokolnicheskaya line. There's nothing much to say about it, as it has much simpler and cheaper looks, but the cool thing is the station has two levels.
In 2003, a very cozy resting place appeared on Komsomolskaya Square. It has a fountain and benches, but it's also got a monument to Melnikov-one of the authors of Moscow-St.Petersburg railroad project and Russia's first Minister of Railroads. However, there's a one big problem with Komsomolskaya that Moscow hasn't yet managed to solve. The square is one of the most troubled places in town-there are lots of bums, pickpockets and other crooks. Terrible smell, homeless people everywhere-quite hard to enjoy the view to say the least.
It is on the Koltsevaya Line, between Prospekt Mira and Kurskaya stations. The station is noted for its being located under the busiest Moscow transport hub, Komsomolskaya Square, which serves Leningradsky, Yaroslavsky and Kazansky railway terminals. Because of that the station is one of the busiest in the whole system and is the most loaded one on the line. While the first southern segment of the Koltsevaya Line were dedicated to the victory over Nazi Germany, the northern segment (Belorusskaya-Koltsevaya to Komsomolskaya) was dedicated to the theme of post-war labour.
Komsomolskaya (Russian: комсомо́льская) is a Moscow Metro station in the Krasnoselsky District, Central Administrative Okrug, Moscow. While the first southern segment of the Koltsevaya Line were dedicated to the victory over Nazi Germany, the northern segment (Belorusskaya-Koltsevaya to Komsomolskaya) was dedicated to the theme of post-war labour.
Komsomolskaya Square in Moscow. Komsomolskaya Square is one of the most famous places in Moscow. It's located in center, and serves 3 major Moscow rail terminals-Leningradsky, Yaroslavsky and Kazansky. In addition, you can get to Komsomolskaya Square right from Komsomolskaya Moscow metro station, which of course makes the place pretty crowded. People call it Three Stations Square, and unfortunately these days it has a very bad reputation. However, there's a one big problem with Komsomolskaya that Moscow hasn't yet managed to solve. The square is one of the most troubled places in town-there are lots of bums, pickpockets and other crooks. Terrible smell, homeless people everywhere-quite hard to enjoy the view to say the least.
SEE MY FACEBOOK HISTORY GROUP : https://www.facebook.com/pages/Alan-H... Komsomolskaya is located under Komsomolskaya Square, between the Leningradsky, Yaroslavsky, and Kazansky railway terminals. The station was named for the workers of the Komsomol youth league who helped to construct the first Metro line. Between Komsomolskaya and Krasnoselskaya is short branch line leading to the Severnoe, or Northern, Depot (№1). On October 15, 1934, a Metro train left this depot for the Metro's first trial run.