Meaning & History. The meaning of this name is unknown. It could be derived from the Celtic elements artos bear combined with viros man or rigos king. Alternatively it could be related to an obscure Roman family name Artorius. Arthur is the name of the central character in Arthurian legend, a 6th-century king of the Britons who resisted Saxon invaders. He may or may not have been a real person
Meaning of Arthur. English name. In English, the name Arthur means-From the Roman clan name Artorius, meaning noble, courageous. Famous bearer: Legendary sixth century King Arthur of Britain and his Round Table of knights. This legend dates to the early 9th century.. Other origins for the name Arthur include-English, Irish, Celtic, Welsh, Scottish, Irish.The name Arthur is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-From the Roman clan name Artorius, meaning noble, courageous.
Arthur is a common masculine given name. Its etymology is disputed, but its popularity derives from its being the name of the legendary hero King Arthur. Art and Artie are diminutive forms of the name. The origin of the name Arthur remains a matter of debate. Some suggest it is derived from the Roman nomen gentile (family name) Artōrius, of obscure and contested etymology (but possibly of Messapic or Etruscan origin).
Origin of the name Arthur: Of Celtic origin but of unknown meaning. The name was borne by the legendary British King Arthur, leader of the knights of the Round Table, who supposedly lived in the 5th or 6th century. The name gained popularity from the great body of Arthurian legend that has remained of interest over the centuries. Var: Arthwr. Short: Art.
The name Arthur is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Arthur is: Strong as a bear. American Meaning: The name Arthur is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Arthur is: Strong as a bear. English Meaning: The name Arthur is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Arthur is: From the Roman clan name Artorius, meaning noble, courageous. Famous bearer: Legendary sixth century King Arthur of Britain and his Round Table of knights. In Irish the meaning of the name Arthur is: Derived from the Irish art meaning 'stone'. Arthur was a 6th Century Irish prince. Scottish Meaning: The name Arthur is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Arthur is: Derived from Celtic artos meaning 'bear'.
Arthur /ar-thur/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced AR-ther. It is of Celtic origin. King Arthur of Britain (sixth century) and his Round Table of knights have become legendary figures. His name was first found in the Latin form Artorius, which is of obscure origin. Other possible sources include artos, the Celtic word for bear; an Irish Gaelic word meaning stone; Arnthor, an Old German name meaning Thor, the eagle. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Arthur for boys. Arthur reached its highest position of #14 in the U.S. in the 1900s, and is at #306 presently. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of Arthur and corresponding names.
Arthur is used predominantly in the English and German languages, and its origin is Celtic. It is from the elements 'art' meaning stone, bear; 'artus' tight. Artorius (Latinized) and Artus (Old English) are old forms of Arthur. The name is of obscure Celtic origin; it could be derived from the Celtic 'artos' (bear) or the Irish 'art' (stone), or from the Roman family name Artorius. It could also be Germanic in origin.