Full Definition of ISOMETRICS. : exercise or a system of exercises in which opposing muscles are so contracted that there is little shortening but a great increase in tone of muscle fibers involved. ADVERTISEMENT.
Noun. 1. isometrics-muscle-building exercises (or a system of musclebuilding exercises) involving muscular contractions against resistance without movement (the muscles contracts but the length of the muscle does not change). isometric exercise. i·so·met·rics. n. (used with a sing. or pl. verb). Exercise or a system of exercises in which isometric muscular contraction is used to strengthen and tone muscles, performed by the exertion of effort against resistance, usually of a stationary object.
Isometric exercise: Exercise involving muscular contractions without movement of the involved parts of the body. Isometric exercise is one method of muscular exercise. 
isometric. adj. 1. having equal dimensions or measurements. 2. (Physiology) physiol of or relating to muscular contraction that does not produce shortening of the muscle. 3. (General Physics) (of a crystal or system of crystallization) having three mutually perpendicular equal axes. isometric-of a crystal system characterized by three equal axes at right angles. crystallography-the branch of science that studies the formation and structure of crystals.
: of, relating to, involving, or being muscular contraction (as in isometrics) against resistance, without significant shortening of muscle fibers, and with marked increase in muscle tone — compare isotonic. Medical Definition of ISOMETRIC. 1. : of, relating to, or characterized by equality of measure; especially: relating to or being a crystallographic system characterized by three equal axes at right angles. 2
(March 2015). Isometric exercise or isometrics are a type of strength training in which the joint angle and muscle length do not change during contraction (compared to concentric or eccentric contractions, called dynamic/isotonic movements). Isometrics are done in static positions, rather than being dynamic through a range of motion. In an overcoming isometric, the joint and muscle work against an immovable object. In contrast, in a yielding isometric, the joint and muscle are held in a static position while opposed by resistance.
3. Physiology Of or involving muscular contraction against resistance in which the length of the muscle remains the same. n. A line connecting isometric points. [From Greek. , of equal measure : , iso- +. , measure; see mē- in Indo-European roots .]. i′so·met′ri·cal·ly adv. isometric-of a crystal system characterized by three equal axes at right angles. crystallography-the branch of science that studies the formation and structure of crystals.
An isometric exercise is a form of exercise involving the static contraction of a muscle without any visible movement in the angle of the joint. In an overcoming isometric, the joint and muscle work against an immovable object. In contrast, in a yielding isometric, the joint and muscle are held in a static position while opposed by resistance.