Unlike the Large Central Vacuole of the Plant Cells they do not take up 90% of the cells and there are multiple vacuoles, but small ones might I add. Also in a Plant Cell there is only one vacuole the Large Central Vacuole.
Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes.
Vacuoles in animal cells store food, water, waste, and minerals like plant cells. The only difference is that plant cells have larger vacuoles than animal cells.
They are both right. Animal cells do have vacuoles, but they are smaller, larger in number (plant cells usually have just one or a few large vacuoles) AND serve a somewhat different purpose than those of plants.
Vacuoles and lysosomes have similar functions. Vacuoles in plant cells are in some respects the equivalent of lysosomes in animal cells. The environment inside a vacuole is slightly acid (pH about 5.0) whilst for the rest of the cytosol it is slightly alkaline (about pH 7.2).
Animal cells have one or more small vacuoles whereas plant cells have one large central vacuole that can take up to 90% of cell volume. In plant cells, the function of vacuoles is to store water and maintain turgidity of the cell. Vacuoles in animal cells store water, ions and waste.
One person said that they do, but they're much smaller than vacuoles in plant cells. The other person said they don't. While there is something there that acts similar to a vacuole, it's slightly different. The person also noted that the only websites that say that something as a vacuole aren't credible sites (ie.
A vacuole is a cell organelle found in a number of different cell types. Vacuoles are fluid-filled, enclosed structures that are separated from the cytoplasm by a single membrane. They are found mostly in plant cells and fungi. However, some protist, animal cells, and bacteria also contain vacuoles.
Many plant cells have a large, single central vacuole that typically takes up most of the room in the cell (80 percent or more). Vacuoles in animal cells, however, tend to be much smaller, and are more commonly used to temporarily store materials or to transport substances.