An autoimmune disease occurs when the body's immune system attacks its own cells.C.An immune disorder is the overreaction of the immune system to substances that are not dangerous. An autoimmune disease occurs when germs affect the immune system.D.An immune disorder is a disease caused by germs, such as pollen or dust. An immune disorder is when the body cannot defend itself. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-the-difference-between-immune-disorders-and-autoimmune-diseases ]. More Answers to  What is the difference between immune disorders and autoimmune diseases .
Lupus is a chronic, autoimmune disease that can damage any part of the body (skin, joints, and/or organs inside the body). Chronic means that the signs and symptoms tend to last longer than six weeks and often for many years. Autoimmune means your immune system cannot tell the difference between these foreign invaders and your body’s healthy tissues (auto means self) and creates autoantibodies that attack and destroy healthy tissue.
Autoimmune diseases arise from an overactive immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body. In other words, the body actually attacks its own cells. An immune disorder is when the body cannot defend itself. [ Source: http://www.chacha .... An immune disorder is when the body cannot defend itself. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-the-difference-between-immune-disorders-and-autoimmune-diseases ]. More Answers to  What is the difference between immune disorders and autoimmune diseases .
Autoimmunity is the system of immune responses of an organism against its own cells and tissues. Any disease that results from such an aberrant immune response is termed an autoimmune disease. 
In other words, the body actually attacks its own cells. An immune disorder is when the body cannot defend itself. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-the-difference-between-immune-disorders-and-autoimmune-diseases ]. More Answers to  What is the difference between immune disorders and autoimmune diseases .
Autoimmunity. The immune system is a complex set of organs, cells, proteins and other substances that function to prevent infection. Primary immunodeficiency diseases are characterized by abnormalities in specific components of the immune system that lead to an increased susceptibility to infection. In most cases of lung disease, the autoimmunity is not due to formation of an antibody, but an abnormal accumulation of white blood cells in the lung tissues, causing inflammation and damage. Sometimes white blood cells accumulate in a specific part of the lung known as the interstitium.
An autoimmune disease occurs when germs affect the immune system.D. An immune disorder is a disease caused by germs, such as pollen or dust. An autoimmune disease occurs when the body's immune system attacks its own cells. A: Hi,B is the most correct answer. An immune disorder is when the body cannot defend itself. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-the-difference-between-immune-disorders-and-autoimmune-diseases ]. More Answers to  What is the difference between immune disorders and autoimmune diseases .
About Autoimmune Disease. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body's own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus.
At the core of the immune system is the ability to tell the difference between self and non-self. Autoimmune diseases arise from an overactive and misguided immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body (self). The resulting damage is dependent on the type of autoimmune disease, for example in Crohn’s disease the body attacks the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. Overall, autoimmune diseases are common, affecting more than 23.5 million Americans. They are a leading cause of death and disability.
Autoimmune Cytopenias. The development of autoantibodies that bind to and destroy blood cells is the most common autoimmune disease seen in primary immunodeficiency diseases. The blood cells affected are the red blood cells (RBCs), platelets and white blood cells (WBCs). In most cases of lung disease, the autoimmunity is not due to formation of an antibody, but an abnormal accumulation of white blood cells in the lung tissues, causing inflammation and damage. Sometimes white blood cells accumulate in a specific part of the lung known as the interstitium.