span·dex. n. A synthetic fiber or fabric made from a polymer containing polyurethane, used in the manufacture of elastic clothing. adj. Of or relating to spandex or its elastic qualities. [Alteration of expand .]. 
Thinsulate®. Thinsulate® fibres are much thinner than most other artificial fibres. They form a dense tangled web of fibres that trap a lot of air and reflect heat. This reduces heat loss, so clothes containing this material keep you very warm. 
Full Definition of LYCRA. —used for a spandex synthetic fiber. See Lycra defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Lycra. n. 1. (Textiles) a type of synthetic elastic fabric and fibre used for tight-fitting garments, such as swimming costumes. (ˈlaɪ krə). Trademark. 
Lycra noun [U]. › a ​type of ​material that ​stretches, used ​especially for making ​clothes that ​fit very ​tightly: a Lycra ​swimsuit Lycra ​leggings These ​jeans have ​added Lycra for ​comfort and ​fit. (Definition of Lycra from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
Shop Spandex World for all kinds of high quality Spandex fabrics. We offer high quality stretch fabric in variety of categories such as Nylon, Printed, Hologram, Cotton, Velvet, Laces and among others. Our fabric is used by Costume Designers, Ballets, Broadway Shows, Circus, Hollywood Movies and more. 
Spandex fetishism is a fetishistic attraction to people wearing form fitting stretch fabrics or to the wearing of items of clothing made of such material. 
Print Email Save. Lycra or spandex is a stretchy and forgiving fiber. This is a synthetic fiber used through out the world by many designers and clothing manufacturers. Lycra includes the fibers such as cotton, silk and synthetic fibers. 
Cotton Lycra Knit Fabric-A smooth knit fabric comprised of natural cotton with a small percent of Spandex or Lycra. Cotton Lycra knit is known for its smooth hand, excellent stretch and recovery, and all-season comfort. View All || 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ... 
Top 10 facts about the world. Spandex is a synthetic fabric with a polymer base, like nylon or polyester; spandex, however, has unique properties that make it well suited to certain applications, such as sports apparel. 