Clean rhubarb, pull any fibrous strings from the stalks, and cut into 1/2 to 1 inch pieces. Place in the freezer containers or bags. Because syrup that is going to be added, a container would be a better choice for this method. Add syrup so that it covers the rhubarb. Combine 1/4 cup of sugar and 1/4 cup of water in a saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium heat and stir until sugar has dissolved. Add the rhubarb and bring sauce back to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook uncovered until rhubarb is crisp-tender, approximately 10 minutes.
Rates and rhubarb. Class practical. In this experiment, rhubarb sticks, which contain oxalic acid, are used to reduce and decolourise potassium manganate(VII) solution. The experiment can be used to show how the rate of reaction is affected by surface area or concentration. If you are not sure, briefly remove the rhubarb and compare the colour of the solution to the beaker of water. When they look the same, stop the timer. d Rinse out and dry the reaction beaker. e Repeat the experiment using the piece of rhubarb cut into 2 (use both halves). Rinse and dry the beaker.
Rhubarb is a plant. The root and underground stem (rhizome) are used to make medicine. Rhubarb is used primarily for digestive complaints including constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, stomach pain, gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, and preparation for certain GI diagnostic procedures.
Rhubarb can be eaten raw but because of its tartness, it is generally cooked and sweetened first. It can be sweetened with sugar, honey, syrup, or berry preserves. When cooking rhubarb do not use aluminum, iron or copper pans. Rhubarb has high acidity and will react with these types of metals. Combine 1/4 cup of sugar and 1/4 cup of water in a saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium heat and stir until sugar has dissolved. Add the rhubarb and bring sauce back to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook uncovered until rhubarb is crisp-tender, approximately 10 minutes.
Because it is extremely tart, rhubarb is usually combined with a considerable amount of sugar in sauces, jams, and pies. In the US it is traditionally made with strawberries, and in the UK, ginger. Do NOT cook rhubarb in an aluminum pan. A chemical reaction will turn the rhubarb gray and it pick up a metallic flavor. 
Health and safety Potassium manganate(VII) solution is low hazard but avoid getting it on your hands. If you do,wash it off straight away.Wear eye protection when using the potassium manganate(VII) solution.Do not eat or taste anything in the lab. What to do 1. Cut 3 x 5 cm lengths of rhubarb. Leave one piece as it is, cut one in half lengthwaysand the other into four even sized pieces (again, cut lengthways). What to do 1. Cut the stick of rhubarb into thin (about 0.5 cm) slices and put them into the 250 cm 3 beaker. Cover the rhubarb with distilled water and heat gently using a Bunsen burner. 2. Bring the rhubarb to the boil and continue to boil it gently until it falls to pieces, whichwill take about 5 minutes.
1 Rhubarb is a vegetable not a fruit. 2  It is commonly used as a fruit in sauces, pies, cookies, bars, cakes, and famous dessert crisps and crumbles 3  ! The rhubarb plant belongs to a group of plants of the genus Rheum in the plant family Polygonaceae. Rhubarb Plant Facts and Information. 1  Another name for the Rhubarb Plant is Pie Plant . 2  No wonder the word rhubarb seems to be synonymous with pie! 3 
Description. In this experiment, rhubarb sticks, which contain oxalic acid, are used to reduce and decolourise potassium manganate(VII) solution. The experiment can be used to show how the rate of reaction is affected by surface area or concentration. If you are not sure, briefly remove the rhubarb and compare the colour of the solution to the beaker of water. When they look the same, stop the timer. d Rinse out and dry the reaction beaker. e Repeat the experiment using the piece of rhubarb cut into 2 (use both halves). Rinse and dry the beaker.
Rhubarb can be eaten raw but because of its tartness, it is generally cooked and sweetened first. It can be sweetened with sugar, honey, syrup, or berry preserves. When cooking rhubarb do not use aluminum, iron or copper pans. Rhubarb has high acidity and will react with these types of metals. Combine 1/4 cup of sugar and 1/4 cup of water in a saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium heat and stir until sugar has dissolved. Add the rhubarb and bring sauce back to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook uncovered until rhubarb is crisp-tender, approximately 10 minutes.
Rhubarb is a perennial vegetable, though it is generally used as a fruit in desserts and jams. You only eat the stalks, which have a rich tart flavor. The leaves of this plant are poisonous, so be sure that they are not ingested. Rhubarb is easy to grow, but needs cool weather to thrive. 