Dalane & Egersund. Fjords.com-The gateway to the Fjords. Welcome to fjords.com, the gateway to the Norwegian Fjords. This is an unofficial home page with information that helps you to explore and plan your journey to the four fjord regions in western Norway; Moere & Møre, Romsdal & Sogn, Fjordane hordaland And. rogaland Hiking in the fjord area Try hiking along a fjord, in the valleys or in the mountains. Skiing with fjord view. Norway is made for skiing. Specially in the west where you can ski from almost 2000 metres and down to the fjords.
Geography Edit. Howling Fjord. For the Alliance, there is a boat port connecting the town of Valgarde with Menethil Harbor in the Wetlands. For the Horde, a zeppelin connects the town of Vengeance Landing with the Undercity in Tirisfal Glades. Location. Southeastern Northrend. Howling Fjord concept art. The Howling Fjord is a zone located in southeastern Northrend. Ripped into the southern coastline lies Daggercap Bay, where the forces of Arthas originally landed on the continent. Stranded by the young prince, the 5,000-strong expedition set up the outpost of Valgarde
Hardangerfjord. The Hardangerfjord lies in the southwestern corner of Norway. At 111 miles, the Hardangerfjord is Norway's second longest fjord and the third longest on the planet. According to FjordNorway.com, the Hardangerfjord has sections of water that reach as deep as 2,625 feet. The iExplore Travel Guide cites the Sognefjord as Norway's best-known fjord. It lies in the northwest reaches of Norway and runs for 127 miles through the wilderness, occupying large sections in the national parks of Jotunheimen and Jostedalsbreen.
Full Definition of FJORD. : a narrow inlet of the sea between cliffs or steep slopes. See fjord defined for English-language learners. See fjord defined for kids. 
When it comes to famous fjords in Europe, National Geographic Traveler Magazine ranks Norway's tops, with its picturesque mountainous regions and deep valleys formed by melting glaciers. Ireland’s Killary Harbour fjord is 16 kilometers long and 45 meters deep. Located in Leenaun in Connemara County, Killary Harbour is famous as the only fjord in Ireland. On its northern side is Mount Mweelrea, the highest mountain in the region, and to its south is Galway.
Fjords Around the World. Puget Sound is located in the state of Washington and is an extensive fjord system of flooded glacial valleys. Second only to the Chesapeake Bay, Puget Sound is the second largest estuary system in the United States. Larger fishes then eat these creatures, and so on. By Claire Y. Weber. A fjord is a narrow, high-walled, and very long submerged glacial valley. Fjords are formed when a descending glacier carves a U-shaped valley into the bedrock. Often, the force of the descending glacier carving into the bedrock is so strong that fjords tend to be deeper than the oceans that they empty into
Comment by FinnrSlayer. The Howling Fjord sits high above the Great Sea on the southeastern tip of Northrend. It is said that in ancient times the vrykul, a race of half-giant warriors, inhabited the land, founding a vast and prosperous civilization. Comment by yagerbomb. Howling Fjord, forming Daggercap Bay, is the place where Arthas landed when tracking Mal'ganis. Just a bit of WoW lore.