When you buy a box of Jell-O (or another brand of gelatin) at the grocery store, you get a small packet of the powdered gelatin with sugar or artificial sweetener and artificial flavorings and colors added. At room temperature, the gelatin protein is in the form of a triple helix.
HELLO There's Always Room for Jell-O.. This is the campaign slogan of a simple gelatin dessert that today is known as America's Most Famous Dessert.. The success story is one, the result of advertising and merchandising methods, new and different, never before employed.
Everyday chemistry. Gelatin is made of hydrolyzed collagen, which is a polite way of saying 'partially decomposed protein extracted from cow and pig hides, hooves, bones, and connective tissue'. The protein in these materials is broken down by treatment with an alkaline solution and then extracted with hot water.
Jell-O is sold prepared (ready to eat) or in powder form, and is available in various colors and flavors. The powder contains powdered gelatin and flavorings, including sugar or artificial sweeteners. It is dissolved in hot water, then chilled and allowed to set.
1. jello-fruit-flavored dessert (trade mark Jell-O) made from a commercially prepared gelatin powder. Jell-O. gelatin dessert-jellied dessert made with gelatin and fruit juice or water. hydrocolloid-a substance that forms a gel with water.
Claim: JELL-O is made from bones and hides. Origins: Sometimes the most innocuous of foodstuffs contain constituents whose origins are less than appetizing. Such is the case with. a dessert that has graced millions of dinner tables since its 1897 debut.
Jell-O  is actually a brand name, currently owned by Kraft Foods, and is used to market a range of desserts and snacks. But most people use the term to refer to the gelatin-based desserts that are also sold under the Jell-O name.
Gelatin is a protein derived from collagen, the major component of the connective tissue of animals. Jell-O and other, similar products consist of powdered gelatin mixed with sweeteners, flavorings and coloring agents.