Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. 
Depending on the type of infection, people can even die as a result of food poisoning. More than 250 different diseases can cause food poisoning. Some of the most common diseases are infections caused by bacteria, such as Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, E. coli O157:H7, Listeria, botulism, and norovirus. 
There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals. This can happen when you drink water or eat food that has been contaminated by feces. E. coli can get into meat during processing
E. coli food poisoning is most often associated with eating undercooked, contaminated ground beef. Since E. coli can be found in the intestines of healthy cattle, meat can become contaminated during slaughter. The bacteria are then thoroughly mixed into the beef while it is being ground and processed. If you or a family member has suffered from E. coli food poisoning, and you have a question about your legal rights, you can request a free case evaluation from our firm by clicking on free case evaluation. You may also contact us toll free at 1-877-934-6274.
E. coli is a type of bacteria that normally live in the intestines of people and animals. However, some types of E. coli, particularly E. coli 0157:H7, can cause intestinal infection. Symptoms of intestinal infection include diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. 
Primary Cause of E-coli food poisoning. The primary cause of E-coli food poisoning is the result: 1  at any time, from exposure to toxins, poisons, environmental, or other substances. To research the causes of E-coli food poisoning, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with E-coli food poisoning: 1  Food-borne disease. 2  FBD. 3  Food-borne infection.
Most strains of E.coli are harmless, but those that produce verocytotoxin (called verocytotoxin-producing E.coli, or VTEC) can cause severe illness. In the UK, the most common type is E.coli 0157. E.coli or Escherichia coli are bacteria that normally live in the intestines of humans and animals. Although, most strains of these bacteria are harmless, several are known to produce toxins that can cause diarrhea. One particular E.coli strain called 0157 can cause severe diarrhea and kidney damage. This short paper in our series covering food poisoning bacteria examines how various bacterium causes food poisoning, paying closer attention to five of the most common bacteria; Salmonella, Listeria, E.coli 0157, Campylobacter and Clostridium perfringens.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) Food Poisoning. Escherichia coli O157:H7, more commonly referred to as E. coli, is an emerging cause of foodborne illness. E. coli O157:H7 was first recognized as a cause of enteric disease in 1982, following an outbreak of severe bloody diarrhea. If you or a family member has suffered from E. coli food poisoning, and you have a question about your legal rights, you can request a free case evaluation from our firm by clicking on free case evaluation. You may also contact us toll free at 1-877-934-6274.
Contaminated food. The most common way to acquire an E. coli infection is by eating contaminated food, such as: 1  Ground beef. 2  When cattle are slaughtered and processed, E. coli bacteria in their intestines can get on the meat. 3  Ground beef combines meat from many different animals, increasing the risk of contamination. 4  Unpasteurized milk. Causes. Among the many strains of E. coli, only a few trigger diarrhea. One group of E. coli — which includes O157:H7 — produces a powerful toxin that damages the lining of the small intestine, which can cause bloody diarrhea.