Perennial, Primula. Primrose is a hardy perennial flower, that includes a wide range of varieties. Primrose is native to Asia, Europe, and North America. In North America, they originally were found from the Midwest to the Northwest areas of the U.S. There are many kinds of Primrose. Once your Primrose plants are established, they will grow well and bloom all summer long with little or no attention. Anticipate the first blooms in the second year. Being very hardy, they will likely survive the first light frosts before going dormant for the winter.
Growing Primrose Plants. Growing primrose is easy, as these plants are quite hardy and adaptable. You can find primrose perennials at most garden centers and nurseries. Look for primroses that are healthy in appearance, preferably with unopened buds. Primrose perennials should be planted in lightly shaded areas with well-drained soil, preferably amended with organic matter. Set primrose plants about 6 to 12 inches apart and 4 to 6 inches deep.
Primroses can be cultivated as annuals or perennials. Primroses (Primula spp.) are some of the earliest flowers to bloom. In fact, they often bloom when mornings are still dark and the ground is still frozen. As annuals, they can be grown in USDA zones 1 through 11, according to Washington State University Extension. Primroses are favorite container plants, and the fact that they are also an inexpensive plant makes choosing primroses for container gardens an easy choice for many home gardeners.
Hardy perennial. This completely new form of hose-in-hose primula has been produced here in the gardens at Plant World. The busy bees here have managed to cross our new hose-in-hose cowslip with an old fashioned polyanthus. 
PRIMULA: Primrose. Primroses have been a vibrant addition to the spring, woodland garden and containers for over a century. The name Primula is derived from the Italian word for spring primavera. An explosion of color in every shade of the rainbow, primroses primarily prefer cooler temperatures and therefore bloom early spring through May. Primroses combine fabulously with spring bulbs, evergreen grasses and dusty miller. P. vulgaris-English Primrose. These may be the most familiar primroses that are often used in winter bedding areas for their vibrant colors. Lately there has been more development with double types such as the Rosanna and Doublet series. Also, the ‘Wanda’ series has a darker leaf and the flowers are in rich jewel tones.
Habitat. The primula is a hardy perennial alpine plant which can withstand cold conditions, but its ideal setting is woodland which contains soil that is rich in humus and remains moist throughout the year but is also well drained. Availability. The primula plant grows close to the ground and features a variety of different coloured flowers, including purple, red, white, yellow and variegated. The foliage around the flowers is usually described as being of a rosette shape and is often a very dark green.
Primrose. Primula. Take a walk down the primrose path and you'll never look back! Primroses are a classic cottage flower and are popular with collectors. They covet the hundreds of different primroses available, especially some of the tiny rare alpine types.