Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Osteophytes is the medical name for the overgrowth of bone tissue more commonly called  bone spurs .. Despite the term spurs, they are actually small round lumps of extra bone that grow around joints. Osteophytes are the body’s attempt to compensate for existing bone and ligament degeneration due to age or injury. 
By Michael Perry, M.D. Anterior osteophytes are bone spurs that develop on the front, or anterior aspect, of the vertebrae. They appear to be more common in the cervical spine (neck) than in other spinal segments, as the neck is considerably more prone to degenerative conditions that contribute to osteophyte formation. Anterior osteophytes develop on the front side of the vertebrae, largely because the spine’s structure allows the anterior side to compress further than the posterior. The result is that anterior osteophytes tend to be larger and, therefore, more problematic than posterior osteophytes
Bone spurs that behind an anatomical structure are called posterior osteophytes. Physicians frequently refer to spurs forming in front of structures as anterior osteophytes. These growths occur along the edges of any bone in the body because of cartilage breakdown, connective tissue calcification, or trauma.
Osteophytosis. Osteophytes, more commonly known as bone spurs, are outgrowths of bone tissue that form around damaged joints. This bone growth is thought to be a compensatory response to bone and ligament damage, and is meant to restrict movement of the joint to protect from further damage.
Osteophytes form because of the increase in a damaged joint's surface area. This is most common from the onset of arthritis. Osteophytes usually limit joint movement and typically cause pain. Osteophytes form naturally on the back of the spine as a person ages and are a sign of degeneration in the spine. In this case, the spurs are not the source of back pains, but instead are the common symptom of a deeper problem. Osteophytes, commonly referred to as bone spurs or parrot beak, are bony projections that form along joint margins. They should not be confused with enthesophytes, which are bony projections that form at the attachment of a tendon or ligament.
Lumbar osteophytes, or bone spurs, are growths that form on the joints in the lower back as a result of degenerative changes to the spine. Lumbar osteophytes, also known as bone spurs, are smooth growths that form on the facet joints and/or around the vertebrae in the lower spine.