Context helps readers understand what they otherwise wouldn't be able to comprehend. Context is a much-needed assistant, helping readers define unknown words and make sense of outside information. In writing, it is often necessary to provide new words, concepts, and information to help develop a thought.
Thesis. Historical essay writing is based upon the thesis. A thesis is a statement, an argument which will be presented by the writer. The thesis is in effect, your position, your particular interpretation, your way of seeing a problem.
In this essay, I am going to write about the social and historical context of 'Of Mice and Men', and how the dreams of certain people in the ranch went wrong and ended in tragedy. Most of the characters in 'Of Mice and Men' admit, at one point or another, to dreaming of a different life.
Historical Context of The Jewel in the Crown-Historical Context of The Jewel in the Crown The historical context of Paul Scott's novel-The Jewel in the Crown-serves to explain and interpret a tragic love story between two characters; Daphne Manners and Hari Kumar.
Many students confuse the context with the causes of an event. A cause is something that brings an effect. The effect may be immediate and obvious, or it may be deeper and not so evident. In all cases, however, it generates a consequence that one can clearly relate to the factor that precipitated the action.
Historical context refers to the moods, attitudes, and conditions that existed in a certain time. Context is the setting for an event that occurs, and it will have an impact on the relevance of the event. Context is an important factor to consider when describing something in history.
WHAT IS HISTORICAL CONTEXT? In its History essay rubric, IBO speaks of “establishing the historical context.” But what does that mean? COREHISTORYCONCEPTS Historical context is, in essence, the setting (social, political, economic, religious, etc.) in which an event happened or an idea developed. It provides background and perspective.