Pigment epithelium-Mouse. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is the pigmented cell layer located just outside the retina and is attached to what is called the choroid, a layer filled with blood vessels that nourish the retina. The RPE closely interacts with photoreceptors in the maintenance of visual function. The RPE is composed of a single layer of hexagonal cells that are densely packed with granules of melanin that absorbs the light energy that arrive to the retina.
The RPE65 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is essential for normal vision. The RPE65 protein is produced in a thin layer of cells at the back of the eye called the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). This cell layer supports and nourishes the retina, which is the light-sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye. RPE65 gene mutations lead to a partial or total loss of RPE65 protein function. As a result, all-trans retinal cannot be converted back to 11-cis retinal, and excess 11-cis retinal builds up in the retinal pigment epithelium.
The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is a monolayer of pigmented cells situated between the neuroretina and the choroids. The RPE is of neuroectodermal origin and is therefore considered to be part of the retina. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is an specialized epithelium lying in the interface between the neural retina and the choriocapillaris where it forms the outer blood-retinal barrier (BRB).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The pigmented layer of retina or retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is the pigmented cell layer just outside the neurosensory retina that nourishes retinal visual cells, and is firmly attached to the underlying choroid and overlying retinal visual cells. Contents. In the eyes of albinos, the cells of this layer contain no pigment. Dysfunction of the RPE is found in Age-Related Macular Degeneration and Retinitis Pigmentosa. RPE are also involved in Diabetic retinopathy.
Monkey. Mouse. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is the pigmented cell layer located just outside the retina and is attached to what is called the choroid, a layer filled with blood vessels that nourish the retina. The RPE closely interacts with photoreceptors in the maintenance of visual function. The RPE is composed of a single layer of hexagonal cells that are densely packed with granules of melanin that absorbs the light energy that arrive to the retina.
3. Epithelial transport. So the RPE forms a tight-junction epithelium located between the blood flow of the choroid and the outer segments of the photoreceptors. There are tight junction between the lateral surfaces of the hexagonal epithelial sheet (Fig. 2, TJ) [4, 30, 31]. In this way the RPE forms a part of the blood/retina barrier
retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). A brown monolayer of cells of the retina situated next to the choroid composed of cells joined by tight junctions and filled with pigment, mainly melanin and lipofuscin (Fig. R9). Depending upon the amount of pigment, the fundus will appear dark or light. posterior epithelium. the single layer of epithelial cells on the back of the cornea, between stroma and aqueous humour; the corneal endothelium. retinal pigment epithelium. see retina. sense epithelium, sensory epithelium. see neuroepithelium (1).
Retinal Pigment Epithelium. A continuous, insulating monolayer of cuboidal/columnar epithelium which extends from the margins of the optic nerve head to the ora serrata where it is continuous with the pigment epithelium of the pars plana. 
Located between vessels of the choriocapillaris and light-sensitive outer segments of the photoreceptors, the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) closely interacts with photoreceptors in the maintenance of visual function. 