Phencyclidine (PCP) Profile Phencyclidine (PCP) is a synthetic dissociative drug originally developed as a general anesthetic. The effects of dissociative drugs like PCP include feelings of detatchment from the environment and self.
Interpretation of Urine Test Results: Elimination of PCP in 72 hours urine ranges from 4 to 19% for unchanged drug and 25 to 30% for conjugated metabolites. Approximately 97% of a dose is excreted in 10 days, and PCP use can be detected in urine by immunoassay up to a week following a high dose.
Toxicology Laboratories ©. Phencyclidine (PCP, Angel Dust) is a cheap and popular drug often concentrated in selected socioeconomic groups. PCP may be characterized as a hallucinogenic drug due to the wide range of bizarre behaviors associated with individuals under the influence.
phencyclidine. a central nervous system depressant, introduced as an anesthetic in the early 1950s but later abandoned because of unpredictable side effects such as agitation, disorientation, and hallucination.
PCP, or phencyclidine, is a “dissociative” anesthetic. Its sedative and anesthetic effects are trance-like, and patients experience a feeling of being “out of body” and detached from their environment.
Phencyclidine (a complex clip of the chemical name 1-(1-phenyl cyclohexyl)piperidine), commonly initialized as PCP and known colloquially as Angel Dust, pharmaceutically as Sernyl, and by many other names, is a dissociative drug.
Definition of PHENCYCLIDINE. : a piperidine derivative C17H25N used chiefly in the form of its hydrochloride especially as a veterinary anesthetic and sometimes illicitly as a psychedelic drug —called also angel dust, PCP. phen- + cycl- + -idine.
Background. Phencyclidine (PCP) was originally developed for use as a general anesthetic for surgery under the trade name Sernyl in the 1950s. Its use was discontinued in humans in 1965 because it often produced postanesthetic delirium with psychotic features, dysphoria, and occasionally extreme agitation.