Ballpoint Pens. The first ball pen was invented in 1888, but it wasn't until the 1940s that Laszlo Biro began to develop what was to become the first commercially successful version. Ballpoint pens use a viscous oil-based ink which is fed to the ball by gravity and capillary action
Fountain pen patents and production then increased in the 1850s, especially steel pens produced by John Mitchell. The first patent on a ballpoint pen was issued on October 30, 1888, to John J Loud. In 1938, Laszlo László, biro Bíró a hungarian, newspaper editor with the help of His, brother george, a chemist began to work on designing new types of pens including one with a tiny ball in its tip that was free to turn in. a socket 
More history and information on: pencils, pens, erasers, pencils, pencil sharpeners, ballpoint pens, and more. No man was more foolish when he had not a pen in his hand, or more wise when he had - Samuel Johnson. A Hungarian journalist named Laszlo Biro invented the first ballpoint pen in 1938. Biro had noticed that the type of ink used in newspaper printing dried quickly, leaving the paper dry and smudge-free. 
Around 4000 BC Man was using a bronze tool to scratch the surface of a moist clay tablet. 600-1800 AD the Europeans used the quill pen which they used to right on parchment paper. In 1790 the first pencil lead was invented in France and Australia. In 1953 the first inexpensive ball point pen was first mass produced. From 1997 to present day they invented finger pens which were designed to not have to use three fingers to write with.
Ball pen is one of the mediums use in writing that comes in  different appearance such as colors, length and ball point. The  first ballpoint of the pen invented was like a … leather tanner  issued on 30th of October 1888 by John J. Loud. The first country to invent the ballpoint pen was the United  States. John Jacob Loud, an American inventor, is known for  designing the first ballpoint pen. However, it did … not become a  viable commercial endeavor until Biro Pens of Argentina was founded  in 1941. 1 person found this useful.
The first patent for a ballpoint pen was issued on 30 October 1888, to John J. Loud, who was attempting to make a writing instrument that would be able to write on rough surfaces-such as wood, coarse wrapping-paper, and other articles which then-common fountain pens could not. Pen manufacturers produce designer ballpoint pens for the high-end and collectors' markets. The Bic Cristal is a popular disposable type of ballpoint pen whose design is recognised by its place in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York.
Ballpoint pen is a pen that has, as its name says, ball at its point which rotates when dragged across the writing surface and leaves behind ink that comes from the reservoir of the pen. Ball at the point can be of different diameter and can be made of brass, steel, or tungsten carbide. They combined viscous ink and ball-socket mechanism to make a ballpoint pen that would not allow for an ink to dry out in pen but it would still leave the mark behind when used. The first working ballpoint pen was presented at Budapest International Fair in 1931. They filed for patents in France and Britain in 1938.
The first Ball Point Pen The first patent for a ball point pen was No. 392,046, granted October 30, 1888, to John J. Loud of Weymouth, Mass. Loud used the pen to mark leather fabrics. Another ball point pen device was patented by Van Vechten Riesburg in 1916. Both patents lapsed without improvement renewal. Today, pens rank among the most widely used writing instruments. More than 2 billion pens are manufactured in the United States annually. There are five main kinds of pens. They are (1) ballpoint pens, (2) fountain pens, (3) soft-tip pens, (4) rolling-ball pens, and (5) specialty pens. Ballpoint pens have a tiny ball made of brass, steel, or tungsten carbide as their writing tip. A compartment called the ink reservoir holds the ink, and a narrow tube links the reservoir to the bal
The first to think of it was the German inventor Baum who patented a ball-point pen (Kugelschreiber) in 1910. However, the first man to actually develop and launch a ball-point pen was the Hungarian L szl Jozsef B r (1899-1985) from Budapest, who in 1938 invented a ball-point pen with a pressurized ink cartridge. He is considered the inventor of today's ball-point pen