The confederate flag may have started by being a symbol of succession, but it was also the brand to show off white power. It is a symbol of a time when white people wanted to keep slavery and not participate with the American belief that all men are created equal.
The first national flag of the Confederate States of America was created in 1861 and had seven stars to represent the breakaway states South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Texas.
The Confederate flag was first adopted as a battle flag by the army of Northern Virginia. It was never officially adopted as representing the Confederate States of America (CSA) – also known as the Confederacy – but came to be known as a symbol of the American South.
Despite the defeat of the CSA, the Confederate flag-also known as the rebel flag, the battle flag, the Dixie flag, and Southern cross-continued to be flown. In the Second World War, Southern military units flew the flag.
It is also known as the rebel flag, Dixie flag and Southern Cross is often incorrectly referred to as the Stars and Bars (the actual Stars and Bars is the first national flag, which used an entirely different design).
The Confederate flag – the 13-star saltire in red, white and blue – has come to be recognised as a symbol of the American South.
Historic meaning of the Confederate flag still strong Jason Pressberg / Columnist The Confederate flag is still a symbol of southern pride. Visiting Wal-Mart, you'll find it on bumper stickers, hats and t-shirts of the local Elon and Burlington customers that shop there. Many Elon students also have Confederate flag bumper stickers and paraphernalia.
The flag is still flown in southern states and supporters of the flag's continued usage view it as a symbol of southern ancestry and heritage as well as representing a distinct and independent cultural tradition of the southern United States from the rest of the country.
The confederate flag is not RACIST! The confederate flag is not racist because the Civil War was about States Rights and and anybody who wants to say it is racist is a complete idiot. The actual confederate flag was not stars and bars it was however 13 stars in a circle in a field of red.