Isometric Geoboard. A physical geoboard is a board with nails hammered into it. Shapes are created by stretching elastics around the nails. In this virtual manipulative you stretch geobands around the red nails.. 1  Add a geoband to the board. 2  Connect a geoband to additional pegs.
Isometric Geoboard. A physical geoboard is a board with nails hammered into it. Shapes are created by stretching elastics around the nails. In this virtual manipulative you stretch geobands around the red nails.. 1  Add a geoband to the board. 
Geoboards. The Geoboards ClipArt gallery offers 13 examples of geoboards that are used to show concepts in plane geometry, such as perimeter, area, or properties of triangles and other polygons. Geoboards can be used by drawing on images, such as the ones provided in this gallery, or by making an array of pegs that rubber bands can be connected to.
Geoboards may be used to learn about: 1  plane shapes; 2  translation; 3  rotation; 4  reflection; 5  similarity; 6  co-ordination; 7  counting; 8  right angles; 9  pattern; 10  classification; 11  scaling; 12  position; 13  congruence; 14  area; 15  perimeter. A variety of boards are used. Originally made out of plywood and brass nails or pegs, geoboards are now usually made out of plastic. They may have an upright square lattice of 9, 16 or 25 nails or more, or a circle of nails around a central nail.
A plastic 5 × 5 geoboard. A geoboard is a mathematical manipulative used to explore basic concepts in plane geometry such as perimeter, area and the characteristics of triangles and other polygons. A variety of boards are used. Originally made out of plywood and brass nails or pegs, geoboards are now usually made out of plastic. They may have an upright square lattice of 9, 16 or 25 nails or more, or a circle of nails around a central nail.
Wooden boards with a regular array of nails pounded into them have been used to teach about shapes, angles, and number patterns from at least 1954, when the Egyptian-born English educator Caleb published an article about the geoboard. 
It consists of a physical board with a certain number of nails half driven in, around which are wrapped geo bands that are made of rubber. rubber bands can also be used. Geoboards were invented and popularized in the 1950s by Egyptian mathematician Caleb Gattegno (1911-1988). A variety of boards are used. Originally made out of plywood and brass nails or pegs, geoboards are now usually made out of plastic. They may have an upright square lattice of 9, 16 or 25 nails or more, or a circle of nails around a central nail.
Working with a Duplicated Shape. Overview. Geoboard is a tool for exploring a variety of mathematical topics introduced in the elementary and middle grades. Learners stretch bands around the pegs to form line segments and polygons and make discoveries about perimeter, area, angles, congruence, fractions, and more. More Apps.