The term jade is applied to two different rocks that are made up of different silicate minerals. Nephrite jade consists of the calcium and magnesium-rich amphibole mineral actinolite (aggregates of which also make up one form of asbestos). This differs from Jadeite which is primarily a sodium-aluminum silicate. The distinction between jadeite and nephrite was made in the late 1700′s when there was sufficient scientific knowledge to find the subtle differences between the two stones. Nephrite is the original jade and the most famous in Chinese Jade history, the “Stone of Heaven” to bless all that which it touched.
(JADEITE, NEPHRITE). Jade is the gem name for mineral aggregates composed of either or both of two different minerals, Jadeite and Nephrite. Jadeite is a sodium-rich aluminous pyroxene; nephrite is a fine-grained, calcium-rich, magnesium, iron, aluminous amphibole. 
Jadeite and nephrite are the materials that have been collectively known as jade for thousands of years. Green Jadeite Buttons: Hand-made, antique Chinese jadeite buttons showing the typical color quality green jadeite. The jadeite in these buttons was most likely mined in Burma (the Union of Myanmar today). They have a color, luster and translucence that is know to occur in jade. Maw Sit Sit is a rock composed of jadeite, albite and kosmochlor (a mineral related to jadeite). It has a bright chrome green color and accepts a bright polish. For those reasons it is used as a gemstone.
It is the primary hardstone of Chinese sculpture. Although deep and bright green jadeite is better known in Europe, for most of China's history, jade has come in a variety of colors and white mutton-fat nephrite was the most highly praised and prized. Jade was prized for its hardness, durability, musical qualities, and beauty. In particular, its subtle, translucent colors and protective qualities caused it to become associated with Chinese conceptions of the soul and immortality.
The English word jade is derived (via French l'ejade and Latin ilia flanks, kidney area) from the Spanish term piedra de ijada (first recorded in 1565) or loin stone, from its reputed efficacy in curing ailments of the loins and kidneys. Translucent emerald-green jadeite is the most prized variety, both historically and today. As quetzal jade, bright green jadeite from Guatemala was treasured by Mesoamerican cultures, and as kingfisher jade, vivid green rocks from Burma became the preferred stone of post-1800 Chinese imperial scholars and rulers.
In this article, the word jade will be used for undifferentiated materials. Jadeite or nephrite will be used when the identity of the material is known. The word nephrite is also an imprecise term. It is used for materials composed of the minerals actinolite and tremolite. They have a color, luster and translucence that is know to occur in jade. Maw Sit Sit is a rock composed of jadeite, albite and kosmochlor (a mineral related to jadeite). It has a bright chrome green color and accepts a bright polish. For those reasons it is used as a gemstone.
The term jade is applied to two different metamorphic rocks that are made up of different silicate minerals 1  : Nephrite consists of a microcrystalline interlocking fibrous matrix of the calcium, magnesium-iron rich amphibole mineral series tremolite (calcium-magnesium)-ferroactinolite (calcium-magnesium-iron). Translucent emerald-green jadeite is the most prized variety, both historically and today. As quetzal jade, bright green jadeite from Guatemala was treasured by Mesoamerican cultures, and as kingfisher jade, vivid green rocks from Burma became the preferred stone of post-1800 Chinese imperial scholars and rulers.
These jewelry items are often made of solid jade, combined with other gems, or placed in settings made from gold, silver, or other precious metals. In addition to jewelry, jade is used to make small sculptures, ornaments, religious art, and small functional objects. They have a color, luster and translucence that is know to occur in jade. Maw Sit Sit is a rock composed of jadeite, albite and kosmochlor (a mineral related to jadeite). It has a bright chrome green color and accepts a bright polish. For those reasons it is used as a gemstone.
Jade is a name that we give to two different metamorphic stones; Jadeite and Nephrite. Each is composed of different silicate minerals. The distinction between jadeite and nephrite was made in the late 1700′s when there was sufficient scientific knowledge to find the subtle differences between the two stones. Nephrite is the original jade and the most famous in Chinese Jade history, the “Stone of Heaven” to bless all that which it touched.
Jade is a type of stone found in nature. It varies in color, size, and silicate mineral amounts which determine if the stone is Jadeite or Nephrite. Wikipedia defines jade as an ornamental stone. An ornamental stone is one that is known for its beauty and decorative purposes. The distinction between jadeite and nephrite was made in the late 1700′s when there was sufficient scientific knowledge to find the subtle differences between the two stones. Nephrite is the original jade and the most famous in Chinese Jade history, the “Stone of Heaven” to bless all that which it touched.