A member of the platinum group metals, iridium is white, resembling platinum, but with a slight yellowish cast. Because of its hardness, brittleness, and very high melting point, solid iridium is difficult to machine, form, or work, thus powder metallurgy is commonly employed, instead. The most stable of these is 192m2 Ir, which decays by isomeric transition with a half-life of 241 years, making it more stable than any of iridium's synthetic isotopes in their ground states. The least stable isomer is 190m3 Ir with a half-life of only 2 µs.
A very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the platinum group, iridium is generally credited with being the second densest element (after osmium) based on measured density, although calculations involving the space lattices of the elements show that iridium is denser. The most stable of these is 192m2 Ir, which decays by isomeric transition with a half-life of 241 years, making it more stable than any of iridium's synthetic isotopes in their ground states. The least stable isomer is 190m3 Ir with a half-life of only 2 µs.
Iridium is a chemical element with symbol Ir and atomic number 77.  It is a very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the  platinum family. 2 people found this useful. Iridium is the least reactive material and also has a very high melting point. It can however react with Aqua Regia sometimes and at very high temperatures it reacts with Oxy … gen to form Iridium Dioxide. It is the most resistant metal to corrosion, acids and other harmful substances.
Iridium is one of the rarest elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of only three tonnes. 191 Ir and 193 Ir are the only two naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable isotopes; the latter is the more abundant of the two. The most stable of these is 192m2 Ir, which decays by isomeric transition with a half-life of 241 years, making it more stable than any of iridium's synthetic isotopes in their ground states. The least stable isomer is 190m3 Ir with a half-life of only 2 µs.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Lee Opatowsky. Confidence votes 5. Iridium is a superconductor. As a result it probably is not magnetizable in the same sense as is iron. Substances that are capable of holding a permanent magnetic field usually are not superconductors. 
1 The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum. Iridium is the least reactive material and also has a very high melting point. It can however react with Aqua Regia sometimes and at very high temperatures it reacts with Oxy … gen to form Iridium Dioxide. It is the most resistant metal to corrosion, acids and other harmful substances.
Paramagnetism is a form of magnetism whereby certain materials are attracted by an externally applied magnetic field, and form internal, induced magnetic fields in the direction of the applied magnetic field. These materials are slightly attracted by a magnetic field and the material does not retain the magnetic properties when the external field is removed. Paramagnetic properties are due to the presence of some unpaired electrons, and from the realignment of the electron paths caused by the external
Iridium Magnets are extremely useful in fleet vs. fleet combat. Use of projectile weapons during combat are very useful, especially when mixed with Gladius Drivers or AP Drivers. A particularly infamous example of the use of Iridium Magnets is the Iridium Magnets-Phased Projectiles combo on Revelation Cruisers. Use of Iridium Magnets against bases is discouraged because of the fact that modules don't move and the booster would be completely meaningless other than to speed up the time of when the base is destroyed.