Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting.
1 Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. 2  Oil a baking sheet or a baking dish large enough to hold the asparagus in one layer. 3  Place the asparagus in the dish, and toss with the olive oil, salt and pepper. 4  Place in the oven and roast for 10 to 15 minutes, until the stalks begin to shrivel and color lightly.
1 Oil a baking sheet or a baking dish large enough to hold the asparagus in one layer. 2  Place the asparagus in the dish, and toss with the olive oil, salt and pepper. 3  Place in the oven and roast for 10 to 15 minutes, until the stalks begin to shrivel and color lightly.
Roasted asparagus in the oven is one of the easiest way to prepare asparagus. Just coat them with a little olive oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and maybe a little minced garlic, and roast them until lightly browned and tender.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Break off the tough ends of the asparagus and, if they're thick, peel them. Place the asparagus on a baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, then toss to coat the asparagus completely. Spread the asparagus in a single layer and sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper. Roast the asparagus for 25 minutes, until tender but still crisp.
1 Heat broiler. 2  On a baking sheet, toss the asparagus with the oil and ¼ teaspoon each salt and pepper. 3  Arrange the asparagus in a single layer and broil, shaking the baking sheet occasionally, until tender and slightly charred, 6 to 8 minutes.
1 Pour in the oil& Italian seasoning. 2  Coat the whole pan. 3  Roll the asparagus in the oil to coat all sides. 4  Bake in 400F degrees oven for 5-7 min Do not over cook! 5  The asparagus should just be heated through but still very crisp. 6  Remove from oven, drizzle with the vinegar. 7  Add salt& pepper.
2 Line a roasting pan with foil (or silpat). Arrange the asparagus spears in a single layer on the lined roasting pan. Drizzle with olive oil and rub the spears all over with the olive oil to coat. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and minced garlic, and rub over the asparagus spears to evenly distribute.