Radio Frequency, or RF, is the mode of communication that is used by most radio devices, from deep space communication networks to cell phones. CB radios use RF transceivers. Some TV remote controls use RF. Cordless phones use RF. A standard radio is the most obvious receiver of radio signals. RF is used to send signals to remote control toys. Wireless routers use RF technology. 
RF average power. The most obvious way to measure power is to look at the average power. This is defined as the energy transfer rate average over many periods of the RF waveform. The simplest waveform to measure is a continuous wave (CW). As the signal is a single frequency steady state waveform, the average power is obvious. RF pulse power or peak power. In a number of applications, it is necessary to measure the power of a pulse of energy. If this were averaged over a long period of time, it would not represent the power of the pulse. In order to measure the power of the pulse itself, a method of defined exactly what must be measured.
Summary. Of all the forms of RF power measurement, the average power is the most widely used. It is the most convenient to make, and often expressed the value that needs to be known. However pulse power, sometimes referred to as peak power, and also the peak envelope power also need to be known on many occasions. RF pulse power or peak power. In a number of applications, it is necessary to measure the power of a pulse of energy. If this were averaged over a long period of time, it would not represent the power of the pulse. In order to measure the power of the pulse itself, a method of defined exactly what must be measured.
Although radio frequency is a rate of oscillation, the term radio frequency or its abbreviation RF are used as a synonym for radio – i.e., to describe the use of wireless communication, as opposed to communication via electric wires. Examples include: 1  Radio-frequency identification. 1 The energy in an RF current can radiate off a conductor into space as electromagnetic waves (radio waves); this is the basis of radio technology.
Introduction. This document defines radio frequency (RF) power levels and the most common measure, the decibel (dB). This information can be very useful when you troubleshoot intermittent connectivity
RF and microwave power measurement and RF and microwave power meters are important elements within the RF and microwave design arena. The output power level of many RF and microwave amplifiers is a critical parameter in the design. There are two main types of RF power meter that are used: 1  Through-line RF power meters: These RF power meters take a sample of the power flowing along a feed-line and use this to indicate the power level.
Applications [edit]. The basic applications of the RF power amplifier include driving to another high power source, driving a transmitting antenna and exciting microwave cavity resonators. Among these applications, driving transmitter antennas is most well known. Tubes are still used for exceptionally high-power transmissions (see Valve RF amplifier). Many modern RF amplifiers of over 1000 Watts are solid state using various classes, class A (in various forms, Class AB, AB1, etc.), class B, class C and class E.
For other uses, see RF (disambiguation) . Radio frequency (RF): any of the electromagnetic wave frequencies that lie in the range extending from around 7003300000000000000♠3 kHz to 7011300000000000000♠300 GHz, which include those frequencies used for communications or radar signals. 1 The energy in an RF current can radiate off a conductor into space as electromagnetic waves (radio waves); this is the basis of radio technology.
As a result it is often necessary to measure the RF power level to ascertain the performance of the item under test. As a result RF power meters are widely used and RF power measurement techniques are important for any RF design engineer. There are two main types of RF power meter that are used: 1  Through-line RF power meters: These RF power meters take a sample of the power flowing along a feed-line and use this to indicate the power level.