The large map above displays a wide area around the London Neighbourhood of Sidcup and all the Tourist and Visitor Attractions, Event Venues, Hotels in our database and any other. User Help. If you click on any of the Sidcup map icons a bubble will open with summary information about the location and if you click on the link within the bubble you will be taken to the detail of that location in Sidcup where you will find much more information.
Welcome to the Sidcup google satellite map! This place is situated in Bexley, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 25' 0 North, 0° 70' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Sidcup. See Sidcup photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Sidcup in United Kingdom. Sidcup hotels map is available on the target page linked above. Sidcup hotels map. The location of each Sidcup hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Sidcup hotel map is available where all hotels in Sidcup are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Sidcup High Street is the local High Street, while there are some shops and local businesses on the adjacent Station Road. Sidcup High Street was recently the subject of a £1.8 million regeneration scheme In Store For Sidcup paid for by London Borough of Bexley. The station was built 1 mile (1.6 km) north of Sidcup town centre in the parish of Lamorbey. Sidcup station serves the area with services to London Charing Cross, London Cannon Street as part of a loop service operating via both Lewisham and Woolwich Arsenal, and a service to Gravesend.
We can list Doreen Bird's school of Dance, Erith Playhouse and Rose Bruford as some of our clients. Kent County Auctions is a professionally run business based in Sidcup Kent. We have years of experience in the antiques and collectables field. If you are a school or company that require something specific for a production we offer a rental service on goods. Kent County Auctions is a professionally run business based in Sidcup Kent. We have years of experience in the antiques and collectables field.
Bexley is an area of south-east London, England and part of the London Borough of Bexley. It is located 13 miles (21 km) east-southeast of Charing Cross. It was an ancient parish in the county of Kent. As part of the suburban growth of London in the 20th century, Bexley increased in population, becoming a municipal borough in 1935 and has formed part of Greater London since 1965.
Selco building supplies in Sidcup has extended opening hours from 6.30am to 8pm weekdays, Saturday 8am to 4pm and Sunday 10am to 4pm. Selco prides itself on being highly competitive and carries out regular competitor price checks across its wide range of quality brands. We guarantee availability, price and service. More About Selco Sidcup. Home to our leading brand of builders’ merchant, London provides the perfect setting for one of our biggest warehouses. Having started out in 1895, we have become a leading supplier of quality trade brands at genuine trade prices.
Sidcup parish formed the Sidcup Urban District of Kent from 1908. It was initially known as Foots Cray; however, in 1921 the urban district, and in 1925 the parish, were renamed Sidcup. The station was built 1 mile (1.6 km) north of Sidcup town centre in the parish of Lamorbey. Sidcup station serves the area with services to London Charing Cross, London Cannon Street as part of a loop service operating via both Lewisham and Woolwich Arsenal, and a service to Gravesend.
Sidcup is a suburban district of south-east London, England, in the London Borough of Bexley. Located 11.3 miles (18.2 km) south east of Charing Cross, it borders the London Boroughs of Bromley and Greenwich. The station was built 1 mile (1.6 km) north of Sidcup town centre in the parish of Lamorbey. Sidcup station serves the area with services to London Charing Cross, London Cannon Street as part of a loop service operating via both Lewisham and Woolwich Arsenal, and a service to Gravesend.