The current world record Alligator gar was caught for over half a century ago. It weighed 279 pounds (126.55 kilograms) and was caught in Rio Grande in 1951. Rio Grande is a 3034 kilometres long river shared by Mexico and the United States. If you want to catch a world record Alligator gar, it is important that you update yourself regarding the current rules since your huge Alligator gar might otherwise become disqualified. The same is true regarding state records.
The Alligator gar is the biggest species of gar, so the world record Alligator gar is also the world record gar. It is not uncommon for an average Alligator gar to reach a length off 7-8 feet (2.1-2.4 metres) and a weight around 100-120 pounds (45-54 kilograms). If you want to catch a world record Alligator gar, it is important that you update yourself regarding the current rules since your huge Alligator gar might otherwise become disqualified. The same is true regarding state records.
The Texas state record, and world record for the largest alligator gar caught on rod and reel is 279 lb (127 kg), taken by Bill Valverde on January 1, 1951 on the Rio Grande in Texas. Alligator gars are also quite popular among bowfishers because of their large size, trophy potential, and fighting ability. Alligator gars are the largest species of gar, and among the largest freshwater fishes found in North America. Mature alligator gars commonly measure 6 ft (1.8 m) in length, and weigh over 100 lbs. (45 kg). However, anecdotal reports suggest they can grow up to 10 ft (3m) in length, and weigh as much as 350 lbs
Paul Easley poses with alligator gar; photo via the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation. An Oklahoma angler has landed the largest fish ever caught in the state: a 254-pound alligator gar that measured 8 feet and boasted a 44-inch girth. Paul Easley snagged the primitive-looking fish this week on Lake Texoma, and released the behemoth after obtaining a weight and measurement. “Snagged from Lake Texoma, this 8 ft. alligator gar weighed 254 pounds with a girth of 44 inches and is the largest fish ever caught in Oklahoma waters. Not only is this a massive fish, but it is also a very special and unique fish. Alligator gar are long-lived with only periodic spawning opportunities.”.
Facebook 0 Twitter 0 livefyre Email Print. A frame from a video of the 327-pound alligator gar recently caught in Vicksburg, Mississippi. What a Valentine's Day catch! Looking for all the world like the cross between an alligator, a fish and dinosaur, the alligator gar is the largest freshwater fish in America. And with two rows of teeth, the predatory fish is also terrifying. In scientific literature, there was a report from 1963 of a 302-pound alligator gar, MDWFP 's Dennis Riecke said. Williams' fish is definitely the largest since that time, and is certainly the largest recorded in Mississippi,
The fossil record traces the existence of alligator gars back to the Early Cretaceous over a hundred million years ago. They are the largest in the gar family, and among the largest freshwater fishes in North America. Alligator gars are the largest species of gar, and among the largest freshwater fishes found in North America. Mature alligator gars commonly measure 6 ft (1.8 m) in length, and weigh over 100 lbs. (45 kg). However, anecdotal reports suggest they can grow up to 10 ft (3m) in length, and weigh as much as 350 lbs
The world record alligator gar that was caught in Rio Grande is actually not the largest Alligator gar ever caught; it is just the largest Alligator gar that has been eligible for the world rod and reel record. If you want to catch a world record Alligator gar, it is important that you update yourself regarding the current rules since your huge Alligator gar might otherwise become disqualified. The same is true regarding state records.
They can weigh over 250 lbs and can survive up to two hours above water. The gator is the largest species of gar, and is the largest exclusively freshwater fish in North America. It can be as long as eight to ten feet, and the current world record for the largest alligator gar caught on rod and reel is 279lb 0oz. The largest taken by Bowfishing is 365lb. The gar thrives in the Mississippi river basin, from Southern Ohio and Illinois to the Gulf of Mexico. Mostly found in the freshwater bodies of Texas, Alabama, Louisiana, and Arkansas, the alligator gar is a distinctively Southern fish. As with many things, the biggest are generally found in Texas.
1 Alligator Gar Size-World record on rod and reel is 279 pounds but they get bigger-some have been reported up to 350 pounds and 10 feet long. 2  Most caught by fishermen and bow fishermen now is around 100 pounds. 1 Their teeth are sharp and protrude on either side of their bill-like mouth. 2  Alligator Gar Size-World record on rod and reel is 279 pounds but they get bigger-some have been reported up to 350 pounds and 10 feet long. 3