Your body makes its own fat from taking in excess calories. Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body. Fat is essential to your health because it supports a number of your body's functions. Some vitamins, for instance, must have fat to dissolve and nourish your body. 1 Polyunsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found mostly in plant-based foods and oils. 3  Evidence shows that eating foods rich in polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease. 4  PUFAs may also help decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes. 5  Omega-3 fatty acids.
Fats, or lipids, are the third main class of the macronutrients needed in human nutrition. The lipids are found primarily in meats and dairy foods, at least, these are the most visible sources, but most foods contain some fat. Some of the richer vegetable sources of dietary fat are nuts and seeds, soybeans, olives, peanuts, and avocados, and these contain the needed or essential fatty acids (EFAs). Fats are an important component of our diet, and at least a minimum intake is essential.
Foods Containing Sterols. Sterols, a subdivision of steroids, are a class of lipids that include plant compounds as well as cholesterol, which is only found in animal food sources. Sterols are important in the formation of cell membranes. These fats are found mainly in animal foods such as beef, pork, lamb, butter, milk and cheeses. Certain plant sources, such as coconut, coconut oil, cocoa butter and palm oil, also contain saturated fat. Harvard School of Public Health has ranked the top sources of saturated fat in the American diet.
Foods from animal sources that are rich in saturated fats include beef, beef fat, veal, lamb, pork, lard, poultry fat, butter, cream, milk, cheeses and other dairy products made from whole and 2 percent milk. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. 1 Fat adds flavor and taste to foods and gives you satiety value. 2  Fats are an important source of calories and nutrients especially for infants and toddlers. 3  Fats are known as triglycerides, both in food and in the body and they are the storage and transport form of fats.
From a nutritional standpoint, saturated fats have been linked to heart disease. Food sources of saturated fats include butter, dairy products, meats and other animal products. Unsaturated fats contain fatty acids with double-bonds in their carbon chains. There are a couple of other types of fats that are worth considering. Cholesterol is a type of fat obtained from animal products that gets a lot of attention due to the fact that it too is linked to an increased risk of heart disease. Food sources of cholesterol include meat, eggs and cheese.
Polyunsaturated fats can be further broken down into omega-6 and omega-3 fats. Sources of omega-3 polyunsaturated fats include soybean oil, canola oil, flaxseed, walnuts and fatty fish, such as salmon, trout and herring. These fats are found mainly in animal foods such as beef, pork, lamb, butter, milk and cheeses. Certain plant sources, such as coconut, coconut oil, cocoa butter and palm oil, also contain saturated fat. Harvard School of Public Health has ranked the top sources of saturated fat in the American diet.
Food sources of saturated fats include butter, dairy products, meats and other animal products. Sources of cholesterol include meat, eggs and cheese. Food sources of trans fats include margarine, cookies, fried fast foods and many packaged snack foods. There are also fats that can benefit your health. Unsaturated fats tend to be liquid at room temperature and are associated with a lower risk of heart disease. There are a couple of other types of fats that are worth considering. Cholesterol is a type of fat obtained from animal products that gets a lot of attention due to the fact that it too is linked to an increased risk of heart disease. Food sources of cholesterol include meat, eggs and cheese.