The Hydrogen Fusion Process. In the basic Hydrogen fusion cycle, four Hydrogen nuclei (protons) come together to make a Helium nucleus. This is the simple version of the story. There are actually electrons, neutrinos and photons involved that make the fusion of Hydrogen into Helium possible. 
The process by which stars use hydrogen is known as fusion. Fusion is the process by which two or more small atoms are pushed together to make one large atom. In most stars, the primary fusion reaction that occurs is: This equation shows that four hydrogen atoms are squeezed together (fused) to make one helium atom. 
Stars are fusion engines, and they are powered primarily by fusing the element hydrogen into the element helium (the first and second most abundant elements in the universe, respectively). This process sometimes goes under the name proton-proton reaction. As stars exhaust their hydrogen fuel and build up a lot of helium, they begin to fuse the helium together to form the element carbon in what is called the triple-alpha process. Links are provided to the relevant Wikipedia articles. The threshold temperature of hydrogen fusion (sometimes called a proton-proton reaction) is on the order of 10,000,000 K to 14,000,000 K or 10 to 14 million degrees Kelvin.
It's fundamentally different because hydrogen fusion is a nuclear reaction (i.e. the process pertains to modifications to the atomic nuclei) as opposed to a chemical reaction, which involves modifications to the atomic electron clouds. This process is sometimes called “hydrogen burning”. Whoever is calling a hydrogen fusion reaction, that, needs to be shot.
Fusion is the process which powers the sun and the stars. It is energy that makes all life on earth possible. It is called 'fusion' because the energy is produced by fusing together light atoms, such as hydrogen, at the extremely high pressures and temperatures which exist at the centre of the sun (15 million ºC). 
Hydrogen is the simplest element known to man. Each atom of hydrogen has only one proton and one electron. It is also the most plentiful gas in the universe. Stars are made primarily of hydrogen.Like all stars, our sun’s energy comes from hydrogen. The sun is a giant ball of hydrogen and helium gases. Inside the sun, hydrogen atoms combine to form helium atoms. This process, called fusion, gives off radiant energy .This radiant energy sustains life on Earth. It gives us light and makes plants grow
The fusion bomb relies on the fusion of light isotopes … (usually of hydrogen and sometimes helium) to create a large amount of its energy. This is different from fission bombs, that release energy by inducing a neutron chain reaction to split large atoms in metals like Uranium 235 and Plutonium 329. The threshold temperature of hydrogen fusion (sometimes called a proton-proton reaction) is on the order of 10,000,000 K to 14,000,000 K or 10 to 14 million degrees Kelvin. Blazing hot! But the threshold temperature for helium fusion is on the order of 100,000,000 K or 100 million degrees Kelvin! Wow!
Helium smooshing is harder, and it can only occur under conditions of higher energy-higher temperatures.   The threshold temperature of hydrogen fusion (sometimes called a proton-proton reaction) is on the order of 10,000,000 K to 14,000,000 K or 10 to 14 million degrees Kelvin. Blazing hot! But the threshold temperature for helium fusion is on the order of 100,000,000 K or 100 million degrees Kelvin! Wow!
Fusion is the process that powers the sun and the stars. It is the reaction in which two atoms of hydrogen combine together, or fuse, to form an atom of helium. In the process some of the mass of the hydrogen is converted into energy. The easiest fusion reaction to make happen is combining deuterium (or heavy hydrogen) with tritium (or heavy-heavy hydrogen) to make helium and a neutron. Deuterium is plentifully available in ordinary water.