For example, if you require 2,000 calories per day for healthy weight maintenance you should consume 28 grams of fiber each day, and if you need 3,000 calories you should eat 42 grams of fiber every day. It is ideal to get your fiber from a well-balanced diet containing plenty of fiber-rich foods. Foods high in fiber include whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds. If you’re constipated or unable to meet your fiber requirements from food, ask your doctor about taking a fiber supplement made from psyllium husks or seeds.
For example, eat 38 grams of fiber each day if you’re a man ages 19 to 50, 30 grams per day if you’re a man age 50 or older, 25 grams if you’re a woman ages 19 to 50, 21 grams if you’re a woman age 50 or older, 28 grams if you’re pregnant and at least 29 grams of fiber each day if you’re breastfeeding. Foods high in fiber include whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds. If you’re constipated or unable to meet your fiber requirements from food, ask your doctor about taking a fiber supplement made from psyllium husks or seeds.
1 High-fiber foods tend to be more filling than low-fiber foods, so you're likely to eat less and stay satisfied longer. 2  And high-fiber foods tend to take longer to eat and to be less energy dense, which means they have fewer calories for the same volume of food. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium.
Learn which healthy swaps you should make to eat more fiber and slim down. You gotta love fiber. Not only does it keep your GI system running smoothly and your heart healthy, it also can keep you from outgrowing your pants. Yes, fiber is a well-known natural slimming aid. The recommended daily value for fiber is 25 grams of fiber per day. Of course, this is one nutrient for which more (from whole foods) is better. No need to slam back fiber-supplement drinks to get more. Instead, boost your intake by making simple trades that, at the end of the day, really add up.
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that carbohydrates make up 45 to 65 percent of your total daily calories. So, if you get 2,000 calories a day, between 900 and 1,300 calories should be from carbohydrates. That translates to between 225 and 325 grams of carbohydrates a day. You can find the carbohydrate content of packaged foods on the Nutrition Facts label. 
1 Aids in achieving healthy weight. 2  High-fiber foods tend to be more filling than low-fiber foods, so you're likely to eat less and stay satisfied longer. 3  And high-fiber foods tend to take longer to eat and to be less energy dense, which means they have fewer calories for the same volume of food. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium.
Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough. Women should get about 25 grams a day and men at least 35 to 40, but the average person gets just 15 grams a day. Eating fiber-rich whole foodsnot foods that tout added fiberis the best way to increase your fiber intake, says Carolyn Brown, RD, a nutritionist at Foodtrainers, in New York City.
A: The amount you need is tied to the number of calories you eat in a day. For healthy adults, the USDA recommends 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 calories consumed. So a person eating 2,000 calories a day should aim to get 28 grams of fiber daily. Keep in mind, though, that its all a matter of proportion. If you eat half an apple and a whole pizza, the amount of fiber in the apple is not up to the task of scrubbing out all the fat from the pizza.
The average adult only eats 15 grams of fiber per day. Women need 25 grams of fiber per day, and men need 38 grams per day, according to the Institute of Medicine. Eating more plant foods -- vegetables, beans, fruit, whole grains, and nuts -- is the best way and is one of the major recommendations from the U.S. government's 2010 Dietary Guidelines. The Dietary Guidelines recommend at least half your grains be whole grains, but with all of the whole grain options available now, it's easy to do even better than that. Whole foods are the preferred way to get fiber, because they also give you nutrients your body needs. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3.