Examples of base-pair substitutions: purine substituted with a different purine (A → G) or a pyrimidine for a different pyrimidine (C → T). This type of substitution mutation is transition. Another kind is transversion, which is less common. In transversion, purine is substituted with pyrimidine or a pyrimidine with a purine. See also: point mutation. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 16 October 2008, at 00:53.This page has been accessed 109,894 times.
A substitution is a mutation that exchanges one base for another (i.e., a change in a single chemical letter such as switching an A to a G). Such a substitution could: 1  change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2  For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced.
Substitution. A substitution is a mutation that exchanges one base for another (i.e., a change in a single chemical letter such as switching an A to a G). Such a substitution could: 1  change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 1 change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2  For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid
A point mutation, or single base modification, is a type of mutation that causes a single nucleotide base change, insertion, or deletion of the genetic material, DNA or RNA. The term frameshift mutation indicates the addition or deletion of a base pair. 
1 For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. 2  change a codon to one that encodes the same amino acid and causes no change in the protein produced. 3  These are called silent mutations. Such a substitution could: 1  change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2 
Substitution mutation. Definition. A type of point mutation in which a single nucleotide is substituted with (or exchanged for) a different nucleotide that may result in an altered sequence of amino acid during translation, which may render the newly synthesized protein ineffective. Supplement. In transversion, purine is substituted with pyrimidine or a pyrimidine with a purine. See also: point mutation. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 16 October 2008, at 00:53.This page has been accessed 109,894 times.
1 change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2  For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. Such a substitution could: 1 
Substitution is a type of mutation where one base pair is replaced by a different base pair. The term also refers to the replacement of one amino acid in a protein with a different amino acid. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute. In genetics, a type of mutation due to replacement of one nucleotide in a DNA sequence by another nucleotide or replacement of one amino acid in a protein by another amino acid. Definition from: Human Genome Project Information at the U.S. Department of Energy.
Definition of POINT MUTATION. : a gene mutation involving the substitution, addition, or deletion of a single nucleotide base. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : a gene mutation involving the substitution, addition, or deletion of a single nucleotide base. ADVERTISEMENT