All states license registered nurses, and in all states, they are referred to by the same title: Registered Nurse or RN. First time RN licensing is referred to as license by examination; candidates take the board exam after they have completed their registered nursing educational requirements. Some issue temporary permits to candidates who are waiting to take the NCLEX and receive exam results. Some allow them to work for a short period under supervision as graduate nurses. Some states will not allow them to work as registered nurses until the NCLEX is passed and the RN license issued.
Get a Nursing License. Tell me how to become a: 1  Registered Nurse (RN) -. 2  s go to college for 2-4 years and independently perform a wide range of complex health care in many types of settings. 3  Qualified.
1 Registered Nurse (RN) -. 2  s go to college for 2-4 years and independently perform a wide range of complex health care in many types of settings. 3  Qualified. 4  s may overlap the practice of medicine and perform more advanced activities such as in the case of nurse practitioners, nurse midwives, or nurse anesthetists. Tell me how to become a: 1 
The Board of Nursing is no longer issuing a paper copy of a license. You can print a verification of your license status 24/7 through the on-line verification system. The on-line verification provides the most up-to-date record of license status changes. You must verify that you have completed the process as instructed. Your license entitles you to work under a specific scope of practice. If you choose to work at a lower level of licensure, you must apply for and have an active license for that level. You must also meet the requirements for work hours and continuing education for that level of licensure.
Licensure QuickConfirm allows the public to quickly see the status of a license and any associated discipline information it may have. Nurse License Verification is the official process of requesting a license verification to be sent to the state board of nursing for the purpose of getting a new license in that state. I hold licenses in more than one Nursys participating board of nursing. No. The $30.00 fee covers all licenses you hold/held from a participting board of nursing of the same license type. For example, let's say you are requesting verification of your Idaho RN be sent to Arizona.
An RN holds a license in only one compact state at a time. The RN is allowed to work in other compact states on the basis of a multi-state license issued in their own home state. Some issue temporary permits to candidates who are waiting to take the NCLEX and receive exam results. Some allow them to work for a short period under supervision as graduate nurses. Some states will not allow them to work as registered nurses until the NCLEX is passed and the RN license issued.
Endorsement is using your active license in another state, or board approved exam scores, to obtain a license in Florida. It is not the same as reciprocity. Reciprocity indicates Florida honors other state licenses and you would be allowed to work in Florida without obtaining a Florida License. You as the applicant are responsible for requesting licensure verification. The license verification form included in the application is intended to be mailed to states that do not verify licenses through www.Nursys.com (electronic verification).
When a registered nurse is already licensed in one U.S. jurisdiction and seeks licensure in another, the process is generally referred to as licensure by endorsement. 1  Find RN Licensing Requirements in Your State. Some issue temporary permits to candidates who are waiting to take the NCLEX and receive exam results. Some allow them to work for a short period under supervision as graduate nurses. Some states will not allow them to work as registered nurses until the NCLEX is passed and the RN license issued.
If your license is suspended, you should receive information from your state's nursing board on what it will take to get it reinstated again. Depending on the situation, you may need to turn to legal counseling to discuss your options and how to make a living in the meantime while you get your license reinstated. 
RN License by Endorsement. A nurse whose license is in good standing and who has been actively practicing can get a license in another state without repeating steps they has taken – at least not the major ones like education and board examination. Some issue temporary permits to candidates who are waiting to take the NCLEX and receive exam results. Some allow them to work for a short period under supervision as graduate nurses. Some states will not allow them to work as registered nurses until the NCLEX is passed and the RN license issued.