Shiraz is a popular type of red wine. Get tips on what aromas to look for in tasting shiraz wine with this free wine tasting video. Expert: Jane Nickles. Bio: Jane Nickles is the author of Wine Speak 101, and wine writer for The Texas Wine and Food Gourmet, and Eat and Drink Magazine. 
DNA profiling in 1999 found Syrah to be the offspring of two obscure grapes from southeastern France, Dureza and Mondeuse blanche. Syrah should not be confused with Petite Sirah, a synonym for Durif, a cross of Syrah with Peloursin dating from 1880. Wines made from Syrah are often powerfully flavoured and full-bodied. The variety produces wines with a wide range of flavor notes, depending on the climate and soils where it is grown, as well as other viticultural practices chosen.
Syrah wine is made from the juice of the Shiraz grape, also known as the Syrah grape. Native to France, the Syrah grape is grown in Spain, the U.S., Italy, South Africa, Italy … and elsewhere. Called Shiraz in Australia, the wine has become enormously popular internationally. Therefore, wine from the grape is usually now marketed as Shiraz.
Syrah continues to be the main grape of the northern Rhone rhône and is associated with classic wines such As, Hermitage cornas And-Cote. Côte rotie rôtie In, the southern rhone rhône it is used as a blending grape In-such-Wines, As chateauneuf Châteauneuf du Pape, gigondas And cotes côtes du rhone rhône where grenache usually. makes up the bulk of the blend Wines made from Syrah are often powerfully flavoured and full-bodied. The variety produces wines with a wide range of flavor notes, depending on the climate and soils where it is grown, as well as other viticultural practices chosen.
Posted in Tags: if you like this try these red wine grapes shiraz syrah. Shiraz, or Syrah as it is also known, is one of the most popular red wine grapes in the world. It delivers a heavyweight red wine packed with characteristics of pepper and spice. The grape is known as Shiraz in Australia. Australian Shiraz is robust and powerful, full of black fruit and with a velvety smooth finish. Shiraz is the grape in Australia’s most iconic red wine, Penfolds Grange and it features in many of the country’s other premium red wines. France is the other major producer of red wines made from this grape. In France it is known as Syrah and makes some of the wonderfully big reds of the northern region of the Rhone Valley. Hermitage red wines, one of the most famous and respected appellations in France, are made almost entirely from Syrah grapes.
Shiraz is known as the city of poets, literature, wine and flowers. It is also considered by many Iranians to be the city of gardens, due to the many gardens and fruit trees that can be seen in the city. Shiraz has had major Jewish and Christian communities. 
In France, where the grape has been cultivated since Roman times, it’s Syrah, appearing most frequently in wines from the Rhone region. In Australia, where it is thought to have been introduced in 1832, the nation’s signature grape is known as Shiraz. Much of the difference between Syrah and Shiraz comes down to climate. In the Northern Rhone, the varietal makes big, rich wines with drying tannins and black fruit. Notably age-worthy, particularly in the regions of Hermitage and Cote Côte, Rotie rôtie syrah develops secondary, earthy flavors such. as tobacco
Syrah is the red wine grape that rules the Northern Rhone Valley. While Syrah is planted all over the world, at close to 70,000 hectares, more Syrah is planted in France, than in any other country. Syrah is the only red grape allowed by AOC rules in the appellations of Cote Rotie and Hermitage. 
The Taste of Syrah Wine. Syrah is responsible for some of the darkest full-bodied red wines in the world. It has dark fruit flavors from sweet blueberry to savory black olive. When you taste Syrah you’ll be greeted with a punch of flavor that tapers off and then has a spicy peppery note in the aftertaste.
Syrah is used as a varietal and is also blended. Following several years of strong planting, Syrah was estimated in 2004 to be the world's 7th most grown grape at 142,600 hectares (352,000 acres). Wines made from Syrah are often powerfully flavoured and full-bodied. The variety produces wines with a wide range of flavor notes, depending on the climate and soils where it is grown, as well as other viticultural practices chosen.