In Czech Luna is a word for moon used in poetry. As a name it's really rare, but I like it because I love the goddess of moon, more Greek Selene but Roman Luna is good too. -- janabuchtova 9/17/2008. I wouldn't name my daughter this because every time I see this name it reminds me of Harry Potter.
The Elements of Harmony guidebook states that Luna's original name was Selena and shows development and concept art of the then-named Princess Selena/Night Mare; these names are used in a Friendship is Magic storybook. 1,587 pages on this wiki. Princess Luna, known as Nightmare Moon or Night Mare Moon when transformed or under certain other circumstances, is an Alicorn pony, the younger sister of Princess Celestia, and the main antagonist of the season one premiere of My Little Pony Friendship is Magic as Nightmare Moon.
I can't believe no one's posted this yet, but Luna Lovegood is in J.K. Rowling's famous Harry Potter.. -- feeniksteers 12/29/2005. As mentioned before, Luna Lovegood of Ravenclaw bears this enchanting name. Since Luna originated from lune, the moon, it has been derived as a spacey, yet intelligent name. As a name it's really rare, but I like it because I love the goddess of moon, more Greek Selene but Roman Luna is good too. -- janabuchtova 9/17/2008. I wouldn't name my daughter this because every time I see this name it reminds me of
Luna /ˈluːnə/ is an Italian and Spanish given name of Latin origin meaning Moon. It is also found as a surname, sometimes with a prefix, for example, de Luna or Deluna. 1 Julian Luna, the vampire prince in the TV show Kindred: The Embraced. 2  Luna, the given nickname of fem-72-batch-19Y in TV series Luna. 3  Luna in the Incarnations of Immortality novel series by Piers Anthony. 4  Luna, a character in the visual novel Zero Escape: Virtue's Last Reward.
Luna attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1992 to 1999 and was sorted into Ravenclaw house. In her fourth year, Luna joined Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter, of which she became an important member. Luna's first wand. 1  Wand: Luna Lovegood's first wand was of unknown length, wood, and core material. 2  This wand she used through out her Hogwarts career, until she was captured and her wand confiscated by Death Eaters in the middle of her sixth year.
Luna is a Japanese name as well, although nothing related to the moon. (It is spelled Runa in Japanese but is pronounced as Luna so I use Luna.). From my background, Luna sounds beautiful and it doesn't have strong impression or meanings of the moon. As a name it's really rare, but I like it because I love the goddess of moon, more Greek Selene but Roman Luna is good too. -- janabuchtova 9/17/2008. I wouldn't name my daughter this because every time I see this name it reminds me of Harry Potter.
Recorded in the spellings of De Luna, Luna, and Luno, this is an Italian and Spanish surname, but of Roman (Latin) origins. The first recording in California may be that of Francisco Bernard Luna, who married Esperanza Castro at San Bernardino, on May 12th 1888. The coat of arms has the blazon of a gold field, charged with a blue saltire, indicating one who suffered for his faith.
How popular is Luna? Luna is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#2859 out of 4276, Top 67%) and an even more prominent last name for both adults and children (#378 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Luna for girls. Luna reached its top rank of #143 in the U.S. in the year 2014. 
In Latin, our satellite's name is Luna.. Because a significant chunk of English comes from Latin, many terms associated with the moon are related to this Latin name — for example, the adjective lunar, and the noun lunatic, an old-fashioned word for a mentally ill person. 
However a more likely explanation for most nameholders is that they originate from one of the villages called 'Luna' in both Italy and Spain, and particularly 'Luna' in the Spanish province of Saragossa. This village is believed to have received its name because it was in an exposed place, but this is not proven. The first recording in California may be that of Francisco Bernard Luna, who married Esperanza Castro at San Bernardino, on May 12th 1888. The coat of arms has the blazon of a gold field, charged with a blue saltire, indicating one who suffered for his faith.