Deficiency in vitamin B. Vitamin B deficiencies can cause a wide range of symptoms, including anemias, depending upon which specific vitamin B is deficient. Excess syndromes are not usually a problem as B Vitamins are water soluble, and usually pass safely out of the body. Vitamin B1 (thiamin) is integral in the metabolism of carbohydrates into energy, and for normal nerve and heart function. Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) helps to metabolize carbohydrates and amino acids, and nourishes mucous membranes.
Fat soluble vitamins include vitamins A, D, E and K. Water soluble vitamins include vitamin C, thiamin (B1), niacin (B3), riboflavin (B2), pantothenic acid, biotin, pyridoxine (B6), vitamin B12 and folate. Vitamins are a group of substances that are essential for overall health, normal cell function, growth and development. There are 13 vitamins that are essential for body function. Because these vitamins are so vital to good health, it is important to understand their roles and functions. All essential vitamins can be found in food sources as well as supplemented in various forms
Vitamin B, or the B complex, is comprised of several vitamins. The name originates from the fact that, at one point, it was believed to be a single vitamin such as vitamin E. Vitamin B is actually a complex of unique vitamins often found in the same foods. Vitamin B1 (thiamin) is integral in the metabolism of carbohydrates into energy, and for normal nerve and heart function. Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) helps to metabolize carbohydrates and amino acids, and nourishes mucous membranes.
B vitamin supplement tablets. B vitamins are a class of water-soluble vitamins that play important roles in cell metabolism. Though these vitamins share similar names, research shows that they are chemically distinct vitamins that often coexist in the same foods. In general, supplements containing all eight are referred to as a vitamin B complex. Individual B vitamin supplements are referred to by the specific name of each vitamin (e.g., B 1, B 2, B 3 etc.).
vitamin. Anti-depressants, as do all medications, interfere with the body's normal functioning, which includes absorption of certain nutrients. B vitamins are also essential co-factors for producing the neuro-transmitters the Lexapro is acting on, so they should aid its functioning without increasing its functioning. Read More. Doesn't cost a bit more unless you're taking vitamins that aren't well assimilated or have too little in them to be worth anything, such as a one a day, given the fact the body doesn't absorb vitamins nearly as well as food.
Vitamin B complex is the name given to a supplement that combines many of the essential Vitamin B vitamins in one formula. In general, it helps with body metabolism and maintenance of a healthy nervous system. The Vitamin B complex may be helpful for anyone whose diet is low in vitamin B or people who want to make sure they are receiving their daily vitamin requirements for optimal health and energy. Features. Vitamin B complex is made from the following eight Vitamin B vitamins: thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), cyanocobalamin (B12), folic acid (B7) and biotin (B9).
Because water-soluble B vitamins are eliminated in the urine, taking large doses of certain B vitamins usually only produces transient side-effects. General side effects may include restlessness, nausea and insomnia. These side-effects are almost always caused by dietary supplements and not foodstuffs. Individual B vitamin supplements are referred to by the specific name of each vitamin (e.g., B 1, B 2, B 3 etc.).
Vitamin B complex is the name given to a group of water-soluble vitamins necessary for health. Originally, it was believed that all varieties of Vitamin B were just simply Vitamin B, but after careful study, the difference between each variety of vitamin was found and the the vitamins were given different numbers. Features. Vitamin B complex is made from the following eight Vitamin B vitamins: thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), cyanocobalamin (B12), folic acid (B7) and biotin (B9).
Each vitamin is typically used in multiple reactions, and, therefore, most have multiple functions. Vitamins are classified as either water-soluble or fat-soluble. In humans there are 13 vitamins: 4 fat-soluble (A, D, E, and K) and 9 water-soluble (8 B vitamins and vitamin C).