A Roth IRA differs from a traditional IRA in that contributions are not deductible and qualified distributions are not included in income. For information on contributions and the limitations, please refer to Publication 590-A (PDF), Contributions to Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) . A Roth Individual Retirement Arrangement (IRA) is a tax-favored account or annuity set up in the United States solely for the benefit of you or your beneficiaries. You can contribute to a Roth IRA if you have taxable compensation and your modified adjusted gross income is within certain limitations
IRA or Roth IRA-Excess Contributions. If your total IRA contributions (both Traditional and Roth combined) are greater than the allowed amount for the year in your situation, and you have not withdrawn the excess contributions, you must complete Form 5329 to calculate a 6% penalty tax on the excess contribution. In general, if the excess contributions for a year are not withdrawn by the date your return for the year is due (including extensions), you are subject to a 6% tax. You must pay the 6% tax each year on excess amounts that remain in your traditional IRA at the end of your tax year.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. 
In contrast to a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. Withdrawals are generally tax-free, but not always and not without certain stipulations (i.e., tax-free for principal withdrawals and the owner's age must be at least 59½ for tax-free withdrawals on the growth portion above principal). 1 Direct contributions to a Roth IRA (principal) may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free at any time. 2  Earnings may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free after 5 years if the condition of age 59½ (or other qualifying condition) is also met.
Tax on Excess Contributions. In general, if the excess contributions for a year are not withdrawn by the date your return for the year is due (including extensions), you are subject to a 6% tax. You must pay the 6% tax each year on excess amounts that remain in your traditional IRA at the end of your tax year.
Roth IRAs: 1  Roth contributions (but not earnings) can be withdrawn penalty-and tax-free any time, even before age 59 ½. 2  five tax years after the first contribution, you can withdraw up to $10,000 of Roth earnings penalty-free to pay for qualified first-time homebuyer expenses. That’s because it determines whether the tax rate you pay on your Roth IRA contributions (today’s tax rate) is higher or lower than what you’d pay on your traditional IRA’s withdrawals in retirement. Of course, it’s hard to predict what federal and state tax rates will be 10, 20 or even 40 years from now.
The only catch is that you pay income tax on your contributions upfront. Unlike the traditional IRA, which gives investors a tax deduction for the year the contribution is made, the Roth version lets savers contribute after-tax money today and withdraw principal and earnings tax-free at retirement. 
Roth IRA contributions are not taxed at the time you contribute the funds to your Roth IRA. However, your contributions come from post-tax income. You pay taxes on your income today, but not in the future. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged. Withdrawals of contributions are tax-free.