Definition of CILIUM. 1. : a minute short hairlike process often forming part of a fringe; especially: one on a cell that is capable of lashing movement and serves especially in free unicellular organisms to produce locomotion or in higher forms a current of fluid. 2. : eyelash. See cilium defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Cilia are similar to flagella in structure and function, but a cilium is shorter and moves differently. A ciliated cell usually has hundreds or thousands of cilia, which move in unison like little oars. Sometimes a cell will also use cilia to funnel food into an oral groove. A flagellum is a whip-like structure that allows a cell to move. They are found in all three domains of the living world: bacteria, archaea, and eukaryota. While all three types of flagella are used for locomotion, they are structurally very different.
Definition. noun, plural: cilia. (biology). Microscopic, hair-like projection on the surfaces of some cells and of certain organisms. (botany). Any of the hair forming a fringe along the margin or edge of a plant structure, e.g. of a leaf. (anatomy). The eyelash. 
Cilia and flagella are cell organelles that are structurally similar but are differentiated based on their function and/or length. Cilia are short and there are usually many (hundreds) cilia per cell. There two types of cilia-motile and non-motile or primary cilia. 1  Non-motile or primary cilia are found in nearly every cell in all mammals and as the name suggests these do not beat. 2  Motile cilia are found on the surface of cells and they beat in a rhythmic manner.
Cilia are slender, microscopic, hair-like structures or organelles that extend from the surface of nearly all mammalian cells (multiple or single). Source: Amelia Shoemark. ' Motile ' (or moving) cilia are found in the lungs, respiratory tract and middle ear. These cilia have a rhythmic waving or beating motion (see right). They work, for instance, to keep the airways clear of mucus and dirt, allowing us to breathe easily and without irritation. They also help propel sperm
There are two types of cilia: motile cilia and non-motile, or primary cilia, which typically serve as sensory organelles. In eukaryotes, motile cilia and flagella together make up a group of organelles known as undulipodia. Eukaryotic cilia are structurally identical to Eukaryotic flagella, although distinctions are sometimes made according to function and/or length.
Cilia and Flagella Cilia and flagella are motile cellular appendages found in most microorganisms and animals, but not in higher plants. In multicellular organisms, cilia function to move a cell or group of cells or to help transport fluid or materials past them. The respiratory tract in humans is lined with cilia that keep inhaled dust, smog, and potentially harmful microorganisms from entering the lungs.
Larger eukaryotes, such as mammals, have motile cilia as well. Motile cilia are usually present on a cell's surface in large numbers and beat in coordinated waves. 1  In humans, for example, motile cilia are found in the lining of the trachea (windpipe), where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs. In eukaryotes, motile cilia and flagella together make up a group of organelles known as undulipodia. Eukaryotic cilia are structurally identical to Eukaryotic flagella, although distinctions are sometimes made according to function and/or length.
A cilium (plural cilia) is an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Cilia are slender protuberances that project from the much larger cell body. There are two types of cilia: 1  motile cilia, which beat against fluid outside the cell. 2  non-motile, or primary cilia, which typically serve as sensory organelles.