But otherwise, the question most groom's face is whether to rent or buy a tuxedo. Money is the main factor in your wedding formalwear decision. Renting will cost about 10% to 30% of the price of a new tuxedo, and tuxedo prices begin in the $300 to $500 range. If you attend three or four formal events per year, buying a tux may be worthwhile. Look at it as an investment -- you can wear it for years and it will never go out of style. 
Since the price to buy a tuxedo can be around $1,000 and tuxedo rentals run approximately $200 each, you'll get more for your money when you buy. There are, of course, other reasons to purchase when you step into a tuxedo store. For one thing, you'll probably have more choice in fabric, lapels, design or buttons. 
Pricing wedding venues and possible honeymoon locations can quickly become overwhelming. Consider into that a budget for the rental of a tuxedo. Tuxedo rentals can range dramatically, depending on the brand and the store at which you shop. In general, however, your tux won't cost nearly as much as the bride's dress. If you attend enough black-tie events so that it's no longer cost effective to repeatedly rent tuxedos, buying one is a smart approach. If you're on a tight budget, some stores rent the groom's tuxedo for free, provided his groomsmen pay for their tux rentals there.
10. Ask for a Package Deal. Try renting all the tuxedos needed for your wedding together to see if you can get a discount for multiple rentals. Ask if there are wedding packages for renting the groom’s, the groomsmen’s, and the fathers’ tuxedos. 
1 On the low end, tuxedo rentals start at about $50 to $100 for rental of a basic wool tuxedo and vest. 2  In the mid-range, a groom can buy a nice suit for between $300 and $800. Discounts: 1  When renting a tuxedo, the vest, tie shoes and shirt typically cost extra. 2  And, of course, if you buy a suit, you will need to buy a shirt, tie and cufflinks, which can add $100 or more to your cost. 3  The average groom spends $116 on accessories, according to the Bridal Association of America.
According to The Knot, new tuxedos typically cost between $300 and $500 to buy, and renting a tux costs 10 percent to 30 percent of this price. As such, you can expect to pay between $30 and $150 to rent your tux. At high-end shops, of course, these prices are higher. If you attend enough black-tie events so that it's no longer cost effective to repeatedly rent tuxedos, buying one is a smart approach. If you're on a tight budget, some stores rent the groom's tuxedo for free, provided his groomsmen pay for their tux rentals there.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: We are getting married in October, and the tuxes are going to be $117, including shoes. The weird thing is the tux for the ring bearer is the same cost as the adult ones to rent, but if we wanted to BUY the ring bearer tux it is $60. So his parents are going to buy it and then sell it at the used clothing store his mom runs. Source(s): bugaboo · 8 years ago. 
Tuxedo rentals are available in the majority of our Men's Wearhouse and Men's Wearhouse and Tux store locations. To find a store near you that features our Rental Service, visit our Store Locator. You should return your tuxedo the day after the event to any of our Men's Wearhouse locations. A $20 late fee will be charged for each day the tuxedo is not returned after the return date.
1 Tuxedo or suit costs vary, depending on whether the groom rents or buys. 2  On the low end, tuxedo rentals start at about $50 to $100 for rental of a basic wool tuxedo and vest. 3  In the mid-range, a groom can buy a nice suit for between $300 and $800. Discounts: 1  When renting a tuxedo, the vest, tie shoes and shirt typically cost extra. 2  And, of course, if you buy a suit, you will need to buy a shirt, tie and cufflinks, which can add $100 or more to your cost. 3  The average groom spends $116 on accessories, according to the Bridal Association of America.