The Banana Spider is known to hide among bananas shipped to the US and is really called the Brazilian Wandering Spider. These spiders are aggressive and very venomous and not intimidated by size (can attack people when threatened). 1 The Western Pacific Banana Spider, which is most commonly found in tropical islands such as Okinawa and the Philipeins. 2  It is a moderately large orb weaver with a distinctive, yellow mottled abdomen and is highly venomous.
The term “banana spider” can refer to two entirely different arachnids, the nephila clavipes of North America and the phoneutria of South America. The varieties can be about the same size, but they have dramatically different appearances and habitats. I don't believe it is a banana spider in the snake's cage. They tend to have very large webs that are out in the open, not confined to small spaces. If I were you, I would keep the cage away from children and pets in case it is a biting spider, but watch it and learn from it.
Spiders of the Nephila genus are commonly called golden orb-weavers, giant wood spiders, and banana spiders. While these spiders are mildly venomous, they aren’t a big threat to humans, as their venom isn’t overly potent. Many banana spiders are locally called thus because they are colored like bananas or found in banana trees. So depending on where you live in the world, banana spiders could refer to golden orb-weavers, members of the Cupiennius genus, Brazilian wandering spiders, or Hawaiian garden spiders. Ad.
On the other hand, there are other studies suggesting that the Banana Spider is indeed the most toxic spider in the world based upon toxicology studies. One of the most notable and thorough studies is presented in the book Venomous Animals and their Venoms Vol. III by Wolfgang Bucheral and Eleanor Buckley. 1 The Western Pacific Banana Spider, which is most commonly found in tropical islands such as Okinawa and the Philipeins. 2  It is a moderately large orb weaver with a distinctive, yellow mottled abdomen and is highly venomous.
The bite from a banana spider from South America is known to be both toxic and painful. Banana spiders are sometimes found in bunches of bananas. Banana spiders eat the insects found in their environment, such as wasps. I don't believe it is a banana spider in the snake's cage. They tend to have very large webs that are out in the open, not confined to small spaces. If I were you, I would keep the cage away from children and pets in case it is a biting spider, but watch it and learn from it.
1. Learn where Cupiennius spiders live. Cupiennius spiders are called banana spiders because they are sometimes found in banana shipments in North America and Europe. However, they are only native to Mexico, the northwestern parts of South America, and a few Caribbean islands. Many banana spiders are locally called thus because they are colored like bananas or found in banana trees. So depending on where you live in the world, banana spiders could refer to golden orb-weavers, members of the Cupiennius genus, Brazilian wandering spiders, or Hawaiian garden spiders. Ad.
FIGURE 1. Female Banana Spiders (Nephila clavipes) are one of the largest orb-weavers in this country, rivaled in size only by female Black-and-Yellow Garden Spiders (Argiope aurantia). The male Banana Spider is pictured above in the lower left. FIGURE 2. Banana spiders have even been seen feeding on beetles and dragonflies. These spiders are rarely found in row crops, because of lack of web support, but they are one of the two most common orb-weavers in citrus and pecan groves. Oddly, some banana spiders are reported to display an almost manic fear of cockroaches.
The name “banana spider” is used to refer to a number of different spiders and spider genera that are found throughout the globe. Many banana spiders are locally called thus because they are colored like bananas or found in banana trees. So depending on where you live in the world, banana spiders could refer to golden orb-weavers, members of the Cupiennius genus, Brazilian wandering spiders, or Hawaiian garden spiders. Ad.
Second: There are three types of spiders called Banana Spiders: Actually not all spiders are venomous as the camel spider's bite doesnt contain venom is an incorrect edit as camel spiders are not spiders at all and are in fact solifuges. 1 The Western Pacific Banana Spider, which is most commonly found in tropical islands such as Okinawa and the Philipeins. 2  It is a moderately large orb weaver with a distinctive, yellow mottled abdomen and is highly venomous.
Golden Silk Spiders Nephila clavipes --the harmless Banana Spiders. Their bite is milder than a bee sting. Do not confuse them with the aggressive brown banana spiders from South America who are VERY DANGEROUS! Scroll down to see the amazing pictures below... 