Actual Metabolic Age Vs Calculated Metabolic Age-Determining one's metabolic age revolves around calculating the Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) which is a measure of your body's use of energy, in terms of the minimum number of calories your body requires daily while in a resting state. Finding Your Metabolic Age. There are various methods and calculations that can be used in determining your metabolic age, but before getting into that it might be advisable to define metabolic age and why it's important.
An individual's metabolic age will vary depending how their calculated basal metabolic rate compares to others of the same chronological age. Metabolic age is a new term used in the health and fitness industry to describe overall fitness and metabolic activity. Examining metabolic age will give insights to the overall level of health and wellness in comparison to those of the same age.
You get your metabolic age when you compare your basal metabolic rate with the basal metabolic rate of your age group. Your BMR is a measurement of your body's energy, or the minimum level of calories your body needs when it's resting. Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Your metabolic age will give you an idea of what kind of physical health you are in using your base metabolic rate, or BMR. If your metabolic age is lower than your actual age, it means your body is in good health.
If someone's metabolic age is lower than his or her actual age, it suggests that the body is in good health, while a metabolic age higher than the actual age indicates that someone may be experiencing health problems. Metabolic age is a new term used in the health and fitness industry to describe overall fitness and metabolic activity. Examining metabolic age will give insights to the overall level of health and wellness in comparison to those of the same age.
Metabolic age is different from chronological age. Your chronological age is your age by calendar years, while metabolic age depends on your metabolism or overall chemical processes of the body, which is based on your health. If your metabolic age is lower than your chronological age, you are fitter or in better health than aver
Height is often part of the formula for calculating metabolic age. Metabolic age is one of many measurements that can be used to assess health. As people age, their BMR changes. Athletes may appear to have a skewed metabolic age but can actually be in excellent health. There are several reasons why older adults have lower caloric requirements. Some experts try to match the basal metabolic rate of your current age with your previous age. Suppose if your BMR at the age of 35 is greater than your BMR at the age of 25, some people are suggesting weight loss from loss of lean mass that results in a decrease in BMR.
Metabolic age is a comparison between a person’s basal metabolic rate (BMR) against the average BMR for an age. The calculation uses a benchmark, your age, to determine your body’s efficiency by comparing that benchmark against the average metabolic rate of different ages. 
Metabolic age is a reflection of physical health in the form of a calculation based on the base metabolic rate (BMR). Some experts try to match the basal metabolic rate of your current age with your previous age. Suppose if your BMR at the age of 35 is greater than your BMR at the age of 25, some people are suggesting weight loss from loss of lean mass that results in a decrease in BMR.
Metabolic Age refers to a number calculated by comparing your Basal Metabolic Rate to the Basal Metabolic Rate average of your chronological age group. Chronological age is your age in calendar years. Metabolic age is a new term used in the health and fitness industry to describe overall fitness and metabolic activity. Examining metabolic age will give insights to the overall level of health and wellness in comparison to those of the same age.
You're only as old as your metabolic age. Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Your metabolic age will give you an idea of what kind of physical health you are in using your base metabolic rate, or BMR. If your metabolic age is lower than your actual age, it means your body is in good health.