Support claimed under a multiple support agreement. If you are considered to have provided more than half of a qualifying relative's support under a multiple support agreement, you can include medical expenses you pay for that person.
You may claim child-care expenses to reduce your tax if you or your spouse pays to have someone look after your children so that you can: 1  earn income from employment or self-employment;
Child care expenses are not deductible if paid to the child’s father or mother, or to any person under 18 who is related to you by a blood relationship, marriage, or adoption. This includes your or your spouse’s or common-law partner’s child, brother, sister, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law.
You can include medical expenses you paid for an individual that would have been your dependent except that: 1  The person was a qualifying child (defined later) or a qualifying relative (defined later), and. 2  The person was a U.S. citizen or national or a resident of the United States, Canada, or Mexico.
If you're supporting an elderly parent, you may qualify to claim that parent as a dependent on your tax return. For tax year 2007, claiming an additional personal exemption would reduce your taxable income by $3,400.
However, if you provided support to your brother, depending on the level of support and your brother’s gross income for 2010, you may be able to claim him as a dependent on your tax return (under the qualifying relative rules). You should speak to a tax professional to review these rules.
You can generally include medical expenses you pay for yourself, as well as those you pay for someone who was your spouse or your dependent either when the services were provided or when you paid for them. There are different rules for decedents and for individuals who are the subject of multiple support agreements.
You may claim a credit for medical expenses that you paid for yourself, spouse or common-law partner and minor children. These expenses can be claimed to the extent that they exceed 3% of your net income (or a maximum of $2,024 in 2010). You may also claim medical expenses that you paid for “other dependants” such as a children 18 years of age and older, a grandchild, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, niece or nephew.