Arabic is mainly spoken in the Middle East, and there are different dialects. Egyptian Arabic is different, but not much, from Arabic spoken in Saudi Arabia. Even in mostly Ar … abic speaking counties in the Middle East and North Africa, the dialect, and accent differs. The official language of Brazil is Portuguese. Native languages still existing include Guarani Mbya, Mbyá, Wajapi, Wajãpi, tapirape Tapirapé (tuyuka and). parintintin among others
Modern Standard Arabic is the language of education, but is not native to anyone. At home, most Syrians speak dialects of Levantine Arabic, specifically South Syrian Arabic, spoken in the cities of Damascus, Homs and Hama, and North Syrian Arabic, spoken in the region of Aleppo. Allied dialects are spoken in the coastal mountains.
Report Abuse. The vast majority of Syrian speak Arabic, with various dialects depending on what part of the country they're from (such as the countryside dialect, the Damascus dialect, the Bedouin dialect, the Aleppan dialect, etc.). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Arabic is the official language of Syria. Several modern Arabic dialects are used in everyday life, most notably Levantine in the west and Mesopotamian in the northeast. Kurdish (in its Kurmanji form) is widely spoken in the Kurdish regions of Syria. At home, most Syrians speak dialects of Levantine Arabic, specifically South Syrian Arabic, spoken in the cities of Damascus, Homs and Hama, and North Syrian Arabic, spoken in the region of Aleppo. Allied dialects are spoken in the coastal mountains.
Syrian Sign Language is the principal language of the deaf community. Many educated Syrians also speak English, French, Russian, German and Spanish, especially in Damascus and Aleppo and in the schools Lycee Lycée Francais français Charles de gaulle’École L ecole’école. francaise française d alep At home, most Syrians speak dialects of Levantine Arabic, specifically South Syrian Arabic, spoken in the cities of Damascus, Homs and Hama, and North Syrian Arabic, spoken in the region of Aleppo. Allied dialects are spoken in the coastal mountains.
Africa is not one single country with one single language!    A few examples are:    Swahili, … Sango, Swazi, Chichewa, Somali, Africaans, Zulu, Venda,  Tsonga. Malagasy, Amharic, Ndebele, Kinyarwanda as well as English,  French and Portugese    The most widely used language in Africa is Arabic.    Africans speak many different languages, there isn't a thing like  an African language. The official language of Brazil is Portuguese. Native languages still existing include Guarani Mbya, Mbyá, Wajapi, Wajãpi, tapirape Tapirapé (tuyuka and). parintintin among others
Language. Spoken Languages in Syria: Arabic is the official and most widely spoken language. Kurdish is wid ely spoken in the Kurdish regions of Syria (northeastern regions), Kurds are less than 10% of Syria's population. This language has very old roots going back to the Assyrians in the 9th Century BC. Arabic was probably first written in the 2nd and 3rd Centuries AD under the rule of the Lakhmid tribe in Southern Mesopotamia. Other languages related to Arabic are Babylonian, Hittite (or Hurrian), Hebrew and Aramean.
Most remarkably, Western Neo-Aramaic is still spoken in the village of Maalula, and two neighboring villages, 35 miles (56 km) northeast of Damascus. The Arabic Language: Arabic (al Arabiya), a Semitic idiom, is the main language spoken in Syria. The Arabic language was adopted and spread over a large area of land in the 7th Century. This language has very old roots going back to the Assyrians in the 9th Century BC. Arabic was probably first written in the 2nd and 3rd Centuries AD under the rule of the Lakhmid tribe in Southern Mesopotamia. Other languages related to Arabic are Babylonian, Hittite (or Hurrian), Hebrew and Aramean.
Arabic is the official language of the Syrian Arab Republic and the language spoken by nearly all Syrians. French is the second-most-common language. However, it has started to be rivaled by English. Oddly, Syrians do not use standard Arabic numerals. 
There are 4 official languages in Switzerland: German, French, Italian and Romansh. Different languages are spoken in different parts of the country. The official language of Brazil is Portuguese. Native languages still existing include Guarani Mbya, Mbyá, Wajapi, Wajãpi, tapirape Tapirapé (tuyuka and). parintintin among others