Fraternal polyandry has been practised in Tibet and Nepal, as well as the subcontinent of India, but is waning in popularity; it has the advantage of producing fewer heirs per generation, reducing the issues related to primogeniture and the parcelling of lands by succeeding generations. 
Fraternal polyandry. Fraternal polyandry (from the Latin frater-brother) is a form of polyandry in which two or more brothers share one wife or more. It is also termed adelphogamy, but this term also has other meanings. Fraternal polyandry is found in certain areas of Tibet and Nepal, where polyandry is accepted as a social practice. The form of polyandry in which a woman is married to two or more brothers is known as fraternal polyandry, and it is believed by many anthropologists to be the most frequently encountered form. Human
Polyandry is a form of polygamy whereby a woman has several husbands. In Tibet, those husbands are often brothers, which is why it is most commonly called Fraternal Polyandry. Concern over the delicate question of which children are fathered by which brother falls on the wife alone. As has been seen, fraternal polyandry was a form of marriage that was prevalent among the tre-ba class. Traditionally, marriages were arranged by the parents, often when the children were still very young.
Polyandry is contrasted with polygyny, involving one male and two or more females. If a marriage involve a plural number of husbands and wives participants of each gender, it can be called polyamory, group or conjoint marriage. It is a rare form of marriage that exists not only among poor families, but also the elite. For example, polyandry in the Himalayan mountains is related to the scarcity of land; the marriage of all brothers in a family to the same wife allows family land to remain intact and undivided.
Fraternal polyandry (from the Latin frater —brother) is a form of polyandry in which a woman is married to two or more men who are one another's brothers. Fraternal polyandry is found in certain areas of Tibet and Nepal, where polyandry is accepted as a social practice. It is a rare form of marriage that exists not only among poor families, but also the elite. For example, polyandry in the Himalayan mountains is related to the scarcity of land; the marriage of all brothers in a family to the same wife allows family land to remain intact and undivided.
(CNN) -- Polyandry is a form of polygamy where a woman is married to two or more husbands at the same time. Kundar Singh Pundir, left, and his brother Amar, right, share Indira Devi, centre, as their wife. Increasingly rare, polyandry has been predominantly practised in Asia, specifically in the Himalayan region. 1 Story Highlights. 2  Polyandry is a form of polygamy where a woman is married to two or more husbands. 3  Polyandry has been predominantly practised in the Himalayan region. 4  The paternity of any children is not debated -- they are raised by all the parents.
Fraternal polyandry was traditionally practiced among Tibetans in Nepal, parts of China and part of northern India, in which two or more brothers are married to the same wife, with the wife having equal sexual access to them. It is most common in egalitarian societies marked by high male mortality or male absenteeism. It is a rare form of marriage that exists not only among poor families, but also the elite. For example, polyandry in the Himalayan mountains is related to the scarcity of land; the marriage of all brothers in a family to the same wife allows family land to remain intact and undivided.
Definition of FRATERNAL POLYANDRY. : polyandry in which several brothers share one wife —contrasted with sororal polygyny. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. 
The fraternal polyandry marriage relationship of Tibet is widely considered. to be a means of preventing the division of a family's resources among its male heirs. As a family resource preservation strategy, Tibetan polyandry accomplishes the same goal of the European stem family system, but in a very different way. 