This means that ribosomes in prokaryotic cells are free-floating in the cytoplasm. In eukaryotic cells, ribosomes can roam free in the cytoplasm, but they can also be bound to the exterior of the endoplasmic reticulum. Ribosomes can also be found in mitochondria and chloroplasts of eukaryotic cells. Ribosomes are found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. They are made up of proteins and RNA molecules called subunits. The predominant function of ribosomes is the translation of messenger RNA (mRNA) into proteins. Both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells have many ribosomes, but the ribosomes found in eukaryotic cells are larger and more sophisticated than those of the prokaryotic cell
A. Structure and Composition. Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and protein. Prokaryotic cells have three types of rRNA: 16S rRNA, 23S rRNA, and 5S rRNA. Like transfer RNA (tRNA), rRNAs use intrastrand H-bonding between comlementary nucleotide bases to form complex folded structures. 2. Bacterial ribosomes are composed of two subunits with densities of 50S and 30S, as opposed to 60S and 40S in eukaryotic cells. 3. Ribosomes function as a workbench for protein synthesis whereby they receive and translate genetic instructions for the formation of specific proteins. 4.
B. PROKARYOTIC CELL ANATOMY. d. Ribosomes. 1. Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and protein. 2. Bacterial ribosomes are composed of two subunits with densities of 50S and 30S, as opposed to 60S and 40S in eukaryotic cells. 3. Ribosomes function as a workbench for protein synthesis whereby they receive and translate genetic instructions for the formation of specific proteins. 4.
Ribosomes on the membrane of the nucleus and on the membrane of endoplasmic reticulum are called bound ribosomes. Chloroplasts in plant cells and mitochondria in all eukaryotic cells have ribosomes, which resembles prokaryotic ribosomes. In prokaryotes, ribosomes are scattered in the cytoplasm. Either eukaryotic or prokaryotic, ribosomes are made from protein and ribosomal RNA (rRNA).
Prokaryotic ribosomes are smaller and have a slightly different shape and composition than those found in eukaryotic cells. Bacterial ribosomes, for instance, have about half of the amount of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and one third fewer ribosomal proteins (53 vs. ~83) than eukaryotic ribosomes have. 
Another difference is that ribosomes in prokaryotes are smaller than in eukaryotes. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria.
The following are found in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells:    cell membrane   nuclear material   ribosomes   cytoplasm   exons   . 5 people found this useful. Actually a ribosome is a small organelle that is found in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. However, the ribosome in a prokaryotic cell differs in shape compared to the r … ibosome in a eukaryotic cell. 1 person
Ribosomes are found in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells; in mitochondria, chloroplasts and bacteria. Those found in prokaryotes are generally smaller than those in eukaryotes. Ribosomes in mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar in size to those in bacteria. Ribosomes are found ‘free’ in the cytoplasm or bound to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to form rough ER. In a mammalian cell there can be as many as 10 million ribosomes. Several ribosomes can be attached to the same mRNA strand, this structure is called a polysome. Ribosomes have only a temporary existence.
Ribosomes might also be found in mitochondria and chloroplasts of eukaryotic cells. These ribosomes tend to be smaller, similar in size to ribosomes in prokaryotic cells rather than the free and bound ribosomes of eukaryotic cells. Some ribosomes are “bound” to the endoplasmic reticulum, creating “rough” endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum is a membrane in the cytoplasm responsible for protein and lipid synthesis. Most proteins synthesized by bound ribosomes are transported outside the cell.