A spice commonly called star anise, star anise seed, or Chinese star anise that closely resembles anise in flavor is obtained from the star-shaped pericarp of the fruit of Illicium velum which are harvested just before ripening. Star anise contains anethole, the same ingredient that gives the unrelated anise its flavor. Recently, star anise has come into use in the West as a less expensive substitute for anise in baking as well as in liquor production, most distinctively in the production of the liquor Galliano.
Star anise recipes. Star anise is shaped like an eight-pointed star and contains seeds with an aniseed flavour, which comes from the spice's essential oil, anethole. It is used widely in Chinese cooking and is one of the five spices in Chinese five-spice powder. 
Flower. Illicium anisatum, with common names Japanese star anise, aniseed tree, and sacred anise tree, is a tree closely related to the Chinese star anise. Since it is highly toxic, it is not edible; instead, it has been burned as incense in Japan, where it is known as shikimi (樒) . 
Star anise, widely used as a spice in Asian cuisine, also has medicinal properties. Star anise is the star-shaped fruit of an evergreen plant known scientifically as Illicium verum. 
Native to China and Vietnam, star anise is today grown almost exclusively in southern China, Indo-China, and Japan. Star anise, Illicium verum, is sometimes called Chinese star anise. It’s important to distinguish it from Japanese star anise, Illicium anisatum, which is highly toxic. Bouquet: Powerful and liquorice-like, more pungent and stronger than anise. Flavour: Evocative of a bitter aniseed, of which flavour star anise is a harsher version. Nervertheless, the use of star anise ensures an authentic touch in the preparation of certain Chinese dishes.
Definition: Star anise comes by its name honestly, with its star shape and a licorice taste similar to regular anise, only stronger. Star anise is the seed pod of an evergreen tree (Illicium Verum) grown in southwestern China and Japan. It is about one inch high with eight segments and a dark brown rust color. Star anise can replace regular anise in western recipes. In traditional Chinese medicine, star anise is prescribed as a digestive aid and to help cure colic in babies. More recently, Shikimic Acid, extracted from star anise, is one of the chief ingredients in the antiviral Tamiflu drug used to fight avian influenza.
Star anise is one of the central spices in Chinese cooking. It has a strong anise flavour, with a liquorice-like aroma. The dominant flavour in Chinese five-spice powder, star anise is also used to flavour alcoholic drinks such as pastis. The whole spice is an attractive eight-pointed star, but star anise is more often found ground to a powder. 
Star anise is the fruit of a small evergreen tree native to southwest China. The star-shaped fruits are picked just before ripening and dried before use. They contain the same essential oil as the botanically unrelated Spanish anise seed, which gives the two a nearly identical flavor-strong, sweet, and licoricey. Whole star anise is used to flavor tea, marinades, and soups. It is integral to the traditional Vietnamese soup pho, and is used in many other Chinese and southeast Asian dishes. Ground star anise, besides being used in baked goods, is a main ingredient in Chinese Five Spice powder.
A star-shaped, dark brown pod that contains a pea-size seed in each of its eight segments. Native to China, star anise comes from a small evergreen tree. It's flavor is slightly more bitter than that of regular anise seed. Asian cooks use star anise to give a licorice flavor to savory dishes, particularly those with pork and poultry. It's available whole or ground and is an ingredient in Chinese five-spice powder. Use it sparingly--a little goes a long way