Signed on 6 February 1840, the Treaty of Waitangi is a founding document of government in New Zealand, and established the country as a nation. A draft treaty was drawn up and translated in a few days. After a day of debate by the Māori Chiefs, the Treaty of Waitangi was signed on February 6, 1840, at Waitangi in the Bay of Islands. Forty-three Northland Chiefs signed the Treaty on that day and about 500 more signed as it, and copies of the original, were taken throughout the country in the following months
The Treaty of Waitangi (Māori: Tiriti o Waitangi) is a treaty first signed on 6 February 1840 by representatives of the British Crown and various Māori chiefs from the North Island of New Zealand. Almost 150 years after the signing of the Treaty, the government tried to give judicial and moral effect to the document by defining another, new version, the spirit or intent of the treaty through specifying the principles of the Treaty.
The Treaty of Waitangi is an agreement made in 1840 between representatives of the British Crown and more than 500 Māori chiefs. It resulted in the declaration of British sovereignty over New Zealand by Lieutenant Governor William Hobson in May 1840. Most chiefs signed a Māori-language version of the treaty. Hobson arrived at the Bay of Islands on 29 January 1840. With the help of his secretary, James Freeman, he drew up some notes for a treaty. James Busby, the British Resident (an official position), tidied these up and added to them.
He drafted the Declaration of the Independence of New Zealand and at a meeting in October signed it together with 35 chiefs from the northern part of New Zealand. After the arrival of William Hobson, he co-authored with him the Treaty of Waitangi. It was signed on 5 and 6 February 1840 on the lawn outside his residence. Busby and his family left Waitangi that year. Life [edit]. He was born in Scotland, the son of English engineer John Busby and mother Sarah Kennedy. His family emigrated from Britain to New South Wales in 1824. On his arrival in Sydney, Busby was appointed a teacher of viticulture at the Male Orphans School at Bald Hills near Liverpool.
After the initial signing at Waitangi, copies of the Treaty were taken around New Zealand and over the following months many other chiefs signed. In total there are nine copies of the Treaty of Waitangi including the original signed on 6 February 1840. Almost 150 years after the signing of the Treaty, the government tried to give judicial and moral effect to the document by defining another, new version, the spirit or intent of the treaty through specifying the principles of the Treaty.
Watch Witi Ihimaera and director Peter Burger talk about Waitangi-What Really Happened on Breakfast The Treaty Of Waitangi must be the most sacred, revered and talked about document in New Zealand history. 
1840 Treaty of Waitangi signed. The Treaty of Waitangi was signed on 6 February 1840. The previous day a draft of the Treaty in English and Māori was discussed before about 500 Māori and 200 Pākehā. Many Māori were suspicious of what was intended, but Tāmati Wāka Nene among others helped sway the chiefs towards acceptance. 