Introduction. The midbrain, also called the mesencephalon, is a small region of the brain that serves as a relay center for visual, auditory, and motor systems information. Photos Videos
Several important nuclei are located in the midbrain, including the red nuclei, the substantia nigra, and the nuclei of cranial nerves III and IV. The red nuclei connect the midbrain to the cerebellum and to the inner ear. It is also an important part of the extra pyramidal tract. The corpora quadrigemina, which is located on the posterior surface of the midbrain, is composed of two superior colliculi and two inferior colliculi. The superior colliculi are part of the visual system, relaying input from the optic tract to the lateral geniculate bodies of the thalamus.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The midbrain or mesencephalon (from the Greek mesos, middle, and enkephalos, brain) is a portion of the central nervous system associated with vision, hearing, motor control, sleep/wake, arousal (alertness), and temperature regulation. The mesencephalon is considered part of the brainstem. Its substantia nigra is closely associated with motor system pathways of the basal ganglia. The human mesencephalon is archipallian in origin, meaning that its general architecture is shared with the most ancient of vertebrates.
Instructor: Sarah Phenix. In this lesson, we'll explore the midbrain, including where it's located, what structures compose it, and what its role is in the functions of your brain. The midbrain is formed by three main structures: the cerebral peduncle (peduncle meaning 'foot' or 'base' of the cerebrum), the corpora quadrigemina (meaning 'quadruplet bodies' since it has four mound or hill-like structures), and the cerebral aqueduct, which is a canal dividing the two structures.
The Pons. The pons, which is also part of the brain stem, is inferior to the midbrain and superior to the medulla. Its posterior border is separated from the cerebellum by the aqueduct of Sylvius, and more inferiorly, by the fourth ventricle. Motor and sensory tracts traverse the anterior surface of the pons. The corpora quadrigemina, which is located on the posterior surface of the midbrain, is composed of two superior colliculi and two inferior colliculi. The superior colliculi are part of the visual system, relaying input from the optic tract to the lateral geniculate bodies of the thalamus.
Brain stem Midbrain Pons Medulla Oblongata Midbrain The midbrain, also called the mesencephalon, is a small region of the brain that serves as a relay center for visual, auditory, and motor system information. It regulates autonomic functions, those that the body carries out without conscious thought, such as digestion, heart rate, and breathing rate. Thalamus. The thalamus is a small structure within the brain located just above the brain stem between the cerebral cortex and the midbrain and has extensive nerve connections to both. It works to correlate several important processes, including consciousness, sleep, and sensory interpretation.
The midbrain is located above the brain stem of the human beings. It is responsible for the perception of stimuli and the subsequent communication with the right and left hemispheres to process this perceptive information. Photos Videos. The midbrain, also called the mesencephalon, is a small region of the brain that serves as a relay center for visual, auditory, and motor systems
Midbrain. The midbrain, also called the mesencephalon, is a small region of the brain that serves as a relay center for visual, auditory, and motor system information. It regulates autonomic functions, those that the body carries out without conscious thought, such as digestion, heart rate, and breathing rate. Thalamus. The thalamus is a small structure within the brain located just above the brain stem between the cerebral cortex and the midbrain and has extensive nerve connections to both. It works to correlate several important processes, including consciousness, sleep, and sensory interpretation.