a structural part of a system of the body that is composed of tissues and cells that enable it to perform a particular function, such as the liver, spleen, digestive organs, reproductive organs, or organs of special sense. the organ lying against the basilar membrane in the cochlear duct, containing special sensory receptors for hearing, and consisting of neuroepithelial hair cells and several types of supporting cells. effector organ. a muscle or gland that contracts or secretes, respectively, in direct response to nerve impulses.
vital organ, vitals-a bodily organ that is essential for life. effector-an organ (a gland or muscle) that becomes active in response to nerve impulses. external organ-an organ that is situated on or near the surface of the body. internal organ, viscus-a main organ that is situated inside the body. 
effector organ a muscle or gland that contracts or secretes, respectively, in direct response to nerve impulses. enamel organ a process of epithelium forming a cap over a dental papilla and developing into the enamel. end organ end-organ. the organ lying against the basilar membrane in the cochlear duct, containing special sensory receptors for hearing, and consisting of neuroepithelial hair cells and several types of supporting cells. effector organ. a muscle or gland that contracts or secretes, respectively, in direct response to nerve impulses.
Definition of EFFECTOR. 1. : a bodily organ (as a gland or muscle) that becomes active in response to stimulation. 2. : a molecule (as an inducer or a corepressor) that activates, controls, or inactivates a process or action (as protein synthesis). See effector defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Medical Definition of EFFECTOR. 1. : a bodily organ (as a gland or muscle) that becomes active in response to stimulation. 2. : a molecule (as an inducer, a corepressor, or an enzyme) that activates, controls, or inactivates a process or action (as protein synthesis or the release of a second messenger). : a bodily organ (as a gland or muscle) that becomes active in response to stimulation. 2. : a molecule (as an inducer or a corepressor) that activates, controls, or inactivates a process or action (as protein synthesis). See effector defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
3. effector-an organ (a gland or muscle) that becomes active in response to nerve impulses. organ-a fully differentiated structural and functional unit in an animal that is specialized for some particular function. 
In biology, an effector is an organ that reacts to the external  stimuli on receiving signals from the central nervous system. An  example is when the adrenal gland secretes … adrenaline in response  to stress or danger. 3 people found this useful. 
Report Abuse. a stimulus is any substance that can trigger a response. effector organs can either be voluntarily or invountarily controlled. these are the organs that execute the response of the body or the central nervous system to a certain stimulus. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Affector organs are organs that send signals to other organs, much like a leader issuing orders. Effector organs are those that recieve the signals and produce an effect, much like workers who recieve commands and provide the actual results. For instance and affector organ might send a chemical signal to a gland (effector organ) to produce more of a certain hormone