It's the world's most famous equation, but what does it really mean? Energy equals mass times the speed of light squared.. On the most basic level, the equation says that energy and mass (matter) are interchangeable; they are different forms of the same thing. So why would you have to multiply the mass of that walnut by the speed of light to determine how much energy is bound up inside it? The reason is that whenever you convert part of a walnut or any other piece of matter to pure energy, the resulting energy is by definition moving at the speed of light.
In words, energy equals the Planck constant (the 'h' symbol) times frequency (the 'f' symbol). Einstein discovered that Energy=mc^2. In words, energy equals mass times the speed of light squared. Since Energy=hf and Energy=mc^2, then they both equal energy and therefore equal each other. Or, hf=mc^2, in words, the Planck constant times frequency equals mass times the speed of light squared.
In physics, mass–energy equivalence is the concept that mass and energy are the same thing, so that every mass has an energy equivalent and vice versa. This relationship is expressed using the formula. where E is the energy of a physical system, m is the mass of the system, and c is the speed of light in a vacuum (about 7008300000000000000♠3×108 m/s). In words, energy equals mass multiplied by the speed of light squared. Because the speed of light is a very large number in everyday units, the formula implies that any small amount of matter contains a very large amount of energy. Some of this energy may be released as heat and light by nuclear transformations. 
This is where the speed of light squared comes from in Einsteins E=MC^2 (in words, energy equals mass times the speed of light squared). Now that we have half of his equation all we need to find is mass. Since Energy=hf and Energy=mc^2, then they both equal energy and therefore equal each other. Or, hf=mc^2, in words, the Planck constant times frequency equals mass times the speed of light squared.
1 The speed of light, c is actually a constant and is roughly equal to 3.00x10 8 meters per second. 2  It is squared because of the basic properties of energy: an object moving twice as fast as another object actually has four times the energy. 1 The energy of an object is the mass of that object times the square of its velocity. 2  In this case, the object's velocity is the speed at which light travels.
The speed of light squared is a colossal number, illustrating just how much energy there is in even tiny amounts of matter. A common example of this is that 1 gram of water -- if its whole mass were converted into pure energy via E=mc² -- contains as much energy as 20,000 tons (18,143 metric tons) of TNT exploding. Now we're getting to the c² part of the equation, which serves the same purpose as the star-on and star-off machines in The Sneetches.. The c stands for the speed of light, a universal constant, so the whole equation breaks down to this: Energy is equal to matter multiplied by the speed of light squared.
1. Define the variables of the equation. The first step to understanding any equation is to know what each variable stands for. In this case, E is energy, m is mass, and c is the speed of light. 1  The speed of light, c is actually a constant and is roughly equal to 3.00x10 8 meters per second. 2  It is squared because of the basic properties of energy: an object moving twice as fast as another object actually has four times the energy. 1 The energy of an object is the mass of that object times the square of its velocity. 2  In this case, the object's velocity is the speed at which light travels.
As a result of this definition, the value of the speed of light in vacuum is exactly 7008299792458000000♠299792458 m/s and has become a defined constant in the SI system of units. According to special relativity, c is the maximum speed at which all matter and information in the universe can travel. It is the speed at which all massless particles and changes of the associated fields (including electromagnetic radiation such as light and gravitational waves) travel in vacuum.
By far, Einstein's best-known equation is E=mc 2 - energy equals mass times the velocity of light squared.. According to this equation, any given amount of mass is equivalent to a certain amount of energy, and vice versa. 
So the speed of light squared is the conversion factor that decides just how much energy lies within a walnut or any other chunk of matter. And because the speed of light squared is a huge number—90,000,000,000 (km/sec) 2 —the amount of energy bound up into even the smallest mass is truly mind-boggling. So why would you have to multiply the mass of that walnut by the speed of light to determine how much energy is bound up inside it? The reason is that whenever you convert part of a walnut or any other piece of matter to pure energy, the resulting energy is by definition moving at the speed of light.