The Mediterranean Sea is connected to the Atlantic Ocean via the narrow Strait of Gibraltar between Spain and Morocco. This area is only about 14 miles (22 km) wide. The Mediterranean Sea is known for being an important historic trade and a strong factor in the development of the region around it. History of the Mediterranean Sea. The region around the Mediterranean Sea has a long history that dates back to ancient times. For example, Stone Age tools have been discovered by archeologists along its shores and it is believed that the Egyptians began sailing on it by 3000 B.C.E.
The Mediterranean Sea is connected to the Atlantic Ocean by the narrow Strait of Gibraltar, The Rock of Gibraltar and Spain to the north, and Morocco to the south. On the east, the Mediterranean beyond Greece connects through the Sea of Marmara and the Bosporus to the Black Sea. 
The Mediterranean Sea region has been identified as one of the main climate change hotspots (i.e. one of the areas most responsive to climate change) due to water scarcity, concentration of economic activities in coastal areas, and reliance on climate-sensitive agriculture. Brief introduction. The Mediterranean Sea region — the largest of the semi-enclosed European seas — is surrounded by 22 countries, which together share a coastline of 46 000 km. It is also home to around 480 million people living across three continents: Africa, Asia and Europ
The history of the Mediterranean region is the history of the interaction of the cultures and people of the lands surrounding the Mediterranean Sea —the central superhighway of transport, trade and cultural exchange between diverse peoples—encompassing three continents: Western Asia, North Africa, and Southern Europe. The Mediterranean region in 220 BCE. In the northernmost part of ancient Greece, in the ancient kingdom of Macedonia, technological and organizational skills were forged with a long history of cavalry warfare. The hetairoi (Companion cavalry) was considered the strongest of their time.
Countries of the Mediterranean Region. List of the 21 Countries Bordering the Mediterranean Sea. Marina Grande Harbor in the City of Capri, an Italian island off the Sorrentine Peninsula on the south side of Gulf of Naples in the Mediterranean Sea. VisionsofAmerica/Joe Sohm/Getty Images.
As a rule of thumb, the Mediterranean Basin is the Old World region where olive trees grow. However olive trees grow in other corners of the world which have a Mediterranean climate, and there are many areas around the Mediterranean Sea which do not have a Mediterranean climate and where olive trees cannot grow. The Mediterranean Region offers an ever changing landscape of high mountains, rocky shores, impenetrable scrub, semi-arid steppes, coastal wetlands, sandy beaches and a myriad islands of various shapes and sizes dotted amidst the clear blue sea.
Share. By Amanda Briney. The Mediterranean Sea is a large sea that is located between Europe, northern Africa and southwestern Asia. Its total area is 970,000 square miles (2,500,000 sq km) and its greatest depth is located off the coast of Greece at around 16,800 feet (5,121 m) deep. List of the 21 Countries Bordering the Mediterranean Sea. Marina Grande Harbor in the City of Capri, an Italian island off the Sorrentine Peninsula on the south side of Gulf of Naples in the Mediterranean Sea. VisionsofAmerica/Joe Sohm/Getty Images.
The Mediterranean Sea is a body of water that is almost completely surrounded by land. It lies between three continents: Europe to the north, Asia to the east and Africa to the south. Africa. It stretches over 2,500 miles (4000 km) from Gibraltar to Israel. The Mediterranean Sea is what is left of this large ancient ocean. Geologists think that the Mediterranean dried up several times in the last few million years because the Strait of Gibraltar closed and reopened, allowing water from the Atlantic to flow in. Today the whole Mediterranean region is still very active.
Geography of the Mediterranean Sea. The Mediterranean Sea is a very large sea that is bounded by Europe, Africa and Asia and stretches from the Strait of Gibraltar on the west to the Dardanelles and the Suez Canal on the east. It is almost completely enclosed aside from these narrow locations. History of the Mediterranean Sea. The region around the Mediterranean Sea has a long history that dates back to ancient times. For example, Stone Age tools have been discovered by archeologists along its shores and it is believed that the Egyptians began sailing on it by 3000 B.C.E.