The house cost only $1, and in total, including a one-mile move and reconstruction costs, the couple spent $100,000 for a five-bedroom house worth twice that. 
The cost of moving a house starts at about $12 to $16 per square foot but can quickly rise if the home is heavier, bigger or has farther to go [sources: McLinden, Burstein ]. One house builder estimates that moving a large home more than just a few miles can run about $150,000 to $200,000 [source: Fetters ]. In addition to the costs of the actual moving, these expenses should also be considered: 1  Cost of the new home, if you're not moving one that you already own. 2  Buying the land where the home will be placed. 3  Building a new foundation for the home. 4  Permitting and inspection costs
A total cost of between $8,000 and $40,000 just to actually move the house from the original site to the new site can be considered to be on the cheaper end of the spectrum with costs for moving bigger houses reaching up to hundreds of thousands. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
Randy and Julie Olson purchased this house for $1 and then had it delivered to their property in Brook Park, Minn. Moving the house cost about $22,000. Steve Moon got this house for free and then had it delivered to his property in Cannon Beach, Ore., for $25.000. “People are looking for a way to save on demolition and dump fees on one end and save on building costs on the other end.”. Depending on a home’s size, its condition and how far it has to be moved, the cost can range from $15,000 to $60,000.
The short answer, yes. The Brick Victorian shown in the photo's was purchased for a dollar. Moved onto the site 2 miles from original site..utility line cost, land purchase, nine foot basement and renovation along with move cost is estimated to be $ 125,000.00. This home was recently appraised for $ 325,000.00
Mobile homes are built on a chassis designed to be moved. The cost to relocate a unit is determined by the size, the distance to be traveled, and whether it is transport only or a full-service move which includes disconnect and reconnect of utilities, porches or other attachments. 1 For example, Riley's Transport in California will move a small single-wide mobile home within the state up to 60 miles starting about $1,000, depending on size and location.
The cost of moving the house will depend mainly on the time it takes, which depends in turn on the route to be travelled, the size of the house and the degree of difficulty. It can range from a few thousand dollars to move a single-piece house, with the price increasing for the number of pieces, location and difficulty. 
Most house moving companies want to physically inspect a house and the desired placement location before estimating the cost for them to move it. The cost for moving any size house can range between $12 and $16 per square foot, so obviously a smaller house with not a long distance to travel will be cheaper to move. The roads traveled during the move can add to the cost of the move. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
Some houses are simply easier to move than others, explains Natalie Hammer, who runs Atlas Enterprises in Forest City, Iowa, with her husband, Chris Holland. Their typical price range for relocating a house is $8,000 to $30,000, but the cost will vary regionally. “It depends on the size of the house, how hard it is to get it up and onto the wheels, and how far you’re going,” she says. “It’s not a per-mile thing; it’s how difficult it is, and how heavy it is. Monroe Becker, who works for the structural moving company Unruh House Moving in Moundridge, Kan., says typical costs for the jobs he works on are $10,000 to $14,000, but would be a lot higher if the houses included brick.