The Panama Canal (Spanish: Canal de Panama) panamá is a.77-1 (kilometre 48) mi ship canal In panama that connects The Atlantic (ocean via The Caribbean) sea to The Pacific. ocean The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade. There are locks at each end to lift ships up to Gatun Lake, an artificial lake created to reduce the amount of excavation work required for the canal, 26 metres (85 ft) above sea level.
During construction, ownership of the territory that the Panama Canal now passes through was first Colombian, then French, and then American. The US continued to control the canal and surrounding Panama Canal Zone until the 1977 Torrijos–Carter Treaties provided for handover to Panama. The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade. There are locks at each end to lift ships up to Gatun Lake, an artificial lake created to reduce the amount of excavation work required for the canal, 26 metres (85 ft) above sea level.
Best Answer: The main disadvantage from the Panama canal construction was the Panama scandal which nearly brought down the French government with corruption on a massive (1 billion francs) scale, so you certainly need to mention that. 
An initial attempt by France to build a sea-level canal failed, but only after a great amount of excavation was carried out. This was of use to the United States, which completed the present Panama Canal in 1913 and officially opened it in 1914. Along the way, the state of Panama was created through its separation from Colombia in 1903, due to a US backed revolt, so the US could then get control of the Canal project area. 
The Panama Canal is a man-made canal in Panama which joins the Pacific and Atlantic oceans.     It opening in 1914 and is 48 miles long. It is estimated that t … he building of the canal cost 27,500 lives.     A ship sailing from New York to San Francisco saves about 8,000 miles by using the canal. In part. The Panama Canal meets the Pacific Ocean at Panama City. So yes, the most southerly part of the canal is in
After France unsuccessfully attempted to build a canal through the Isthmus of Panama in the 1800s, the United States began building the canal in 1904. In 1903, the newly-independent Panama sold the rights to the canal to the U.S. for $10 million. The U.S. military had a strong presence in the Panama Canal Zone until 1999, when all U.S. military bases were closed. The canal is still used for the transportation of military water vessels.
Now for the geographical reasons. Panama is a more stable region than Nicaragua. Nicaragua has had serious earthquakes in the past, and the country does have active volcanoes that threatened the building of the Canal, and the further maintenance. The treaty that allowed the US to have the rail road through Panama also made the US guarantee the sovereignty of Colombia over Panama (at that time Panama was a province of Colombia) The US then tried to negotiate a treaty with Colombia in order to build the Canal. The treaty was the Hay-Herran Treaty.
1 Panama Canal City One of the most strategic places in Central America is Panama Canal City. 2  This city is where the Panama Canal which connects the Pacific Ocean and is Atlantic Ocean as constr…. 3  Tips for Traveling to Panama Panama is an increasingly popular tourist destination. In part. The Panama Canal meets the Pacific Ocean at Panama City. So yes, the most southerly part of the canal is in