Argentina is a large and very developed country that produces and exports many different foods, including beef, grains, and wine. Argentina is particularly famous for its wine and its beef. The asado, an elaborate meal of grilled meat, is one of the most important culinary traditions in this country. Argentina's cuisine is very influenced by Europe, and includes many Spanish-style dishes, Italian pastas and pizzas, and French pastries.
In most parts of Argentina, lunch is the biggest meal of the day. Most of the cities (excluding Buenos Aires) close for lunch time. This is when most people return home to enjoy a large meal. Traditional lunches in Argentina are long and well developed. Most of the popular food has European roots.
The most famous alfajores in Argentina are manufactured in Mar del Plata but can be found anywhere in the country. Hope this helps you out. here is the link for more stuff on Argentina. http://www.mibsasquerido.com.ar/wArgentina3.htm   ~Dianna xoxo Beef is a popular food in Argentina. Many dishes are made with  beef. Another popular food in Argentina is Dulce de leche. It is a  spread that can be used on toast, as a filling in cakes, or even on  ice cream.
A trip to Argentina is the perfect opportunity to indulge in some serious feasting-including sampling some of the country's legendary steak. We've suggested some traditional dishes to seek out. Argentina is surging up the travel bucket lists for young and old alike.
The most famous alfajores in Argentina are manufactured in Mar del Plata but can be found anywhere in the country. Hope this helps you out. here is the link for more stuff on Argentina. http://www.mibsasquerido.com.ar/wArgentina3.htm. ~Dianna xoxo. Beef is a popular food in Argentina. Many dishes are made with beef.
3 FOODS OF THE ARGENTINES. Beef is the national dish of Argentina. There are huge cattle ranches in Argentina, and the gaucho, or Argentine cowboy, is a well-known symbol of Argentine individualism. Many dishes contain meat, but prepared in different ways. A favorite main course is parrillada, a mixed grill of steak and other cuts of beef.