The main symptom of pudendal neuralgia (PN) and pudendal nerve entrapment (PNE) is pain in one or more of the areas innervated by the pudendal nerve or one of its branches. These areas include the rectum, anus, urethra, perineum, and genital area.
Pudendal nerve entrapment is another form of pudendal neuralgia. This condition causes phantom pain (pain related to an area that isn’t actually part of the body) in the lower regions of the pelvis, penis and scrotum, vulva, anus, and perineum.
The pudendal nerve is found in the pelvis. It is the biggest division of the pudendal plexus (a network of nerves) and is located behind the sacrospinous ligament, near the tailbone. The nerve extends from the sacral plexus, through the pudendal canal, the perineum, and the gluteal area.
The pudendal nerve is the main nerve of the perineum. The perineum is the area between the testicles and anus of a man, and the vagina and anus of a woman. When this nerve suffers an injury, it can result in the most chronic and disabling form of pelvic pain, pudendal neuralgia.[1].
Pudendal neuralgia is a rare problem with the pudendal nerve that can affect both men and women. The pudendal nerve runs through your pelvic region, including your genitals, urethra, anus, and perineum. Your perineum is the area between your anus and genitals. The condition is also known as pudendal neuropathy, pudendal nerve entrapment, cyclist's syndrome, pudendal canal syndrome, or Alcock's syndrome.
The pudendal nerve is the main nerve of the perineum. It carries sensation from the external genitalia of both sexes and the skin around the anus and perineum, as well the motor supply to various pelvic muscles, including the male or female external urethral sphincter and the external anal sphincter.
Pudendal nerve entrapment syndrome is an unusual condition which arises from compression of the pudendal nerve, which cause chronic pain in the perineal, perianal and genital areas, including one type of vulvodynia (in women). It may also affect men.