In this Review, we discuss the mechanisms by which pathogens could trigger autoimmune diseases and the mechanisms by which autoimmune disease could alter the ability of the host to control infections and regulate the immune system. The flip side of the idea that autoimmunity is driven by viral infections is that autoreactive immune responses, or even only a predisposition to the development of these responses, might affect the development of antiviral immune responses.
Inefficient immune response allows diseases to develop. Inadequate, inappropriate, or excessive immune response causes immune system disorders. Complications related to altered immune response include: 1  Disease development. 2  Allergy or hypersensitivity. 3  Anaphylaxis. 4  Autoimmune disorders. 5  Blood transfusion reaction. The immune system includes certain types of white blood cells. It also includes chemicals and proteins in the blood, such as complement proteins and interferon. Some of these directly attack foreign substances in the body, and others work together to help the immune system cells.
Disorders of the immune system can result in autoimmune diseases, inflammatory diseases and cancer. Immunodeficiency occurs when the immune system is less active than normal, resulting in recurring and life-threatening infections. The ability of the immune system to respond to pathogens is diminished in both the young and the elderly, with immune responses beginning to decline at around 50 years of age due to immunosenescence. In developed countries, obesity, alcoholism, and drug use are common causes of poor immune function.
These disorders can be divided into two groups: 1  Those less common conditions with defects in the innate immune system, a system of cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection in a non-specific manner. 1
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are key receptors that activate the innate immunity in response to pathogen recognition. Recent data show that activation of innate immune cells such as dendritic cells (DCs) can break this state of tolerance and induce autoimmunity by priming autoreactive T cells. The role of innate immune responses in autoimmune disease development. Waldner H. Autoimmune diseases are systemic or organ-specific disorders that are the result of an attack of the immune system against the body's own tissue. Development of autoimmune disease is generally avoided by distinct mechanisms that silence adaptive self-reactive T or B cells. The innate immune system is critically involved in the defense against pathogens and the induction of primary adaptive immune response
Autoimmunity is the system of immune responses of an organism against its own cells and tissues. Any disease that results from such an aberrant immune response is termed an autoimmune disease. Second, autoimmunity may have a role in allowing a rapid immune response in the early stages of an infection when the availability of foreign antigens limits the response (i.e., when there are few pathogens present).
The misconception that an individual's immune system is totally incapable of recognizing self antigens is not new. Paul Ehrlich, at the beginning of the twentieth century, proposed the concept of horror autotoxicus, wherein a normal body does not mount an immune response against its own tissues. Second, autoimmunity may have a role in allowing a rapid immune response in the early stages of an infection when the availability of foreign antigens limits the response (i.e., when there are few pathogens present).
Its complexity and ability to protect us is astounding. The immune system can be divided into two components: the innate (born with) immune system and adaptive (develop through life) immune system. The innate component is the first line of defense. It reacts very quickly to fight off foreigners such as viruses and bacteria and identifying damaged cells. 
Both innate and adaptive immunity depend on the ability of the immune system to distinguish between self and non-self molecules. In immunology, self molecules are those components of an organism's body that can be distinguished from foreign substances by the immune system. The ability of the immune system to respond to pathogens is diminished in both the young and the elderly, with immune responses beginning to decline at around 50 years of age due to immunosenescence. In developed countries, obesity, alcoholism, and drug use are common causes of poor immune function.