Women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) can become pregnant without medication. It is recommended that you schedule a consultation with a reproductive endocrinologist (if possible). A Dr. Daniel Dumesic, MD, Reproductive Endocrinology, answered on behalf of UCLA Health. In some cases, it is possible to get pregnant without using drugs if a woman has polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Studies have shown that if overweight individuals can lose 7% of their body weight, many of them resume ovulation spontaneously at the end and conceive
I don't know if this was just a coincidence, but I was diagnosed with PCOS a month ago, was put on Metformin and got pregnant 4 days after I started the medication. I have heard though, that it is very common to get pregnant once you start taking Metformin. Good luck! Yes you can get pregnant with this syndrome. I am 26 years old and I was diagnosed with PCOS back in 2000. I had been off birth control since I was 18 and never got pregnant.
Fortunately, women with PCOS have several fertility treatment options that may help them get pregnant and have a healthy baby. PCOS symptoms Polycystic ovary syndrome is a common hormonal imbalance that can cause many different symptoms including the following: 1  Ovarian cysts. Your doctor may also prescribe the fertility drug clomid to help you conceive, with or without metformin. The combination of clomid with metformin often helps women with PCOS get pregnant more quickly than by just using metformin alone.
Report Abuse. Yes you can get preg. with PCOS and no meds I got preg. with my 1st son with the help of fertility drugs and when he was 6 months old we TTC with no drugs thinking it would take a while but got preg. with baby #2 right a way! My 2nd son is almost 1 now and I had a healthy pregnancy with both of them. 
A Penn Medicine answered. Women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) can become pregnant without medication. It is recommended that you schedule a consultation with a reproductive endocrinologist (if possible). Also, keep a diary or calendar of your menstrual periods and take it with you to your appointment. A Dr. Daniel Dumesic, MD, Reproductive Endocrinology, answered on behalf of UCLA Health. In some cases, it is possible to get pregnant without using drugs if a woman has polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Studies have shown that if overweight individuals can lose 7% of their body weight, many of them resume ovulation spontaneously at the end and conceive
Polycystic ovary syndrome (say pah-lee-SIS-tik OH-vuh-ree SIN-drohm) is a problem in which a woman's hormones are out of balance. It can cause problems with your periods and make it difficult to get pregnant. PCOS also may cause unwanted changes in the way you look. 
Best Answer: Sure it is possible, I think it depends on how bad the situation is. I have PCOS and I still get my periods (although irregular) every month. I know some women can go months and months without them and that is where they have to get metformin to induce ovulation, hence to get pregnant. Victoria Beckham has PCOS and she has 3 kids, so yeah, you can get pregnant naturally. I think that getting pregnant without treatment is still a possibility. However, it will all depend on how bad your condition is. When I got diagnosed with PCOS, I was told that it was going to be difficult
Clomid (clomiphene citrate) . Your doctor may also prescribe the fertility drug clomid to help you conceive, with or without metformin. The combination of clomid with metformin often helps women with PCOS get pregnant more quickly than by just using metformin alone. Some women with PCOS may require a very high dose of Clomid to restore fertility, which can sometimes cause uncomfortable side effects. Gonadotropins
Living with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and getting pregnant is a dual concern for many women of childbearing age. PCOS with its wide range of symptoms is the most common hormonal disturbance of premenopausal women and a leading cause of infertility. Life with PCOS can be complex without some medical guidance. Fertility treatments for PCOS If you have PCOS and getting pregnant is your ultimate dream, there are some treatments that may help you bring home a baby. 1  Fertility medications. 2  Fertility drugs may help symptoms of PCOS in an attempt to temporarily assist with ovulation.