Lake George, nicknamed the Queen of American Lakes, is a long, narrow oligotrophic lake located at the southeast base of the Adirondack Mountains, in the northeastern portion of the U.S. state of New York. For other places in New York with the same name, see Lake George, New York (disambiguation) . For other bodies of water with the same name, see Lake George
Rent a boat and go fishing on Lake George for the afternoon, or enjoy a one-of-a-kind cruise aboard one of Lake George's ships or on a steamboat! Things To Do On Lake George. You can splash around at the beaches in Lake George, venture out fishing on the lake, or go for a cruise ! Come visit Lake George with your family, and experience fun in every season! Summer offers great events, fireworks, water fun and abundant amusement parks and attractions !
Directions. George’s is located on the East Side of Lake George on Route 9L. From Canada Street (Lake George Village), turn west onto Beach Road. Pass the Lake George Steamboat Co. and Million Dollar Beach and go to the very end. Turn left onto Route 9L and George’s will immediately be on your right.
Quickly find Lake George hotels, budget motels, resorts, cabins, cottages, vacation rentals, inns, camping, restaurants, discounts, activities, attractions, events and more! In the Village, on the water, near the Village, from the Adirondacks to Saratoga Springs... Once you have settled on a place to stay, plan your stay. View Lake George restaurants and pubs. Read reviews and search by cuisine or type of restaurant you are looking for-from casual to elegant.
The Ticonderoga was the first of only 2 Lake George Steamboat Company ships to not be built on Lake George.She began her life, in August of 1944, as a U.S. Navy ship. She was built in exactly 13 days. In 1824, at a cost of $12,000, the Mountaineer (I) was built. She was built right on Pine Point in Caldwell (which is now Lake George Village). She was 100 feet long and 16 feet wide, she had an 8 foot draft and weighed 125 tons.
The Floating Classroom – a great on the lake cruise with The Lake George Association. Leaving from Lake George Village Dock (5 min. walk from the Georgian), on Wednesdays in July and August, from 10 am -12 pm or 1 pm – 3 pm. Reservations are required. $15 adults and $9 for children under 18. 
Discover family activities and many more things to do in Lake George, NY right here! Lake George's pristine waters are part of what makes the Queen of American Lakes so spectacular. You can splash around at the beaches in Lake George, venture out fishing on the lake, or go for a cruise ! Come visit Lake George with your family, and experience fun in every season! Summer offers great events, fireworks, water fun and abundant amusement parks and attractions !
Recognized as the best steakhouse in Lake George and routinely praised as one of Lake George’s best restaurants, George’s Restaurant is known for serving great American cuisine in a casual, relaxed family-friendly dining atmosphere. From Canada Street (Lake George Village), turn west onto Beach Road. Pass the Lake George Steamboat Co. and Million Dollar Beach and go to the very end. Turn left onto Route 9L and George’s will immediately be on your right.
Boating & Sightseeing on Lake George. Take in the beautiful Spring landscapes of Lake George on a sightseeing boat cruise. Boat rides are a great way to really understand why Lake George is known as The Queen of American Lakes. See more info. By the way, Spring is not only a great time to visit the Lake George area, but it’s the perfect time to plan & reserve your summer vacation! Navigate this entire Lake George Guide website to help with your search.