MSMA provide post-emergent selective annual grass and yellow nutsedge control, in cool season. MSMA is an effective treatment to control Convolvulaceae (morning glory) and Cyperus rotundus (nutgrass). MSMA products are non-flammable, practically not corrosive, and easy to handle. It is an organo-arsenate; less toxic than the inorganic form of arsenates. It is one of the most common and cost effective herbicides used against weeds in agriculture. MSMA products are unique in that they combine selectivity, low weed-resistance, and cost-efficiency.
Posted on February 25, 2013 by Byrdie. MSMA is a great solution to kill crabgrass, dallisgrass, sandburrs and many other noxious weeds. If you plan to use MSMA to eliminate your crabgrass, be sure to thoroughly read the label and follow all precautions and directions. 
MSMA 6 Plus is a selective, post-emergent crabgrass control product that contains 47.6% MSMA. MSMA 6 Plus is a combination liquid herbicide and surfactant blend. When used as directed on the label, MSMA can control and eliminate post-emergent crabgrass, dallisgrass, sandburrs and many other noxious weeds. MSMA will ship as either Drexel or Target brand. 
Monosodium methanearsonate (MSMA) is a commonly used herbicide in warm-season climates. Since the 1960s, this product has been used to manage infestations of various crab­grass species (Digitaria spp.) as well as goosegrass (Eleusine indica) and dallisgrass (Paspalum dilatatum) in warm-season turf. 
Monosodium methanearsonate (MSMA) weed killer is a post-emergent herbicide for use in home lawns to control a range of annual grass-type weeds. When to Apply. Herbicides containing MSMA are most effectively applied when grassy weeds such as crab grass and Dallis grass have emerged in the early spring and are actively growing. Repeat applications may be required through the late spring and summer.
Replacing MSMA: Consider Your Weed Control Options. Lawn care professionals have used MSMA (Monosodium methanearsonate) since the 1960s to manage weeds such as crabgrass, goosegrass and nutsedge in warm-season turf. Existing stocks of MSMA can legally be used for weed control on residential, commercial and sports field turf until they are exhausted, provided that these uses comply with the EPA-approved product label until December 31, 2013.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Monosodium methanearsonate (MSMA) weed killer is a post-emergent herbicide for use in home lawns to control a range of annual grass-type weeds. It is sometimes also known as MAMA or DSMA on some herbicide labels. When to Apply. Herbicides containing MSMA are most effectively applied when grassy weeds such as crab grass and Dallis grass have emerged in the early spring and are actively growing. Repeat applications may be required through the late spring and summer.
Best Answer: From-http://www.tennesseeturfgrassweeds.org/a... Monosodium methanearsonate (MSMA) is a commonly used herbicide in warm-season climates. Since the 1960s, this product has been used to manage infestations of various crabgrass species (Digitaria spp.), as well as goosegrass (Eleusine indica) and dallisgrass (Paspalum dilatatum) in warm-season turf. In its organic form, arsenic is relatively nontoxic. For example, the herbicide MSMA is far less toxic than aspirin1,2. However, in an inorganic state, arsenic can be highly toxic. It is important to note that MSMA only contains organic arsenic.
Monosodium methyl arsenate (MSMA) is an arsenic-based herbicide. It is an organo-arsenate; less toxic than the inorganic form of arsenates. It is one of the most common and cost effective herbicides used against weeds in agriculture. MSMA products are unique in that they combine selectivity, low weed-resistance, and cost-efficiency. MSMA is an herbicide used to control a wide spectrum of hard to control grass and broad-leaf weeds including some weeds that are resistant to the herbicide Glyphosat