Many also take a multivitamin supplement daily as a part of their morning routine. Not many people are aware that taking vitamins at the same time as a cup of coffee or tea can interfere with the body's absorption of many necessary nutrients. Calcium. Caffeine causes calcium to be excreted in the urine and feces. 
Any beverage or food containing caffeine such as coffee, tea, chocolate and some sodas can inhibit the absorption of vitamins and minerals and increase their excretion from the body. Your body needs them in smaller amounts. It would be hard to “overdose” on vitamins or minerals that you get from the foods you eat. But if you take supplements, you can easily take too much. This is even more of a risk if you take fat-soluble vitamins. Whole foods are your best sources of vitamins and minerals.
Sugar has been linked to all kinds of diseases and health problems. Many nutrients are used up and lost when a person consumes too much sugar. Tobacco Smoking tobacco is one of the worst things you can do to your health. Smoking tobacco depletes vitamin C (a major antioxidant). Caffeine destroys 1  : Vitamins: Vitamin A, Vitamin B1 (Thiamin) , Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin) , Vitamin B3 (Niacin) , Vitamin B5 (Pantothenic Acid) , Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine) , Folic Acid, Vitamin B12, Biotin, Vitamin C. 2  Minerals: Potassium, Magnesium, Iron. 3  Other nutrients: Choline, Inositol, PABA (Para-Amino Benzoic Acid).
Diuretic. Coffee acts as a diuretic, promoting production of urine, which depletes the body of water, vitamins and minerals. Caffeine elevates urine volume by as much as 30 percent for a few hours after you consume it, according to Joyce H. Lowinson, coeditor of Substance Abuse: A Comprehensive Textbook.. Coffee is among the more acid-forming foods and causes calcium to be drawn from your bones and teeth to neutralize the acidic effects. This occurs so that chemical processes, which require specific -- usually alkaline -- pH conditions, can function.
Although caffeine won't affect the amount of B vitamins in your body, it is still wise to limit your caffeine intake to that contained in 2 to 4 cups of coffee, or 200 to 400 milligrams, per day. B vitamins include biotin, cobalamin, folic acid, niacin, pantothenic acid, pyridoxine, riboflavin and thiamin. These water-soluble vitamins are needed by your body in small amounts each day for growth and development, turning food into energy, immune function and producing hormones, enzymes, red blood cells and DNA.
It’s very important to talk with your doctor before you take any vitamin and mineral pills, especially if you take prescription medicines, have any health problems or are elderly. Taking too much of a vitamin or mineral can cause problems with some medical tests or interfere with drugs you’re taking. Vitamins and minerals are “micronutrients” your body needs in small but steady amounts. Your body needs them in smaller amounts. It would be hard to “overdose” on vitamins or minerals that you get from the foods you eat. But if you take supplements, you can easily take too much. This is even more of a risk if you take fat-soluble vitamins. Whole foods are your best sources of vitamins and minerals.
Laxative. Coffee's laxative effects may deplete vitamins and minerals, according to the University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension. It does this by promoting fluid loss, which draws minerals out along with fluids to maintain proper concentrations in the body. Coffee is among the more acid-forming foods and causes calcium to be drawn from your bones and teeth to neutralize the acidic effects. This occurs so that chemical processes, which require specific -- usually alkaline -- pH conditions, can function.
Caffeine is a stimulant found in foods and beverages including coffee, tea, cola, energy drinks and chocolate. Some medications also contain caffeine. Although caffeine can give you energy and help you stay awake, it can cause side effects and may reduce the absorption of some vitamins and minerals. B vitamins include biotin, cobalamin, folic acid, niacin, pantothenic acid, pyridoxine, riboflavin and thiamin. These water-soluble vitamins are needed by your body in small amounts each day for growth and development, turning food into energy, immune function and producing hormones, enzymes, red blood cells and DNA.
Caffeine is a chemical in various substances, including coffee, tea, carbonated drinks, chocolate and even some medicines. It acts as a stimulant in the body, making you feel more alert, and this is why many people turn to caffeinated drinks to begin their day. Caffeine also has a diuretic effect on the body. Vitamins and minerals are essential nutrients for a person's growth and development. Because they need to be absorbed from the bloodstream to be effective, anything that hinders this process can result in your body getting insufficient nutrients.