Actually the most common language in Cyprus is Greek as well as the 'Cyprian dialect.'If you want to go to Cyprus just make sure you know English and you will be just fine!!! 20 people found this useful. They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
Languages. Cyprus has two official languages which are Greek and Turkish. It is important to note that the Greek spoken in Cyprus is a strong dialect, with about 15% of the words peculiar to Cyprus. There are also many minorities which are Armenian, Cypriot Maronites, Arabic and Romani
Half of them do because they are Greek but the other half of Cyprus are Turkish cipriots,sometimes the Greeks speak Turkish and sometimes the Turkish speak Greek, there is nev … er one language in Cyprus it will always be two, logically. Cyprus, an island nation off the coast of Turkey, has the official languages of Greek and Turkish. Because of the division, Greek is spoken largely in the southern part of th … e island and Turkish in the northern part.
In Cyprus. Half of them do because they are Greek but the other half of Cyprus are Turkish cipriots,sometimes the Greeks speak Turkish and sometimes the Turkish speak Greek, there is nev … er one language in Cyprus it will always be two, logically. Aaron McClellan. They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
Report Abuse. Cypriots have three official languages: Greek, Turkish and English. The majority of Cypriots are of Greek origin, but there is a minority of Turks spread throughout the island in communities-they even their own governmental rights, which is why the second official language is Turkish. Best Answer: Cyprus is divided-in the western side they speak Greek and in the Eastern side they speak Turkish. The Greek side is larger and better developed than the Turkish. Source(s): Dalia M · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 1. 1 comment. Loading ..
The main languages in Cyprus are Greek, Turkish and English, although far fewer Turks in the North speak English than do Greeks in the South. The currency is now the Euro, whi … ch was adopted by Cyprus in c.2006, replacing the Cyprus Pound and the Cyprus Cent. 7 people found this useful. Cyprus, an island nation off the coast of Turkey, has the official languages of Greek and Turkish. Because of the division, Greek is spoken largely in the southern part of th … e island and Turkish in the northern part.
In the Republic of Cyprus, the official language is Greek and Cypriots write in Standard Modern Greek, which they’re taught at school. In the Republic of Cyprus, the official language is Greek and Cypriots write in Standard Modern Greek, which they’re taught at school. 1  Share on Facebook. 2  Share on Twitter. 3  Share on LinkedIn. 4  Send. 5  Print. The second language of Cyprus is English, as the country was a British colony from 1878 until 1960. Many Greek Cypriots have lived and worked or been educated in the UK, and, in some cases, the US. English is considered a symbol of sophistication and many Cypriots strive to perfect their English.
Cypriots Speak their own dialect of Greek, aswell as Standard Greek. Thyere are a few ways to say this.   I would use Ti kaneis may sound like Di Ganeis   Don't forg … et that many people in Cyprus are Turks, speaking Turkish...But I can't tell you how they would say how are you. Cyprus, an island nation off the coast of Turkey, has the official languages of Greek and Turkish. Because of the division, Greek is spoken largely in the southern part of th … e island and Turkish in the northern part.