A rash is a noticeable change in the texture or color of the skin. The skin may become itchy, bumpy, chapped, scaly, or otherwise irritated. Rashes are caused by a wide range of conditions, including allergies, medication, cosmetics, and various diseases. Other types of rashes include: 1  eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joint
A rash means some change has affected the skin. Rashes are generally caused by skin irritation, which can have many causes. A rash is generally a minor problem that may go away with home treatment. In some cases a rash does not go away or the skin may become so irritated that medical care is needed. In adults and older children, rashes are often caused by contact with a substance that irritates the skin (contact dermatitis).
Rash facts. 1  Rash is not a specific diagnosis. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes. 5  Rashes lasting more than a few days that are unexplained should be evaluated by a doctor. Rash facts. 1  Rash is not a specific diagnosis. 2  Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 3  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 4  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral
Rash. A person with a generalized rash has a rash that covers most of the body, or has a rash in several locations on the body. A person with a localized rash has a rash that is present in only one location on the body. Common causes of generalized rash include viral infections and allergic reactions. Common causes of localized rash include skin sensitivity and bacterial infections. 
Heat rash (prickly heat) is a red or pink rash usually found on body areas covered by clothing. It can develop when the sweat ducts become blocked and swell and often leads to discomfort and itching. Heat rash is most common in babies, but it may affect adults in hot, humid climates. Heat rash looks like dots or tiny pimples. In young children, heat rash can appear on the head, neck, and shoulders. The rash areas can get irritated by clothing or scratching, and, in rare cases, a secondary skin infection may develop.
The word  rash  means a change in the color and texture of skin that usually causes an outbreak of red patches or bumps on the skin. In common usage of the term, a rash can refer to many different skin conditions. A rash can be caused, directly or indirectly, by a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection. Doctors use specific terms to describe rashes. A macular rash refers to flat, small red patches on the skin, while a papular rash refers to small raised red bumps. If both rash symptoms and signs are present, a rash is called maculopapular.
A rash is an inflammatory reaction of the skin. Rashes can be caused by a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Rashes can affect a small area of the skin or the full body and occur in all age groups and populations. Rashes vary greatly in appearance, extent and severity, depending on the underlying cause. Rashes can be red, white, purple or silver in color, and raised, bumpy or flat in texture.
A rash may be localized in one part of the body, or affect all the skin. Rashes may cause the skin to change color, itch, become warm, bumpy, chapped, dry, cracked or blistered, swell, and may be painful. The causes, and therefore treatments for rashes, vary widely. For example, the rash in measles is an erythematous, morbilliform, maculopapular rash that begins a few days after the fever starts. It classically starts at the head, and spreads downwards.