Available by prescription, mometasone furoate ointment is used to relieve inflammation and itching caused by various skin problems, such as dermatitis, psoriasis, and eczema. It belongs to a group of medications known as topical steroids and is used to treat inflammation and itching due to a wide variety of skin conditions, such as eczema, psoriasis, dermatitis, and allergic reactions.
Mometasone furoate is used in the treatment of inflammatory skin disorders (such as eczema and psoriasis), allergic rhinitis (such as hay fever), asthma for patients unresponsive to less potent corticosteroids, and penile phimosis. 
Mometasone furoate cream is a type of steroid and works to treat these and other skin problems by reducing inflammation and suppressing an overactive immune system. The cream is applied to the affected areas of the skin once daily. 
Mometasone furoate cream is prescribed to treat a variety of skin problems, such as dermatitis, poison ivy, and eczema. Mometasone furoate cream (Elocon ®) is a prescription skin medication used to treat inflammation and itching due to a wide variety of conditions. Some of these conditions include but are not limited to: Mometasone furoate cream is part of a group of medications known as glucocorticoids, which are a type of corticosteroid (or steroid for short).
Mometasone furoate ointment is part of a group of medications known as glucocorticoids, which are a type of corticosteroid (or steroid for short). Although glucocorticoids have numerous effects in the body, they are used mostly for their anti-inflammatory or immune-suppressing properties. Mometasone furoate is approved to treat any skin condition that is responsive to corticosteroids. This medicine comes in three forms, including a cream, an ointment, and a lotion. The ointment is greasier, while the lotion and cream are easier and less messy to apply.
Uses. This medication is used to treat skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, allergies, and rash. Mometasone decreases swelling (inflammation), itching, and redness. Mometasone is a medium-strength corticosteroid. This medication is available in several forms including cream, ointment, and lotion (solution)
Mometasone furoate ointment (Elocon ®) is a prescription skin medication used to treat inflammation and itching due to a wide variety of conditions. Mometasone furoate is approved to treat any skin condition that is responsive to corticosteroids. This medicine comes in three forms, including a cream, an ointment, and a lotion. The ointment is greasier, while the lotion and cream are easier and less messy to apply.
Mometasone is a topical (for the skin) steroid. It reduces the actions of chemicals in the body that cause inflammation, redness, and swelling. Mometasone topical is used to treat the inflammation and itching caused by a number of skin conditions such as allergic reactions, eczema, and psoriasis. Mometasone topical may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide
Mometasone furoate ointment, 0.1%, may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older, although the safety and efficacy of drug use for longer than 3 weeks have not been established (see PRECAUTIONS-Pediatric Use). Mometasone Furoate Ointment USP, 0.1%, contains mometasone furoate, USP for dermatologic use. Mometasone furoate is a synthetic corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory activity.