Pili are the fine hair like projections present on the bacterial cell surface. Only one or few pili are present on the cell surface. They are genetically determined, and are u … sed for attachment in case of pathogenic bacteria. 
Pili and fimbriae are structurally similar to flagella and are composed of one or a few proteins arranged in a helical fashion. Figure 2-49 shows pili isolated from Neisseria gonorrhea. Each protein subunit assembles on the growing structure at the tip, as is the case with flagella. Figure 2.49 Pili and fimbriae. The pili shown in this micrograph are those of Neisseria gonorrhea with Tobacco Mosaic virus (the thicker structures) added as a size reference. The width of the Tobacco Mosaic virus is 0.018 µm.
A pilus (Latin for 'hair'; plural: pili) is a hairlike appendage found on the surface of many bacteria. The terms pilus and fimbria (Latin for 'fringe'; plural: fimbriae) can be used interchangeably, although some researchers reserve the term pilus for the appendage required for bacterial conjugation. Movement produced by type IV pili is typically jerky, and so it is called twitching motility, as distinct from other forms of bacterial motility, such as motility produced by flagella. However, some bacteria, for example Myxococcus xanthus, exhibit gliding motility.
Above: a pilus projecting from the surface of a Gram negative bacterial cell. 'Pilus' is Latin for 'hair' (plural pili) and describes not so much hair-like bacterial appendages, but thin rod-like appendages that some bacteria have. For example, one function of pili is adhesion to surfaces-thus bacteria inside the human intestine may produce pili in order to adhere to the host's cells and only swarmer cells may produce them. Swarmer cells are dispersal stages, they swim off to find new surfaces to colonise.
Pili and fimbriae are known as filamentous appendages, which are used mainly for adhesion. These structures are extremely fine appendages arising from the surface of bacteria and are firstly described by hoodwink and van Iterson. These are thinner than flagella and are not used in motility. Unlike the flagella, pili are not used in motility. Special type of pili called ‘sex pili’ is required in the process of bacterial conjugation. A pilus makes a cytoplasmic concoction called ‘conjugation tube’ with the host cell. This tube is then used to transfer genetic materials from the donor cell to recipient cell.
The long conjugation pilus enables conjugation in Gram-negative bacteria. 4. The pilus has a shaft composed of a protein called pilin with an adhesive tip structure at the end having a shape corresponding to that of specific receptors on a host cell. 5. The same bacterium may switch the adhesive tips of the pili in order to adhere to different types of cells and evade immune defenses. 6. 
Pili are the fine hair like projections present on the bacterial cell surface. Only one or few pili are present on the cell surface. They are genetically determined, and are used for attachment in case of pathogenic bacteria. 
Medical Definition of PILUS. : a hair or a structure (as on the surface of a bacterial cell) resembling a hair. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin. First Known Use: 1760. pilus. noun pi·lus \ˈpī-ləs\. plural pi·li \-ˌlī\
Some pili, called type IV pili, generate motile forces. The external ends of the pili adhere to a solid substrate, either the surface to which the bacteria are attached or to other bacteria, and when the pilus contracts, it pulls the bacteria forward, like a grappling hook. Movement produced by type IV pili is typically jerky, and so it is called twitching motility, as distinct from other forms of bacterial motility, such as motility produced by flagella. However, some bacteria, for example Myxococcus xanthus, exhibit gliding motility.