The Impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles radically altered the Geography of Europe. The Treaty had clauses that resulted in areas of land being taken from Germany. The following maps illustrate the scale of these losses: From these maps it is clear that Germany suffered large territorial losses.
The Versailles Treaty was one of the products of the conference. The Germans believed that the treaty would be based on President Wilson’s Fourteen Points, which offered a framework for a just peace, and the hopes that any future international tension would be prevented. However, the Big Three [France, Britain, Italy], were determined to punish Germany for the war, and so they did. This treaty held Germany solemnly responsible for WWI [although they definitely were not!].
World War I officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. Negotiated among the Allied powers with little participation by Germany, its 15 parts and 440 articles reassigned German boundaries and assigned liability for reparations. Treaty of Versailles Ends World War I. German resentment over harsh peace terms leads to a rise in nationalist sentiment and the eventual rise to power of Adolf Hitler.
Hang the Kaiser! Popular British newspaper slogan during the negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on 28 June 1919 - the date was the fifth anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife, the event which sparked the outbreak of World War I.
Confidence votes 59. The treaty assessed responsibility for the war. Germany was forced to take full responsibility for the conflict. the treaty forced Germany to limit the size of its military and they had to return conquered lands to France and Russia. Germany violated the Treaty of Versailles by rebuilding their military. A part of the treaty was that Germany was not allowed to have a large military because of their aggress … ive actions in WWI. They also violated the treaty by invading Poland on September 1, 1939
Germany signed the Versailles Treaty under severe protest. The USA Congress refused to ratify the treaty. Many people in France and Britain were angry that there was no trial of the Kaiser or the other war leaders. The treaty devastated Germany politically and economically. However, the Big Three [France, Britain, Italy], were determined to punish Germany for the war, and so they did. This treaty held Germany solemnly responsible for WWI [although they definitely were not!].
The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies. The Treaty of Versailles radically altered the Geography of Europe. The Treaty had clauses that resulted in areas of land being taken from Germany. The following maps illustrate the scale of these losses: From these maps it is clear that Germany suffered large territorial losses.
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. 