The immature peas (and in snow peas the tender pod as well) are used as a vegetable, fresh, frozen or canned; varieties of the species typically called field peas are grown to produce dry peas like the split pea shelled from the matured pod. The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae such as the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), the cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and the seeds from several species of Lathyrus.
Pea is a frost-hardy, cool-season vegetable that can be grown throughout most of the United States, wherever a cool season of sufficient duration exists. For gardening purposes, peas may be classified as garden peas (English peas), snap peas and snow peas (sugar peas). Snow peas are meant to be harvested as flat, tender pods before the peas inside develop at all. The Southern pea (cowpea) is an entirely different warm-season vegetable that is planted and grown in the same manner as beans.
Pea pods are botanically fruit, since they contain seeds and developed from the ovary of a (pea) flower. The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae such as the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), the cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and the seeds from several species of Lathyrus. P. sativum is an annual plant, with a life cycle of one yea
We encourage you to try several different kinds and found out which variety of pea is your favorite. Here is a list of some common varieties of peas, along with plant and pod descriptions, etc... Please keep in mind that the number of days until ready to be picked is usually counted after the seeds have germinated. Pea seeds take around a week to germinate in warm soil and can take up to a month in cool soil. Garden Peas-These are traditional varieties of peas, the pod is inedible, the peas must be removed from the pod before eating. 
33,124 pages on this wiki. The Peas-in-a-Pod is one of the toys owned by Bonnie Anderson, who appears in Toy Story 3 and Toy Story Toons. Their names are Peatey, Peatrice, and Peanelope. Toy Story 3: The Video Game. The Peas-in-a-Pod make their appearance with the rest of Bonnie's toys as they are around a game board set up by Hamm to tell them about the journey in the third film.
The pea is most commonly the small spherical seed or the seed-pod of the pod fruit Pisum sativum. The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae such as the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), the cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and the seeds from several species of Lathyrus.
Pea Pod is the third plant obtained in Wild West in Plants vs. Zombies 2. It is a peashooting plant, and the number of peas it shoots at a time corresponds with the amount of heads it has at that moment. 1 If a Pea Pod is damaged and the player plants another one on it, its health will be fully restored. 2  Regardless of what stage it was in when defeated, Intensive Carrot will always revive the Pea Pod to its on-planting stage. 3  Same thing happens to Potato Mine, Sun-shroom, and Strawburst.
Trivia. 1  Peas-in-a-Pod are based on one of the Vegimals, stuffed toys resembling fruits and vegetables with faces, produced by Freemountain Toys in the late 1970s. 2  Although they appear in Hawaiian Vacation, they don't seem to appear in any of the other Toy Story Toons episodes so far. Toy Story 3: The Video Game. The Peas-in-a-Pod make their appearance with the rest of Bonnie's toys as they are around a game board set up by Hamm to tell them about the journey in the third film.
peas in a pod with names. Handsculpted pea pods were cast in beautiful fine pewter and then filled with a freshwater pearl pea- one for each child. Comes with a sterling silver name disc, handstamped with the names of your little ones! Sterling disc sizes: 5/8 for one name, 3/4 for 2-3 names and 7/8 for 4-5 names. 
Noun. 1. pea pod-husk of a pea; edible in some garden peas. peasecod. pea-the fruit or seed of a pea plant. cod, pod, seedcase-the vessel that contains the seeds of a plant (not the seeds themselves). 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 