The biceps curl is a fundamental exercise targeting the biceps muscles, the muscles on the front of your upper arm. No other muscles are directly involved in a biceps curl, although several muscles assist during the movement. Your biceps muscle contracts both concentrically and eccentrically during the biceps curl. When you curl the weight up, the biceps muscle creates enough force to overcome the external resistance. During this phase of concentric contraction, the muscle fibers shorten, pulling at the elbow joint and lifting your forearm.
The biceps curl is an exercise for the elbow flexors, which comprise the biceps brachii, brachialis and brachioradialis. You can emphasize each of these muscles by using a variety of grips. It is best to do biceps curls using dumbbells to ensure the elbow flexors of each arm are being worked to the same extent. Both heads insert at the tuberosity of the radius, or inner forearm bone, and at the lacertus fibrosus of the fascia of the forearm. The biceps brachii acts to flex the elbow and supinate the forearm. You can emphasize the biceps brachii by utilizing a supinated, or underhand, grip while doing the biceps curl.
Elbows. The biceps are the muscles that bend your elbows and lift the dumbbells. The biceps begin on the scapula and end on the lower arm bone. Since the biceps cross the elbows, the elbow joint is used during the supinated dumbbell curl. The biceps shorten as the muscle contracts and when the muscle shortens the elbow flexes. 
The biceps are a grouping of muscle fibers that expand and contract one way. When you do a bicep curl, the muscles are lengthened under tension. There are thee phases to … the curl. The first phase is a slow lowering (eccentric-lengthening) of the weight down to a parallel positioning with the ground. This should be a controlled 3-5 second movement. 1 The Proper Way to do a Bicep Curl Bicep curls are one of the first exercises taken on by individuals interested in weight training. 2  Also known as strength training, this type of exercise focuses entirely on m….
Concentration Curls Guide. Main Muscle: Biceps. 1  Sit down on a flat bench with one dumbbell in front of you between your legs. 2  Your legs should be spread with your knees bent and feet on the floor. 3  Use your right arm to pick the dumbbell up. 4  Place the back of your right upper arm on the top of your inner right thigh. 
Biceps and Joint Mechanics. The biceps is a two-headed muscle located between the shoulder and the elbow on the front of the arm. It attaches to part of the shoulder called the scapula, crosses the elbow and connects to the upper forearm. When you flex your biceps, the muscle shortens, enabling you to bend your elbow. 
The biceps are a grouping of muscle fibers that expand and contract one way. When you do a bicep curl, the muscles are lengthened under tension. There are thee phases to … the curl. The first phase is a slow lowering (eccentric-lengthening) of the weight down to a parallel positioning with the ground. This should be a controlled 3-5 second movement. It should burn but not injure. 1 The Proper Way to do a Bicep Curl Bicep curls are one of the first exercises taken on by individuals interested in weight training.
Also, when you use dumbbells, it is best you do the biceps curls unilaterally, meaning one side at a time. By doing so, you can focus on one side at a time and better stimulate the muscles. Both heads insert at the tuberosity of the radius, or inner forearm bone, and at the lacertus fibrosus of the fascia of the forearm. The biceps brachii acts to flex the elbow and supinate the forearm. You can emphasize the biceps brachii by utilizing a supinated, or underhand, grip while doing the biceps curl.
Target and Assister Muscles. Your biceps are comprised of two muscles that extend from your scapula to your forearm and run along the front of your upper arm. They are responsible for arm flexion; that is, when you bend your elbow to bring your hand to your shoulder during a dumbbell curl. A variation on the supinated curl is the preacher curl. In this exercise, your upper arm is supported by an angled bench. This keeps the upper body stabilized to hone in on the biceps. Rest your upper arm on the back of a workout bench that is set to an angle. The top of the bench should hit your arm pit.
The brachialis is a muscle located underneath the lower part of the biceps brachii. This muscle originates at the distal half of the anterior humerus, or arm bone, and inserts at the coronoid process and the tuberosity of the ulna, or outer forearm bone. Both heads insert at the tuberosity of the radius, or inner forearm bone, and at the lacertus fibrosus of the fascia of the forearm. The biceps brachii acts to flex the elbow and supinate the forearm. You can emphasize the biceps brachii by utilizing a supinated, or underhand, grip while doing the biceps curl.