Six seats had the more reasonable minimum weight limit of 40 pounds. This makes sense because the growth of children between 30 and 40 pounds occurs at a slower rate than when they are infants. An average 40-pound child is typically closer to age five, a much safer age to consider making a transition to booster use. And many booster seats that can be used in both a highback and backless configuration have a higher minimum weight limit of 40 pounds when used in the backless mode.
Age 2 up to at least Age 5: Forward-facing car seat. When children outgrow their rear-facing seats they should be buckled in a forward-facing car seat, in the back seat, until at least age 5 or when they reach the upper weight or height limit of their particular seat. Check the seat’s owner’s manual and/or labels on the seat for weight and height limits. Make sure children are properly buckled up in a car seat, booster seat, or seat belt, whichever is appropriate for their age, height and weight. Birth up to Age 2: Rear
4 - 7 Years. Keep your child in a forward-facing car seat with a harness and tether until he or she reaches the top height or weight limit allowed by the car seat’s manufacturer. Once your child outgrows the forward-facing car seat with a harness, it’s time to travel in a booster seat, but still in the back seat. 
Age 5 up until seat belts fit properly: Booster seat. Once children outgrow their forward-facing seat, (by reaching the upper height or weight limit of their seat), they should be buckled in a belt positioning booster seat until seat belts fit properly. Make sure children are properly buckled up in a car seat, booster seat, or seat belt, whichever is appropriate for their age, height and weight. Birth up to Age 2: Rear-facing car seat.
All children whose weight or height is above the forward-facing limit for their car seat should use a belt-positioning booster seat until the vehicle seat belt fits properly, typically when they have reached 4 feet 9 inches in height and are between 8 and 12 years of age. 
All states and territories require child safety seats for infants and children fitting specific criteria, but requirements vary based on age, weight and height. Often, this happens in three stages: infants use rear-facing infant seats; toddlers use forward-facing child safety seats; and older children use booster seats. 1 The only states lacking booster seat laws are Florida and South Dakota. 2  3 states (California, New Jersey and Oklahoma) require children younger than two be in a rear-facing child seat. 3  5 states (California, Florida, Louisiana, New Jersey and New York) have seat belt requirements for school buses.
You need to use a forward-facing child car seat until your child weighs at least 18 kilograms (40. .). This is a minimum requirement. It's best to keep your child in a forward-facing child car seat until they reach the manufacturer's weight and height limits. It's best to keep your child in a rear-facing child car seat until they reach the manufacturer's weight or height limits. When your child outgrows the maximum height and weight of their infant rear-facing car seat, they can move to a larger convertible rear-facing seat until they're ready to ride facing forward.
Booster Seats. In California, young children must be properly restrained in a child safety seat until the child is six years old or weighs 60 pounds, according to the California Highway Patrol (chp.ca.gov). Booster seats must be used with both a lap and a shoulder belt. 
Most state laws are too lax. To keep your child safe: Use a car seat with a harness for as long as possible, and keep it rear-facing for as long as possible (until your child reaches the manufacturer's height or weight limit). Keep your older child in a booster seat until at least 8 years of age and 57 inches tall. Have your child ride in a rear seat until age 13. Source: Safety belt and child restraint laws compiled by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS).
Stephanie Tombrello. child passenger safety specialist. You can safely switch your child to a booster seat if she's at least 4 years old and she weighs 40 pounds or more or has grown too tall for her car seat (when her shoulders are higher than the top set of harness-strap slots in the car seat's back). 