The amygdala is an important structure located in the anterior temporal lobe within the uncus. The amygdala makes reciprocal connections with many brain regions (figure 32) including the thalamus, hypothalamus, septal nuclei, orbital frontal cortex, cingulate gyrus, hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, and brain stem. 
Located near the hippocampus in the frontal portion of the temporal lobes, the amygdala: 1  are invovled in the formation and storage of information related to emotional events. 2  facilitate long-term memory formation. 3  convert and retain learning from pleasure responses. The hippocampus is located in the medial temporal lobe. The cells in the hippocampus are hypersensitive to oxygen loss or lower blood flow in the case of a brain injury. The hippocampus: 1  is responsible for memory creation and retention. 2  helps us create new memories. 3  helps us orient ourselves in our surroundings.
By Regina Bailey. Amygdala: The amygdala is an almond shaped mass of nuclei (mass of cells) located deep within the temporal lobe of the brain. It is a limbic system structure that is involved in many of our emotions and motivations, particularly those that are related to survival. Scientific studies of the amygdala have led to the discovery of the location of neurons in the amygdala that are responsible for fear conditioning. Fear conditioning is an associative learning process by which we learn through repeated experiences to fear something.
THE AMYGDALA AND ITS ALLIES. The amygdala is an almond-shaped structure in the brain; its name comes from the Greek word for “almond”. As with most other brain structures, you actually have two amygdalae (shown in red in the drawing here). Each amygdala is located close to the hippocampus, in the frontal portion of the temporal lobe. Your amygdalae are essential to your ability to feel certain emotions and to perceive them in other people. This includes fear and the many changes that it causes in the body. 
The amygdala is an almond-shaped section of nervous tissue located in the temporal (side) lobe of the brain. There are two amygdalae per person normally, with one amygdala on each side of brain. The amygdala is a section of the brain that is responsible for detecting fear and preparing for emergency events. This article discusses the amygdala, its functions, and its role in our perception of fear and other emotions.
Related areas. Besides the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and amygdala, there are other areas in the structures near to the limbic system that are intimately connected to it: The cingulate gyrus is the part of the cerebrum that lies closest to the limbic system, just above the corpus collosum. The part of the limbic system shown is that which is along the left side of the thalamus (hippocampus and amygdala) and just under the front of the thalamus (hypothalamus): Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a small part of the brain located just below the thalamus on both sides of the third ventricle.
The amygdala is involved in autonomic responses associated with fear and hormonal secretions. Scientific studies of the amygdala have led to the discovery of the location of neurons in the amygdala that are responsible for fear conditioning. Fear conditioning is an associative learning process by which we learn through repeated experiences to fear something.
The amygdala is an important part of the brain, which assists in responses of fear and pleasure. The abnormal working of the amygdaloid body can lead to various clinical conditions including developmental delay, depression, anxiety, and autism. The amygdaloid body is also known as the amygdaloid nucleus. This is an oval structure located within the temporal lobe of the human brain. The structure is a small part of the brain and is closely associated with the hypothalamus, cingulated gyrus, and hippocampus.
The amygdalae (singular: amygdala; /əˈmɪɡdələ/ ; also corpus amygdaloideum; Latin, from Greek ἀμυγδαλή, amygdalē, 'almond', 'tonsil'), are two almond-shaped groups of nuclei located deep and medially within the temporal lobes of the brain in complex vertebrates, including humans. 