Making the world better, one answer at a time. During skeletal muscle contraction calcium ions expose myosin binding sites on to the actin. When a nerve sends a signal to a muscle to do some action the release of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction triggers calcium to be released into the cytoplasm. At rest, the cell has a low concentration of calcium.
Yes, calcium is necessary for the release of neurotransmitters that cause a muscle to initiate a contraction. Calcium is also needed to bind to the troponin-tropomyosin comple … x causing it to change position so the myosin head can attach to the actin molecule which results in
As you can see, muscle contraction is regulated by the level of calcium ions in the cytoplasm. In skeletal muscle, calcium ions work at the level of actin (actin-regulated contraction). They move the troponin-tropomyosin complex off the binding sites, allowing actin and myosin to interact.
(8) The calcium ions result in movement of troponin and tropomyosin on their thin filaments, and this enables the myosin molecule heads to “grab and swivel” their way along the thin filament. This is the driving force of muscle contraction.
Vertebrate striated muscle contraction is controlled (regulated) by the action of the proteins troponin and tropomyosin on the actin filaments. Nervous stimulation causes a depolarisation of the muscle membrane (sarcolemma) which triggers the release of calcium ions from the sarcoplasmic reticulum.
Muscle contraction is regulated by calcium ions, which will change thin filament into an activated state by binding to troponin. The binding of calcium to the troponin changes it's shape so the myosin binding sites on the actin (thin filament) are exposed.
During contraction of a muscle, calcium ions bind to... the actin myofilament. the troponin molecule. the tropomyosin molecule. the sarcoplasmic reticulum. the sarcolemma. 2. The bond between the actin and myosin head is broken when... an ATP molecule binds to the myosin head.