Some plants such as catmint (Nepeta) will rebloom after the pruning. Many spring-flowering perennials can be cut back to one-half the size of the plant so that the garden looks well kept and green. The cutting of the plants promotes fresh new growth that makes the plant look more attractive. As a general rule, plants that are cut back after they have flowered have regrowth that remains shorter than the normal mature height of the plant. Cutting back perennials can control the flowering time and height of the plant. When cutting a plant back, buds, flowers and leaves may all be removed.
The gardens around my home in Richmond, VT, include a large vegetable garden, seasonal greenhouse, cutting garden, perennial gardens, rock garden, shade garden, berry plantings, lots of container plants and a meadow garden. There's no place I'd rather be than in the garden. Dahlias are a staple of my cutting garden. 
1 If a perennial looks good in the fall, leave it alone. 2  You’ll probably cut back other plants as the weather cools and they begin to die back. 3  Once you’ve cut back your perennials for the season, add 2-3 inches of mulch after the ground freezes. Sure, there are a few perennials that’ll weather winter better if they keep their foliage, but if you trim your black-eyed Susans in fall, the garden police won’t show up at your door. If you wait until spring to cut back your daylilies, it’ll just be a little more work for you later.
Pinks (Dianthus) are another perennial that can wait for springtime cutting. In warmer climates, these plants will give you beautiful blooms in spring and fall, and they keep their looks throughout winter. Springtime is the right time to cut back your butterflybush (Buddleja davidii), too. You can cut this shrubby perennial back when you start to see new growth at the base of the plant, which can happen as early as February in some parts of the country. Sure, there are a few perennials that’ll weather winter better if they keep their foliage, but if you trim your black-eyed Susans in fall, the garden police won’t show up at your door. If you wait until spring to cut back your daylilies, it’ll just be a little more work for you later.
Currently, I have my own company called Johnnie Brook Creative. The gardens around my home in Richmond, VT, include a large vegetable garden, seasonal greenhouse, cutting garden, perennial gardens, rock garden, shade garden, berry plantings, lots of container plants and a meadow garden. There's no place I'd rather be than in the garden. This garden is designed for a 7-foot by 7-foot planting area. Each of the 14 sections measures 1-foot deep and 3-feet wide. In most cases, we put 6 plants in each section (about 2 plants per 1-foot x 1-foot area). The sunflowers were not planted as densely.
Perennials: cutting back. Perennials are not demanding plants, but trimming them after flowering finishes in autumn helps improve their appearance and flowering. However, you can leave some stems over winter to provide homes and food for wildlife, and then trim back in spring. Cutting back herbaceous perennials during autumn restores order and tidiness to the garden. However, this removes potential winter interest, in the form of height and structure, plus food and habitat sources for wildlife.
A North American prairie native, blazing star bears spikes of white, rose, or purple flowers that attract butterflies. It's an excellent plant to add vertical accent to the perennial garden, and the blooms are ideal for cutting and drying. In fact, this is one of the most maintenance-free perennials you can grow: It resists heat, drought, deer, and rabbits. It's also a blooming machine, producing flat-topped clusters of yellow, orange, red, pink, or white flowers throughout the summer. Zones 3-9. 1  Learn more about yarrow in Plant Encyclopedia!
Plant the best perennials for cut-flowers. 3. Plan ahead. Planning will help you avoid creating gaps if your scissors do get too much exercise. Draw your existing beds on paper, noting varieties, bloom times, and heights. Then pencil in the flowers you want to cut. Use bloom cycles as your guide to create a mix. 4. Mix and match. Plant a balanced mix of perennials and annuals. Your favorite perennials will come back year after year, while annuals will let you experiment. Both types make excellent cut flowers. With a designated cutting bed, you can plant and cut without worry. Select an inconspicuous location -- along a garage or in a back corner of your yard -- and be sure your cutting bed benefits from lots of sun and rich, well-drained soil -- just like your other beds.
As long as your plants are healthy and doing well, cutting back your perennials really boils down to what works best for your garden and your schedule – and doing it in both seasons just gives you more chances to get out and enjoy your garden. Sure, there are a few perennials that’ll weather winter better if they keep their foliage, but if you trim your black-eyed Susans in fall, the garden police won’t show up at your door. If you wait until spring to cut back your daylilies, it’ll just be a little more work for you later.