Natural Rodent Repellent that is safe for the environment. It is free of any harmful chemicals and made with Certified Organic Active Ingredients. Non-toxic & safe to use around children & pets. Your mouse or rat problem will be solved quickly & easily with no mess, clean up or killing. Natural Rodent Repellent creates an effective barrier to repel rats & mice. 1  100% ORGANIC – made with certified organic ingredients; no harmful chemicals. 2  Environmentally safe product; exempt from EPA registration. 3  Sprinkle once a week in and around areas where rodents are a problem, and or in areas you want to protect.
Guaranteed to work! Critter Out™ is a time proven, non-toxic, all natural way to protect your home and garden. Simply shake, spray and walk away. 1  Safe around children & pets. 2  Industrial strength. 3  No chemicals or poisons. 4  Great lemon/peppermint scent. 5  100% all natural ingredients. 6  Eliminates the need for poisons in sensitive areas.
Natural Rodent Repellent. Natural Rodent Repellent effectively deters rats & mice from protected areas. These 100% organic granules can be sprinkled anywhere to create an irritant scent barrier that keeps mice and rats away. Natural Rodent Repellent creates an effective barrier to repel rats & mice. 1  100% ORGANIC – made with certified organic ingredients; no harmful chemicals. 2  Environmentally safe product; exempt from EPA registration. 3  Sprinkle once a week in and around areas where rodents are a problem, and or in areas you want to protect.
No matter how tight your house is, a determined rodent can still find a way inside. Outdoor Mouse Magic repellent is a perimeter mouse repellent that makes your whole house less appealing to these rodents. It contains powerful yet non-toxic essential oils of spearmint and peppermint in a base of granulated corncobs. Just sprinkle around the house or garage to keep rodents and mice away. 
Rat Control-More Than Just Rat Traps. We carry the rodent control products you need, including mice poison, called rodenticides, our ultrasonic rodent repellents, electronic mouse repellent and rat repellent products, as well as our rodent traps-our proven rat traps and best mouse traps. Humane Mice Control. We also carry Humane Mouse Traps for catch-and-release mice control. These rodent traps allow for mice control without killing the mice. What makes these some of the best mouse traps is that you don't touch the mice to release them.
Pin it. Ah, Summer. We love you, but we don't love all the critters that come with you. From mosquitoes and ants, to fruit flies and rodents, here's a roundup of our best posts on non-toxic bug and critter control —organized alphabetically by pest for your convenience!
Shake-Away's indoor Mouse Repellent Packs are the company's first product specifically created for indoor use. Our Mouse Repellent Packs contain a proprietary, organic blend of natural oils that is unpleasant to mice and sends them packing. An easy, safe and effective way to rid your space of mice. 
Learn more about our innovative mice control and rat control products to help you with your rodent problems. Don't risk your family's health; buy effective rat traps and the best mouse traps from Victor ® . Humane Mice Control. We also carry Humane Mouse Traps for catch-and-release mice control. These rodent traps allow for mice control without killing the mice. What makes these some of the best mouse traps is that you don't touch the mice to release them.
traps that are designed to stick or snap prey in place are some of the less humane rodent repellent products on the market but shake away calls itself the most effective and easy to use mouse repellent in the industry today part of what makes this indoor mice solution so simple is the organic non toxic formula that s made from the scent of a predator of a particular pest 