Artist of the Day: Yellena James. Yellena James is a Sarajevo-born artist and graphic designer who lives with her musician husband and two cats in Oregon. During the civil war in Sarajevo, Yellena had to sneak past numerous snipers to attend a high school that was dedicated to the arts, where it was, she says, that she really grew passionate about her own art.
Yellena James – Imaginary Ecosystem. Yellena James is an artist and graphic designer born in 1977 in Sarajevo. At the age of 18 she moved to the United States. She gained her BA in Graphic Design and Painting at University of Central Florida. Yellena creates multi-layered compositions of microscopic worlds
REUBENMILLER: Please tell us a little bit about yourself. Yellena James: I was born in Sarajevo. I went to art school there for a couple of years during the civil war. When I was 18, I moved to the States and went to UCF for my graphic design/painting degree. Besides exhibits and taking care of my Etsy shop, I also do a lot of freelance illustration work. Exclusive Interview: Yellena James. We've been long-time fans of the talented Yellena James. Her richly textured works feature intricate details that take their cue from nature. She's already been featured on RM more than once. We knew an interview with one of our favorite artists was way overdue.
Yellena James Interview. With such a unique and delightful style of art, we, without question, wanted to know more about Yellana James. James is one of two artists to be featured in madelife’s November and December showcases. James, originally from Sarajevo, has a lifetime of exposure and encouragement in the creative world. She feeds off the creative energy authentic to the culture of Portland, Oregon, where she currently resides. This is the first time James has the opportunity to showcase her work here in Colorado
Yellena James grew up and attended art school in Sarajevo, BiH. At the age of 18 she moved to the U.S. After gaining her BA in painting and graphic design at UCF, she eventually made her way to Portland, OR. 
James Bond was born on January 4, 1900. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: William Howe. 361,532 Contributions. I was born a Catholic and have never wavered in my faith in over 70 years. I had 12 years of Catholic education in my youth-both primary and secondary schools. I went on to teach science and theology in a local Catholic school for 13 years and, although retired, I continue with ministries in the Church. James Warren was born on January 4, 1953. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs.
Yellena James grew up and attended art school in Sarajevo. At the age of 18 she moved to the U.S. After gaining her BA in painting and graphic design at UCF, she eventually made her way to Portland, OR. 
Yellena James was born in Sarajevo and went to art school there during the civil war. She relocated to the US when she was 18 to study graphic design and illustration. She is now based out of Portland, OR. She has shown her work mostly on the west coast and maintains an Etsy shop where you can buy prints of her work.