by Leslaw Fiutowski. Interpreters convert spoken or sign language statements from one language to another. Interpreting involves listening to, understanding and memorising content in the original 'source' language, then reproducing statements, questions and speeches in a different 'target' language. 
To explain what interpreters do it is worthwhile to start by discussing the differences between interpreting and translation. (Please note: more information about interpreting and technical translation is available at Modes of Interpreting and Interpreting vs. Translation. In other words, what an interpreter does is change words into meaning, and then change meaning back into words -- of a different language. So interpreting is basically paraphrasing.
Interpreters convert information from one spoken language into another—or, in the case of sign language interpreters, between spoken language and sign language. The goal of an interpreter is to have people hear the interpretation as if it were the original. Interpreters and translators aid communication by converting message or text from one language into another language. Although some people do both, interpreting and translating are different professions: interpreters work with spoken communication, and translators work with written communication.
interpreter. A high-level programming language translator that translates and runs the program at the same time. It converts one program statement into machine language, executes it, and then proceeds to the next statement. 
Definition: In computing, an interpreter is a computer program that reads the source code of another computer program and executes that program. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In computer science, an interpreter is a computer program that directly executes, i.e. performs, instructions written in a programming or scripting language, without previously compiling them into a machine language program. An interpreter generally uses one of the following strategies for program execution: A self-interpreter is a programming language interpreter written in a programming language which can interpret itself; an example is a BASIC interpreter written in BASIC.
noun. An interpreter for the deaf at a church service. An interpreter for the deaf at a church service. The definition of an interpreter is a person or a computer program that translates from one language to another so that people who speak different languages can communicate. interpreter. 1  a person who interprets; specif., a person whose work is translating a foreign language orally, as in a conversation between people speaking different languages. 2  a computer program that translates and executes, statement by statement, a program written in a high-level language.
Interpretation or interpreting is the facilitating of oral or sign-language communication, either simultaneously or consecutively, between users of different languages. Translation studies is the systematic study of the theory, description and application of interpretation and translation. 
The most common is to compile the program; the other method is to pass the program through an interpreter. An interpreter translates high-level instructions into an intermediate form, which it then executes. In contrast, a compiler translates high-level instructions directly into machine language. Compiled programs generally run faster than interpreted programs. The advantage of an interpreter, however, is that it does not need to go through the compilation stage during which machine instructions are generated.
The terms  interpreted language  or  compiled language  signify that the canonical implementation of that language is an interpreter or a compiler, respectively. A high level language is ideally an abstraction independent of particular implementations. A self-interpreter is a programming language interpreter written in a programming language which can interpret itself; an example is a BASIC interpreter written in BASIC.