The California Environmental Protection Agency has led California in creating and implementing some of the most progressive environmental policies in America, from negotiating the Global Warming Solutions Act (AB 32), to launching the Green Chemistry Initiative.
The view is obscured by smoke from heavy industry. The image was taken as part of the then-new EPA’s program (1972-1977) to document subjects of environmental concern. (AP Photo/U.S.
Attacks on the Clean Air Act. Adding global warming to the emissions limited by the Clean Air Act has caused considerable controversy. Numerous attempts are being made in the U.S. Congress and fossil fuel industries to stop or limit the EPA from acting on its findings (see Attack on the Clean Air Act).
Scenes like the ones shown in this gallery are why Nixon, one of the left's most despised figures, created the Environmental Protection Agency.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) was officially formed December 2, 1970 as a result of a law passed by the Nixon administration. The result was a defined branch of the federal government that would be responsible for maintaining clean air, land, and water and regulating pollutants in the environment.
The Environmental Protection Agency was formed in December 1970 after President Nixon submitted a plan to Congress calling for the creation of the agency. Before the EPA was created, our nation had no central authority overseeing the protection of the environment. The EPA writes and enforces rules governing human health and the environment and is currently led by Administrator Lisa Jackson.
AFTER-This photo taken April 12 shows today’s view down Clark Avenue from West 13th Street in Cleveland, Ohio. The same view (in photo at top of page) was photographed in 1973 for the “Documerica” program (1972-1977) instituted by the new Environmental Protection Agency, to document subjects of environmental concern.
With the reassignment of environmental programs and the formation of a comprehensive agency to deal with them, the U.S. was well on its way to effective environmental policy. In the next section, we'll learn about some well-known EPA programs.