Esophageal cancer (or oesophageal cancer) is cancer arising from the esophagus —the food pipe that runs between the throat and the stomach. Symptoms often include difficulty in swallowing and weight loss.
Even if your oesophageal cancer cannot be cured, you may need treatment with chemotherapy or radiotherapy to relieve your symptoms and give you a better quality of life for as long as possible. This is most likely if your cancer is blocking your oesophagus and making it difficult to swallow.
For patients with locally-advanced esophageal cancer, a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy (see below) may be used before surgery to shrink the tumor. For people who cannot have surgery, the best treatment option is often a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Treating oesophageal cancer. This section tells you about the different treatments for oesophageal cancer. It includes information about staging and how your doctor decides which treatment you need. There is information about surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, chemoradiation, biological therapy, what happens at follow up appointments, and research. 1  Oesophageal cancer stages.
Esophageal cancer is cancer that occurs in the esophagus — a long, hollow tube that runs from your throat to your stomach. Your esophagus carries food you swallow to your stomach to be digested. Esophageal cancer usually begins in the cells that line the inside of the esophagus.
You are most likely to have radiotherapy on its own for advanced oesophageal cancer. This may help to control the cancer and relieve symptoms. Radiotherapy itself is painless to have, but it can make your throat very sore as the course of treatment goes on. It is usual to have this treatment as an outpatient.
The most common treatment options for oesophageal cancer are surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Your doctors take many factors into account when deciding which treatments are most suitable for you, including the stage of the cancer, your general health and your level of fitness.