The other stumps me more. It's a Spanish anise-flavored liquor called Anis del Mono with a scary-looking monkey on the label. I have never heard of this before and am at a loss as to what to do with it. The only anise liquor I've had before is pastis, but this doesn't seem to be so pastis-y. Tamara writes in with a good problem-unidentified (but interesting-looking!) liquor. She says: My sister just moved and I inherited some odd liquors from her that she didn't feel like trucking across the country. One is a bottle of Palinka (Hungarian fruit brandy, this one is cherry).
Tamara, we initially were reminded of Pernod, the famous anise-flavored liquor. Anis del Mono seems like it is similar to Pernod. We went and looked it up in the CocktailDB, a good resource for liquors. They said that this is a Catalan liqueur with a limited availability in the States. It's also considered to be very good. • Anis del Mono listing at CocktailDB. There is a recipe suggestion there but we'll also throw it open to the readers. Tamara writes in with a good problem-unidentified (but interesting-looking!) liquor. She says: My sister just moved and I inherited some odd liquors from her that she didn't feel like trucking across the country. One is a bottle of Palinka (Hungarian fruit brandy, this one is cherry).
Follow anis del mono to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Tell us what you think. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Top Rated Plus.
Marie Brizard brand anisette. Anisette, or Anis, is an anise-flavored liqueur that is consumed in most Mediterranean countries, mainly in Spain, Italy, Portugal, Turkey, and France. It is colorless and, unlike some other anise-based liqueurs, contains no licorice. It is sweeter than most anise-flavoured liqueurs. True anisette is produced by means of distilling aniseed. Pastis, a similar-tasting liqueur, is made by maceration, using a combination of aniseed and licorice.
Recommend it. En la botella edicion edición especial 140 aniversario De anis Anís del mono se sustituye el rojo caracteristico característico de la etiqueta por el negro y se incorpora un chapon chapón metalico metálico con la inconfundible silueta. Del mono de rostro, humanoide dentro de la botella El consumidor Encontrara encontrará el. mismo anis anís del mono de siempre 0 persons recommended this dram. Recommend it. En la botella edicion edición especial 140 aniversario De anis Anís del mono se sustituye el rojo caracteristico característico de la etiqueta por el negro y se incorpora un chapon chapón metalico metálico con la inconfundible silueta. del mono de rostro humanoide
Refined spirit. Dry anise made with the same selection of raw materials as the Anis anís Del Mono. Dulce it differentiates itself due to its higher alcohol content and lower sugar. content 
Proprietary Catalan anise-flavored liqueur in sweet (dulce) & less sweet (seco) varieties. Considered, along with Marie Brizard anisette, to be the finest of the type. 
Related Liqueur to Anis del Mono Dulce 140 aniversario. Oops! You found this page too late !. Looks like the bottle you were looking for is unfortunately discontinued, but you may be interested in these bottles similar to the one you were looking for. 0 persons recommended this dram. Recommend it. En la botella edicion edición especial 140 aniversario De anis Anís del mono se sustituye el rojo caracteristico característico de la etiqueta por el negro y se incorpora un chapon chapón metalico metálico con la inconfundible silueta. del mono de rostro humanoide