Contaminated food or water can transmit bacteria and parasites to your body. Parasites such as Giardia lamblia and cryptosporidium can cause diarrhea. Common bacterial causes of diarrhea include campylobacter, salmonella, shigella and Escherichia coli. Diarrhea caused by bacteria and parasites can be common when traveling in developing countries and is often called traveler's diarrhea. 1  Medications. 2  Many medications can cause diarrhea. 3  The most common are antibiotics. But if the liquids from the foods you eat aren't absorbed, the result is a watery bowel movement. A number of diseases and conditions can cause diarrhea. Common causes of diarrhea include: 1  Viruses. 2  Viruses that can cause diarrhea include Norwalk virus, cytomegalovirus and viral hepatitis. 3  Rotavirus is a common cause of acute childhood diarrhea
other causes are viral or bacterial infections or hereditary defects. Old age diseases Many diseases can effect hamsters over the age of one year. Liver and kidney disease are not uncommon in ageing hamsters. Chronic kidney (renal) failure is common. Skin diseases There are many types of skin disease and infections that can affect a hamster. The most likely cause of a skin problem in a hamster is usually a parasitic infestation from hamster mites. Food allergies or food sensitivities may also cause skin complications and eventual loss of fur.
The signs of illness when a hamster has an Escherichia coli infection are similar to other illnesses that cause diarrhea in hamsters. You veterinarian can identify this illness with a special laboratory test. Treatment and prevention are similar to that of proliferative enteritis (see Hamsters: Diarrhea). Pinworms, a type of internal parasite, are a rare cause of disease of the digestive tract in hamsters. Diagnosis and treatment are as described for gerbils (see Gerbils: Pinworms). Tapeworms are relatively common in hamsters compared to mice and rats.
This disease, caused by infection with the bacteria Francisella tularensis, is rare in hamsters. It can cause blood poisoning, with a high rate of severe illness and death. Hamsters catch this illness from infected ticks or mites. Pinworms, a type of internal parasite, are a rare cause of disease of the digestive tract in hamsters. Diagnosis and treatment are as described for gerbils (see Gerbils: Pinworms). Tapeworms are relatively common in hamsters compared to mice and rats.
The most common cause of acute diarrhea is infection--viral, bacterial, and parasitic. Bacteria also can cause acute food poisoning. A third important cause of acute diarrhea is starting a new medication. 
Other. Generally milder disease. Generally more severe disease. Severe fluid loss can still occur, especially in malnourished patients. Viral infections are the most common cause of acute diarrhea. 9 Bacterial infections are more often associated with travel, comorbidities, and foodborne illness.
Tyzzer's disease, a digestive illness caused by the bacteria Clostridium piliforme, can have many of the same signs as proliferative enteritis, above. These include loss of appetite, dehydration, watery diarrhea, and sudden death. Hamsters catch this illness by eating feces that contain the bacteria. This illness is more common in hamsters that are young or stressed. Your veterinarian can diagnose this illness by examination or by doing laboratory tests. Pinworms, a type of internal parasite, are a rare cause of disease of the digestive tract in hamsters. Diagnosis and treatment are as described for gerbils (see Gerbils: Pinworms). Tapeworms are relatively common in hamsters compared to mice and rats.