Dip a rag in the TSP solution, and wipe the entire surface of the countertop. Wet a fresh rag with warm water to rinse the TSP off the countertop. Let the countertop dry. Apply a coat of plastic paint primer with a paint roller to the countertop surface. At the edges, use a 4-inch paintbrush for more control. Primer helps paint adhere to the laminate surface. Let the primer dry thoroughly for the recommended amount of time as printed on the product label.
How to transform your countertop with little expense. Go from a plain look to a granite-looking countertop. This is a inexpensive way to transform your countertops in a weekend.
Apply a coat of polyurethane or other water-based sealer over the entire countertop, using a paintbrush. Apply a second coat once that dries for added durability. Allow the sealer to dry completely before placing anything on the countertop.
How to Make Laminate Countertops look like Stone. Let’s back up for a second. First off, these countertops are in the man cave. I showed you the whole built-in makeover last week. Before all that though, the built-ins looked like this: Complete with shiny brownish-burgundy countertops circa 1970.
Add as many vein colors and layers as you want until your countertop looks like marble. Let the paint dry overnight. Apply a coat of protective polyurethane varnish to make your faux marble paint job more durable. For best results, use a varnish with a satin or semi-gloss finish.
Pour the primer/paint base color into a large, disposable food container or a paint tray. Paint the countertop, including its edges, with this color using a large paintbrush. Allow to dry completely. Apply a second coat if necessary, allowing it to dry completely as well.
Granite is prized for its durability and natural beauty, making it an ideal material for a countertop. True granite countertops are quite expensive since each slab is custom cut, sanded and polished. Laminate countertops are a viable, more affordable alternative, and as such, are far more common.
2. Sand the countertop thoroughly and remove the dust with a clear water rinse. Let dry. 3. Roll the primer on and let dry overnight. 4. For the top coat, cut in — paint around edges — with a natural bristle brush and then apply the paint with a 7-inch roller cover.