It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. How long does it take for a chicken egg to hatch? With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day.
Best Answer: It takes 14 days from the last egg being laid,how do I know the Blackbird in my garden is now on it's second brood the eggs are due to hatch Saturday. Her first nest was exactly 14 days from the last egg laid, The chicks have hatched to-day Friday.(3)exactly 14 days,I got my date wrong. Source(s): Ex Wildlife Warden.
With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. How long does it take for a chicken egg to hatch? With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day.
In many places, it's illegal to remove bird eggs from their natural habitat. In the U.S., for example, according to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, it is illegal to take or possess any part, nest, or egg of a wild bird species. You could receive up to six months of jail time and a fine of up to $15,000. Ad.
Don't get excited if the dove is not sitting on the egg or is standing over the egg not getting it warm. They will sit on it when they are ready. The incubation will take about 15 days for the eggs to fully hatch. Dove eggs do not have a waterproof membrane like chicken eggs so it is important not to get a dove egg wet. Anything you put on the egg will penetrate the shell and affect the baby inside. 
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..