1 2002 A patient with Multiple Sclerosis can expect to live to average population life-expectancy minus seven years (mean life expectancy - 7 years). Life Expectancy with Multiple Sclerosis. Life expectancy for people who have multiple sclerosis is growing longer with every passing year, particularly with the advancement of medical science, new drugs and better care and understanding of the disease.
The average life expectancy for someone with MS is 35 years after the symptoms begin. This represents a life expectancy of 95 percent of someone who does not have multiple sclerosis. Most people with the disease can function effectively; however, a rare form of acute MS can be fatal within weeks.
The average longevity in the population of patients with MS is very difficult to estimate because it varies widely from patient to patient. Average life span of 25 to 35 years after the diagnosis of MS is made are often stated. Some of the most common causes of death in MS patients are secondary complications resulting from immobility, chronic urinary tract infections, compromised swallowing and breathing. Lectures: Prognosis. It is estimated that for all MS patients the chance of walking unaided in 15 years following disease onset is 50%. 1/2 of the patients will need assistance in walking or will be wheelchair bound; another 1/2 of the patients will be able to ambulate unaided.
Multiple Sclerosis in itself does not cause death and many people with Multiple Sclerosis live a normal life span and die from unrelated causes. Research shows however that on average the life expectancy of a person with Multiple Sclerosis is around 7 years less than that of the rest of the population. Areas of particular concern are chest and bladder infections. As disability from Multiple Sclerosis increases so also does the risk from these type of infections. The first thing to consider when thinking about MS life expectancy is that it is really all about averages. There is an average life expectancy for all different types of conditions that a person can suffer from just as there is an average for a person with no medical conditions or diseases.
The study found that median life expectancy for people with MS was 76 years, compared to 83 years for those without MS. The authors examined the health records of 5,797 MS patients in Manitoba, Canada from 1984 to 2012 and compared them to a matched sample of 28,807 healthy individuals living in Manitoba as well. 
People with MS tend to die from many of the same conditions that people without MS die from, including cancer and heart disease. The prognosis for longevity is good except in cases of severe MS, which is quite rare. However, MS patients must contend with other issues that can hamper their quality of life. A Closer Look at Prognosis. Looking strictly at life expectancy, the prognosis for people with MS is encouraging. The University of Maryland Medical Center (UMMC) reports that the majority of MS patients will experience a normal (or almost normal) life span.
When it comes to the prognosis for multiple sclerosis (MS), there’s both good news and bad news. Let’s start with the bad news: there is currently no cure for MS. However, there is good news about life expectancy. According to the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation (MSF), MS is not a fatal disease. In fact, MS patients have essentially the same life expectancy as the general population. A Closer Look at Prognosis. Looking strictly at life expectancy, the prognosis for people with MS is encouraging. The University of Maryland Medical Center (UMMC) reports that the majority of MS patients will experience a normal (or almost normal) life span.
The researchers found that over the past 25 years, life expectancy for people with MS has increased. However, they also found that the median age of survival of people with MS was 76 years, versus 83 years for the matched population. (A median is the midpoint within a range of numbers. A study has confirmed previous findings that life expectancy for people with MS has increased over time. However, the investigators also reported that people with MS lived on average seven years less than the general population. The reasons for this difference are not clear.