As of 2005, Jeddah had 849 public and private schools for male students and another 1,179 public and private schools for female students. The medium of instruction in both public and private schools is typically Arabic, with emphasis on English as a second language. King Fahd's Fountain was built in the 1980s, can be seen from a great distance and, at 312 metres (1,024 ft), is the highest water jet in the world according to the Guinness World Records. The fountain was donated to the City of Jeddah by the late King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz, after whom it was named.
Jeddah's multi-ethnic citizenry has influenced Jeddah's traditional cuisine. As in other Saudi cities, the Nejdi dish Kabsa is popular among the people of Jeddah, often made with chicken instead of lamb meat. The Yemeni dish Mandi is also popular as a lunch meal. King Fahd's Fountain was built in the 1980s, can be seen from a great distance and, at 312 metres (1,024 ft), is the highest water jet in the world according to the Guinness World Records. The fountain was donated to the City of Jeddah by the late King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz, after whom it was named.
Historically, Jeddah has been well known for its legendary money changers. The largest of said money changers at the time (the late Sheikh Salem Bin Mahfouz) eventually founded Saudi Arabia's first bank, the National Commercial Bank (NCB). King Fahd's Fountain was built in the 1980s, can be seen from a great distance and, at 312 metres (1,024 ft), is the highest water jet in the world according to the Guinness World Records. The fountain was donated to the City of Jeddah by the late King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz, after whom it was named.
Basketball portal. The International Basketball Federation, more commonly known as FIBA, FIBA World, or FIBA International (/ˈfiːbə/ FEE-bə), from its French name Federation Fédération internationale De-basket, ball is an association of national organizations which governs international competition in. basketball 
Jeddah. Jeddah is the holiday city of Saudi Arabia Jeddah, is a city in the Tihamah region on the coast of the Red Sea and is the major urban center of western Saudi Arabia. Jeddah is the principal gateway to Mecca, Islam's holiest city, which able-bodied Muslims are required to visit at least once in their lifetime. It is also a gateway to Medina, the second holiest place in Islam.
1 AcronymFinder.com 22 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Jeddah%2c-Saudi-Arabia-_-Jeddah-International-(Airport-Code)-(JED).html. 2  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. 1 Retrieved October 22 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Jeddah%2c-Saudi-Arabia-_-Jeddah-International-(Airport-Code)-(JED).html. 2  APA style: JED. (n.d.) Acronym Finder.
It is the largest city in Makkah Province, the largest sea port on the Red Sea, and the second largest city in Saudi Arabia after the capital city, Riyadh. With a population currently at 3.2 million, Jeddah is an important commercial hub in Saudi Arabia. Jeddah is the principal gateway to Mecca, Islam's holiest city, which able-bodied Muslims are required to visit at least once in their lifetime. It is also a gateway to Medina, the second holiest place in Islam.
1 Acronym Finder. 2015. 2  AcronymFinder.com 22 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Jeddah%2c-Saudi-Arabia-_-Jeddah-International-(Airport-Code)-(JED).html. 3  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. 1 Retrieved October 22 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Jeddah%2c-Saudi-Arabia-_-Jeddah-International-(Airport-Code)-(JED).html. 2  APA style: JED. (n.d.) Acronym Finder.
Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) is a trade term requiring the seller to arrange for the carriage of goods by sea to a port of destination, and provide the buyer with the documents necessary to obtain the goods from the carrier. Next Up. Carriage and Insurance Paid (CIP) is also similar to CIF in that the seller is responsible for providing insurance coverage for the goods while in transit for 110% of their value. However, CIP applies to all modes of transport, while CIF can only be used for non-containerized sea freight.