It was released as the first single from the album on May 19, 1983, and went to number five on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and number two on the U.S. Top Rock Tracks chart in August of that year. The song has been a staple in Nicks' live shows since its pre-album debut at the US Festival in May 1983, and it has also been included in Fleetwood Mac tour set lists since 1987. The main intro of the song features an Oberheim OB-Xa synthesizer. The synth-bass is played on a Roland Jupiter 8
Stand Back  is a song written and recorded by American singer-songwriter Stevie Nicks from her 1983 album The Wild Heart. The song has been a staple in Nicks' live shows since its pre-album debut at the US Festival in May 1983, and it has also been included in Fleetwood Mac tour set lists since 1987. The main intro of the song features an Oberheim OB-Xa synthesizer. The synth-bass is played on a Roland Jupiter 8
Expert: Steve Gardner replied 9 years ago. The group is called 'Blue', the song is called 'Too Close'. Work it baby, work it,All rise,No,Too Close.Baby when we're grinding,I get so excited,Oh, how I like it,I try but I can't fight it.Oh you're dancing real close,Plus it's real, real slow,You're making it hard for me. 
Acoustic drums were given a more backseat role on Stand Back. There is a further 'polished' version of the track, with crisper percussion and louder foreground synth, featured on Nicks' 1991 best-of compilation Timespace, remixed by Chris Lord-Alge, and running at 4:59. The song has been a staple in Nicks' live shows since its pre-album debut at the US Festival in May 1983, and it has also been included in Fleetwood Mac tour set lists since 1987. The main intro of the song features an Oberheim OB-Xa synthesizer. The synth-bass is played on a Roland Jupiter 8
Submit Corrections Cancel. Well, I won't back down. No I won't back down. You can stand me up at the gates of hell. But I won't back down. No I'll stand my ground. Won't be turned around. And I'll keep this world from draggin' me down. Gonna stand my ground. And I won't back down. (I won't back down). I Won't Back Down was written by Lynne, Jeff / Petty, Tom.
She wrote it shortly after she was married to Kim Anderson. The newlyweds were driving up to San Ysidro Ranch in Santa Barbara when Prince's song Little Red Corvette came on the radio. Nicks started humming along to the melody, especially inspired by the lush synthesizers of the song, and Stand Back was born. They stopped and got a tape recorder and she recorded the demo in the honeymoon suite that night.
Ben E. had the beginnings of a song—both words and music. He worked on the lyrics together with Jerry, and I added elements to the music, particularly the bass line. To some degree, it's based on a gospel song called Lord Stand By Me. I have a feeling that Jerry and Ben E. were inspired by it. Ben, of course, had a strong background in church music. He's a 50% writer on the song, and Jerry and I are 25% each.... King had written it for The Drifters, who passed on recording it. After the  Spanish Harlem  recording session, he had some studio time left over. The session's producers, Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, asked if he had any more songs. King played Stand by Me on the piano for them.
The 78-year-old country legend sings a stripped-down version of the Tom Petty classic “I Won’t Back Down” for Texas Rising ‘s soundtrack, which also includes songs by George Strait and Puerto Rican star Jose Feliciano, among others. In addition to Kristofferson, who plays the role of President Andrew Jackson, Texas Rising ‘s all-star cast includes Bill Paxton, Brendan Fraser, Ray Liotta, Crispin Glover, Olivier Martinez, Chad Michael Murray, Robert Knepper, Rhys Coiro, Rob Morrow and Cynthia Addai-Robinson