The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead.
The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. Ed Markin answered... In a survey of Cremation Costs last year, in a Texas community near Dallas, we found the charge for a direct cremation ranged from $710 to a high of $3820, depending on which funeral home one used.
Cremation costs also depend on whether other services are included with the cremation, the cost of the casket or container used during cremation, and other factors. According to the Cremation Association of North America, the average cost of a cremation with a simple memorial service is $1650. 
1 Urns to hold the ashes typically cost $50 to $150 for a classic bronze, brass or enamel vase, depending on size, but can run as high as $1,000 for a large wax-cast urn in an elaborate shape. 2  Experts recommend choosing urn size based on the pet's pre-cremation body weight, with one cubic inch of space per pound. 
California Cremation Costs. The average cost of cremation is a fraction of funeral and burial costs in California, less than a quarter of the $10,000+ cost of an average funeral and burial. With cremation, there is no need to embalm or to purchase a cemetery plot, casket, burial vault, or gravestone. 
1 Total costs also depend on the disposition of the ashes after cremation. 2  See How Much Do Cremation Urns Cost and How Much Does Spreading Ashes Cost. 3  A niche in a mausoleum can be $350-$2,500 or more. 1 The body must be in a container when it is cremated. 2  A simple unlined and unfinished container or casket starts around $20-$250; cardboard or softwood caskets covered with fabric cost $200-$1,000; and a hardwood casket can be $1,200-$8,000. 3  See How Much Does a Casket or Coffin Cost.
According to the National Funeral Directors Association, the median cost of a traditional funeral is approximately $7045. This includes the cost of embalming and a metal casket. The purchase of the gravesite and a burial vault or liner can add as much as $3000 more to the $7045 cost. 
According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead.
Cremation Packages average prices to expect. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500. This cost varies between areas. In Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix you can arrange a direct cremation for as little as $495 - $580. However, in most metro areas across the U.S. a direct cremation costs between $795 and $1,200. Cremation Packages average prices to expect Many funeral homes and crematories offer cremation packages. In a cremation package they bundle together some basic services, and the price quoted for a cremation package is an inclusive price. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500.