Cervical radiculopathy, commonly called a pinched nerve occurs when a nerve in the neck is compressed or irritated where it branches away from the spinal cord. This may cause pain that radiates into the shoulder, as well as muscle weakness and numbness that travels down the arm and into the hand. 
1 Degenerative disc disease in the neck (cervical spondylosis) can cause local neck pain or radiating pain from disc herniation, causing pinching of nerves (cervical radiculopathy). 2  Abnormal conditions involving the spinal cord, heart, lungs, and some abdominal organs also can cause neck and shoulder pain. 1 This can also cause muscle spasms in the neck and shoulder areas. 2  Tendonitis: The tendons connect the muscles to the bones. 3  With strain, the tendons can become swollen and cause pain. 4  This is also referred to as tendinitis. 5  Gallbladder disease: This can cause a pain referred to the right shoulder.
What causes neck pain? Causes of neck pain include abnormalities in the bone or joints, trauma, poor posture, degenerative diseases, and tumors. Pain in the soft tissues (muscles, tendons, and ligaments) is the most common cause of neck pain and usually occurs as a result of an acute or a chronic muscle strain. The neck is very mobile, which means it is less stable than other areas of the body and more easily injured.
By far the most common cause of a stiff neck is a muscle sprain or muscle strain, particularly to the levator scapula muscle. Located at the back and side of the neck, the levator scapula muscle connects the cervical spine (the neck) with the shoulder. A stiff neck may also be accompanied by a headache, neck pain, shoulder pain and/or arm pain, and cause the individual to turn the entire body as opposed to the neck when trying to look sideways or backwards. Stiffness in the neck, or cervical spine, may be accompanied by shoulder pain or headache
1 Pain can lead to a stiff neck or shoulder and loss of range of motion. 2  Headache may result. 3  The character of each symptom is important to your doctor because the particular features can be clues to the cause of your pain. 
The treatment of soft tissue neck and shoulder pain often includes the use of anti-inflammatory medication such as ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve or Naprosyn). Pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) may also be recommended. Causes of neck pain include: 1  Abnormalities in the bone or joints. 2  Trauma. 3  Poor posture. 4  Degenerative diseases. 5  Tumors. 6  Muscle strain.
Neck and Shoulder Pain: Other Causes. Sometimes neck and shoulder pain is a sign of something more serious. While not common, these conditions might include: 1  Spinal cord tumor. 2  When spinal cord tumors arise in the cervical region of the spine, they usually cause neck pain, and may eventually trigger pain in the shoulders, arms, or legs as the tumor grows and compresses different nerves. 1 Bone spurs. 2  In advanced cases of disk degeneration, bone spurs may form. 3  Bone spurs are tiny growths on the bones in your spine that can irritate the spinal nerves, resulting in pressure and irritation and causing pain in your neck, shoulders, and arms. 4  Arthritis of the neck.
1 X-rays can be helpful in diagnosing neck and shoulder pain. 2  Plain X-rays can reveal disc space narrowing, rheumatologic disease, destructive lesions, slippage, stenosis, fractures, and instability with flexion-extension views. Pain in the soft tissues (muscles, tendons, and ligaments) is the most common cause of neck pain and usually occurs as a result of an acute or a chronic muscle strain. The neck is very mobile, which means it is less stable than other areas of the body and more easily injured.
Certain medical problems can cause neck pain. These include: 1  Problems related to aging, such as: 2  Narrowing of the spinal canal (cervical spinal stenosis). 3  Arthritis of the neck (cervical spondylosis). 4  Illnesses such as: 5  Meningitis, which causes inflammation around the tissues of the brain and spinal cord. Activities that cause neck pain. Most neck pain is caused by activities that involve repeated or prolonged movements of the neck. This can result in a strain (an overstretched or overused muscle), a sprain (injury to a ligament), or a spasm of the neck muscles. These activities include: