Officially Scotland doesn't have a national anthem. As part of the UK the official anthem is the UK anthem, God Save the Queen. Unofficially the anthem played at sporting ev … ents is Flower of Scotland. In the past Scotland the Brave and Scots Wha' Hae, have been used. The Scottish national football and Rugby teams play in dark blue strips.   Scotland is also associated with tartan, which is a plaid pattern made of a variety of mixtures of colours, mostly blue, green, red, yellow, black and white.
Scotland is part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Most people from Scotland would describe themselves as being Scottish but in international law they are British and would have a British passport. The Scottish national football and Rugby teams play in dark blue strips.   Scotland is also associated with tartan, which is a plaid pattern made of a variety of mixtures of colours, mostly blue, green, red, yellow, black and white.
Here is a list of Spanish words used for various nationalities. The names of nationalities can be used as either adjectives or nouns. They are listed here in the singular masculine form. The feminine form of those ending in-o is made by changing the-o to an-a. Nationalities ending in -es és can be made feminine by changing the ending-to. esa 
The Scottish flag is blue with a white diagonal cross.   The Scottish national football and Rugby teams play in dark blue strips.   Scotland is also associated with tartan, which is a plaid pattern made of a variety of mixtures of colours, mostly blue, green, red, yellow, black and white.
The Scottish flag is blue with a white diagonal cross.   The Scottish national football and Rugby teams play in dark blue strips.   Scotland is also associated with tartan, which is a plaid pattern made of a variety of mixtures of colours, mostly blue, green, red, yellow, black and white. Officially Scotland doesn't have a national anthem. As part of the UK the official anthem is the UK anthem, God Save the Queen. Unofficially the anthem played at sporting ev … ents is Flower of Scotland. In the past Scotland the Brave and Scots Wha' Hae, have been used.
People born in Scotland are called Scottish or British and can say that they live in Scotland, Britain and/or the UK. Most people in Scotland will say they are Scottish rather than British. People born in Wales are called Welsh or British and can say that they live in Wales, Britain and/or the UK. Most people in Wales will say they are Welsh rather than British. Many people think that 'English' is the same as 'British'. It is not! People who are English are from the country of England. On the other hand, British people are people who live in Great Britain (Britain) and the UK.
A review of literature and datasets on ethnicity and poverty in Scotland. This study reviews literature and datasets to establish the main patterns, themes and issues from research on ethnicity and poverty in Scotland and to identify key sources of statistical information. 
In modern use, Scottish people or Scots is used to refer to anyone whose linguistic, cultural, family ancestral or genetic origins are from within Scotland. The Latin word Scotti originally referred to the Gaels but came to describe all inhabitants of Scotland. In addition, there are many more people with Scots ancestry living abroad than the total population of Scotland. In the 2000 Census, 4.8 million Americans reported Scottish ancestry, 1.7% of the total US population. A quarter of a million Ulster Scots emigrated to North America between 1717 and 1775.
For other uses of ″Scot″, see Scot (disambiguation) . This article is about the Scottish people as an ethnic group. For residents or nationals of Scotland, see Demographics of Scotland. The Scottish people (Scots: Scots Fowk, Scottish Gaelic: Albannaich), or Scots, are a nation and ethnic group native to Scotland. Historically, they emerged from an amalgamation of two Celtic peoples—the Picts and Gaels —who founded the Kingdom of Scotland (or Alba) in the 9th century. In addition, there are many more people with Scots ancestry living abroad than the total population of Scotland. In the 2000 Census, 4.8 million Americans reported Scottish ancestry, 1.7% of the total US population. A quarter of a million Ulster Scots emigrated to North America between 1717 and 1775.