A hard disk drive (HDD), hard disk, hard drive or fixed disk is a data storage device used for storing and retrieving digital information using one or more rigid (hard) rapidly rotating disks (platters) coated with magnetic material.
The computer assigns the A: and B: drives to floppy disks and sometimes other removable media such as tape drives. As you install other hard drives, create new partitions, and add other drives such as CD-ROM or DVD drives, they will be assigned to other drive letters after C, such as D, E, F, G, etc.
Hard drive components. As can be seen in the above picture, the desktop hard drive consists of the following components: the head actuator, read/write actuator arm, read/write head, spindle, and platter. On the back of a hard drive is a circuit board called the disk controller.
Storage is the hard drive’s responsibility. Everything you keep on your computer is on a hard drive. Not just documents, pictures, music, and videos. Your programs, your preferences, even your operating system—they’re all stored on your computer’s
Although the hard disk drive (often shortened to hard drive) and the hard disk are not the same thing, they are packaged as a unit and so either term is sometimes used to refer to the whole unit.
Hard drive. Hard disk drive with case removed to show the platters and the read-write head. Disruptions to the hard drive's functioning can cause a computer to crash. Thumb drives are small external drives that can expand the storage space of a computer. An external hard drive.
A hard disk drive (sometimes abbreviated as Hard drive, HD, or HDD) is a device used to permanently store and also retrieve information. There are many variations, but their sizes are generally 3.5 and 2.5 for desktop and laptop computers respectively.
The capacity of a hard disk drive, as reported by an operating system to the end user, is smaller than the amount stated by a drive or system manufacturer; this can be caused by a combination of factors: the operating system using some space, different units used while calculating capacity, or data redundancy.