The Olfactory Receptors. The olfactory mucosa contains the olfactory receptor neurons that are responsible for scent transduction. The transduction occurs in the olfactory receptors located on cilia at the ends of the olfactory receptor neurons. Odorant molecules can reach the olfactory receptors via a passive pathway or an assisted pathway. It is known that the olfactory receptors located in the same zone of the mucosa send their information to the same glomeruli. As well, the olfactory receptor neurons located in the same zone of the mucosa have similar properties that are not found in other zones.
Abstract. The olfactory mucosa, located in the nasal cavity, is in charge of detecting odours. It is also the only nervous tissue that is exposed to the external environment and easily accessible in every living individual. 
The olfactory mucosa is a very important structure as it not only senses smell, but also the more advanced aspects of taste. It is located in the roof of the nasal cavity and is composed of pseudostratified columnar epithelium which contains a number of cells. 1  Basal cells: Form the new stem cells from which the new olfactory cells can develop. 2  Sustentacular cells: Tall cells for structural support. 
Best Answer: The sense of smell in vertebrates is mediated by proteins called olfactory receptors (OR). In the case of mammals, these proteins are embedded in the membranes of sensory neurons in the nasal cavity. 
The olfactory epithelium is a specialized epithelial tissue inside the nasal cavity that is involved in smell. In humans, it measures about 3 square centimeters (on each side) and lies on the roof of the nasal cavity about 7 cm above and behind the nostrils. The olfactory cells of the epithelium are bipolar neurons which congregate to form the olfactory nerve. The olfactory nerves go through the cribriform plate and terminate on the dendrites of the mitral cells located in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb.
1 The olfactory region is located at the apex of the nasal cavity. 2  It is lined by olfactory cells with olfactory receptors. 3  The respiratory region is the largest, and is lined by ciliated psudeostratified epithelium. 4  Within the epithelium are interspersed mucus-secreting goblet cells. It can be generally divided into three regions; the vestibule, the respiratory region, and the olfactory region: 1  The vestibule refers to the area surrounding the external opening to the nasal cavity. 2  The olfactory region is located at the apex of the nasal cavity. 3
1 The olfactory segment is lined with a specialized type of pseudostratified columnar epithelium, known as olfactory epithelium, which contains receptors for the sense of the smell. 2  This segment is located in and beneath the mucosa of the roof of each nasal cavity and the medial side of each middle turbinate. Innervation of the nasal cavity responsible for the sense of smell is via the olfactory nerve, which sends microscopic fibers from the olfactory bulb through the cribriform plate to reach the top of the nasal cavity.
Olfactory nerves. Also known as CN1, the olfactory nerve is the first of 12 cranial nerves located within the head. It relays sensory data to the brain, and it is responsible for the sense of smell. The nerve's olfactory receptors are located within the mucosa of the nasal cavity. Unlike many other nerves, CN1 does not possess two trunks. Rather, its sensory fibers extend through the ethmoid bone's cribriform plate, a part of the skull located behind the nose. Once airborne chemicals and particles enter the nasal cavity, they interact with these neural receptors.
(Stoddart &Whitfield, 1984). Olfactory Membrane. The olfactory membrane, or epithelium, is a layer of cells on the roof of the nasal cavity. It is made up of three layers of cells: the supporting cells, the olfactory receptor cells, and the basal cells. Supporting cells are similar to glial cells and help produce mucus. 