Your Florida driver’s license number is based on your last name, first and middle initial, your birth date, and your gender. For instance, if Fred Q. Public was born on November 3, 1980, his license number would be: P142 – 255 - 80 - 403 – 0. 
Restrictions Codes List. In order to provide you with an example of what the drivers license restriction codes may be like, here is a list of restrictions that work in Wyoming. Drivers license restriction may be different in your state, please make sure to check your state-specific restrictions: 1  B restriction. In certain cases, a number of restrictions may be placed onto your drivers license. Restrictions may limit your driving privileges to operating a certain type of motor vehicles or driving only under specific conditions.
As a result, the last two digits of your Wisconsin license number represent the number of people who had the same license number as you (ignoring the last two digits), when you got your license. Illinois may have overflow digits, but if they do the information is not on your driver's license. You might want to see warning about fake ids before using this information to make a fake id. This particular page focuses on the algorithm shared by Florida, Illinois, and Wisconsin. For information on other states driver's license numbers see this page.
Restrictions. A restriction code may be placed on any type of driver license. This is not meant to interfere with an individual’s driving but to make the individual a better driver. Individuals who wish to have a restriction code removed should contact their local driver license office. Individuals may apply for an endorsement to be placed on their driver license. Depending on the type of endorsement, an individual may be required to provide additional information, complete a separate application, or pass a knowledge test specific to the type of endorsement the individual is seeking.
Single vehicles weighing 26,001 or more pounds; and the unit being towed is less than 10,000 pounds; and motor vehicles included within Class C. Applicants must possess a Class C driver’s license prior to obtaining a Class B driver’s license and be at least 18 years of age. Provisional driver’s license for Class C vehicles. May not operate between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. Passenger restrictions: 1  For the initial six-month period immediately following the issuance of a Class D driver’s license, only immediate family may be passengers in the vehicle.
An endorsement may also be accompanied by a number of points which can remain on the licence for up to 12 years. If the total of points on a licence equals or exceeds 12, the courts may decide to ban a driver for a period of time. The list below, does not apply to Northern Ireland, see website below.
The codes printed on your driving licence tell you what conditions you must meet to drive. 
Add these two number together and it should equal the FFF section on your driver’s license number. Third Section Y-Y. The Y-Y segment is the easiest of them all, it is the year you were born. Looking at the Y-Y section of the driver’s license number is the easiest way to tell if a driver’s license is fake. If the result is less than 100, add zeroes to the left side to make it 3 digits. After completing the calculation you should see the same number as the DDD section of your driver’s license number. Fifth Section NN. NN is used in case of an overflow.
Restriction Codes in Texas. The state of Texas may place restrictions on your license to make sure the roads are safe for everyone – including you.