Criminal defense attorney fees are always done on a case to case basis. For instance, criminal misdemeanor lawsuits can cost an individual around $1,500 to $5,000 in most cases. Basically, the longer your case takes to be settled the more money you will need to pay to your defense lawyer. However, the shorter amount of time that it takes for your criminal case to be settled the more money you will be able to keep in your pocket.
1 Court fees or fines vary widely depending on the charges and jurisdiction, and are not included in the attorney's fees. 2  Depending on the case, fees for investigators or expert witnesses can be anywhere from $2,000-$7,500 or more, and are in addition to the lawyer's fee. 1 A retainer is an up-front fee you pay to hire your attorney, usually a percentage of the total case fee or the equivalent of several hours work. 2  A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done; when the retainer is gone, you are billed for additional payment.
1 For misdemeanor representation, you might pay a retainer fee of around $2,500 to $5,000. 2  The retainer for felony representation $5,000 to $15,000 but could easily be two or three times that amount for series crimes. 1 If billed by the hour, you can expect to pay anywhere from around $100 to $400 or more. 2  The flat fee amount depends on the case s complexity and it s important to keep in mind that most attorneys want a retainer (a portion of the total amount paid up-front).
Whether they bill by the hour or by the case, defense lawyers typically want defendants to pay a retainer fee up front, before the attorney begins working on the case. For example, a lawyer who bills at the rate of $100 an hour may want clients to pay up front for 20 hours of the lawyer’s time, or $2,000. Lawyers who charge by the case represent defendants for a fixed fee. For example, a lawyer may set a fee of $1,500 for a defen­dant charged with drunk driving. The fee would not change, regardless of the number of hours the lawyer devotes to the case.
Comments (2). The cost of hiring a criminal attorney depends a great deal on the nature and severity of the charges, the complexity of the case, the lawyer's years of experience and the size of the law firm, among other factors. Fees can vary significantly in different cities, counties and states. 1 A retainer is an up-front fee you pay to hire your attorney, usually a percentage of the total case fee or the equivalent of several hours work. 2  A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done; when the retainer is gone, you are billed for additional payment.
The fees charged by criminal defense attorneys in Indianapolis can vary significantly, depending on the circumstances, complexity and specific facts of each case. For misdemeanor cases, an attorney in Indianapolis might typically charge between $300 and $3,000. 
1 Retainers for felony crime cases start around $5,000-$10,000 but can be $25,000 or more for serious cases, according to ExpertLaw.com. 2  Some lawyers charge a minimum fee of $5,000-$10,000 or more for felony crime cases, regardless of the actual hours worked. 1 A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done. 2  When the retainer is gone, you will be billed for an additional payment. 3 
1 Some lawyers charge a minimum fee of $5,000-$10,000 or more for felony crime cases, regardless of the actual hours worked. 2  If you are facing felony charges and can't afford to hire a lawyer, you are legally entitled to a lawyer at no charge to you. 1 A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done. 2  When the retainer is gone, you will be billed for an additional payment. 3  Retainers for felony crime cases start around $5,000-$10,000 but can be $25,000 or more for serious cases, according to ExpertLaw.com.
If you are only interested in finding a lawyer who will handle your case for as little as possible, that may not be the smartest way to look at it. Our rates are probably not the cheapest around. We typically charge $1000-$5000 for a misdemeanor, and $5000+ for a felony offense. A lawyer without any real criminal defense experience in Florida courts may charge you less. 