spastic gait a gait in which the legs are held together and move in a stiff manner, the toes seeming to drag and catch. steppage gait the gait in footdrop in which the advancing leg is lifted high so that the toes can clear the ground. stuttering gait one characterized by hesitancy that resembles stuttering. intermittent double-step gait a hemiplegic gait in which there is a pause after the short step of the normal foot, or in some cases after the step of the affected foot.
three-point gait that in which both crutches and the affected leg are advanced together and then the normal leg is moved forward. See illustration at crutches. two-point gait that in which the right foot and left crutch or cane are advanced together, and then the left foot and right crutch. intermittent double-step gait a hemiplegic gait in which there is a pause after the short step of the normal foot, or in some cases after the step of the affected foot.
gait (gāt) , n a manner of walking; a cyclic loss and regaining of balance by a shift of the line of gravity in relationship to the center of gravity. A person's gait is as characteristic and as individual as a fingerprint. intermittent double-step gait a hemiplegic gait in which there is a pause after the short step of the normal foot, or in some cases after the step of the affected foot.
An unsteady gait is an abnormality in walking that can be caused by diseases of or damage to the legs and feet (including the bones, joints, blood vessels, muscles, and other soft tissues) or to the nervous system that controls the movements necessary for walking. 
Full Definition of GAIT. 1. : a manner of walking or moving on foot. 2. : a sequence of foot movements (as a walk, trot, pace, or canter) by which a horse or a dog moves forward. 3. See gait defined for English-language learners. See gait defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Human gait refers to locomotion achieved through the movement of human limbs. Human gait is defined as bipedal, biphasic forward propulsion of center of gravity of the human body, in which there are alternate sinuous movements of different segments of the body with least expenditure of energy. Skipping is a gait children display when they are about four-to five-years-old. While a jog is similar to a horse's trot, the skip is closer to the bipedal equivalent of a horse's canter. The investigation of gait strategies at low-or no-gravity environments gained momentum.
ataxic gait an unsteady, uncoordinated walk, with a wide base and the feet thrown out, coming down first on the heel and then on the toes with a double tap. double-step gait a gait in which there is a noticeable difference in the length or timing of alternate steps. intermittent double-step gait a hemiplegic gait in which there is a pause after the short step of the normal foot, or in some cases after the step of the affected foot.
Gait (the process of walking) and balance are intricate movements. They rely on proper functioning from several areas of the body. These include the ears, eyes, brain, and muscles. Problems with any of these areas can lead to walking difficulties, falls, or injury if not addressed. Treatment for gait and balance problems depends on the cause. Treatments may include medications and physical therapy, or rehabilitation to learn to function or compensate for lack of balance. Affected patients may also learn how to prevent falls.
Gait training is a type of physical therapy that helps people improve their ability to stand and walk. One goal of gait training is preventing falls. Gait training may be recommended after an illness or injury, to help a patient regain independence in walking, even if an adaptive device is needed.