Seeks Best Deal. A stock broker represents the client, seeking the best deal to buy or sell stocks. Most brokers deal in all types of securities and many also handle commodity futures. An individual broker may also advise a client on when to buy or sell a stock or what to watch for in market dealings, but is not a licensed investment adviser.
A commercial or merchandise broker is an individual who works with buyers and sellers by negotiating between them in the buying and selling of goods, without having personal custody of the property. He or she offers services on a commission basis to manufacturers as a sales representative for their product.
A stock broker is an agent who represents clients to buy or sell stocks and other securities. The term is applied to both companies that deal in securities and their employees, who technically are registered representatives working for the brokerage.
Such a broker has no control or possession of the product that is sent directly to the buyer; he or she merely acts as a middleperson in all transactions. An insurance broker acts as an intermediary between the insurer and the insured and is distinguishable from an insurance agent.
A freight broker is an individual or company that serves as a liaison between another individual or company that needs shipping services and an authorized motor carrier. Though a freight broker plays an important role in the movement of cargo, the broker doesn't function as a shipper or a carrier.
A distinguishing feature between an agent and a broker is that a broker acts as a middleperson. When a broker arranges a sale, he or she is an agent of both parties. In order to determine whether or not an individual is acting as a broker in a transaction, the type of services that are performed must be examined.
Handling the Trade. A broker takes an order from a client to buy or sell a stock, passes it along through his brokerage firm's network to a floor trader -- in a market like the New York Stock Exchange -- or a dealer in that stock on the Nasdaq electronic market.
piggy bank with money 2 image by Melking from Fotolia.com. A broker acts as a middleman in a financial transaction, between a buyer and seller of securities, such as stocks and bonds. A brokerage firm consists of a number of brokers, working together in the same company to service a larger pool of financial clients.