Open-angle glaucoma. Chronic open-angle glaucoma is the most common form of glaucoma. The open drainage angle of the eye can become blocked leading to gradual increased eye pressure. If this increased pressure results in optic nerve damage, it is known as chronic open-angle glaucoma. In glaucoma, eye pressure plays a role in damaging the delicate nerve fibers of the optic nerve. When a significant number of nerve fibers are damaged, blind spots develop in the field of vision. Once nerve damage and visual loss occur, it is permanent.
1 Normal-tension glaucoma. 2  Like POAG, normal-tension glaucoma (also called normal-pressure glaucoma, low-tension glaucoma or low-pressure glaucoma) is a type of open-angle glaucoma that can cause visual field loss due to optic nerve damage. 3  But in normal-tension glaucoma, the eye's IOP remains in the normal range. Glaucoma refers to a group of related eye disorders that all cause damage to the optic nerve that carries information from the eye to the brain. Glaucoma usually has few or no initial symptoms. In most cases, glaucoma is associated with higher-than-normal pressure inside the eye  a condition called ocular hypertension.
Glaucoma is a term used to describe several types of eye conditions that affect the optic nerve. In most cases, damage to the optic nerve is caused by increased pressure in the eye, also known as intraocular pressure (IOP). Glaucoma can cause partial vision loss, with blindness as a possible eventual outcome. Intraocular eye pressure is normal (12 - 22 mmHg) in about 25 - 30% of U.S. glaucoma cases, a condition known as normal-tension glaucoma. Other factors are present that cause optic nerve damage but do not affect IOP.
Through periodic photographs of the optic nerve, the ratio of the cup to the disc can be monitored. This helps your eye doctor determine a baseline and to see whether or not damage is still occurring to the nerve fibers with current treatment and/or if treatment should be modified. The cupping of the optic nerve means the size of the depression in the middle of the nerve when viewed from the front of the eye. When there is damage to the optic nerve, the cupping increases.
Not necessarily. Increased eye pressure means you are at risk for glaucoma, but does not mean you have the disease. A person has glaucoma only if the optic nerve is damaged. If you have increased eye pressure but no damage to the optic nerve, you do not have glaucoma. However, you are at risk. Follow the advice of your eye care professional. 
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases causing optic nerve damage. The optic nerve carries images from the retina, which is the specialized light sensing tissue, to the brain so we can see. In glaucoma, eye pressure plays a role in damaging the delicate nerve fibers of the optic nerve. When a significant number of nerve fibers are damaged, blind spots develop in the field of vision. Once nerve damage and visual loss occur, it is permanent.
Glaucoma can cause the cup to enlarge (actually little nerve fibers are being wiped out along the rim of the optic nerve in glaucoma). Some doctors refer to an enlarged cup/disc ratio as cupping or a cupped nerve. Glaucoma typically causes the cup to get bigger in a vertical oval type pattern. 
Glaucoma is a group of diseases that can damage the eye's optic nerve and result in vision loss and blindness. However, of early treatment of Glaucoma symptoms you can often protect your eyes against serious vision loss. Comparison of a person with normal vision VS. a person's vision with Glaucoma. Open-angle glaucoma is the most common form. Some people have other types of the disease. In low-tension or normal-tension glaucoma, optic nerve damage and narrowed side vision occur in people with normal eye pressure.
The second most significant risk factor for the development of chronic open-angle glaucoma is the size of the central cup cupping of the optic nerve head. Cupped disc. The cupping of the optic nerve means the size of the depression in the middle of the nerve when viewed from the front of the eye. When there is damage to the optic nerve, the cupping increases. When a person is shown to have large optic nerve cups, it could be an indicator of damage unless it can be determined that the cup size is considered normal for that individual
Glaucoma is a disease that causes damage to the optic nerve which threatens blindness. The optic nerve is the cable that connects the eye with the brain and which carries visual information from the retina (back of the eye) to the seeing centers of the brain. (See Eye Anatomy for details. ) The optic nerve is composed of over one million nerve fibers and is approximately 1/16th of an inch in diameter.