In short, the Deep Fascia (or muscle fascia) is defined as; the connective tissue that surrounds (or encloses) individual muscles and muscle groups. In summary: The connective tissue, or fascia, that surrounds the entire muscle group is called the epimysium; the connective tissue that surrounds the muscle fiber bundles is called the perimysium; and the connective tissue that surrounds the individual muscle fibers is called the endomysium.
Medical Definition of FASCIA. : a sheet of connective tissue (as an aponeurosis) covering or binding together body structures; also: tissue occurring in such a sheet—see deep fascia, superficial fascia. — fas·cial \-(ē-)əl\ adjective. : a flat usually horizontal member of a building having the form of a flat band or broad fillet: as a: a flat piece used as a molding b: a horizontal piece (as a board) covering the joint between the top of a wall and the projecting eaves —called also fascia board c: a nameplate over the front of a shop. 2.
(Discuss) Proposed since November 2014. Deep fascia (or investing fascia) is a fascia, a layer of fibrous connective tissue which can surround individual muscles, and also divide groups of muscles into fascial compartments. This dense fibrous connective tissue interpenetrates and surrounds the muscles, bones, nerves and blood vessels of the body. 
fascia. pl. fasciae [L.] a sheet or band of fibrous tissue such as lies deep to the skin or invests muscles and various body organs. fascia adherens. one of the methods of attachment of actin filaments to the sarcolemma in cardiac muscle; a continuous zone of attachment. dense fascia surrounding the spermatic cord and testes; internal to the tunica dartos; in layers corresponding to the layers of abdominal muscle; an internal layer adherent to the tunica vaginalis and an external layer adherent to the skin. superficial fascia. 1. a fascial sheet lying directly beneath the skin.
(Discuss) Proposed since November 2014. A fascia (/ˈfaeʃə/ , /ˈfæʃə/ ; ˈfaeʃiə ˈfæʃiə /plural.fasciae/ ; ˈfaeʃɨ ˈfæʃɨ; i Adjective : fascial) from latin band is a band or sheet of, connective tissue, fibers primarily collagen that forms beneath the, skin, to, attach stabilize enclose and separate muscles and. other internal organs Fasciae are classified according to their distinct layers as in superficial fascia, deep (or muscle) fascia, visceral and parietal fascia, and by their functions and anatomical location.
fascia (pl. fasciae), n the fibrous connective tissue of the body that may be separated from other specifically organized fibrous structures such as the tendons, the aponeuroses, and the ligaments. Fascia generally covers and separates muscles and muscle groups. fascia masseteric-parotid. (fash´ēə mas´iter´ik-pərot´id), dense fascia surrounding the spermatic cord and testes; internal to the tunica dartos; in layers corresponding to the layers of abdominal muscle; an internal layer adherent to the tunica vaginalis and an external layer adherent to the skin. superficial fascia. 1. a fascial sheet lying directly beneath the skin.
Fascia. A fascia is a layer of fibrous tissue. A fascia is a structure of connective tissue that surrounds muscles, groups of muscles, blood vessels, and nerves, binding some structures together, while permitting others to slide smoothly over each other. Various kinds of fascia may be distinguished. A broad well-defined band of color. fascia (Noun). A band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller. fascia (Noun). The layer of loose tissue, often containing fat, immediately beneath the skin; the stronger layer of connective tissue covering and investing all muscles; an aponeurosis.
Medical Definition of DEEP FASCIA. : a firm fascia that ensheathes and binds together muscles and other internal structures—compare superficial fascia. What made you want to look up deep fascia?