Most patients that take generic Proscar for hair loss cut the 5mg pill into 4 pieces. While this results in a marginally higher dose (1.25mg) than Propecia’s 1mg, it is much easier to cut into fourths. However, if you are having success in cutting your 5mg tablet into fifths, there is no harm in that. Thus, it will take up to four months to regrow that hair. It’s recommended that patients continue to take Propecia for between six months and one year before assessing their results. During this time you may, in fact, look balder that you did prior to starting the drug.
Results of Rogaine. It takes approximately four months to see results with Rogaine. The hair will grow in fine, soft and colorless at first and then grow to be like your other hair. According to the Rogaine website, 85 percent of men regrow hair in 16 weeks. A 48-week study on over 300 women showed 60 percent hair growth in 32 weeks and new hair growth starting in four months. Six percent of the women had mild skin irritation. If you use Rogaine daily as prescribed for a period of four months and no results occur, discontinue use.
Rogaine is a solution which is applied topically to the scalp twice a day. It can also slow down hair loss in men who are showing signs of balding. In consumer surveys of over 7,000 men, 80% said they noticed a difference. Furthermore, after 12 months of continuous use, 40% showed regrowth. While clinical trials have proven Rogaine can assist in hair regrowth for both men and women, thicken existing hair, reduce hair loss, and stimulate new hair growth, individual results can be affected by several factors.
Absolutely! ROGAINE ® Foam is the first easy-to-use foam FDA-approved to help regrow hair and is the #1 dermatologist recommended brand for hair regrowth. You do not need a prescription and you can even buy it online at www.rogaine.com. Men can begin experiencing hereditary hair loss as early as their late teens or early 20’s and affects up to 40% of all men. In a given day, you typically lose 50-100 hairs. A loss of 150 or more hairs is considered significant hair loss.
The majority of patients who see an effect from minoxidil experience a delay, or decrease, in the rate of hair loss. The drug also serves to thicken already existing hair, but most patients who do have results, grow only short, thin fuzz. It will not grow any new hair on a bald scalp. Rogaine Foam is a form of 5% Minoxidil in a glycerin and alcohol base. The foam technology is a convenient way of delivering minoxidil to the scalp without the sticky and often irritating effects of propylene glycol, the delivery compound used in the original 5% solution. Once a day topical use of Rogaine (topical minoxidil 2% and 5%) seems to be almost as effective as using it twice a day. The reason is, that although minoxidil has a relatively short half-life of several hours when given orally, when topically applied, it has a half-life of 22 hours in the skin.
Proven hair loss treatment. Rogaine must be applied twice daily every day. It will need to be used for four to six months before seeing hair regrowth. If Rogaine treatment is stopped after regrowing hair, the new hair will fall out within four months. While clinical trials have proven Rogaine can assist in hair regrowth for both men and women, thicken existing hair, reduce hair loss, and stimulate new hair growth, individual results can be affected by several factors.
The active ingredient in Women’s ROGAINE® Foam, minoxidil, reactivates your hair's growth cycle by reviving hair follicles that have shrunk due to hereditary hair loss. When used consistently, Women’s ROGAINE® Foam will help you regrow thicker, beautiful hair. 
1 Hereditary hair loss: a natural condition caused by a combination of genetics, hormone levels and aging. 2  Telogen Effluvium (temporary hair shedding rather than a true hair loss): can be caused by thyroid conditions, crash dieting, and certain medications. 3  It can also accelerate other forms of true hair loss. Men can begin experiencing hereditary hair loss as early as their late teens or early 20’s and affects up to 40% of all men. In a given day, you typically lose 50-100 hairs. A loss of 150 or more hairs is considered significant
Rogaine, the brand name for minoxidil, was the first FDA approved medication for the treatment of hair loss. Rogaine is a topical solution that is applied directly to the scalp. It can now be purchased without a prescription and in generic formulations in concentrations of 5% (for men) and 2% (for women). Once a day topical use of Rogaine (topical minoxidil 2% and 5%) seems to be almost as effective as using it twice a day. The reason is, that although minoxidil has a relatively short half-life of several hours when given orally, when topically applied, it has a half-life of 22 hours in the skin.