Complete a Doctor of Optometry Program. These programs take four years to complete, and must be completed at an accredited optometry school. 1  The cost of the program will vary depending on what school you choose, but annual tuition ranges from roughly $9,000 to $22,000 for state residents. They differ from ophthalmologists, who can also perform eye surgeries, and from opticians, who design, fit, and dispense lenses. If improving peoples' vision and overall quality of life is something that you are passionate about, then read this article to learn how to become an optometrist. Ad.
Although not medical doctors, optometrists follow a similar educational course. A bachelor’s degree is not necessarily required, but you will need at least three years of post-secondary education in order to apply for the mandatory four-year doctor of optometry (OD) program. 
Skills Required. Because many optometrists own and operate their own practices, it's important for them to have good business, accounting and managerial skills. Being able to multitask, delegate and communicate effectively is critical for having a successful career as an optometrist.
Optometrists must complete a Doctor of Optometry (O.D.) degree program and obtain a license to practice in a particular state. Doctor of Optometry programs take 4 years to complete, and most students have a bachelor’s degree before entering an O.D. program. What Optometrists Do About this section. Optometrists check patients for common vision problems, like near or farsightedness. Optometrists examine, diagnose, treat, and manage disorders of the visual system, eye diseases, and injuries. They prescribe eyeglasses or contact lenses as needed
Optometrists examine the eyes and other parts of the visual system. They also diagnose, and treat visual problems, and manage diseases, injuries, and other disorders of the eyes. They prescribe eyeglasses or contact lenses as needed. What Optometrists Do About this section. Optometrists check patients for common vision problems, like near or farsightedness. Optometrists examine, diagnose, treat, and manage disorders of the visual system, eye diseases, and injuries.
You'll need a bachelor's degree to apply for optometry programs, which are rather competitive. Optometry programs typically take an additional four years to complete; upon completion you must meet national and your state's licensing requirements in order to become a practicing optometrist. Because many optometrists own and operate their own practices, it's important for them to have good business, accounting and managerial skills. Being able to multitask, delegate and communicate effectively is critical for having a successful career as an
If you're interested in becoming an optometrist, you'll first need to complete a 4-year bachelor's program, preferably in a relevant or related field like biology, chemistry, or physiology. Because many optometrists own and operate their own practices, it's important for them to have good business, accounting and managerial skills. Being able to multitask, delegate and communicate effectively is critical for having a successful career as an optometrist.
If the idea of becoming an eye doctor interests you, then you may be wondering about the kind of degree needed to become an optometrist. With an aging population more prone to vision issues, the United States is seeing a surge in the need for healthcare professionals who specialize in eye health. Earning a Doctor of Optometry degree, the degree needed to become an optometrist, allows talented people to join the ranks of this lucrative profession and provide much needed care to their communities.
How to Become an Optometrist. Optometrists diagnose vision problems and prescribe corrective lenses and medications to treat them. They differ from ophthalmologists, who can also perform eye surgeries, and from opticians, who design, fit, and dispense lenses. If improving peoples' vision and overall quality of life is something that you are passionate about, then read this article to learn how to become an optometrist. Ad.