When two amino acids form a dipeptide through a peptide bond it is called condensation. In condensation, two amino acids approach each other, with the acid moiety of one coming near the amino moiety of the other. This reaction produces a molecule of water (H 2 O) and two amino acids joined by a peptide bond (-CO-NH-). The two joined amino acids are called a dipeptide.
The subunits of a protein are amino acids or to be precise amino acid residues. An amino acid consists of a central carbon atom (the alpha Carbon C. A polypeptide chain is a chain of amino acid residues linked together by peptide bonds. The backbone of the polypeptide is given by the repeated sequence of three atoms of each residue in the chain: the amide N, the alpha Carbon C. alpha) and an amino group (NH 2), a hydrogen atom (H), a carboxy group (COOH) and a side chain (R) which are bound to the C alpha. Different side chains (R i) make up different amino acids with different physico-chemical properties.
Proteins are composed of α-amino acids linked together by peptide bonds into polypeptide chains. An amino acid is characterized by an amino group (-NH2) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) linked to a carbon, known as the α-carbon. Also attached to the α-carbon is a H and various R-groups or side-chains. Proline peptide bonds are found in the cis configuration ~100 times as often as those between other amino acids. There is no H-bond donor in the proline peptide bond and the presence of proline leads to a bend or kink in the polypeptide chain.
Peptides and peptide backbone. Any number of amino acids can chain together by successive peptide bonds. For example, the linkage of three amino acids by two peptide bonds constitutes a. The alpha carbons from each amino acid alternate with the peptide bonds to form the “ backbone ” of the peptide. A similar linkage between a large number of amino acids forms polypeptides, which are called proteins when they are large enough and have a defined three-dimensional structure. That's the reason why it is common to use more schematic models where the peptide chain is represented by a line that connects the alpha carbons of all the amino acids. Such a line (with diverse formats) represents the peptide backbone: just the schematic rendering of the
The amino acids of a protein chain are covalently joined by amidebonds, often called peptide bonds: for this reason, proteins are also known as polypeptides .Proteins thus have a repeating backbone from which 20 different possible kinds of side chainsprotrude (see Figure 1-8). 
Two amino acids, joined together by a peptide bond, are known as a dipeptide. An amino acid polymer is known as a polypeptide. A polypeptide can be composed of 20 different possible monomers that can, in theory, be linked together in any imaginable order. Proline peptide bonds are found in the cis configuration ~100 times as often as those between other amino acids. There is no H-bond donor in the proline peptide bond and the presence of proline leads to a bend or kink in the polypeptide chain.
The amino acid proline tends to interrupt an a-helix. Its fused ring, which includes the a-carbon and the peptide-forming amino N, prevents the polypeptide backbone from assuming a conformation compatible with an a-helix in the vicinity of a proline. In an a-helix, the amino acid R-groups protrude out from the helically coiled polypeptide backbone. The surface of an a-helix largely consists of the R-groups of amino acid residues. At right, an a-helix is shown end-on and from the side.
Based on the R-group structures, identify each amino acid residue and specify the sequence of amino acids in this peptide. Now select protein-sidechain; then select-change color to and pick a color. This will give the R-groups a color distinct from the CPK-colored backbone atoms. Select protein-protein. In an a-helix, the amino acid R-groups protrude out from the helically coiled polypeptide backbone. The surface of an a-helix largely consists of the R-groups of amino acid residues. At right, an a-helix is shown end-on and from the side.
alpha and the Carbonyl C. Rotations in the chain take place about the bonds in the backbone, whereat the peptide bond usually is unflexible (see Figure 2). The existence of an amino group (N-Terminal) at one end of the chain and a carboxy group (C-Terminal) at the other end designs a direction to the chain. alpha) and an amino group (NH 2), a hydrogen atom (H), a carboxy group (COOH) and a side chain (R) which are bound to the C alpha. Different side chains (R i) make up different amino acids with different physico-chemical properties.
A protein is a polypeptide, a linear polymer of many amino acids, linked by peptide bonds. The peptide linkages, along with the a-carbon atoms to which R-groups are attached, form the protein backbone, with sequence NCCNCCNCCNCC... In an a-helix, the amino acid R-groups protrude out from the helically coiled polypeptide backbone. The surface of an a-helix largely consists of the R-groups of amino acid residues. At right, an a-helix is shown end-on and from the side.