Case Study Roth IRAs allow an annual contribution to a retirement account, but unlike a regular IRA the contribution is never tax-deductible. Rather, distributions from a Roth IRA are generally tax-free, so long as certain criteria are met. You can take out aftertax contributions in a Roth free of tax and penalty (but not the gains) at any time and for any reason. The income eligibility requirements for a Roth IRA are more generous than for the traditional IRA.
A Roth IRA can be an individual retirement account containing investments in securities, usually common stocks and bonds, often through mutual funds (although other investments, including derivatives, notes, certificates of deposit, and real estate are possible). In contrast to a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. Withdrawals are generally tax-free, but not always and not without certain stipulations (i.e., tax-free for principal withdrawals and the owner's age must be at least 59½ for tax-free withdrawals on the growth portion above principal).
Ultimate guide to retirement. IRA stands for Individual Retirement Account, and it's basically a savings account with big tax breaks, making it an ideal way to sock away cash for your retirement. A lot of people mistakenly think an IRA itself is an investment-but it's just the basket in which you keep stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other assets. 
An IRA stands for Individual Retirement Account. Therefore, you can have any type of IRA (Roth IRA, Traditional IRA, or Rollover IRA) at any brokerage firm and it is not tied to your employer. 
A Roth IRA is a special retirement account where you pay taxes on money going into your account and then all future withdrawals are tax fee. Like beauty, the benefit of a Roth IRA is in the eye of the beholder and it all depends on the beholder’s tax bracket--both now and when he or she retires. Although there is no up-front tax deduction for Roth IRA contributions as there is with a traditional IRA, Roth distributions are tax-free when you follow the rules.
Function. The Roth IRA, by contrast, allows you to contribute and save after-tax money. As long as you own the Roth IRA for at least five years, you can take tax-free distributions beginning at age 59 1/2. The IRS requires that you take minimum distributions from a Traditional IRA beginning at age 70 1/2, whether you need them or not. Benefits. The IRS requires that you take minimum distributions from a Traditional IRA beginning at age 70 1/2, whether you need them or not. You never have to remove assets from your Roth IRA if you don't need them.
A Roth IRA (Individual Retirement Arrangement) is a retirement plan under US law that is generally not taxed, provided certain conditions are met. The tax law of the United States allows a tax reduction on a limited amount of saving for retirement. In contrast to a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. Withdrawals are generally tax-free, but not always and not without certain stipulations (i.e., tax-free for principal withdrawals and the owner's age must be at least 59½ for tax-free withdrawals on the growth portion above principal).
Roth is the type of IRA. IRA means individual retirement account. A Roth IRA differs from a traditional IRA in that the deposit is not tax deductible for income tax purposes. Also, the gain over time is not taxable when the account matures and the amount is withdrawn for retirement income. Contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. When you make withdrawals from your Roth IRA, your withdrawals come out tax-free. However, a 10% penalty may apply if you make withdrawals before age 59 1/2.
Named for its legislative sponsor, William V. Roth Jr., Republican senator from Delaware, the Roth IRA became available in 1998 as part of the Tax Relief Act of 1997. Mr. Roth served as a senator from 1971 to 2001. Benefits. The IRS requires that you take minimum distributions from a Traditional IRA beginning at age 70 1/2, whether you need them or not. You never have to remove assets from your Roth IRA if you don't need them.