Definition. An identifiable element in the physical, cultural, demographic, economic, political, regulatory, or technological environment that affects the survival, operations, and growth of an organization.
Definition. Encompasses the marketing team within an organization and includes all of the outside factors of marketing the affect the team's ability to develop and maintain successful customer relationships with their targeted customer group. 
Ethical factors. Ethical factors are environmental influences that the company has to determine whether the actions of the company are ethically and morally acceptable such as in human resource management, environment degradation, circumventing legal issues through loopholes and so on. Political factors. Political factors are environmental influences that concern the governmental changes and policies that can impact the business. If the changes in the policy are anticipated and exploited, the company can operate more profitably or change its strategies accordingly.
Marketing Environment. The marketing environment surrounds and impacts upon the organization. There are three key elements to the marketing environment which are the internal environment, the microenvironment and the macroenvironment. 
Definition of Environmental Influences on International Marketing. Environmental influences on International Marketing can be defined as the different forces of the external environment that impact on the international marketing, such as the SPELTE. Political factors. Political factors are environmental influences that concern the governmental changes and policies that can impact the business. If the changes in the policy are anticipated and exploited, the company can operate more profitably or change its strategies accordingly.
0 comments. Environmental analysis is a strategic tool. It is a process to identify all the external and internal elements, which can affect the organization’s performance. The analysis entails assessing the level of threat or opportunity the factors might present. It is true that industry factors have an impact on the company performance. Environmental analysis is essential to determine what role certain factors play in your business. PEST or PESTLE analysis allows businesses to take a look at the external factors.
Marketing Environmental Factors. Companies get resources from the environment and supplies goods and services to the environment. There are different environmental factors that affect a business ability to serve its customers. These marketing environmental factors provide opportunities or threats to a particular business.
The macro marketing environment takes into account all factors that can influence an organisation, but are outside of their control. There are six major macro marketing environment forces to deal with (PESTLE): political, economic, socio-cultural, technological, legal and environmental. 
The market environment is a marketing term and refers to factors and forces that affect a firm’s ability to build and maintain successful relationships with customers. Three levels of the environment are 3: Micro (internal) environment-small forces within the company that affect its ability to serve its customers. The company aspect of micro-environment refers to the internal environment of the company. This includes all departments, such as management, finance, research and development, purchasing, operations and accounting. Each of these departments has an impact on marketing decisions.
Introduction: A variety of environmental forces influence a company’s marketing system. Some of them are controllable while some others are uncontrollable. It is the responsibility of the marketing manager to change the company’s policies along with the changing environment. 