Bryan Cranston (born 07.03.1956). Bryan Cranston is an American actor known for his roles in the TV shows 'Malcolm in the Middle' and 'Breaking Bad'. Childhood: Bryan Cranston was born in Canoga Park, California. His parents are radio actress Peggy Sell and actor and producer Joseph L. Cranston. 
Younger Years. Bryan Lee Cranston was born in Canoga Park, California, on March 7, 1956. The son of an aspiring actor, Cranston spent much of his early childhood watching as his father, Joe, live a disappointed life for failing to achieve the movie-star status he longed for.
Congratulations and my deepest respect. You are truly a great, great actor. Best regards Tony Hopkins. Anthony Hopkins wasn't a Breaking Bad fan until just a few weeks ago, but after a marathon session bringing him from episode one through the series' conclusion, he's become simply stunned by it. 
Breaking Bad: Sir Anthony Hopkins tells Bryan Cranston 'you are the best actor ever'. The veteran actor said he felt 'compelled' to write to Cranston to congratulate the cast and crew on the quality of the series. Tim Walker. 
TMZ'S ONE BIG 'BREAKING BAD' ASS POST! To celebrate the moment everyone has been freaking out over we've compiled some awesome 'Breaking Bad' stuff for you to tweak out on!First up ... the meth cooking Winnebago where Walter and…. - 757 days ago. 
Around the Web. Bryan Cranston: Breaking Bad actor on his past and future-CBS ... Breaking Bad's Bryan Cranston reveals he and Aaron Paul had ... 'Breaking Bad' Q&A: Bryan Cranston on Walter White's Morality. Celebs Who Married 'Regular People' After Divorcing A Fellow Celebrity ... In real life, Bryan Cranston, the Emmy Award-winning actor who plays Walter, told Rolling Stone that couple's therapy is something he and wife Robin Dearden attend regularly. I see a [therapist] in L.A. from time to time, when I'm feeling edgy or anxiety-ridden, he told the magazine recently.
View. comments. It is a seminal role in television history that transformed Bryan Cranston's career-so it is understandable that the 57-year-old would want something to help remember his time on the Emmy-Award winning series Breaking Bad. Tattoo: The show's logo that Bryan had inked on his right finger. But the actor, who plays chemistry teacher gone bad Walter White on the hit show, decided upon a smallish design of the Breaking Bad logo on his right finger.
2014 Bryan Cranston Helps Ask Girl to Prom (Video short). Himself / Walter White (uncredited). 2014 Family Guy (TV Series). Himself. - Herpe, the Love Sore (2014) ... Himself. 2013-2014 Charlie Rose (TV Series). Himself-Guest. - Episode dated 4 April 2014 (2014) ... 