Chemical reactions and molecules | Back to Top. Molecules are compounds in which the elements are in definite, fixed ratios, as seen in Figure 12. Those atoms are held together usually by one of the three types of chemical bonds discussed above. For example: water, glucose, ATP. All matter is composed of basic elements that cannot be broken down to substances with different chemical or physical properties. Elements are substances consisting of one type of atom, for example Carbon atoms make up diamond, and also graphite. Pure (24K) gold is composed of only one type of atom, gold atoms.
FIND OUT MORE. Most atoms join up with other atoms through chemical BONDS to form larger particles called molecules. They can join up with atoms of the same element or with atoms of different elements. Substances whose molecules contain different types of atom are called compounds. Chemical reactions can CHANGE MOLECULES and when this happens, new molecules and therefore new compounds are formed. In a covalent bond, electrons are shared between two atoms. When two oxygen atoms bond together to form an oxygen molecule, they share four electrons – two from each oxygen atom. Other examples of covalent bonding are water (H 2 O), and carbon dioxide (CO 2).
Compounds. When atoms of different types of elements join together, they make molecules called compounds. Water consists of compound molecules made up of 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom. This is why it's called H 2 O. Water will always have 2 times the number of hydrogen atoms as oxygen atoms. Molecules are not only made up of different types of atoms but also different ratios. Like in the water example above, a water molecule has
Carbohydrates: Carbohydrates are organic compounds made of  carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. Carbs are made of  monosacharrides (single sugars) linked together. Thei … r function is  to provide a key source of energy for cells. An example is starch,  made of many linked glucose molecules.    2. Lipids: Lipids are nonpolar molecules that are not soluble in  water. They include fats, phospholipids, steroids, and waxes.  Lipids' functions are to provide energy and serve an important part  in the structure and functioning of cell membranes. 4. Nucleic acids: Nucleic acids are long chains of smaller  molecules called nucleotides. Nucleic acids mainly serve the  purpose of providing the organism with its genetic blueprint and  coding. They basically tell you who you are.DNA and RNA are two  types of nucleic acids.
This is because they are all made up of different types of molecules. Molecules are not only made up of different types of atoms but also different ratios. Like in the water example above, a water molecule has 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom. This is written as H 2 O
Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding. The attractive forces between molecules in a liquid can be characterized as van der Waals bonds. 
A molecule may be homonuclear, that is, it consists of atoms of a single chemical element, as with oxygen (O 2); or it may be heteronuclear, a chemical compound composed of more than one element, as with water (H 2 O). Molecules with the same atoms in different arrangements are called isomers. Also carbohydrates, for example, have the same ratio (carbon:hydrogen:oxygen = 1:2:1) (and thus the same empirical formula) but different total numbers of atoms in the molecule.
The element argon is a one-atom molecule. Other molecules can consist of two atoms of the same element. The oxygen molecule is made up of two oxygen atoms bonded together. However, in certain circumstances, three oxygen atoms bond together, forming a molecule called ozone. In a covalent bond, electrons are shared between two atoms. When two oxygen atoms bond together to form an oxygen molecule, they share four electrons – two from each oxygen atom. Other examples of covalent bonding are water (H 2 O), and carbon dioxide (CO 2).
Inorganic Molecules. Inorganic molecules essentially include all the molecules that are not organic. There are many different types of inorganic compounds which can be placed into various subcategories. Some simple inorganic molecules are water (H2O), ammonia (NH3) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Many others are made by the addition of oxygen to various elements. These include iron oxide (FeO) and chromic acid (CrO3).