The Zohar is mostly written in what has been described as an exalted, eccentric style of Aramaic. Aramaic, the day-to-day language of Israel in the Second Temple period (539 BCE – 70 CE), was the original language of large sections of the biblical books of Daniel and Ezra, and is the main language of the Talmud. 12:3) – by means of this book of yours, which is the book of the Zohar, from the radiance (Zohar) of Ima Ila'ah (the Higher Mother, the higher of the two primary partzufim which develop from Binah) [which is] teshuvah; with those [who study this work], trial is not needed.
Zohar meaning. For a meaning of the name Zohar, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads Gray. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names indeed derives our name from the root צהר (shr), but believes that it and its Arabic counterpart denote the color white, and reads Whiteness. There are two or three men named Zohar in the Bible: 1  The father of Ephron the Hittite from whom Abraham purchased the cave at Machpelah in order to bury Sarah (Genesis 23:8 and 25:9).
Meaning of the name-Zohar. Tweet. English Name: Zohar. Hebrew Name: זֹהַר. Meaning: 1. Glow, Splendor, Brilliance, Radiance, Glare, Glamor, Light, Lucidity. 2. The Book of Zohar. For more information in Hebrew, click here. 1. Glow, Splendor, Brilliance, Radiance, Glare, Glamor, Light, Lucidity. 
In terminology, what is called Kabbalah in → Tikunei haZohar and Ra`aya Meheimna is simply called razin (clues or hints) in the rest of the Zohar. In Tikunei haZohar there are many references to  chibura kadma'ah  (meaning the earlier book). This refers to the main body of the Zohar. 12:3) – by means of this book of yours, which is the book of the Zohar, from the radiance (Zohar) of Ima Ila'ah (the Higher Mother, the higher of the two primary partzufim which develop from Binah) [which is] teshuvah; with those [who study this work], trial is not needed.
The name Zohar in the Bible. There are two or three men named Zohar in the Bible: 1  The father of Ephron the Hittite from whom Abraham purchased the cave at Machpelah in order to bury Sarah (Genesis 23:8 and 25:9).
List of Jewish baby names, Jewish baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Jewish names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Jewish baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Zohar in Jewish origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
A person’s name is deeply significant. Choosing one’s name is very important in the Kabbalah. Letters and names affect reality and can influence a person’s fate. Kabbalistic scholars note that the letters making up a person’s name represent the connection between the material and the spiritual world. 
Meaning of Zohar. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Zohar means-Sparkles.. Other origins for the name Zohar include-Hebrew, Indian.The name Zohar is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Hebrew Name Meaning-Sparkles
Biblical Meaning: The name Zohar is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Zohar is: White, bright, dryness. Hebrew Meaning: The name Zohar is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zohar is: Sparkles. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
The Zohar (Hebrew: זֹהַר, lit. Splendor or Radiance) is the foundational work in the literature of Jewish mystical thought known as Kabbalah. 12:3) – by means of this book of yours, which is the book of the Zohar, from the radiance (Zohar) of Ima Ila'ah (the Higher Mother, the higher of the two primary partzufim which develop from Binah) [which is] teshuvah; with those [who study this work], trial is not needed.