A literature review is both a summary and explanation of the complete and current state of knowledge on a limited topic as found in academic books and journal articles. Review the Literature. 1  Using keywords, search a computer database. 2  Remember that the reference lists of recent articles and reviews can lead to valuable papers. 3  Make certain that you also include any studies contrary to your point of view.
When writing up your literature review use each of your headings or themes to compare and contrast the differing views put forward in the relevant studies and explain how they relate to your investigation. Your literature review has two main purposes: 1) To place your investigation in the context of previous research and justify how you have approached your investigation. 2) To provide evidence to help explain the findings of your investigation. It is this second purpose that many people forget!
While a summary of the what you have read is contained within the literature review, it goes well beyond merely summarizing professional literature. It focuses on a specific topic of interest to you and includes a critical analysis of the relationship among different works, and relating this research to your work. Step 5: Summarize the literature in table or concept map format. 1  Galvan (2006) recommends building tables as a key way to help you overview, organize, and summarize your findings, and suggests that including one or more of the tables that you create may be helpful in your literature review.
Organize Your Own Paper Based on the Findings From Steps 4 & 5. Develop headings/subheadings. If your literature review is extensive, ﬁnd a large table surface, and on it place post-it notes or ﬁling cards to organize all your ﬁndings into categories. Move them around if you decide that (a) they ﬁt better under different headings, or (b) you need to establish new topic headings. Review the Literature. 1  Using keywords, search a computer database. 2  Remember that the reference lists of recent articles and reviews can lead to valuable papers. 3  Make certain that you also include any studies contrary to your point of view.
The main focus of an academic research paper is to develop a new argument, and a research paper will contain a literature review as one of its parts. In a research paper, you use the literature as a foundation and as support for a new insight that you contribute. The focus of a literature review, however, is to summarize and synthesize the arguments and ideas of others without adding new contributions. You’ve got to write a literature review. You dust off a novel and a book of poetry, settle down in your chair, and get ready to issue a “thumbs up” or “thumbs down” as you leaf through the pages. “Literature review” done.
1. Find a working topic. Look at your specific area of study. Think about what interests you, and what is fertile ground for study. Talk to your professor, brainstorm, and read lecture notes and recent issues of periodicals in the field. 2. Review the literature. 1  Using keywords, search a computer database. 2  It is best to use at least two databases relevant to your discipline. 3  Remember that the reference lists of recent articles and reviews can lead to valuable papers. 4  Make certain that you also include any studies contrary to your point of view
1 Redefine your topic if needed: as you search you will quickly find out if the topic that you are reviewing is too broad. 2  Try to narrow it to a specific area of interest within the broad area that you have chosen (remember: this is merely an introductory literature review for Educ 7001). Step 5: Summarize the literature in table or concept map format. 1  Galvan (2006) recommends building tables as a key way to help you overview, organize, and summarize your findings, and suggests that including one or more of the tables that you create may be helpful in your literature review.
Step 2: Decide on a topic. It will help you considerably if your topic for your literature review is the one on which you intend to do your final M.Ed. project, or is in some way related to the topic of your final project. Step 5: Summarize the literature in table or concept map format. 1  Galvan (2006) recommends building tables as a key way to help you overview, organize, and summarize your findings, and suggests that including one or more of the tables that you create may be helpful in your literature review.
Abstracts of literature review articles should include the topic, the purpose of the article, and how the information sources were chosen. Describe the summaries or conclusions that were reached. Some-times the last section includes a proposal for future research. 