The flu is contagious a day before and five days to a week after its onset. Young children, people over 65, those with compromised immune systems, and people with a terminal illness are at risk of death from the flu. Pregnant women are also at greater risk. The flu can also cause premature birth. Colds are contagious from about a week before you get them until all of your symptoms are gone, which is sometimes as long as two weeks. You might develop a secondary infection like an earache that lasts longer than contagious symptoms.
The Flu Is Contagious. Most healthy adults may be able to infect other people beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. Some people can be infected with the flu virus but have no symptoms
A. THe CDC says 'Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days.'. Remember that some people who get the flu may not have symptoms and can spread the virus too. 18 Followers. A. You may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. 
However, the viruses that cause colds (for example, rhinoviruses) are not the same as those that cause the flu (influenza viruses). Although the typical incubation period for influenza is about one to four days, some adults can be contagious from about one day before onset of symptoms for up to two weeks. Other people who develop complications, such as pneumonia, may extend the contagious period for a week or two. For colds, most individuals become contagious about a day before cold symptoms develop and remain contagious for about five to seven days.
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 
When are you contagious? If you are infected with the flu, you are most likely to pass it to someone else from 1 day before symptoms start and up to 7 days after symptoms develop. Children may be infectious for longer than 7 days after symptoms start. Symptoms usually develop 1 to 4 days after you are infected. Because symptoms may not develop for a couple of days, you may pass the flu to someone before you know you have it.
Fever, chills, fatigue, body aches, sore throat, and headache are common symptoms of flu. Not everyone with flu will have a fever. The flu can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The flu is different from a cold. Flu seasons are unpredictable and can be severe. Over a period of 30 years, between 1976 and 2006, estimates of flu-associated deaths in the United States range from a low of about 3,000 to a high of about 49,000 people.
Person to Person. People with flu can spread it to others up to about 6 feet away. Most experts think that flu viruses are spread mainly by droplets made when people with flu cough, sneeze or talk. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick.
Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. Information about how long a person is contagious is available at How Flu Spreads. Flu seasons are unpredictable and can be severe. Over a period of 30 years, between 1976 and 2006, estimates of flu-associated deaths in the United States range from a low of about 3,000 to a high of about 49,000 people.
Flu Contagious Period. Flu starts being contagious about 24 hours before you have symptoms. You're most contagious when you first get sick and for the following 2 to 3 days. The severity of your symptoms correlates to how many new viruses are being produced, so you're less contagious as you start to feel better. Most people stop being infectious approximately 5 to 7 days after getting sick, but you can remain contagious for as long as 10 days.