Average Hris Analyst Salaries. The average salary for hris analyst jobs is $67,000. Average hris analyst salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term hris analyst anywhere in the job listing. The hris analyst salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional hris analyst salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
(United States). A Human Resources Information Systems Analyst (HRIS) earns an average salary of $61,966 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A skill in Microsoft SQL Server is associated with high pay for this job. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical HRIS Analyst I in the United States is $52,391 so 50% of the people who perform the job of HRIS Analyst I in the United States are expected to make less than $52,391. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $52,391. View HRIS Analyst I job description. View Human Resources Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: Human Resources, Consulting Services, Entry Level. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
Under direct supervision of the HRIS Manager, the HRIS Analyst is a technical point-of-contact and administrator for systems supported by HR.... PC Connection - 7 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all PC Connection jobs in Merrimack, NH-Merrimack jobs. 2  Salary Search: HRIS Analyst salaries in Merrimack, NH. HRIS Analysts in the team as well. Our Client currently has an opening for a HRIS analyst. 5 - 7 years HRIS experience....
The annual salary for someone with the job title HRIS Analyst I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. View HRIS Analyst I job description. View Human Resources Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: Human Resources, Consulting Services, Entry Level. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
Average HRIS Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide are 16% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 