Activia yogurt is part of a huge health market that promotes and sells probiotic yogurts and drinks. Many of the manufacturers, including Danone have made made several claims that their yogurt can improve your digestive health and help alleviate certain digestive disorders. For example Activia’s Bifidus ActiRegularis® is derived from the Bifidobacterium Animalis strain which lives in the intestines of most mammals and humans. This strain is believed to reduce the spread of harmful bacteria and help in the production of vitamin B12.
What is Activia. Activia is a delicious probiotic yoghurt from Danone. It contains an exclusive probiotic Bifidus ActiRegularis ® which is scientifically proven for its ability to survive in the digestive system and help improve digestive comfort.
Activia is a brand of yogurt owned by Groupe Danone (The Dannon Company in the United States) and introduced in France in 1987. As of 2013, Activia is present in more than 70 countries and on all 5 continents. Activia is classified as a functional food, designed to improve digestive health. Activia products are sold with different textures (set or firm, stirred, drinkable...) and in flavors adapted to local consumer preferences. The product line varies by country. Most Activia yogurts contain real fruit.
Activia Probiotic Strains. To be called a probiotic yogurt the product must contain a live active culture, which is a fancy name for a probiotic bacteria. Like many health food companies, Danone use their own exclusive probiotic cultures called Bifidus ActiRegularis® in their range of Activia yogurts. For example Activia’s Bifidus ActiRegularis® is derived from the Bifidobacterium Animalis strain which lives in the intestines of most mammals and humans. This strain is believed to reduce the spread of harmful bacteria and help in the production of vitamin B12.
Activia is the leader in the probiotics craze—a fad for microrganisms you can now find in a new Kashi cereal, wellness bars, a host of competing yogurts, and the functional food industry, products consumed not for traditional nutrition or pleasure but for presumed medicinal qualities. Indeed, outside the United States, Activia/Actimel is often associated with weight loss. A friend of mine recently back from living in Moscow says Activia—along with tomato juice and cigarettes—comprises what she calls the oligarch's wife's diet..
Photo Credit librakv/iStock/Getty Images. In the early 2000s, Dannon developed Activia, a line of yogurt and smoothie products that contain a probiotic, or beneficial bacteria, created by the company and named Bifidus regularis. Eating Activia regularly promotes digestive system health, claims Dannon. 
Join others and share how. feeling good starts from the inside! Activia may help reduce the frequency of minor digestive issues like bloating, gas, discomfort and rumbling, when consumed twice per day for four weeks as part of a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle. 
By Lauren Sandler. Activia yogurt is marketed to women as a digestive aid. In 1976, when yogurt was fast becoming a brave new trend in the American diet, televisions lit up with a Dannon advertisement that showed 125-year-old Soviet Georgians slurping down the stuff. Indeed, outside the United States, Activia/Actimel is often associated with weight loss. A friend of mine recently back from living in Moscow says Activia—along with tomato juice and cigarettes—comprises what she calls the oligarch's wife's diet..