The noun HUMULUS LUPULUS has 1 sense: 1. European twining plant whose flowers are used chiefly to flavor malt liquors; cultivated in America. Familiarity information: HUMULUS LUPULUS used as a noun is very rare.
A hop is a green cone around the female flower of the hop plant. Inside the hops are golden grains that form a sticky greenish yellow to organ-yellow powder. Hops have been used for centuries to flavor beer, at least as far back as 10,000 years ago in Asia, where it spread rapidly to Eastern Europe.
About. Humulus, Hop, is a small genus of Flowering plants native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere. The female Flowers (often called cones) of H. lupulus are known as Hops, and are used as a culinary Flavoring and stabilizer, especially in the Brewing of Beer.
Synonyms: bine; common hop; common hops; European hop; Humulus lupulus. Hypernyms (Humulus lupulus is a kind of...): hop; hops (twining perennials having cordate leaves and flowers arranged in conelike spikes; the dried flowers of this plant are used in brewing to add the characteristic bitter taste to beer).
Noteworthy Characteristics. Humulus lupulus, commonly known as common hop, is a dioecious, rhizomatous, twining perennial vine that is grown commercially for harvest of female fruits which are used by breweries to preserve and flavor beer. It is also an easy-to-grow ornamental plant that can be grown on a variety of support structures.
The hops or the hop plant bears the name Humulus lupulus L. in botanical circles. This perennial plant belongs to the plant family Cannabidaceae. The plant is a climbing vine, which gives out scaly and cone shaped fruits called hops from which the name for the whole plant is drawn.
Hops have been used to treat variety of ailments ranging from improper digestion to leprosy. Hops are the female flowers of the hop plant, or Humulus lupulus. These plants grow in temperate climates in the northern hemisphere, appearing in North America, Europe, and Asia.
Hops are flower clusters (seed cones or strobiles), of a hop species, Humulus lupulus. Hops are best known as stability agent and as bitter flavoring in beer. While hops are also used as flavorings in other beverages and foods such as gelatin, candies and cakes.