Even with their new mineral assemblages, metamorphic rocks may have the same overall chemistry they had before metamorphism. Fluids are an important agent of metamorphism. Most rocks contain some water, but sedimentary rocks hold the most. First there is the water that was trapped in the sediment as it became rock. Second is the water that is liberated by clay minerals as they change back to feldspar and mica. By Andrew Alden. Metamorphic rocks are the third great class of rocks. These are what happens when sedimentary and igneous rocks become changed, or metamorphosed (changed in form), by conditions underground. The four main agents that metamorphose rocks are heat, pressure, fluids and strain.
Metamorphic rocks form from preexisting rocks (either igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks) that have been altered by the agents of metamorphism, which include heat, pressure, and chemically active fluids. During metamorphism some of the material must remain solid. I. Metamorphism A. The transformation of one rock into another by temperatures and/or pressures unlike those in which it formed B. Metamorphic rocks are produced from 1. Igneous rocks 2. Sedimentary rocks 3.
The three agents of metamorphism are heat, pressure, and chemically active fluids. Heat is the most important agent of metamorphism because it provides the energy that drives the chemical reactions responsible for mineral and textural changes during metamorphism. Using the rock cycle, explain the statement  one rock is the raw material for another.. In short, the magma from which igneous rocks from may be produced when any rock is melted. Sedimentary rocks are formed from weathered products of preexisting rocks, whether igneous metamorphic, or sedimentary. Finally, metamorphic rocks are created when any rock type undergoes
The clay minerals of sedimentary rocks are a good example. Clays are surface minerals, which form as feldspar and mica break down in the conditions at the Earth's surface. With heat and pressure they slowly return to mica and feldspar. Fluids are an important agent of metamorphism. Every rock contains some water, but sedimentary rocks hold the most. First there is the water that was trapped in the sediment as it became rock. Second is the water that is liberated by clay minerals as they change back to feldspar and mica. The foliated rock types that form under these conditions are called schist or gneiss, depending on their texture. Schist is finely foliated whereas gneiss is organized in wide bands of minerals. Contact or Local Metamorphism A type of metamorphism that is important in specific localities is contact
1 Metamorphism is the transformation of one rock type into another. 2  Metamorphic rocks form from pre-existing rocks (either igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks) that have been altered by the agents of metamorphism, which include heat, pressure (stress) , and chemically active fluids. 1 Metamorphic rocks form from pre-existing rocks (either igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks) that have been altered by the agents of metamorphism, which include heat, pressure (stress) , and chemically active fluids. 2  During metamorphism the material essentially remains solid.
Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. The original rock (protolith) is subjected to heat (temperatures greater than 150 to 200 °C) and pressure (1500 bars), causing profound physical and/or chemical change. Metamorphic minerals are those that form only at the high temperatures and pressures associated with the process of metamorphism. These minerals, known as index minerals, include sillimanite, kyanite, staurolite, andalusite, and some garnet.
Metamorphic Rocks. Metamorphic comes from the Latin words for changed form, and refers to rocks that formed by changing pre-existing rocks with heat, pressure, or chemical activity that occurs under conditions of heat and pressure. Metamorphic rocks are classified based on their texture and composition. 