A software license is a document that provides legally binding guidelines for the use and distribution of software. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. Software licenses typically provide end users with the right to one or more copies of the software without violating copyrights. The license also defines the responsibilities of the parties entering into the license agreement and may impose restrictions on how the software can be used
This gives a user the permission to take the code and use it as part of closed-source software or software released under a proprietary software license. Free Software Foundation, the group that maintains The Free Software Definition, maintains a non-exhaustive list of free software licenses. This feature of proprietary software licenses means that certain rights regarding the software are reserved by the software publisher. Therefore, it is typical of EULAs to include terms which define the uses of the software, such as the number of installations allowed or the terms of distribution.
The most significant effect of this form of licensing is that, if ownership of the software remains with the software publisher, then the end-user must accept the software license. In other words, without acceptance of the license, the end-user may not use the software at all. This feature of proprietary software licenses means that certain rights regarding the software are reserved by the software publisher. Therefore, it is typical of EULAs to include terms which define the uses of the software, such as the number of installations allowed or the terms of distribution.
Software license management refers to the software tools or processes used by an organization to control and document where and how the company's software products are able to run in order to enforce and ensure compliance with software licenses (also known as an End-User License Agreement, or EULA). 
Therefore, the owner of a copy of computer software is legally entitled to use that copy of software. Hence, if the end-user of software is the owner of the respective copy, then the end-user may legally use the software without a license from the software publisher. This feature of proprietary software licenses means that certain rights regarding the software are reserved by the software publisher. Therefore, it is typical of EULAs to include terms which define the uses of the software, such as the number of installations allowed or the terms of distribution.
A software license is a legal instrument (usually by way of contract law, with or without printed material) governing the use or redistribution of software. Under United States copyright law all software is copyright protected, except material in the public domain. This feature of proprietary software licenses means that certain rights regarding the software are reserved by the software publisher. Therefore, it is typical of EULAs to include terms which define the uses of the software, such as the number of installations allowed or the terms of distribution.
Definition. Permission to use a software on non-exclusive basis, and subject to the listed conditions. A software license does not automatically transfer the ownership of the software to the buyer and its purchase price, in effect, is a one time rental fee. See also shrinkwrap license.
Proprietary license. Most software licenses are proprietary licenses, meaning the software publisher grants a license to use one or more copies of software, but that ownership of those copies remains with the software publisher. The user must accept the license before they are permitted to use the software. Software Licensing. A software license is a legally binding agreement that specifies the terms of use for an application and defines the rights of the software producer and of the end-user. All software must be legally licensed before it may be installed.