Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules.
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole.
Cell wall: The cell wall is a rigid layer that surrounds the plant cells. Plant cell walls are primarily made up of cellulose. It is located outside the cell membrane whose main function is to provide rigidity, strength, protection against mechanical stress and infection.
Confidence votes 9.4K. Animal cells do not have cell walls, they only have cell membranes. The cell membrane mainly consists of a phospholipid bilayer, and also contains embedded proteins and cholesterol. Plant cell walls are mainly made of cellulose, bacterial cell walls are mainly made of peptidoglycan.
The plant tissue is made up of cells with rigid cell walls. Animal cells anchor onto a skeleton, and have a flaccid cell membrane. Another point of View: The simple answer would be this: they don't need one. In the brutally competitive business of survival, expensive and unneeded things get dropped quickly.
All animal cells are eukaryotic, they are surrounded by cell membrane and do not have a cell wall. The components of animal cells are centrioles, cilia and flagella, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, lysosomes, microfilaments, microtubules,mitochondria, nucleus, peroxisomes, plasma membrane and ribosomes.
Animal Cell Structure Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Unlike the eukaryotic cells of plants and fungi, animal cells do not have a cell wall.