Ductility and malleability are not always coextensive – for instance, while gold has high ductility and malleability, lead has low ductility but high malleability. The word ductility is sometimes used to encompass both types of plasticity. Ductility can be quantified by the fracture strain, which is the engineering strain at which a test specimen fractures during a uniaxial tensile test. Another commonly used measure is the reduction of area at fracture
Answer by Quirkyquantummechanic. Confidence votes 77.3K. Ductility is the characteristic of a metal or another material that allows it to be drawn or rolled to be made longer without the material breaking. To get a little more technical, it is the ability of a material to undergo plastic deformation without failure. It is one of the physical properties of a material. Ductile metals are metals that can be pulled into long, thin lengths without breaking. Some metals are more easilly formed in this way that others, so some aremore ductile tha … n others.   Gold and copper are examples of highly ductile metals. Potassium is an example of a metal that is not ductile.
Best Answer: Ductility is the mechanical property of being capable of sustaining large plastic deformations due to tensile stress without fracture (in metals, such as being drawn into a wire). It is characterized by the material flowing under shear stress. Report Abuse. Ability of a material to be drawn into thin wires is called ductility. Ability of a material to be hammered into thin sheets is called Malleability. Some materials are both malleable as well as ductile. Aluminium can be drawn into thin wires and well as sheet
This tensile test of a nodular cast iron demonstrates low ductility. In materials science, ductility is a solid material's ability to deform under tensile stress; this is often characterized by the material's ability to be stretched into a wire. Ductility can be quantified by the fracture strain, which is the engineering strain at which a test specimen fractures during a uniaxial tensile test. Another commonly used measure is the reduction of area at fractu
*Ductility is a mechanical property used to describe the extent to which materials can be deformed plastically without fracture. In material science, ductility specifically refers to a material's ability to deform under tensile stress; this is often characterized by the material's ability to be stretched into a wire. Ductility and malleability do not always correlate with each other; for instance, gold is both ductile and malleable, but lead is only malleable. Commonly, the term ductility is used to refer to both concepts, as they are very similar. Go through the external link in the source link.
Ductility is the ability of material, such as steel, to be drawn out into thin wires or flat sheets without pulling apart or breaking. Ad. When the ductility of a material needs to be determined, a commonly used method is the bend test. A wire or thin sheet of the material is placed in a machine that applies force to a certain spot at a specific angle.