Full Definition of VARIATION. 1. a: the act or process of varying: the state or fact of being varied b: an instance of varying c: the extent to which or the range in which a thing varies. 2.: declination 6. a change in the form, position, condition, or amount of something. : something that is similar to something else but different in some way. music: a repeated version of a short piece of music with changes in its rhythm, tune, or harmony.
Example 2: If y varies directly as x, and the constant of variation is k = , what is y when x = 9? y = x = (9) = 15. As previously stated, k is constant for every point; i.e., the ratio between the y-coordinate of a point and the x-coordinate of a point is constant. = kx. where k is the constant of variation. Since k is constant (the same for every point), we can find k when given any point by dividing the y-coordinate by the x-coordinate. For example, if y varies directly as x, and y = 6 when x = 2, the constant of variation is k = = 3.
It is calculated as follows: The coefficient of variation represents the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean, and it is a useful statistic for comparing the degree of variation from one data series to another, even if the means are drastically different from each other. Next Up.n the investing world, the coefficient of variation allows you to determine how much volatility (risk) you are assuming in comparison to the amount of return you can expect from your investment. In simple language, the lower the ratio of standard deviation to mean return, the better your risk-return tradeoff.
11 people found this helpful. Variation was expected when the freak weather occurred in the supposed controlled environment, resulting in a different outcome than was initially proposed. 3 people found this helpful. 
Variation resulting from the appearance of mutations is called variation through mutation while that conditioned by subsequent recombination of genes as a result of interbreeding is called variation through recombination.roup variation includes the differences among aggregates of any rank—from differences among small groups of individuals within a population to differences among the kingdoms of living nature (animals and plants). In essence, the entire taxonomy of organisms is constructed on the comparative study of group variation.
variation. n. 1. the act, process, condition, or result of changing or varying; diversity. 2. an instance of varying or the amount, rate, or degree of such change. 3. something that differs from a standard or convention. 1. the act or process of varying: prices subject to variation. 2. an instance of this: a variation in quality. 3. amount of change: a temperature variation of 20°. 4. a different form of something. 5. the transformation of a musical theme with changes or elaborations in harmony, rhythm, and melody.
Variation. Definition. noun, plural: variations. (1) A difference or deviation (e.g. in structure, form, function) from the recognized norm or standard. (2) A modification in structure, form or function in an organism, deviating from other organisms of the same species or group. (3) Mutant; an organism possessing characteristic(s) as a result of muta
Genetic variation is a fact that a biological system – individual and population – is different over space. It is the base of the genetic variability of different biological systems in space. Genetic variation is based on the variation in alleles of genes in a gene pool. It occurs both within and among populations, supported by individual carriers of the variant genes. Genetic variation is brought about by random mutation, which is a permanent change in the chemical structure of a gene. 