Because phase boundaries relate to changes in the organization of matter, such as a change from liquid to solid or a more subtle change from one crystal structure to another, this latter usage is similar to the use of phase as a synonym for state of matter. However, the state of matter and phase diagram usages are not commensurate with the formal definition given above and the intended meaning must be determined in part from the context in which the term is used.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The crust and inner core are solid. The mantle is a solid-plastic. It's solid, but you can move it around. However, when you move it, it stays that way, which means plastic instead of being a liquid that would just rebound to the way it had been. The outer core is liquid but not like water sloshing around. A very thick liquid.
Abstract. The middle mantle as a separate geosphere within a depth interval of 840 to 1700 km was recognized in 1995 by Yu.M. Pushcharovsky. The structure, energetics, and tectonics of the middle mantle, as well as phase transformations inherent to this geosphere, are characterized in this paper. The distribution of seismic heterogeneities established by seismic tomography is a definitive attribute of the given geosphere. 
The Gutenberg discontinuity is the boundary between the liquid core and the mantle. Prior to Beno Gutenberg's discovery of the boundary at 2,900 km (1,800 miles). Gutenberg found that primary waves, p waves, slowed down and that secondary waves, s waves, disappeared. The Earths Mantle. The Earths mantle lies between the crust and the liquid outer core. Eighty-four percent of the Earth's mass is contained in the mantle. The core is approximately the same width as the mantle, but it contains only 15% of its mass.
A simple description is that a phase is a region of material that is chemically uniform, physically distinct, and (often) mechanically separable. In a system consisting of ice and water in a glass jar, the ice cubes are one phase, the water is a second phase, and the humid air over the water is a third phase. The glass of the jar is another separate phase. (See State of Matter#Glass). However, the state of matter and phase diagram usages are not commensurate with the formal definition given above and the intended meaning must be determined in part from the context in which the term is used.
In the physical sciences, a phase is a region of space (a thermodynamic system), throughout which all physical properties of a material are essentially uniform. Examples of physical properties include density, index of refraction, magnetization and chemical composition. However, the state of matter and phase diagram usages are not commensurate with the formal definition given above and the intended meaning must be determined in part from the context in which the term is used.
Liquid, the lower/inner mantle is solid, iron and nickel. Well,  both are made of iron and nickel, but the upper/outer mantle is  liquid. it can be a solid, liquid, gas or plasma just like normal matter … . the only difference is that antimatter uses positrons and anti-protons instead of electrons and protons to create an atom. 9 people found this useful. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
The inner core is solid, the outer core is liquid, and the mantle solid/plastic. This is because of the relative melting points of the different layers (nickel–iron core, silicate crust and mantle) and the increase in temperature and pressure as depth increases. The interior of Earth, similar to the other terrestrial planets, is chemically divided into layers. The mantle is a layer between the crust and the outer core. Earth's mantle is a silicate rocky shell with an average thickness of 2,886 kilometres (1,793 mi). The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The mantle encloses the hot core rich in iron and nickel, which makes up about 15% of Earth's volume
The state (phase) of matter is the condition of its molecular structure, which can be temperature-dependent. it can be a solid, liquid, gas or plasma just like normal matter … . the only difference is that antimatter uses positrons and anti-protons instead of electrons and protons to create an atom. 9 people found this useful. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.