Medical Definition of PEPTIDE. : any of various amides that are derived from two or more amino acids by combination of the amino group of one acid with the carboxyl group of another and are usually obtained by partial hydrolysis of proteins. — pep·tid·ic \pep-ˈti-dik\ adjective. See peptide defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
peptide. organic compound composed of amino acids amino acid, any one of a class of simple organic compounds containing carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and in certain cases sulfur. These compounds are the building blocks of proteins...... Click the link for more information. linked together chemically by peptide bonds. Peptide. A compound that is made up of two or more amino acids joined by covalent bonds which are formed by the elimination of a molecule of H 2 O from the amino group of one amino acid and the carboxyl group of the next amino acid. Peptides larger than about 50 amino acid residues are usually classified as protein
Peptide. Definition. noun, plural: peptides. A compound consisting of amino acids connected by an amide bond. Supplement. Peptides care comprised of monomers of amino acids that are linked in chain via an amide bond. The bond is formed between the carboxyl group of one amino acid and the amine group of another. A peptide comprised of two amino acids is called dipeptide. 
A compound consisting of two or more amino acids linked in a chain, the carboxyl group of each acid being joined to the amino group of the next by a bond of the type OCNH. Example sentences. 1  Among the amino acids of the peptide, the most dramatic change was the Phe residue. 2  If there are only two amino acids then the peptide is a dipeptide. 3  The peptide contains complementary amino acid sequences, with alternating positive and negative charges.
Peptide: A molecule consisting of 2 or more amino acids. Peptides are smaller than proteins, which are also chains of amino acids. Molecules small enough to be synthesized from the constituent amino acids are, by convention, called peptides rather than proteins. The dividing line is at about 50 amino acids. Depending on the number of amino acids, peptides are called dipeptides, tripeptides, tetrapeptides, and so on.
Noun. 1. peptide-amide combining the amino group of one amino acid with the carboxyl group of another; usually obtained by partial hydrolysis of protein. amide-any organic compound containing the group-CONH2. 
A peptide is a short chain of amino acids. The amino acids in a peptide are connected to one another in a sequence by bonds called peptide bonds. Typically, peptides are distinguished from proteins by their shorter length, although the cut-off number of amino acids for defining a peptide and protein can be arbitrary. Peptides are generally considered to be short chains of two or more amino acids. Meanwhile, proteins are long molecules made up of multiple peptide subunits, and are also known as polypeptides. Proteins can be digested by enzymes (other proteins) into short peptide fragments.
pep·tide. A compound of two or more amino acids in which a carboxyl group of one is united with an amino group of another, with the elimination of a molecule of water, thus forming a peptide bond, -CO-NH-; that is, a substituted amide. See also: polypeptide. 
Peptides (from Gr. πεπτός, digested, derived from πέσσειν, to digest) are biologically occurring short chains of amino acid monomers linked by peptide (amide) bonds. The covalent chemical bonds are formed when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another. The shortest peptides are dipeptides, consisting of 2 amino acids joined by a single peptide bond, followed by tripeptides, tetrapeptides, etc.