An ionic bond is when an electron leaves one atom and exothermically enters into orbit around another. These to oppositely charged ions now attract eachother. Ionic bonds are generally formed between metals and nonmetals. Ionic bonds result from the mutual attraction between oppositely charged ions.
Answer: A molecule or compound is made when two or more atoms form a chemical bond, linking them together. The two types of bonds are ionic bonds and covalent bonds. In an ionic bond, the atoms are bound together by the attraction between oppositely-charged ions. For example, sodium and chloride form an ionic bond, to make NaCl, or table salt. In a covalent bond, the atoms are bound by shared electrons.
An ionic bond is typically formed between a metal and a non-metal. A bond between two elements caused by a difference in charge created by the donation of an electron by one of the atoms to another. Atoms that have only one or very few electrons in their valence shell are very vulnerable to losing them.
A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions.
About Covalent and Ionic Bonds. The covalent bond is formed when two atoms are able to share electrons whereas the ionic bond is formed when the sharing is so unequal that an electron from atom A is completely lost to atom B, resulting in a pair of ions. Each atom consists of protons, neutrons and electrons.
Ionic bond, also known as electrovalent bond is a type of bond formed from the electrostatic attraction between oppositely charged ions in a chemical compound. These kinds of bonds occur mainly between a metallic and a non metallic atom.
Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding.