According to proponents of color psychology your favorite color (or colors) define your personality color. Yep, it’s that simple! According to them, colors you choose say a lot about your physical, mental and emotional states. Similarly, colors you dislike tell a lot about your weaknesses and vulnerabilities. Click here for the description of yellow color personality type. Brown. “Brown” people enjoy simple life and it’s good friends and close relationships what makes them happy. Black. Black color personality is independent and strong-willed. Click here to find more about personality color black. White.
Red is the color of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination as well as passion, desire, and love. Red is a very emotionally intense color. Blue is the color of the sky and sea. It is often associated with depth and stability. It symbolizes trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, truth, and heaven. Blue is considered beneficial to the mind and body.
Orange combines the energy of red and the happiness of yellow. It is associated with joy, sunshine, and the tropics. Orange represents enthusiasm, fascination, happiness, creativity, determination, attraction, success, encouragement, and stimulation. Blue is the color of the sky and sea. It is often associated with depth and stability. It symbolizes trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, truth, and heaven. Blue is considered beneficial to the mind and body.
If your colour personality is represented by the colour blue it indicates that you have a powerful need to be protected and nurtured and are seeking calm in your life. You possibly have to deal with some difficult issues at present, of which you may not feel supported and cared for, by those close to you. Find out the colour meaning of your favourite colour. Each colour represents certain character traits that are known as colour personality. Find out, if from your favourite colour, your character matches your
From a negative color meaning it is also a sign of pessimism and superficiality. For more on the color orange. With the meaning of colors, in color psychology, yellow is the color of the mind and the intellect. It is optimistic and cheerful. However it can also suggest impatience, criticism and cowardice. It can suggest loyalty and integrity as well as conservatism and frigidity. To understand the color blue. Indigo is the color of intuition. In the meaning of colors it can mean idealism and structure as well as ritualistic and addictive. For more on the color indigo. Purple is the color of the imagination.
True Colors™ is a model for understanding yourself and others based on your personality temperament. The colors of Orange, Gold, Green and Blue are used to differentiate the four central personality styles of True Colors™. Each of us has a combination of these True Colors that make up our personality spectrum, usually with one of the styles being the most dominant. Identifying your personality and the personalities of others using True Colors provides you with insights into different motivations, actions and communication approaches.
Blue is the color of trust and peace. It can suggest loyalty and integrity as well as conservatism and frigidity. To understand the color blue. Indigo is the color of intuition. In the meaning of colors it can mean idealism and structure as well as ritualistic and addictive. For more on the color indigo. Purple is the color of the imagination.
Your personality color does not have to be one you wear all the time; it is usually your favorite, the color that excites you the most and makes you feel alive when you see it. That being said, you are often drawn to your personality color for clothing and home decorating. It is often a predominant color in your aura. Lovers of black have a need for power and control in order to protect their own emotional insecurities. If white is your personality color, your deepest need is for simplicity in your own life and to be independent and self-reliant so you do not need to depend on anyone else. With gray as your favorite color, you are the middle of the road type, cool, conserved, composed and reliable
Blue is the color of the sky and the sea and is often used to represent those images. Blue is a color that generally looks good in almost any shade and is a popular color among males. Blue is not a good color when used for food as there are few blue foods found in nature and it suppresses the appetite. Colors have deep subliminal meanings that affect our thinking and rational. They have symbolic meaning that changes amongst different cultures and countries. We are faced with color choices all the time. The first crucial decision of the day usually comes in the morning when deciding what to wear.