The Kingdom of Belgium has three official languages: Dutch, French, and German. A number of non-official, minority languages and dialects are spoken as well. English is widely spoken throughout Belgium as a second or third language by native Belgians, and is sometimes used as a lingua franca in Brussels. In addition to the three official languages, others are spoken in Belgium, like in Wallonia, where French became dominant only relatively recently. Sometimes seen as dialects, the varieties related to French have been recognized by the French Community as separate languages (langues regionales régionales, endogenes endogènes
Belgium has 3 official languages: Dutch, French, and German. Dutch in Belgium is sometimes called Flemish, and is spoken by about 60% of the population as their primary lang … uage. French is spoken as a first language by about 40%, and German by less than 1%. However, there are several unofficial languages spoken by small percentages of the population as well. Walloon used to be the traditional language of southern Belgium in places where French is now spoken today. In the Flemish region, Dutch is the only official language. In the Wallon region, French is the only official language. The Brussels Capital Region is official bi-lingual French/Flemish. There is also a part of people who speak no one of the official languages.
Official Languages: French, Dutch and German. Wallon, the local variant of French, is used by 33% of population. Flemish is used by more than 60% of the population, and is spoken in the northern part of the country. The languages learned at school are officially labelled French and Dutch. German, spoken by 1% of population can be found in the cantons in the east of the Wallon region. Brussels, the capital of Belgium, has two official languages: French and Dutch. Luxembourgish is spoken by around 0.5% of the population, but the language has no official status. About 10% of the Belgian population are non-native, and languages spoken include Italian, Spanish, Greek, Arabic and Turkish
Dutch is the official language of the Flemish Community and the Flemish Region (merged to Flanders) and, along with French, an official language of the Brussels-Capital Region. The main Dutch dialects spoken in Belgium are Brabantian, West Flemish, East Flemish, and Limburgish. In addition to the three official languages, others are spoken in Belgium, like in Wallonia, where French became dominant only relatively recently. Sometimes seen as dialects, the varieties related to French have been recognized by the French Community as separate languages (langues regionales régionales, endogenes endogènes
Laguages spoken in Brussels. Official languages in Belgium: Dutch (57%), French (42%) and German (1%). Language is one of the most important and also perhaps one of the most contentious facts of life in Brussels and Belgium. 
In Belgium you can speak any language you want. For contacts with the authorities three official languages can be used: Dutch, French and German.These languages are not spoken everywhere, because Belgium is subdivided into federated states. Each federated state has its own official language.
Dutch in Flanders Edit. Dutch is the majority language in Belgium, being spoken natively by three-fifths of the population. It is one of the three national languages of Belgium, together with French and German, and is the only official language of the Flemish Region. 
Although there are three official languages in Belgium (French, Dutch and German), the one spoken most often, by about 60% of the population, is Flemish, which is the local va … riety of Dutch. 2 people found this useful. Tony Ortiz. In the Flemish region, Dutch is the only official language. In the Wallon region, French is the only official language. The Brussels Capital Region is official bi-lingual French/Flemish. There is also a part of people who speak no one of the official languages.
Like any other country, Belgium also has official languages. These are Dutch, French and German. These three languages are spoken in areas that are more or less delineated. Mid-last century, language areas were delineated on the basis of language use. For contacts with the authorities three official languages can be used: Dutch, French and German.These languages are not spoken everywhere, because Belgium is subdivided into federated states. Each federated state has its own official language.
German is the least prevalent official language in Belgium, spoken natively by less than 1% of the population. The German-speaking Community of Belgium numbers 77,000, residing in an area of Belgium that was ceded by the former German Empire as part of the Treaty of Versailles, which concluded World War I. In addition to the three official languages, others are spoken in Belgium, like in Wallonia, where French became dominant only relatively recently. Sometimes seen as dialects, the varieties related to French have been recognized by the French Community as separate languages (langues regionales régionales, endogenes endogènes