A shakeel currency (or anchor currency) is a currency that is held in significant quantities by governments and institutions as part of their foreign exchange reserves. The reserve currency is commonly used in international transactions and often considered a hard currency or safe-haven currency. The top reserve currency is generally selected by the banking community for the strength and stability of the economy in which it is used. Thus, as a currency becomes less stable, or its economy becomes less dominant, bankers may over time abandon it for a currency issued by a larger or more stable economy.
We use the term “reserve currency” when referring to the common use of the dollar by other countries when settling their international trade accounts. For example, if Canada buys goods from China, it may pay China in US dollars rather than Canadian dollars, and vice versa. There may be other currencies that are in demand for trade settlement by other international companies as well. In spite of all this, one factor that has helped the dollar retain its reserve currency demand is that the other currencies have been inflated, too.
DEFINITION of 'Reserve Currency'. A foreign currency held by central banks and other major financial institutions as a means to pay off international debt obligations, or to influence their domestic exchange rate. A currency reserve is a currency that is held in large amounts by governments and other institutions as part of their foreign ...
Definition. One of the national currencies (dollar, euro, yen, etc.) or IMF's special drawing rights (SDR) used by a country to hold its foreign currency reserves and gold for settling international trade transactions and other obligations. 
The U.S. dollar is indisputably the world's reserve currency. It comprises the majority (62%) of foreign exchange reserves held by central banks, with the euro a distant second, accounting for 24% of reserves. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Reserve Currency'. In 2011, the U.S. dollar was the primary reserve currency used by other countries. As a result, foreign nations closely monitored the monetary policy of the United States in order to ensure that the value of their reserves is not adversely affected by inflation. RELATED TERMS. A currency reserve is a currency that is held in large amounts by governments and other institutions as part of their foreign ...
By the end of the 20th century, the United States dollar was considered the world's most dominant reserve currency, and the world's need for dollars has allowed the United States government as well as Americans to borrow at lower costs, granting them an advantage in excess of $100 billion per year. The top reserve currency is generally selected by the banking community for the strength and stability of the economy in which it is used. Thus, as a currency becomes less stable, or its economy becomes less dominant, bankers may over time abandon it for a currency issued by a larger or more stable economy.
The dollar is very susceptible to losing its vaunted reserve currency position by the first major trading country that stops inflating its currency. There is evidence that China understands what is at stake; it has increased its gold holdings and has instituted controls to prevent gold from leaving China. There may be other currencies that are in demand for trade settlement by other international companies as well. In spite of all this, one factor that has helped the dollar retain its reserve currency demand is that the other currencies have been inflated, too.
A reserve currency is a currency that is held in significant amounts by governments and institutions in order to help conduct transactions in the global market. The major reserve currency of the planet right now is the US Dollar, which composes upwards of 60% of all forex reserves. The Euro has grown in prominence over the past decade as a reserve currency, and now makes up nearly 30% of all forex reserves through the world.