imperial-a piece of luggage carried on top of a coach. Adj. 1. imperial-relating to or associated with an empire;  imperial colony ; the imperial gallon was standardized legally throughout the British Empire . 2. imperial-befitting or belonging to an emperor or empress;  imperial palace . 3. imperial-belonging to or befitting a supreme ruler;  golden age of imperial splendor ;  purple tyrant ;  regal attire ;  treated with royal acclaim ; the royal carriage of a stag 's head 
Noun. 1. imperialism-a policy of extending your rule over foreign countries. foreign policy-a policy governing international relations. im•pe•ri•al•ism. 1. the policy of extending the rule or authority of an empire or nation over foreign countries, or of acquiring and holding colonies and dependencies. 2. advocacy of imperial interests. 3. an imperial system of government.
Pin it. Browse through the beer section of any well-stocked store and you'll notice the word imperial showing up in front of many of your favorite beers: imperial stout, imperial pale ale, imperial pilsner and who knows what else. That word might actually mean something different than you think! 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: imperial (Noun). A bottle of wine (usually Bordeaux) containing 6 liters of fluid, eight times the volume of a standard bottle. imperial (Noun). A printing-paper size measuring 30 inches x 22 inches. imperial (Adjective). Related to an empire, emperor, or empress. 
imperialism. n. 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the policy or practice of extending a state's rule over other territories. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an instance or policy of aggressive behaviour by one state against another. im•pe•ri•al•ism. 1. the policy of extending the rule or authority of an empire or nation over foreign countries, or of acquiring and holding colonies and dependencies. 2. advocacy of imperial interests. 3. an imperial system of government.
adjective. The definition of imperial is something magnificent, domineering or related to an empire. 1  A royal government with control over an empire is an example of an imperial government. 2  A person with a domineering and controlling manner is an example of someone who would be described as having an imperial personality.
imperial-relating to or associated with an empire; imperial colony; the imperial gallon was standardized legally throughout the British Empire. 2. imperial-of or belonging to the British Imperial System of weights and measures. 3. imperial-befitting or belonging to an emperor or empress; imperial palace. 4. imperial-belonging to or befitting a supreme ruler; golden age of imperial splendor; purple tyrant; regal attire; treated with royal acclaim; the royal carriage of a stag's head. regal, majestic, purple, royal.
Imperial. 1  Of or pertaining to an empire, or to an emperor; as, an imperial government; imperial authority or edict. 2  Belonging to, or suitable to, supreme authority, or one who wields it; royal; sovereign; supreme. 3  Of superior or unusual size or excellence; as, imperial paper; imperial tea, etc. 