Staphylococcus aureus is a species frequently responsible for abscesses, endocarditis, impetigo, osteomyelitis, pneumonia, and septicemia. S. epidermidis, formerly called S. albus, occasionally causes endocarditis in the presence of intracardiac prostheses. See also staphylococcal infection. staphylococcal, adj.
Pinterest0. Staphylococcus epidermidis belongs to the genus staphylococcus and is a part of human flora found in the mucous membrane.They are usually not pathogenic in nature and found in warm blooded .People who are having a weak immune system are at the risk of getting infected.
Staphylococcus is a very common bacteria, found on the skin and in the nasal passages of most people. When an opportunity arises, such as a compromised immune system or a break in the epidermis, Staphylococcus Aureus can cause infection.
Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus are normal flora of the skin. S. aureus tends to be found in moist environments such as the nostrils and armpits, whereas S. epidermidis is usually found in drier areas
Staphylococcus epidermidis is a gram-positive and coagulase-negative staphylococci (4). It typically lives on the human skin and mucosa and the most common infections on catheters and implants (5).
S. aureus is found in up to 30% of the population, usually in the nasal passages, where it causes absolutely no harm. S. epidermidis is found on the skin surfaces of practically, if not literally, every single person alive and is a perfectly normal inhabitant of that area of the body.
The most prevailing form of Staphylococcus is Staphylococcus aureus, which is usually found in the nose and on the skin of most warm-blooded species like humans. A common “Staph” infection on the skin may appear pus-like and red. The infection is likely to seen near wounds, or individuals with weakened immune systems.
Staphylococcus epidermidis is a gram-positive, coagulase-negative cocci that is a part of our normal flora. Consequently, it is a true opportunistic pathogen, as it requires a major breach in the host’s innate defenses.