Previously made yogurt. Previously made yogurt. Make sure the yogurt is well mixed with the warm milk. I use yogurt that I’ve made previously or Dannon plain yogurt. Use any yogurt that contains active yogurt cultures not all do. Transfer the milk/yogurt mixture to jars. Place lids on jars. If you are using store bought milk I would scald it, if using raw milk, do what you are comfortable with. Milk at the right temperature. Milk at the right temperature. When the milk reaches 110 degrees, whisk in 2 to 3 tablespoons of yogurt with active yogurt cultures.
How to make Yogurt in a Dehydrator: Open your container of milk and pour it into a saucepan. I normally make a gallon of yogurt at a time so I use a big pot. Place the pot on the stove and heat over medium heat until the temperature reaches 185-195 degree. If you are using store bought milk I would scald it, if using raw milk, do what you are comfortable with. Milk at the right temperature. Milk at the right temperature. When the milk reaches 110 degrees, whisk in 2 to 3 tablespoons of yogurt with active yogurt cultures.
2 quarts of milk. 1/3 cup of powdered milk (if you want; it makes for a thicker yogurt). 1/2 cup of yogurt starter (you can use an organic purchased yogurt for your first batch and then reserve a 1/2 cup from each batch you make there after.). 1/3 cup - 1/2 cup sweetener if you choose-I have used maple syrup, strawberry syrup, honey, sorghum syrup. 
How to make it: Make your very own yogurt at home with our easy to follow recipe! 1  1. Pour milk into saucepan, heat over medium until temperature reaches 185°F-195°F. 2  2. Cool milk to about 100-115 degrees F. Whisk in yogurt with active cultures. 3  Make sure yogurt is mixed in well with milk. 1 2. Cool milk to about 100-115 degrees F. Whisk in yogurt with active cultures. 2  Make sure yogurt is mixed in well with milk. 3  3. Transfer mixture into glass jars, and close with lids. 4  4. Remove all trays from dehydrator and place jars inside. 5  5. 6  Dehydrate for 8 to 10 hours
Make your very own yogurt at home with our easy to follow recipe! 1  1. Pour milk into saucepan, heat over medium until temperature reaches 185°F-195°F. 2  2. Cool milk to about 100-115 degrees F. Whisk in yogurt with active cultures. 3  3. Transfer mixture into glass jars, and close with lids. 4  4. Remove all trays from dehydrator and place jars inside. 5  5. 6  6 1 2. Cool milk to about 100-115 degrees F. Whisk in yogurt with active cultures. 2  Make sure yogurt is mixed in well with milk. 3  3. Transfer mixture into glass jars, and close with lids. 4  4. Remove all trays from dehydrator and place jars inside. 5  5. 6  Dehydrate for 8 to 10 hours.
You can make 8 quarts of yogurt all at once in the Excalibur dehydrator. You use glass canning jars to hold the yogurt and put lids on the cans to keep the temperature even. First make yogurt with water to test the right temperature. 
If you aren’t making a lot of yogurt use pint jars if you have them. I prefer glass containers; use what you’re comfortable with. Just make sure it’s clean and you can cover it. Remove all the trays from your dehydrator. Preheat your dehydrator to 105 degrees. If you are using store bought milk I would scald it, if using raw milk, do what you are comfortable with. Milk at the right temperature. Milk at the right temperature. When the milk reaches 110 degrees, whisk in 2 to 3 tablespoons of yogurt with active yogurt cultures.
Making Greek yogurt at home using an Excalibur dehydrator is easy. The Excalibur dehydrator is used as an incubator to cultivate the yogurt cultures. Simply mix milk with a small amount of store bought Greek yogurt and place in the Excalibur dehydrator for a few hours, chill and it's ready to eat and enjoy. The purchased Greek yogurt will act as a starter and produce the cultures needed for the new batch. Pour 1/4 cup of the cooled milk into each jar and stir to incorporate the yogurt into the milk. Add another 1/4 cup of cooled milk to each jar and mix well. Cover the jars and place them in the Excalibur dehydrator. Set the temperature to 110 degrees Fahrenheit and let incubate for approximately five to seven hours