Varies based on number of interviews they do, efficiency of the person, number of people on the job, if they need to send results off other other people for approval. If you don't get a call in 2 weeks, call them, sometimes an application just gets misplaced. Vincenzo · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. It may depend on who this person is, how this person feels, if something developed at the work place to not make this person call, back, or any of a number of other things. If I were you, I would certainly not sit back on my haunches waiting for this person to call back
This means that it normally takes a minimum of a week to put together a job offer, and depending on schedules and travel it can take longer than that. I generally don't write off an employer until 2 weeks after the interview. 24 months ago. I've gotten offers in as little as a day and as long as two months (I'm a technical writer/training developer). Typically for my kind of work there are 2-3 interviews, and it takes 2-4 weeks from acknowledgement of resume receipt to offer or rejection. One contract-to-perm gig I had an offer a little more than an hour after I interviewed with the client
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You should call them once a week and let them know you are still interested. They call the people that bug them first because they seem to want it more. Last time I put in for a job I called them once or twice a week for a month and a half before I got my interview. It took them that long to look through the apps and narow it down to five people for interviews. Turn looking for a job into a job until you find a job. I worked for contract technical agencies for 25 years. Some jobs lasted 5 hours and most lasted many months to 6 years for the longest one. To see it from their side, I was a test lab supervisor at a small aerospace company. I needed an electronic tech.
Report Abuse. It can take 6-8 weeks or even longer depending on the number of applicants and the level of the job. Executive searches can be 6 - 18 months. Tip: Each employer is different. Best to ask your question when you turn in an application. Another tip is call in a week if you have more information to add to your application. You should usually wait about a week...but if they don't call after maybe like 8 days, you should call the manager to let them know you really want the position... ★Nat★ · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Hearing back about a job application can take from a few days to a few months depending on the type of job and employer. 
If I were you, I would call back every couple of days or so to inquire about the job. The perspective employer will then, sooner than later probably, let you know definitively whether you have the job or not. In the meantime, try finding other sources of employment if you can. Good Luck. It may depend on who this person is, how this person feels, if something developed at the work place to not make this person call, back, or any of a number of other things. If I were you, I would certainly not sit back on my haunches waiting for this person to call ba
Depends on the size of the company, urgency of need for the position to be filled and the time of year. Bigger companies tend to make hiring decisions slower due to layers of bureaucracy. I've waited as long as 3 weeks after the final interview to get an offer in hand. Generally, I'd recommend contacting the recruiter 2 weeks after your interview to see if a decision has been made. If you have other irons in the fire but really want a particular job, one week after your final interview is reasonable. 24 months ago. I've gotten offers in as little as a day and as long as two months (I'm a technical writer/training developer). Typically for my kind of work there are 2-3 interviews, and it takes 2-4 weeks from acknowledgement of resume receipt to offer or rejection. One contract-to-perm gig I had an offer a little more than an hour after I interviewed with the client