Norepinephrine is a monoamine neurotransmitter. Monoamine neurotransmitters are neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by a two-carbon chain (-CH 2 -CH 2 -). All monoamines are derived from aromatic amino acids like phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, and the thyroid hormones by the action of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase enzymes.
Abstract. Using enzyme histochemistry for monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, we have examined whether MAO type A or type B or both are localized in neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) of the rat. Monoamine oxidase staining intensity of the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) neurons with serotonin or β -phenylethylamine as a substrate. Sections were incubated at 37°C for 90 min in the staining mixture with various concentrations (0.01 to 1 mM) of serotonin (A) or β -phenylethylamine (B).
After release into the synaptic cleft, monoamine neurotransmitter action is ended by reuptake into the presynaptic terminal. There, they can be repackaged into synaptic vesicles or degraded by the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO), which is a target of monoamine oxidase inhibitors, a class of antidepressants. All monoamines are derived from aromatic amino acids like phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, and the thyroid hormones by the action of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase enzymes.
Monoamine oxidase staining of the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) neurons with preferential substrates. Sections were incubated in the staining mixture with 1 mM serotonin (A,B) or 0.1 mM β -phenylethylamine (C,D). A,C: LC. Monoamine oxidase staining intensity of the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) neurons with serotonin or β -phenylethylamine as a substrate. Sections were incubated at 37°C for 90 min in the staining mixture with various concentrations (0.01 to 1 mM) of serotonin (A) or β -phenylethylamine (B).
Monoamine oxidases catalyze the oxidative deamination of monoamines. Oxygen is used to remove an amine group from a molecule, resulting in the corresponding aldehyde and ammonia. Monoamine oxidases contain the covalently bound cofactor FAD and are, thus, classified as flavoproteins. They are found bound to the outer membrane of mitochondria in most cell types in the body. The enzyme was originally discovered by Mary Bernheim in the liver and was named tyramine oxidase. They belong to the protein family of flavin-containing amine oxidoreductases.
Monoaminergic systems, i.e., the networks of neurons that utilize monoamine neurotransmitters, are involved in the regulation of cognitive processes such as emotion, arousal, and certain types of memory. All monoamines are derived from aromatic amino acids like phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, and the thyroid hormones by the action of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase enzymes.
L-Monoamine oxidases (MAO) (EC 1.4.3.4) are a family of enzymes that catalyze the oxidation of monoamines. They are found bound to the outer membrane of mitochondria in most cell types in the body. The enzyme was originally discovered by Mary Bernheim in the liver and was named tyramine oxidase. They belong to the protein family of flavin-containing amine oxidoreductases.
It has been found that monoamine neurotransmitters play an important role in the secretion and production of neurotrophin-3 by astrocytes, a chemical which maintains neuron integrity and provides neurons with trophic support. All monoamines are derived from aromatic amino acids like phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, and the thyroid hormones by the action of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase enzymes.
Int J Neurosci 1993 May; 70(1-2):75-84 ABSTRACT Monoamine oxidase is an iron containing enzyme that exists as 2 isozymes, A and B, that have different affinities for various amines as substrates. The activity of monoamine oxidase helps to maintain neuron firing rates throughout the body within homeostatic limits. Other drugs that inhibit monoamine oxidase are used to treat patients with atypical depression, panic attacks or post traumatic stress syndrome. It is hypothesized that the emotions act as positive or negative reinforcers of behavior patterns that increase the probability of survival of the organism.