Adeline /ade-line/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ADD-a-line, add-a-LEEN. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Adeline is noble. French diminutive of Adela. Used occasionally in England since the early 16th century. See also Adelaide. Opera soprano Adelina Patti (late 19th century) and a well-known song called Sweet Adeline gave the name exposure. See also Alena. 
Notes: Adeline is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Adelnie is noble. Alternate spellings of the name Adeline include Adaline and Adalina. Common nicknames include Ada, Lyn, and Dina. Adeline Pond Adams was an American writer. Adeline Andre is a Fashion designer
The name is Germanic in origin, from the word “adel” meaning ‘noble’. Adeline has been used occasionally among English speakers since the 16th century. Today, it is ranked with moderate usage in the United States and France. 
Adelina /ad-eli-na/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name. Adelina's roots are Old German and Latin, and the meaning of the name Adelina is noble kind; small winged one. Adelina is an alternate spelling of Adelaide (Old German): from adal heid. Adelina is also a form of Adeline (Old German). Adelina is also used as a form of Alida (Latin). See also Alina.
Adeline is a French form of the name Adelaide. The name Adelaide is derived from the Germanic elements adel meaning nobel and heid meaning kind or sort. The name was borne by the wife of the Holy Roman Emperor Otto the Great in the 10th century. 
Adeline is also an English variant transcription of Adelaide (English and Italian). Adeline is a widely used name; it has 38 variant transcriptions that are used in English and foreign languages. [ 4 syll. a-de-li-ne, ad-el-ine ] The baby girl name Adeline is pronounced AA-Deh-LiyiyN or AE D-eh-LayN- †. Adeline is of Germanic origin. It is used mainly in English and French. The name developed as a diminutive of Adele. adèle
Teutonic Meaning: The name Adeline is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Adeline is: noble. Latin Meaning: The name Adeline is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Adeline is: Of the nobility. Noble. German Meaning: The name Adeline is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Adeline is: Pleasant; Of the nobility. Noble. From the Old German 'athal' meaning noble.