The surname Newton is a toponymic surname, i.e., derived from a place name. It has a Surname DNA project. The most well-known bearer of the name was Isaac Newton and he is usually the one meant when a reference is made to Newton without qualification. The surname may also refer to:
References. The Newton Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Newton Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 10 June 2015 at 18:04. Newton Early Origins. First found in Cheshire where they held a family seat from very early times and were granted lands by Duke William of Normandy, their liege Lord, for their distinguished assistance at the Battle of Hastings in 1066 A.D.
Newton Name Meaning. English: habitational name from any of the many places so named, from Old English neowe ‘new’ + tun ‘enclosure’, ‘settlement’. According to Ekwall, this is the commonest English place name. For this reason, the surname has a highly fragmented origin. You can find out where the majority of the Newton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
This is a famous English surname of locational origins. There are believed to be eighty-three places called Newton or Newtown in England and Wales, and it is said that the place name appears in every one of the forty three English counties, except for Westmoreland and Rutland. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Alward de Niwetuna. This was dated 1086, in the Domesday Book of Norfolk, during the reign of King William 1st, known as The Conqueror, 1066 - 1087.
Last name origin & meaning: English: habitational name from any of the many places so named, from Old English nēowe ‘new’ + tūn ‘enclosure’, ‘settlement’. According to Ekwall, this is the commonest English place name. For this reason, the surname has a highly fragmented origin. 
Newton is an English locational surname. Newton genealogy shows that the name is derived from any of nearly 100 places in England and Wales with some form of this name, including Newtown, Newton, Newington, and more. The word derives from the Old English words neowe (new) and tun (settlement). Newton genealogy lists the first recorded spelling as Alward de Niwetuna of Norfolk in 1086. The Newton family motto is Huic habeo non tibi, which means I hold it for him, not for you..
There is more to Newton family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Newton family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. The name of several small towns in England--the new town. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
Newton Surname Origin. Locality. The name of several small towns in England--the new town. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
Etymology and History of the Surname: Newton. View Name: NEWTON. NEWTON. Derivation : Habitational-Derives from a pick of many English towns 'New Town'. History : A word for 'enclosure,settlement',making it the most common english place names.This is why the origin is fragmented. Linked Surnames : Newdon. 