Their means belonging to them.. The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses).
PART 2 LYRICS OF FUNGA ALAFIA. The word funga is a folk etymology version of the word fanga. Although the term funga alafia is less authentic than fanga alafia, I usually use the title Funga Alafia. I do so partly because that's the title I'm most familar with, and also because that title is the one that appears to be most often used for that song. Edited by Azizi Powell. This is the second post of a three part series on the Funga Alafia song and the Funga (Fanga) dance. This second post showcases lyrics to the Funga Alafia song. Part #1 in this series focuses on the history of the Fanga dance and
Alafia: A greeting, like hello with the meaning of good health or peace (like shalom). Fanga: A traditional welcome dance. It's often misspelled as funga. Ashe : (Pronounced ah-shay) The Yoruba believe ashe is a basic force emanating from the Creator that unites all living and non-living things. 
Answers. Best Answer: Fungu Alafia is a traditional song from Western Africa (Nigeria) sung in the Yoruba language and means welcomes and blessings. Call: Funga alafia Response: Ashay ashay Repeat as necessary. Funga Alafia, a West African Welcome Song Funga alafia, Ah-shay Ah-shay. Funga alafia, Ah-shay Ah-shay
Part #3 of this series showcases seven selected YouTube videos of the Funga Alafia song and/or dance. Click http://pancocojams.blogspot.com/2011/11/funga-alafia-fanga-song-part-3-videos.html for that post. Edited by Azizi Powell. This is the second post of a three part series on the Funga Alafia song and the Funga (Fanga) dance. This second post showcases lyrics to the Funga Alafia song. Part #1 in this series focuses on the history of the Fanga dance and
Although the term funga alafia is less authentic than fanga alafia, I usually use the title Funga Alafia. I do so partly because that's the title I'm most familar with, and also because that title is the one that appears to be most often used for that song. Funga is usually pronounced fun-gah. Funga (more accurately Fanga) is a traditional Liberian rhythm & dance and Funga Alafia is a song which was composed by an African American to be sung while performing that music & dance. The word funga is a folk etymology version of the word fanga.
“Funga Alafia, Ashay ashay…”. I’m at it again. Standing in a circle with forty or fifty strangers singing a song I’ve sung countless times. At first, there’s the usual tension whenever a group of people gather to begin a venture. Once the first note is sung, things start to feel instantly different. “Alafia” is a casual greeting of welcome, “Ashay” a deeper one, akin to the Indian “Namaste”—“the divine spirit in me greets the divine spirit in you.”. But not only does the text support the sense of welcome that the music makes physical, but there are the gestures as well.