It is a material that can also be used for upholstery and also for sheets and clothing. The microfiber sheets are made from synthetic materials like nylon and polyester polymers, they are constructed with tiny fibers which are less than 1 denier thick. The sheets have finely woven very tiny, microscopic fiber strands.
Fabric created from microfiber that is then used to create your bedding means that you will have products that are lighter, more comfortable, long lasting, breathable and even easier to clean. And it doesn’t come with a high price tag either. Products created from these fibers are also great for allergy sufferers.
Our sheets are made of a polyester microfiber. Taylor Bed Sheet Collection Microfiber Sheet Sets adds touch of subtle luxury for your bedroom, the Taylor collection sheet sets are made from 100% microfiber fabric with an embossed stripe. Modern luxury meets classic comfort in our beautiful set.
Microfiber bedding, as a result is wonderfully soft to the touch. Products made from microfibers like nylon and polyester are created with fibers that are also strong and extremely thin. These fibers are even thinner than the most luxurious than natural fibers, such as silk.
Microfiber is a fabric used to make knitted, woven and non-woven textiles. It is a synthetic fiber known for its durability, softness, and water repellant properties. The fibers are extra fine, which makes microfiber sheets comfortable for most people to use.
The 100% brushed microfiber fabric is the perfect solution to luxurious and affordable bedding. The micro-yarn structure produces a soft, breathable weave that is stain and wrinkle resistant. Brushing the microfiber creates a fabric that is softer and more durable than most cotton.
Made from 100% microfiber polyester, these sheets are wrinkle resistant and easy care. Microfiber sheet sets provide a luxurious softness, resist wrinkling and are strong and durable Fitted sheet fits mattress 18″ deep. Embossed stripe in a brushed 100% microfiber polyester for easy care and Machine washable.