Direct materials price variance is the difference between the actual purchase price and standard purchase price of materials. Direct materials price variance is calculated either at the time of purchase of direct materials or at the time when the direct materials are used. Direct Materials Quantity Variance: Direct materials quantity variance or Direct materials usage variance measures the difference between the quantity of materials used in production and the quantity that should have been used according to the standard that has been set.
A credit to the variance account indicates that the actual cost is less than the standard cost. After this transaction is recorded, the Direct Materials Price Variance account shows an overall credit balance of $190. A credit balance in a variance account is always favorable. In other words, your company's profit will be $190 greater than planned due to the favorable cost of direct materials. A debit balance in a variance account is always unfavorable—it shows that the total of actual costs is higher than the total of the expected standard costs. In other words, your company's profit will be $50 less than planned unless you take some action.
The Direct Materials Usage Variance is: [the standard quantity of material that should have been used to make the good output minus the actual quantity of material used] X the standard cost per yard. In our example, DenimWorks should have used 278 yards of material to make 100 large aprons and 60 small aprons. Because Direct Materials Inventory reports the standard cost of the actual materials on hand, we reduce the account balance by $870 (290 yards used $3 standard cost per yard). After removing 290 yards of materials, the balance in the Direct Materials Inventory account is $2,130 (710 yards x $3 standard cost per yard)
On January 8 DenimWorks' Direct Materials Inventory is increased by the standard cost of $3,000 (1,000 yards of denim at the standard cost of $3 per yard), Accounts Payable is credited for $2,900 (the actual amount owed to the supplier), and the difference of $100 is credited to Direct Materials Price Variance. A debit balance in a variance account is always unfavorable—it shows that the total of actual costs is higher than the total of the expected standard costs. In other words, your company's profit will be $50 less than planned unless you take some action.
Production variances are calculated after you end a production order for a standard cost item. The variances reflect a comparison between the reported production activities and the calculation of standard costs for the production item. 
Standard Cost Variances. A variance is the difference between the actual cost incurred and the standard cost against which it is measured. A variance can also be used to measure the difference between actual and expected sales. Thus, variance analysis can be used to review the performance of both revenue and expens
Direct Materials Inventory is debited for the standard cost of $9,000 (3,000 yards at $3 per yard), Accounts Payable is credited for the actual amount owed, and the difference of $240 is credited to Direct Materials Price Variance. A debit balance in a variance account is always unfavorable—it shows that the total of actual costs is higher than the total of the expected standard costs. In other words, your company's profit will be $50 less than planned unless you take some action.
If actual cost exceeds the standard costs, it is an unfavorable variance. On the other hand, if actual cost is less than the standard cost, it is a favorable variance. Variance analysis is usually conducted for. 1  Direct material costs (price and quantity variances); 2  Direct labor costs (wage rate and efficiency variances); and. Standard costing is the establishment of cost standards for activities and their periodic analysis to determine the reasons for any variances. Standard costing is a tool that helps management account in controlling costs. For example, at the beginning of a year a company estimates that labor costs should be $2 per unit