For the TV special, see The Cat in the Hat (TV special) . For the 2003 film, see The Cat in the Hat (film) . For the disambiguation, see The Cat in the Hat (disambiguation) . The Cat in the Hat is a children's book written and illustrated by Theodor Geisel under the pen name Dr. Seuss and first published in 1957. The story centers on a tall anthropomorphic cat, who wears a red and white-striped hat and a red bow tie
While many children and adults have enjoyed books by Dr. Seuss, very few actually know anything about Dr. Seuss himself. Dr. Seuss was born in 1904 and was given the name Theodor Seuss Geisel. He grew up in Springfield, Massachusetts and left town as a young man to attend Dartmouth College in New Hampshire. 
The Cat in the Hat is a farm cat of Dr. Seuss's short story The Cat in the Hat. With his book being an overwhelmingly successful best-seller, the Cat in the Hat has become a logo for Random House's beginner books, the production logo for all of Seuss's animated shorts, and Dr. Seuss's most popular character world wide. The Cat in the Hat emblem has been featured on most every book published by the company since the character’s debut. “The Cat in the Hat Productions” was also the name of the production company that animated the Dr. Seuss specials from 1966 to 1989, the Cat in the Hat of course being the mascot as well.
Theodor Seuss Geisel (/ˈsɔɪs/ /ˈɡaɪ.zəl/ ; March 2, 1904 – September 24, 1991) was an American writer and illustrator best known for authoring popular children's books under the pen name Dr. Seuss (/suːs/). Geisel adopted his Dr. Seuss pseudonym during his university studies at Dartmouth College and the University of Oxford. After leaving Oxford in 1927 he began his career as an illustrator and cartoonist for Vanity Fair, Life, and various other publications.
The Cat in the Hat would change all that. Seuss wrote the book to teach children how to read, and its success allowed him to write full-time for children. Indeed, the Cat made Dr. Seuss a household name. With the publication of The Cat in the Hat in the spring of 1957 and of How the Grinch Stole Christmas! later that year, Dr. Seuss became an icon of American children's literature. He was born Theodor Seuss Geisel in Springfield, Massachusetts, on March 2, 1904.
Returning to children's books, he wrote many works, including such favorites as If I Ran the Zoo, (1950), Horton Hears a Who! (1955), If I Ran the Circus (1956), The Cat in the Hat (1957), How the Grinch Stole Christmas (1957) and Green Eggs and Ham (1960). Geisel adopted his Dr. Seuss pseudonym during his university studies at Dartmouth College and the University of Oxford. After leaving Oxford in 1927 he began his career as an illustrator and cartoonist for Vanity Fair, Life, and various other publications.
Dr. Seuss is the pen name of American author, poet and cartoonist Theodor Seuss Geisel (1904-1991). During his career, he wrote nearly 50 children’s books full of imaginative characters and memorable rhymes. He also wrote under the pen names Theo LeSieg and Rosetta Stone. Among the characters he created were The Cat in the Hat, The Grinch, The Lorax, Horton (of “Hears a Who” fame) and many more. Dr. Seuss’ first book was And To Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street, published in 1937.
The cat in the hat is a giant cat who wears a striped red and white hat, found in Dr. Seuss books.     Mike Myers stars in the film Cat in the Hat. He plays … him, Dakota Fanning plays Sally, Spencer Breslin plays Conrad, Kelly Preston plays the mum. 1 person found this useful. 
After the war Geisel focused on his children's books, writing classics such as If I Ran the Zoo (1950), Horton Hears a Who! (1955), If I Ran the Circus (1956), The Cat in the Hat (1957), How the Grinch Stole Christmas! (1957), and Green Eggs and Ham (1960). Geisel adopted his Dr. Seuss pseudonym during his university studies at Dartmouth College and the University of Oxford. After leaving Oxford in 1927 he began his career as an illustrator and cartoonist for Vanity Fair, Life, and various other publications.
The Cat in the Hat is a children's book by Dr. Seuss, featuring a tall, anthropomorphic, mischievous cat, wearing a tall, red and white striped hat. With the series of Beginner Books that The Cat inaugurated, Seuss promoted both his name and the cause of elementary literacy in the United States. 