HI, Nahid is a persian name and a persian godess of nature and water. it is not from muslim culture. maybe you mean Nahed, that is an arabic name. Nahid is a persian name and i'm sure of that.and it means the the godess of the the sea. Nahid means collection of stars, may be a galaxy. Nahid in Arabic means 'Big breasted when it is used for a female. List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
African name. In African, the name Nahid means-elevated venus.The name Nahid originated as an African name. The name Nahid is most often used as a girl name or female name. African Name Meaning-elevated venus
It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Nahid include Naheed, Naheede, Naaheed, Nahead, Naheade, Naiad, Najat, Nesta, Nishtha, Nagida, Nakita, Nashota, Nazaakat, Nazakat, Nikita, Nikitah, Niyaty, Nunziata, and Nest. [ syll. na-hid, nah-id ] The baby girl name Nahid is pronounced as NAHHH IY D †. Nahid's origin is Persian. Nahid's meaning is goddess of love and beauty. The names Naaheed, Nahead, Naheade, Naheed, Naheede, Nahyd, and Nahyde are variant forms of Nahid. Nahid is a seldom used baby name for girls
Nahid. Show similar names Show variant names. Name Nahid generally means Immaculate or Undefiled or Star or Planet Venus or Stainless, is of Iranian (Persian), Indian origin, Name Nahid is a Unisex name, which means both Boy and Girl can have this name. Person with name Nahid are mainly Muslim by religion. 
The name Nahid is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Nahid is: Elevated. Venus. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Nahid in Muslim origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Nahid in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Nahid in Nautical Flags page.
In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Nahid Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nahid has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nahid to other names. Nahid falls into the celestial name category. Just for fun, see the name Nahid in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Nahid in Nautical Flags page.
Modern Persian form of ANAHITA. This is also the Persian name for the planet Venus. 