Who may be a candidate: The minimum qualifications to hold an office are: 1  United States Citizenship. 2  At least 18 years of age (or older for certain offices). 3  Satisfy residency requirement for specific office. 4  May not have been convicted of a felony in any court in the United States unless pardoned of the conviction. 
Today, a candidate must receive 270 of the 538 votes to win the election, so George W. Bush won the 2000 election by one electoral vote. In cases where no candidate wins a majority of electoral votes, the decision is thrown to the House of Representatives by virtue of the 12th Amendment. 1 Like most states, Florida has a winner takes all rule. 2  This means that the candidate who wins the state by popular vote also gets all of the state's electoral votes. 3  Bush became president with 271 electoral votes
In fact, it is possible for a candidate to not get a single person's vote -- not one -- in 39 states or the District of Columbia, yet be elected president by wining the popular vote in just 11 of these 12 states: Continued from page 1. A look at the Electoral Votes From Each State and a little math will tell you that the Electoral College system makes it possible for a candidate to actually lose the nationwide popular vote, but be elected president by the Electoral College.
The U.S. Constitution contains very few provisions relating to the qualifications of Electors. Article II, section 1, clause 2 provides that no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector. 
A write-in candidate is a person: 1  whose name is not printed on the ballot (see 115.453(4,5,6) RSMo); and. 2  who has filed a declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate for election to office with the proper election authority prior to 5:00 p.m. on the second Friday immediately preceding the election day. No. (Section 115.453 (5) RSMo). No. If a candidate files for nomination to an office and is not nominated at a primary election, that candidate cannot file a declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate for the same office at the general election.
Qualifications for presidential candidates have remained the same since the year Washington accepted the presidency. As directed by the Constitution, a presidential candidate must be a natural born citizen of the United States, a resident for 14 years, and 35 years of age or older. 
A person become president, he needs to meet these requirements. First, you must be a citizen born in the United States. Next, you must have lived in the U.S. for at least 14 y … ears. Then, you must be at least 35 years old. Finally, a president can serve only two terms, or periods in office. Each term is 4 years. Theodore Roosevelt, at the age of 42, was the youngest person to become a U.S. President. He became President when McKinley was assassinated. John F. Kennedy, at the age o … f 43, was the youngest person to be elected
A write-in candidate is a candidate in an election whose name does not appear on the ballot, but for whom voters may vote nonetheless by writing in the person's name. 