Theranos was founded in 2003 by Elizabeth Holmes with the goal of streamlining and standardizing blood tests by creating a hand-held device. In 2010, Theranos raised an additional $45 million from a single unnamed investor, bringing its total funding to more than $70 million. Investors include Draper Fisher Jurvetson, ATA Ventures, Tako Ventures, Continental Properties Inc., and Larry Ellison, former CEO of Oracle.
A company that designs tests that it uses only in its own labs, as Theranos does, doesn't need to get them approved, but the FDA is considering changing its policy. Theranos says it supports that change and, by having already submitted its tests to the FDA, it has gone further than its competitors to gain approval. But such innovations are rare. Theranos, a company founded by Stanford sophomore Elizabeth Holmes in the fall of 2003 (she dropped out a few months later) has generated a lot of buzz for developing a revolutionary approach to the blood test. Theranos' innovation theoretically does clinical lab testing faster, cheaper, and, in some ways, better
In July 2015, the Food and Drug Administration approved Theranos' platform — its hardware, software and blood-drawing equipment — as well as its herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) blood test, which tests for disease using a finger-prick's worth of blood. In 2010, Theranos raised an additional $45 million from a single unnamed investor, bringing its total funding to more than $70 million. Investors include Draper Fisher Jurvetson, ATA Ventures, Tako Ventures, Continental Properties Inc., and Larry Ellison, former CEO of Oracle.
Theranos is an American privately held health-technology and medical-laboratory-services company based in Palo Alto, California that has developed novel approaches for laboratory diagnostic tests using blood. In 2010, Theranos raised an additional $45 million from a single unnamed investor, bringing its total funding to more than $70 million. Investors include Draper Fisher Jurvetson, ATA Ventures, Tako Ventures, Continental Properties Inc., and Larry Ellison, former CEO of Oracle.
Theranos hosted U. S. vice president Joseph Biden at its Newark, Calif. production facility in July 2015. Biden complimented the company for cutting costs in the bloodwork process, manufacturing in the U.S. and being at the forefront of a paradigm shift in health care.. In 2010, Theranos raised an additional $45 million from a single unnamed investor, bringing its total funding to more than $70 million. Investors include Draper Fisher Jurvetson, ATA Ventures, Tako Ventures, Continental Properties Inc., and Larry Ellison, former CEO of Oracle.
That was a decade ago. Holmes, now 30, dropped out of Stanford and founded a company called Theranos with her tuition money. Last fall it finally introduced its radical blood-testing service in a Walgreens pharmacy near company head­quarters in Palo Alto, California. Fertility testing is a good example. Most people pay for it out of pocket, and it can cost as much as $2,000. These tests provide the data you need to figure out someone’s fertility, and some women can’t afford them. Our new fertility panel is going to cost $35.
Holmes, who is thirty, is the C.E.O. of Theranos, a Silicon Valley company that is working to upend the lucrative business of blood testing. Blood analysis is integral to medicine. Holmes thinks that getting a blood test should instead be a “wonderful” experience, and the aim of Theranos is to lower the barriers. She told the crowd that between forty and sixty per cent of people who are ordered by their doctor to get a blood test do not.
When Holmes landed on the Forbes billionaire list in 2014, Theranos had raised $400 million, and the company had a valuation of $9 billion. Holmes owns about half of Theranos, with her worth estimated at more than $4.5 billion. But such innovations are rare. Theranos, a company founded by Stanford sophomore Elizabeth Holmes in the fall of 2003 (she dropped out a few months later) has generated a lot of buzz for developing a revolutionary approach to the blood test. Theranos' innovation theoretically does clinical lab testing faster, cheaper, and, in some ways, better