Epinephrine is produced continuously in small amounts by the adrenal glands, but when the body is threatened in times of excitement, danger, or emotional stress, the brain sends messages to the adrenal glands, which respond by increasing epinephrine production.
Adrenaline is naturally produced in high-stress or physically exhilarating situations. The term fight or flight is often used to characterize the circumstances under which adrenaline is released into the body. It is an early evolutionary adaptation to allow better coping with dangerous and unexpected
Send to a Friend: Adrenaline is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland in the body. When it is produced it stimulates the heart-rate, dilates blood vessels and air passages, and has a number of more minor effects.
The adrenal glands are found directly above the kidneys in the human body, and are roughly 3 inches (7.62 cm) in length. Adrenaline is one of several hormones produced by these glands. Along with norepinephrine and dopamine, it is a catecholamine, which is a group of hormones released in response to stress.
Adrenaline is naturally produced in high-stress or physically exhilarating situations. The term fight or flight is often used to characterize the circumstances under which adrenaline is released into the body. It is an early evolutionary adaptation to allow better coping with dangerous and unexpected
Adrenaline. The hormone produced by the adrenal gland in response to stress or a 'fight or flight' situation. Fight or flight. The phrase used to describe a situation faced by animals and, presumably our ancient ancestors. When threatened by a predator or competitor, animals either have to fight it or run away.
Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a hormone secreted by the medulla (inner part) of the adrenal glands, located on the kidneys. The adrenal glands are one of the body's endocrine glands (glands producing substances that are distributed by way of the bloodstream).
Adrenaline is a chemical (actually a hormone) produced by the two adrenal glands, which are located on top of the kidneys (ad-renal, on-kidney). These glands secrete adrenaline directly into the blood stream when people are exposed to something that they see as potentially dangerous.