(February 2015). Syneresis (also spelled 'synaeresis' synæresis 'or'), synaeresis in, chemistry is the extraction or expulsion of a liquid from a, gel as when serum drains from a contracting clot of. blood In dentistry, syneresis is the expulsion of water or other liquid molecules from dental impression materials (Alginate for example) after an impression has been taken. Due to this process, the impression shrinks a little and therefore its size is no longer accurate.
2. syneresis-the separation of liquid from a gel that is caused by contraction (as in cheese making). synaeresis. chemical action, chemical change, chemical process - (chemistry) any process determined by the atomic and molecular composition and structure of the substances involved. 
Syneresis. a spontaneous contraction of a jelly or gel accompanied by exudation of the liquid. Syneresis occurs as a result of a closer packing of the three-dimensional structural network, which in jellies is formed by macromolecules and in gels by particles of the disperse phase. During syneresis, the structured system is converted into a thermodynamically more stable state. 
2. syneresis-the separation of liquid from a gel that is caused by contraction (as in cheese making). synaeresis. chemical action, chemical change, chemical process - (chemistry) any process determined by the atomic and molecular composition and structure of the substances involved. Translations. n. pl. syn·er·e·ses (-sēz′) also syn·aer·e·ses. 1. Linguistics The drawing together into one syllable of two consecutive vowels or syllables, as in the formation of a diphthong. 2. Chemistry The exudation of the liquid component of a gel, caused or accompanied by a contraction of the gel.
Syneresis, in chemistry, is the extraction or expulsion of a liquid from a gel, as when lymph drains from a contracting clot of blood. Another example of syneresis is the collection of whey on the surface of yogurt. 
syneresis. A degenerative shrinkage of the vitreous humour in which the gel breaks into liquid-filled particles, which coalesce and render it partially or completely fluid. It occurs in elderly individuals and may precede vitreous detachment. syneresis. a drawing together of the particles of the disperse phase of a gel, with separation of some of the disperse medium and shrinkage of the gel. Occurs in the shrinkage of the gel of the vitreous with release of fluid. 1  Facebook.
The noun SYNERESIS has 2 senses: 1. the contraction of two vowels into a diphthong. 2. the separation of liquid from a gel that is caused by contraction (as in cheese making). Familiarity information: SYNERESIS used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
syneresis. a drawing together of the particles of the disperse phase of a gel, with separation of some of the disperse medium and shrinkage of the gel, such as occurs in the clotting of blood. syneresis. a drawing together of the particles of the disperse phase of a gel, with separation of some of the disperse medium and shrinkage of the gel. Occurs in the shrinkage of the gel of the vitreous with release of fluid. 1  Facebook.
Syneresis (also spelled 'synaeresis' synæresis 'or'), synaeresis in, chemistry is the extraction or expulsion of a liquid from a, gel as when serum drains from a contracting clot of. Blood another example of syneresis is the collection of whey on the surface of. yogurt In dentistry, syneresis is the expulsion of water or other liquid molecules from dental impression materials (Alginate for example) after an impression has been taken. Due to this process, the impression shrinks a little and therefore its size is no longer accurate.