But as he has done with most every other political tradition, Trump... Donald Trump billed his New Hampshire appearance Wednesday as a town hall, evoking a storied New England tradition that allows some of the nation's most informed voters to engage candidates in thoughtful dialogue on the issues. But as he has done with most every other political tradition, Trump blew up the rules. “I want it to be so beautiful because maybe someday they're going to call it the Trump wall,” he said. He repeatedly taunted one of his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, who was holding his own town hall a few miles away, as a feckless bore with a very small crowd..
Noah Bierman Contact Reporter. Donald Trump billed his New Hampshire appearance Wednesday as a town hall, evoking a storied New England tradition that allows some of the nation's most informed voters to engage candidates in thoughtful dialogue on the issues. But as he has done with most every other political tradition, Trump blew up the rules. “I want it to be so beautiful because maybe someday they're going to call it the Trump wall,” he said. He repeatedly taunted one of his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, who was holding his own town hall a few miles away, as a feckless bore with a very small crowd..
NEW YORK—New York real-estate developer Donald Trump said Tuesday he will seek the Republican nomination for president in 2016, a move that will force rivals in the crowded candidate field to compete for attention with a proven master of self-promotion. @Peter Tablan With Trump as America's Berlusconi you will all look back to Richard Nixon, Spiro Agnew, Dan Quayle and even George W as a golden age. @Barrie Harrop @Peter Tablan At least Trump is not a psychopathic serial abuser of women and hasn't been running an ongoing sellout of America to enrich himself.
But Trump likes to play both sides on trade. He says he is against the Obama administration's current Trans-Pacific Partnership -- known as TPP -- but he also espouses, I am a free trader.. In his mind, the problem is that China has better negotiators than the U.S. (even though China is not a part of TPP). More so than other candidates, looking at Trump's past only adds to the confusion. He's been a Democrat, an Independent, a Republican and even, briefly, toyed with being a Reform Party candidate in 1999. Trump told CNN's Anderson Cooper last week, he hasn't flip flopped, he's  evolved  his views.
Trump's graphic (and offensive) euphemism to build a wall is just his way of saying that we cannot have meaningful immigration reform without FIRST sealing the borders. @Peter Tablan With Trump as America's Berlusconi you will all look back to Richard Nixon, Spiro Agnew, Dan Quayle and even George W as a golden age. @Barrie Harrop @Peter Tablan At least Trump is not a psychopathic serial abuser of women and hasn't been running an ongoing sellout of America to enrich himself.
Even people who support tough immigration reform question whether Trump has the right answers. For instance, anyone with an elemental understanding of border security knows how hard it would be to build a continuous wall along 2,000 miles of the Southwest border because of rough terrain and private property rights. But some of those in the trenches of immigration reform say it's unrealistic and unworkable. Donald Trump could write Immigration Reform for Dummies.. He makes a complex issue simple and sexy.
. . . No one should go into this with the idea that if you just build the right kind of wall, no one will get through.’’. Trump disputed that, saying that a wall “would be very effective” in deterring illegal migrants and that seismic and other equipment could detect and stop any underground tunnels. “A wall is better than fencing, and it’s much more powerful,” he said. “It’s more secure. “It’s not even a difficult project if you know what you’re doing.’’. [Trump to renew vow to build impenetrable wall]. The wall has become the signature proposal of Trump’s campaign, which has stirred widespread controversy over its focus on illegal immigration and his comments about immigrants.
The billionaire said he knows something about building a wall because he has orchestrated construction of large buildings all over the globe. The businessman said, for him, building a wall is easy. Trump said in his most recent interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network that Mexico would pay for the wall. He has not consulted with Mexican officials about this, but that would be his plan if he were elected President of the United States. He trademarked the popular GOP slogan “Make America Great Again.” For Trump, part of that effort is in restoring this country’s security, which for the businessman, begins at the Mexican border. Trump believes the only way to do establish border security is to build a massive wall between the U.S. and Mexico.
One of the biggest choices that a builder has to make is what material to use for his or her project. For Trump’s wall, I would first dismiss concrete masonry unit (commonly called cinderblock) construction because each block would have to be put in place and set in mortar by hand. No. Donald Trump is not a builder. Donald Trump could not build a doghouse. Donald Trump is a developer who pays what he would call “very, very smart people” to build things on his behalf.
Donald Trump is the Republican to beat in the polls, yet most Americans don't know where he stands on the key economic issues. Visiting Trump's official campaign website isn't much help. It vows to Make America Great Again! but it doesn't say how. Lately, his campaign speeches have focused on immigration reform -- Take the bad ones and get them the hell out. -- and bashing Washington's lobbying culture -- I'm not using the lobbyists. I'm not using donors. I don't care. More so than other candidates, looking at Trump's past only adds to the confusion. He's been a Democrat, an Independent, a Republican and even, briefly, toyed with being a Reform Party candidate in 1999. Trump told CNN's Anderson Cooper last week, he hasn't flip flopped, he's  evolved  his views.