Adj. 1. larboard-located on the left side of a ship or aircraft. port. left-being or located on or directed toward the side of the body to the west when facing north; my left hand; left center field; the left bank of a river is bank on your left side when you are facing downstream. Translations. [ˈlɑːbəd]. larboard-the left side of a ship or aircraft to someone who is aboard and facing the bow or nose. port. side-an extended outer surface of an object; he turned the box over to examine the bottom side; they painted all four sides of the house.
Larboard (adj). on or pertaining to the left-hand side of a vessel; port; as, the larboard quarter. Origin: [Lar-is of uncertain origin, possibly the same as lower, i. e., humbler in rank, because the starboard side is considered by mariners as higher in rank; cf. D. laag low, akin to E. low. The left side of a ship, looking from the stern; port side. Origin: From Middle English ladebord, referring to the side of the ship on which cargo was loaded. Changed to larboard in the 16th century by association with starboard.
The counterpart to starboard is larboard, which derives from ladde and bord. American Heritage has ladde as the past participle of the verb to lead.. The left side of the ship would be led by the right, where the rudder was. Lets turn to larboard and see if we can find anything.. A different word was required. The term port for the left-hand side of a ship dates to the 16th century, but it was not until the 1840s that both the Royal and US Navies officially abandoned the term larboard in favor of port.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: larboard (Noun). The left side of a ship, looking from the stern; port side. Origin: From Middle English ladebord, referring to the side of the ship on which cargo was loaded. Changed to larboard in the 16th century by association with starboard.
Also used adjectively. Port (verb). to turn or put to the left or larboard side of a ship; -- said of the helm, and used chiefly in the imperative, as a command; as, port your helm. Origin: [From Oporto, in Portugal, i. e., porto the port, L. portus. Port (noun). the manner in which a person bears himself; deportment; carriage; bearing; demeanor; hence, manner or style of living; as, a proud port. Port (noun). the larboard or left side of a ship (looking from the stern toward the bow); as, a vessel heels to port. See Note under Larboard.
Noun. 1. larboard-the left side of a ship or aircraft to someone who is aboard and facing the bow or nose. port. side-an extended outer surface of an object; he turned the box over to examine the bottom side; they painted all four sides of the house.
Formerly larboard was used instead of port. This is from Middle-English ladebord and the term lade is related to the modern load. Larboard sounds similar to starboard and in 1844 the Royal Navy ordered that port be used instead. Larboard continued to be used well into the 1850s by whalers. Starboard is the right-hand side, facing forward. Since port and starboard never change, they are unambiguous references that are not relative to the observer. The term starboard derives from the Old English steorbord, meaning the side on which the ship is steered.
• LARBOARD (noun). The noun LARBOARD has 1 sense: 1. the left side of a ship or aircraft to someone facing the bow or nose. Familiarity information: LARBOARD used as a noun is very rare. Classified under: Nouns denoting man-made objects. Synonyms: larboard; port. Hypernyms (larboard is a kind of...): side (an extended outer surface of an object). Antonym: starboard (the right side of a ship or aircraft to someone facing the bow or nose).