No, there are no poison sacks in any animal's claws. Poison is reserved for scorpion stings in insects, or bites which involve sacks in the mouth (spiders/snakes). Cats are not poisonous. They CAN harbor bacteria in their mouths like any animal, and their claws can also contain fragments of bacteria. Best Answer: No poison, but they can harbor bacteria in those claws that can cause infections like cat scratch fever. clean up your battle wounds and watch for any of them to get excessively red or tender, visit the doctor if that happens. Source(s): DVM. angeloneus · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
Although cats are not poisonous, a cats mouth can contain Staff or the Pasteurella multocida bacteria and can be very infectious. Rabies should also be a concern if bitten by a stray or unvaccinated cat. Be sure to disinfect well if bitten and seek medical care as a tetanus shot and antibiotics may be in order. 
No. A cat's claws may be razor sharp, but certainly do not contain venom or are in any way poisonous. As for claws, cats do not naturally lose claws (although the outer layers will shed-which is what keeps a cat's claws sharp). A cat's claws are attached to their toe bones, so are very strong and are not meant to be removed. 3 people found this useful.
Definition: venome (literally, poison of animal origin) is any of a variety of toxins used by animals, for the purpose of defense and hunting. Generally, venom is injected while a other toxins are absorbed by ingestion or through the skin. While many people hate cat scratching, the claws do NOT contain poison. Get some scratching posts whenever you have a cat or kitten who wants to exercise her power. By the way, don't even think about having a cat declawed.
He was recounting the details of a procedure in which he had his arm up to the elbow in a horse's anus while I severed the rotting gray meat from around a shoulder wound on a big, matted cat. What a cornucopia for the senses that was. But no, cats don't have poison claws. Most likely you are simply allergic to cats. Saliva on their paws can cause this reaction in allergic persons. Some cats (mostly kittens) do carry a bacteria in their saliva called Bartonella henselae which can cause cat scratch disease in people. As the name suggests, the disease results from the scratch or bite--or even the lick--of an infected cat, though the cats themselves suffer no symptoms (of course)
CAT'S CLAW Overview Information. Cat's claw is a plant. Two species of cat's claw, Uncaria tomentosa and Uncaria guianensis, are of primary interest for use as medicine. Uncaria tomentosa is most commonly used in the U.S., and Uncaria guianensis is typically used in Europe. Medicine is made from the root and bark. Cat’s claw is also used for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), wound healing, parasites, Alzheimer ’s disease, asthma, hay fever, cancer (especially urinary tract cancer), a particular type of brain cancer called glioblastoma, gonorrhea, dysentery, birth control, bone pains, and cleansing the kidneys.
Poisonous would be the correct term. To answer your question, no. Their claws are sharp and are used for hunting, but have no sort of poison. A cat can be declawed, but it basically involves cutting off its fingers, so it is best to use on very aggresive cats only. ryanwatts@sbcglobal.net · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Generally, venom is injected while a other toxins are absorbed by ingestion or through the skin. While many people hate cat scratching, the claws do NOT contain poison. Get some scratching posts whenever you have a cat or kitten who wants to exercise her power. By the way, don't even think about having a cat declawed.