Substitution mutation. Definition. A type of point mutation in which a single nucleotide is substituted with (or exchanged for) a different nucleotide that may result in an altered sequence of amino acid during translation, which may render the newly synthesized protein ineffective. Supplement. Examples of base-pair substitutions: purine substituted with a different purine (A → G) or a pyrimidine for a different pyrimidine (C → T). This type of substitution mutation is transition. Another kind is transversion, which is less common.
A frameshift mutation alters the ‘reading frame’ of the DNA sequence and changes all the amino acids in the protein product after the point of mutation. Substitution mutations merely replace one base with another. Because the genetic code is redundant some substitutions will have no effect at all. For example the substitution of a uracil for a cytosine in the codon CCU will have no effect on the protein produced as both CCU and CCC code for proline. Substitutions that replace one amino acid with another vary widely in their effect depending on the substitution and its location in the amino acid chain.
A point mutation, or single base modification, is a type of mutation that causes a single nucleotide base change, insertion, or deletion of the genetic material, DNA or RNA. The term frameshift mutation indicates the addition or deletion of a base pair. Schematic of a single-stranded RNA molecule illustrating a series of three-base codons. Each three-nucleotide codon corresponds to an amino acid when translated to protein. When one of these codons is changed by a point mutation, the corresponding amino acid of the protein is changed.
This type of mutation is a change in one DNA base pair that results in the substitution of one amino acid for another in the protein made by a gene. A nonsense mutation is also a change in one DNA base pair. Instead of substituting one amino acid for another, however, the altered DNA sequence prematurely signals the cell to stop building a protein.
1 change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2  For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. Knowing a few basic types of mutations can help you understand why some mutations have major effects and some may have no effect at all. Substitution. A substitution is a mutation that exchanges one base for another (i.e., a change in a single chemical letter such as switching an A to a G). Such a substitution could: 1 
1 change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2  For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. 1 For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. 2  change a codon to one that encodes the same amino acid and causes no change in the protein produced. 3  These are called silent mutations.
Base substitutions can have a variety of effects. The silent mutation cited above is an example of a base substitution, where the change in nucleotide base has no outward effect. A missense mutation refers to a base substitution when the change in nucleotide changes the amino acid coded for by the affected codon. 
A substitution is a mutation that exchanges one base for another (i.e., a change in a single chemical letter such as switching an A to a G). Such a substitution could: 1  change a codon to one that encodes a different amino acid and cause a small change in the protein produced. 2  For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. 1 For example, sickle cell anemia is caused by a substitution in the beta-hemoglobin gene, which alters a single amino acid in the protein produced. 2  change a codon to one that encodes the same amino acid and causes no change in the protein produced. 3  These are called silent mutations.