The ventral nerve cord makes up nearly all of the nervous system in the earthworm. It goes from the anterior (front) end to the posterior (back) end. It's function is simple; … it's the nerves in the worm! If dissected, the nerve cord looks like a thin white line on the ventral (belly) side on the inside of the skin.
Earthworm-Nervous System. The earthworm has a simple yet sensitive nervous system. Its cerebral ganglion, or brain, is connected to the ventral nerve cord, which runs the length of its body. At each segment, segmental ganglion branch off from the ventral nerve cord, thus connecting every segment to the earthworm's brain. 
The ventral nerve cord makes up nearly all of the nervous system in the earthworm. It goes from the anterior (front) end to the posterior (back) end. It's function is simple; it's the nerves in the worm! If dissected, the nerve cord looks like a thin white line on the ventral (belly) side on the inside of the skin.
The Function of the Nerve Cord in the Earthworm. While humans and other vertebrates have a spinal column that runs down their... 1  Function of the Spinal Cord. While humans and other vertebrates have a spinal column that runs down their back, or dorsal side, earthworms possess a nerve cord consisting of two strands that runs down their belly, or ventral side.
Structure. The primitive brain of the earthworm consists of two cerebral ganglia. Sensory nerves leave the brain and run forward to the first segment in the earthworm's body. The nerve cord travels from this first segment to the last. A fibrous sheath surrounds the nerve cord. While humans and other vertebrates have a spinal column that runs down their back, or dorsal side, earthworms possess a nerve cord consisting of two strands that runs down their belly, or ventral side.
Ventral nerve cords from anterior to posterior (the thoracic and abdominal tagma in the arthropods) are made up of segmented ganglia that are connected by a tract of nerve fibers passing from one side to the other of the nerve cord called commissures [1] . The ventral nerve cord makes up the nervous system of some phyla of the invertebrates, particularly within the nematodes, annelids and the arthropods. It usually consists of cerebral ganglia anteriorly with the nerve cords running down the ventral (belly, as opposed to back) plane of the organism
The nerve cord in an earthworm performs the same task as the nervous system of any animal. The function of the nervous system is to bring sensory information to the brain, where it is processed. Then, the brain sends signals to the body via the nervous system and those signals cause the animal to move. It's function is simple; … it's the nerves in the worm! If dissected, the nerve cord looks like a thin white line on the ventral (belly) side on the inside of the skin.
Earthworm-Nervous System. Above: the anterior part of the central nervous of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris. The nerve cord (shown in green) is ventral in position and runs from the 4th segment all the way to the last segment of the worm. A swelling or ganglion in the cord occurs in each segment. 
Nervous System. Earthworms have nerve clusters called ganglia that are connected to a nerve cord that run down the worm's length. The ganglia transmit electrical signals from the nerve cord to various other systems, such as telling the muscles to contract or the gizzard to start grinding food.