Together with seven other cities in the Val di Noto, Ragusa is listed among the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Ragusa has two distinct areas: The lower and older town is called Ragusa Ibla; the upper town is called Ragusa Superiore. The two halves are separated by the a deep ravine (Valle dei Ponti). Ragusa contains nine major churches and seven major palazzi, all Baroque
Ragusa is a fascinating town on Italy's island of Sicily. Ragusa's baroque architecture has earned it UNESCO World Heritage status. It's an unusual town, divided into two parts-the Upper Town and Ibla. What to See in Ragusa and Ibla: There are 18 UNESCO monuments, five in the Upper Town and the rest in Ibla. Many of the buildings are ornately decorated in Baroque style. Be sure to look up at the balconies and figures above.
What to see in Ragusa. The best activity in Ragusa is wandering; meandering along the character-filled lanes of Ragusa Ibla or clambering up the steps towards the upper town and enjoying the great, classic view over Ibla. Between July and September the area is enlivened by the Estate Iblea, a summer festival of music and events around Ragusa. In October Ibla hosts a festival of busking and street entertainment, called Ibla Buskers.
From the upper town there are enchanting views of Ibla. Ragusa Location: Ragusa is in the Val di Noto of southeastern Sicily about 90 kilometers from Catania. See Sicily Map on Europe Travel for location. Marina di Ragusa, a well developed resort with beaches, is on the coast about 20 kilometers from the town. What to See in Ragusa and Ibla: There are 18 UNESCO monuments, five in the Upper Town and the rest in Ibla. Many of the buildings are ornately decorated in Baroque style. Be sure to look up at the balconies and figures above.
Ragusa can be visited as a day trip from the city of Syracusa, to the east of Ragusa. Ragusa Transportation: The closest airport is Catania, Sicily (see Italy airports map). What to See in Ragusa and Ibla: There are 18 UNESCO monuments, five in the Upper Town and the rest in Ibla. Many of the buildings are ornately decorated in Baroque style. Be sure to look up at the balconies and figures above.
The Castello di Donnafugata, situated in proximity to Santa Croce Camerina, about 20km from Ragusa is a major attraction for tourists. Thanks to its scenery, it was the setting of many films. It derives its name from an Arab place-name meaning ‘Fountain of Health’, hence the Sicilian Ronnafuata. HISTORY. Ragusa Ibla was founded on the site of ancient Sikel town Hybla Herea, of which remains have been found, such as rectangular burial niches in the Gonfalone valley, along the road to Modica. Some of these have been faithfully reconstructed within the Archaeological Museum of Ragusa.
The name Ragusa is derived from the Greek-Byzantine term Rogos , meaning granary. The city is sited approximately 500 meters above sea level, in a hilly landscape, close to all of the principal Sicilian cities. Ragusa is divided in two, Ragusa Superiore and Ragusa Inferiore, known also as Ibla , (originally Hibla Heraia). Historical Residences. Experience the ancient and authentic Sicily, at the heart of Val di Noto. UNESCO world heritage site with 5 other sites in a 30km radius. Famous for its chocolate-the oldest in the world, and only 15 minutes for the sea (blue flag).
Ragusa [raˈɡuːza] listen (help·info) (Sicilian: Rausa; Latin: Ragusia) is a city and comune in southern Italy. It is the capital of the province of Ragusa, on the island of Sicily, with around 75,000 inhabitants. It is built on a wide limestone hill between two deep valleys, Cava San Leonardo and Cava Santa Domenica. The origins of Ragusa can be traced back to the 2nd millennium BC, when in its area there were several settlements of the ancient Sicels. The current Ragusa Ibla lies probably on one of them, identified as Hybla Heraea. The ancient city, located on a hill, 300 metres (980 ft) high, entered in contact with the nearby Greek colonies, and developed thanks to the nearby port of Camerin