Medical Definition of Cavitation. 1. 1. Formation of a cavity, as in the lung in tuberculosis. 2. The production of small vapor-containing bubbles or cavities in a liquid or tissue by ultrasound. Definition of Cavitation. 1. Noun. The formation of pits on a surface. ยน. 2. Noun. (science) The formation, in a fluid, of vapor bubbles that rapidly collapse; especially in a rotating marine propeller or pump impeller. ยน. 3. Noun. (biology) The formation of cavities in an organ, especially in lung tissue as a result of tuberculosis
(plural cavitations). 1  The formation of pits on a surface. ( 2 sciences) The formation, in a fluid, of vapor bubbles that rapidly collapse; especially in a rotating marine propeller or pump impeller. ( 3 biology) The formation of cavities in an organ, especially in lung tissue as a result of tuberculosis. cavitation. the formation of partial vacuums within a flowing liquid as a result of mechanical force, as with a boat propeller or a pump impeller: when these collapse, pitting or other damage is caused on metal surfaces in contact.
Inertial cavitation is the process where a void or bubble in a liquid rapidly collapses, producing a shock wave. Inertial cavitation occurs in nature in the strikes of mantis shrimps and pistol shrimps, as well as in the vascular tissues of plants. In order for cavitation inception to occur, the cavitation bubbles generally need a surface on which they can nucleate. This surface can be provided by the sides of a container, by impurities in the liquid, or by small undissolved microbubbles within the liquid.
2. The production of small vapor-containing bubbles or cavities in a liquid or tissue by ultrasound. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 6,184 times.
Cavitation is a significant cause of wear in some engineering contexts. Collapsing voids that implode near to a metal surface cause cyclic stress through repeated implosion. This results in surface fatigue of the metal causing a type of wear also called cavitation. In order for cavitation inception to occur, the cavitation bubbles generally need a surface on which they can nucleate. This surface can be provided by the sides of a container, by impurities in the liquid, or by small undissolved microbubbles within the liquid.
1 The formation of pits on a surface. ( 2 sciences) The formation, in a fluid, of vapor bubbles that rapidly collapse; especially in a rotating marine propeller or pump impeller. ( 3 biology) The formation of cavities in an organ, especially in lung tissue as a result of tuberculosis. 4  Link/Cite. cavitation. the formation of partial vacuums within a flowing liquid as a result of mechanical force, as with a boat propeller or a pump impeller: when these collapse, pitting or other damage is caused on metal surfaces in contact.
Major internal body cavities-drawn, defined and discussed! The Human Body is a complex, amazing biological machine. 'Human Biology Explained' is a YouTube video series that uses simple drawings to illustrate, and help you develop an understanding of, key anatomy and physiology concepts. Human Biology Explained is on: - Google+ - http://bit.ly/1diSfNh.
1 (sciences) The formation, in a fluid, of vapor bubbles that rapidly collapse; especially in a rotating marine propeller or pump impeller. ( 2 biology) The formation of cavities in an organ, especially in lung tissue as a result of tuberculosis. cavitation. the formation of partial vacuums within a flowing liquid as a result of mechanical force, as with a boat propeller or a pump impeller: when these collapse, pitting or other damage is caused on metal surfaces in contact.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 'Cavitation is defined as the phenomenon of formation of vapour bubbles of a flowing liquid in a region where the pressure of the liquid falls below its vapour pressure. Cavitation is usually divided into two classes of behavior: inertial (or transient) cavitation, and noninertial cavitation. 