Broccoli seeds germinate in four to seven days under ideal conditions, preferring soil temperatures of 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) is a cool-weather, temperature-sensitive vegetable, grown as an annual in early spring, late fall and cool coastal gardens. It is planted in early spring or late fall, when the weather is too cool for warm-weather fruits and vegetables.
Broccoli Seed Planting Information: Broccoli does best when temperatures remain between 40 F and 70 F during the growing period. Temperatures below 25 F can damage or kill broccoli. Spring planting should occur as soon as soil can be worked and after last frost, and fall planting done 10 to 12 weeks before first frost. In most areas broccoli grows best if planted in late summer so it can mature during cool periods.
Germination Time. While broccoli seeds prefer warm soil, sprouts will also emerge under cooler temperatures, albeit much more slowly. Seeds will germinate in about six days in 75 F soil. A seedling heating mat can be a helpful boost to germination time if you are starting seeds indoors. Sowing Broccoli Outdoors. Sow broccoli, a cool-season crop, directly into the garden up to four weeks before the last expected frost. These crops germinate within three to 10 days under optimal conditions and tolerate daytime temperatures as low as 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
Germination. Broccoli seeds germinate in four to seven days under ideal conditions, preferring soil temperatures of 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. While broccoli seeds will germinate in temperatures as low as 40 F, the process may take two or three times as long, depending on the variety. Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) is a cool-weather, temperature-sensitive vegetable, grown as an annual in early spring, late fall and cool coastal gardens. It is planted in early spring or late fall, when the weather is too cool for warm-weather fruits and vegetables.
WHEN TO PLANT. 1  Broccoli is a cool weather vegetable and grows best at temperatures between 60-65°F. 2  When you’re growing broccoli, seeds can be sown directly into the garden up to 2 months before your last frost date if protected from cold temperatures with row covers. 
Broccoli seeds will germinate over a wide range of temperatures, from 40 degrees to 85 degrees Fahrenheit. However, germination will be slow and unreliable at the lower end of this range, especially when the seeds are planted in ordinary garden soil -- the seeds may rot before they have a chance to sprout. 
Plants such as broccoli and cauliflower generally prefer cooler conditions, both for growing when mature and for seed germination. The optimal temperature for broccoli seed germination is in the range of 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. But even cold-tolerant broccoli seeds will begin to show reduced germination when temperatures drop to 70 degrees Fahrenheit and below. Seeds of garden plants in general can present problems with germination, and broccoli is no exception. A number of things can go wrong. All we can do is work from a position of having the best information available and strive to provide optimal conditions.
1 Broccoli can germinate in soil with temperatures as low as 40ºF. 2  Broccoli requires full sun and moist, fertile soil that's slightly acidic. 3  Work in 2 to 4 inches of rich compost or a thin layer of manure before planting. 4  For spring plantings, seed or set transplants 2 to 3 weeks before last spring frost date. 1 Broccoli requires full sun and moist, fertile soil that's slightly acidic. 2  Work in 2 to 4 inches of rich compost or a thin layer of manure before planting. 3
Propagate by seed. Germination temperature: 45 F to 85 F-Will germinate at soil temperatures as low as 40 F. Days to emergence: 4 to 7. Seed can be saved 3 years. Use wide spacings if you want to harvest large central heads. Growing Information. How to plant: Propagate by seed Germination temperature: 45 F to 85 F-Will germinate at soil temperatures as low as 40 F. Days to emergence: 4 to 7 Seed can be saved 3 years. Maintenance and care: Sow seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks before average last spring frost