Road speed limits are used in most countries to set the maximum (or minimum in some cases) speed at which road vehicles may legally travel on particular stretches of road. Speed limits may be variable and in some places speeds are unlimited. Speed limits are normally indicated on a traffic sign. Speed limits are commonly set by the legislative bodies of nations or provincial governments and enforced by national or regional police and / or judicial bodies. 
If you are just replacing the motor, a variable speed motor costs about $800. The cost savings is in operational costs. If you currently spend $800 a year, at 75% reduced operation costs, you will be spending $200 a year or $600 less a year. Tips & Warnings. Many people are switching to variable speed motors or pumps to save around 75% in their electric bill. If you are paying $800 a year now with a single speed motor, you can drop that cost to $200 a year with a variable speed motor (Based on $0.15/KWH - 20,000 gallon pool).
Adjustable speed drive (ASD) or variable-speed drive (VSD) describes equipment used to control the speed of machinery. Many industrial processes such as assembly lines must operate at different speeds for different products. Where speeds may be selected from several different pre-set ranges, usually the drive is said to be adjustable speed. If the output speed can be changed without steps over a range, the drive is usually referred to as variable speed. Adjustable and variable speed drives may be purely mechanical (termed variators), electromechanical, hydraulic, or electronic
A. A variable frequency drive (VFD) refers to AC drives only and a variable speed drive (VSD) refers to either AC Drives or DC Drives. VFD’s vary the speed of an AC motor by varying the frequency to the motor. VSD’s referring to DC motors vary the speed by varying the voltage to the motor. A. Yes, a variable frequency drive can replace a soft start starter, since most drives give you a current limiting ramp to start and stop your motor. BUT, if you do not need to vary the production speed of your motor, then the soft start starter is still the correct product for the application.
Speed can be controlled in a number of ways, with the most popular type of variable speed drive (VSD) being the variable frequency drive (VFD).Pump speed adjustment is not appropriate for all pumping systems, however. 
14 IntelliFlo ® Variable Speed Pump Installation and User’s Guide Speed 1-8 (Schedule a Time to Run the Pump) By setting a start time and a stop time, Speeds 1-8 can be programmed to run a certain speed at a certain time of day. To run a scheduled pump speed, press the Start button (LED on). 26 IntelliFlo ® Variable Speed Pump Installation and User’s Guide Connecting the IntelliFlo ® pump to a SunTouch ® System The IntelliFlo ® pump can be controlled by a SunTouch system via the RS-485 communication cable.
Comments. In the fourth Drill/Driver 101 video, This Old House contributor Mark Clement tells you everything you need to know about making use of your drill's variable-speed trigger. Find out how to goose the trigger like a pro and other tricks you won't learn from the owner's manual. Learn how to:
A variable speed drive is a piece of equipment that regulates the speed and rotational force, or torque output, of an electric motor. The background and technology. There are millions of motors in use in industry and offices around the world. 