Corns and calluses can be annoying, but your body actually forms them to protect sensitive skin. Corns and calluses are often confused with one another. Corns generally occur on the tops and sides of the feet. A hard corn is a small patch of thickened, dead skin with a central core. 
Corns and calluses form on the feet and can make walking painful. Although corns and calluses are often talked about together, they are separate conditions. Corns generally occur on the tops and sides of the toes. A hard corn is a small patch of thickened, dead skin with a small plug of skin in the centre. Seed corns tend to occur on the bottom of the feet, and some doctors believe this condition is caused by blocked sweat ducts. Calluses are hard and rough-feeling areas of skin that can develop on hands, feet or anywhere there is repeated friction-even on a violinist's chin. Like corns, calluses have several variants
A corn or callus is an area of thick, hardened, dead skin, caused by friction and irritation. Corns form on the sides and tops of the toes, and can be quite painful. A callus typically forms on the bottom or sides of the feet and can be uncomfortable and unsightly, but does not usually become painful. 1 This can also be used for unwanted calluses that form on the hands. 2  Using a device like a pumice stone or file helps to remove layers of dead skin. 3  Take care not to file away healthy tissue. 4  Doing so can lead to further irritation and possibly infection if the healthy skin is broken.
1 Soak the foot in warm water for about 5 minutes to soften the tissue. 2  Dry the foot and toes thoroughly before applying the pads. 3  Take care not to apply the pad against healthy skin tissue. 4  Most products recommend repeating the procedure every 48 to 72 hours, for up to 14 days, or until the corn is removed. 1 This can also be used for unwanted calluses that form on the hands. 2  Using a device like a pumice stone or file helps to remove layers of dead skin. 3  Take care not to file away healthy tissue. 4  Doing so can lead to further irritation and possibly infection if the healthy skin is broken.
Use a pumice stone. For callused areas, using a pumice stone or file designed for the foot, can help to get rid of the hardened areas of skin. 1  This can also be used for unwanted calluses that form on the hands. 2  Using a device like a pumice stone or file helps to remove layers of dead skin. 1 This can also be used for unwanted calluses that form on the hands. 2  Using a device like a pumice stone or file helps to remove layers of dead skin. 3  Take care not to file away healthy tissue. 4  Doing so can lead to further irritation and possibly infection if the healthy skin is broken.
When this happens, formation of corns becomes inevitable. There are a number of ways on how to get rid of corns on bottom of feet. To treat corns that form on the bottom of feet, one can soak them in warm water and use a foot file or pumice stone to file them off. Salicylic acid products can also help. Urea moisturizing creams can also help to soften the corns. They are normally found on the ball of feet and on the heel area. The causes of corns on bottom of feet are many. Shoes that are not well fitting or which are high heeled cause pressure on certain parts of the foot. Some may have stiches that cause friction on the bottom of the feet.
How to Get Rid of Corns on the Bottoms of the Feet. How to Get Rid of Corns on the Bottoms of the Feet Photo Credit Jessica Isaac/Demand Media. A corn is a type of callus that can form anywhere on the foot. Typically, corns grow because of friction or pressure. People can get corns on any part of the foot that protrudes. Repetitive action causes skin to thicken and grow in hard layers. 1 Corns or calluses that develop on the feet of diabetics require medical treatment. 2  Attempting to remove the corn on the bottom of the foot of a diabetic might result in a sore that will not heal or might develop into a life-threatening infection such as gangrene.