Appearance. Size: Tetras grow to approximately 1¼ inches in length. Females have slightly larger stomachs than males. Color: Neon tetras have fairly standard colorization, which includes a light metallic-blue back and a silver-white underbelly. Two iridescent stripes are seen on the body as well: one blue, one red. Tank Care: Neon tetras are easy to keep, but make sure to get an aquarium that's big enough to house a group of them. Choose a tank that's at least 24 inches in width. The tetra prefers slightly acidic water, so aim for a pH level between 5.0 and 7.0.
Neon Tetra Characteristics. Neon Tetras are small freshwater fishes that belong to the Characidae family. Its scientific name is Paracheirodon innesi and shares some qualities as that of other fishes under the tetra family. In terms of color, the Neon Tetra boasts a vivid red, silver, olive green, and blue body color. The neon tetra is a tropical fish that originated from countries in the northern part of South America namely Brazil, Colombia, and Peru. The largest concentration of Neon Tetras may be found in the world famous Amazon River Basin.
Characidae, the characids or characins is a family of freshwater subtropical and tropical fish, belonging to the order Characiformes. Among those fishes that remain in the Characidae for the time being are the tetras, comprising the very similar genera Hemigrammus and Hyphessobrycon, as well as a few related forms such as the cave and neon tetras. Fish of this family are important as food and also include popular aquarium fish species.
Health and Care. Feeding: Neon tetra fish are omnivorous. They'll usually eat flake foods, but some prefer brine shrimp, frozen bloodworms or daphnia. Flaked foods delivered in sinking pellet form are excellent because they contain enhancements that boost the brilliant natural colors of neon tetras. Tank Care: Neon tetras are easy to keep, but make sure to get an aquarium that's big enough to house a group of them. Choose a tank that's at least 24 inches in width. The tetra prefers slightly acidic water, so aim for a pH level between 5.0 and 7.0.
The Cardinal Tetra does best with other small tetras, pencil fish, hatchet fish, dwarf cichlids, small Loricariids, small rasboras and anabantoids. They should always be kept in a group of 5 or more individuals, with larger groups of at least 10 or more being best. It very charming in appearance and behavior. This is a serene yet gregarious fish that needs to be kept in a school. A group of these flashing tetras will make a brilliant display in the aquarium,. The distinctive color pattern of the Cardinal Tetra is the brilliant neon blue center line with a bright red below.
Fish that mix well in an aquarium are guppies, other types of tetras, such as the rummy-nose tetra, cardinal tetra, and glowlight tetra, and other community fish that live well in an ideal tetra water condition. P. innesi is one of the most popular aquarium fish, having been bred in tremendous numbers for the trade. Most neon tetras available in the United States are imported from Hong Kong, Singapore, and Thailand Colombia, Peru, and Brazil, where they are collected from the wild.
If so, consider getting the serpae tetra fish. Serpae tetras are community fish that will mix well with other fish. Whether you are a seasoned aquarist or someone who is only starting to discover the wonderful world of aquarying, the serpae tetra fish is a good choice for your aquarium. A serpae tetra fish typically grows up to 2.2 inches long. The female serpae tetra fish is generally a bit more rounded than its male counterpart. The color of the serpae tetra fish’s body can range from bright red to reddish brown. The serpae tetra fish’s ventral and anal fins are red. Its dorsal fin, however, is black with white fringing