An easy way to remember that cations are positive ions is by replacing the 't' in 'cation' with a positive sign, +. Instead of writing cation, you would write ca+ion. The positive sign bears enough likeness to a 't' to be read as cation, yet it reminds you of the definition! If a metal element forms an ion, it always forms a cation. Some metals always form the same type of cation. For example, sodium always forms a +1 cation and magnesium always forms a +2 cation. Some metals are flexible and can form more than on
A cation is a postively-charged ion; cations are not normally found on the periodic table but the alkali metals and the alkaline earth metals typically become cations. In meta … llic bonding, the delocalisation of the outer electrons means that metal cations are in a lattice of electrons. It is also attracted to the cathode in the process of electrolysis. A negatively charged ion, which has more electrons than protons, is called an anion.. An ion or group of ions having a positive charge and characteristically moving toward the negative electrode in
Ionic compounds are made of a cation and a negatively charged ion, known as an anion. Ionic compounds are abundant in our world. The table salt you might use is an ionic compound and is officially called sodium chloride. In this compound, a sodium cation is bonded to a chlorine anion. If a metal element forms an ion, it always forms a cation. Some metals always form the same type of cation. For example, sodium always forms a +1 cation and magnesium always forms a +2 cation. Some metals are flexible and can form more than on
Definition. An anion is an atom or a molecule which is negatively charged, i.e. has more number of electrons than protons. A cation is an atom or a molecule which is positively charged, i.e. has more number of protons than electrons. Charge. An ion is an atom or group of atoms in which the number of electrons is not equal to the number of protons, giving it a net positive or negative electrical charge. An anion is an ion that is negatively charged, and is attracted to the anode (positive electrode) in electrolysis
In soil science, cation-exchange capacity or CEC is the number of exchangeable cations per dry weight that a soil is capable of holding, at a given pH value, and available for exchange with the soil water solution. 
Diffen › Science › Chemistry. An ion is an atom or group of atoms in which the number of electrons is not equal to the number of protons, giving it a net positive or negative electrical charge. An anion is an ion that is negatively charged, and is attracted to the anode (positive electrode) in electrolysis
A cation is a positively charged ion. Thus it has fewer electrons than protons. It is also attracted to the cathode in the process of electrolysis. A negatively charged ion, which has more electrons than protons, is called an anion.. An ion or group of ions having a positive charge and characteristically moving toward the negative electrode in electrolysis.
A cation has a positive charge. Todd Helmenstine. Cations and anions are both ions. The difference between a cation and an anion is the net electrical charge of the ion. Ions are atoms or molecules which have gained or lost one or more valence electrons giving the ion a net positive or negative charge. Cations are ions with a net positive charg