Molecular and Cellular Biologists obtain the highest salaries in the District of Columbia, where they can receive average compensation of near $104350. People in this career obtain the highest pay in Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services, where they earn job pay of $76240. The national wage distribution is shown below. To overlay local salaries for a Molecular or Cellular Biologist, please select your state. Doctoral degrees are generally required for this position, although a fair number of molecular and cellular biologists only have Bachelor's degrees. A Molecular or Cellular Biologist can receive a salary between 56000 and 84000 based on experience and talent. Molecular and Cellular Biologists will usually earn a wage of Seventy Three Thousand dollars per year
Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Molecular Biologists generally obtain higher compensation for more plentiful past
Molecular Biologists in the United States take home an average $54K annually. Career duration is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by geography. Most enjoy medical while a strong majority get dental coverage. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Molecular Biologists generally obtain higher compensation for more plentiful past
Molecular Biologist Salary. Molecular Biologist average salary is $56,566, median salary is $54,461 with a salary range from $26,173 to $102,588. Molecular Biologist salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projected a 19% increase in employment for biophysicists and biochemists, which are job titles in the same realm as molecular biologists, from 2012-2022. This faster-than-average job growth may be fueled by increased demand for biomedical research. Get real job descriptions, salary info and career prospects to see if becoming a molecular biologist is the right career choice for you.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Biologist I in the United States is $45,654 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Biologist I in the United States are expected to make less than $45,654. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 
Workers in their first five years can expect to earn $45K, but people who have been around for five to 10 years earn a noticeably bigger sum of $60K. For Molecular Biologists, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $73K. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Molecular Biologists generally obtain higher compensation for more plentiful past
Molecular Biologist Salary Canada: According to Service Canada, the average salary level for workers in the Biologists and Related Scientists occupational group is $56,406 per year. Depending on the requirements of the employer, a Master’s degree in molecular biology is typically sufficient for many applied research positions. To become a molecular biologist who works in research and university teaching positions a PhD in molecular biology is needed.
Molecular Biologist Salary Alberta: According to the 2011 Alberta Wage and Salary Survey, Albertans in the Biologists and Related Scientists occupational group earned on average from $26.73 to $62.00 an hour. Depending on the requirements of the employer, a Master’s degree in molecular biology is typically sufficient for many applied research positions. To become a molecular biologist who works in research and university teaching positions a PhD in molecular biology is needed.