SelectivePrep offers the only classroom programs in Chicago to help students prepare for the Selective Enrollment Entrance Exam. This test is one third of the score required for admissions to a Selective Enrollment High School.
Selective Enrollment High Schools. Teachers expect students to be self-driven and highly engaged. Classes develop students’ critical and analytical thinking skills and promote diverse academic inquiry by bringing together students from a wide range of backgrounds and experiences.
Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools consist of Regional Gifted Centers, Regional Gifted Centers for English Learners, Classical Schools, Academic Centers, and the International Gifted Program. Testing is required in order to be considered for acceptance into these schools.
Selective Enrollment Schools (SEES). Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools are designed to meet the needs of academically advanced students. Testing is required. Academic Centers. Centers are designed for academically advanced students in grades 7-8. Classical Schools.
Selective Enrollment High Schools provide academically advanced high school students with a challenging and enriched college preparatory experience. Each of the Selective Enrollment High Schools offers a rigorous curriculum with primarily honors and Advanced Placement (AP) courses.
The Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools are founded on the principle that all students are entitled to equal opportunity to develop in relationship to their abilities.
One third of the entrance score is determined by your child’s performance on the Selective Enrollment High School Entrance Exam. SelectivePrep offers an intensive program to help prepare students for the Selective Enrollment
Selective Enrollment Schools. For the entry grade level for Selective Enrollment Elementary and High Schools and programs, the first 30% of available seats are filled strictly according to the student scores – also referred to as the “rank” score – the seats are filled by the top-scoring students.