gene amplification. n. A cellular process characterized by the production of copies of a gene or genes to amplify the phenotype that the gene confers on the cell. nucleic acid amplification amplification of a specific nucleic acid sequence, such as to test for presence of a given virus or bacteria in a sample. Types include DNA amplification, ligase chain reaction, and polymerase chain reaction.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Gene amplification, also known as gene duplication or chromosomal duplication, is a cellular process in which multiple copies of a gene are produced. The result is an amplification of the phenotype, or expressed trait, associated with the gene. Not all gene amplification, however, has great significance to evolution. Sometimes, the amplified trait dies with the single organism that experiences the gene duplication. This occurs when a gene is overexpressed and the trait it codes for is expressed to a level that is unhealthy to the organism.
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 1 If the genomic DNA sequence of a gene is known, RT-PCR can be used to map the location of exons and introns in the gene. 2  The 5' end of a gene (corresponding to the transcription start site) is typically identified by RACE-PCR (Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends).
Gene amplification. Definition. noun. The process of duplicating a particular gene, causing the gene to increase in frequency inside the cell, as well as amplifying the phenotype (e.g. the proteins) that the gene confers (or code for). Supplement. Gene amplification is one way by which a gene can be over-expressed. It is also linked to drug resistance in cancer cells where amplification results in cells being prevented from absorbing the chemotherapeutic drug. Gene amplification may also occur artificially, as in by polymerase chain reaction technique
Gene amplification is an increase in the number of copies of a gene sequence. Cancer cells sometimes produce multiple copies of genes in response to signals from other cells or their environment. 
gene amplification a process by which the number of copies of a gene is increased in certain cells because extra copies of DNA are made in response to certain signals of cell development or of stress from the environment. nucleic acid amplification amplification of a specific nucleic acid sequence, such as to test for presence of a given virus or bacteria in a sample. Types include DNA amplification, ligase chain reaction, and polymerase chain reaction.
n. A cellular process characterized by the production of multiple copies of a particular gene or genes to amplify the phenotype that the gene confers on the cell. Drug resistance in cancer cells is linked to amplification of the gene that prevents absorption of the chemotherapeutic agent by the cell. n.
While its importance to evolution is debated, many believe that gene amplification is a tremendously important aspect of evolutionary history. Some evidence suggests that the entire yeast genome, the summation of all of yeast's genetic information, experienced a gene duplication event in relatively recent history. Not all gene amplification, however, has great significance to evolution. Sometimes, the amplified trait dies with the single organism that experiences the gene duplication. This occurs when a gene is overexpressed and the trait it codes for is expressed to a level that is unhealthy to the organism.
Image Credit: Main Image: Gene Amplification, also known as gene duplication or chromosomal duplication, is a cellular process in which multiple copies of a gene are produced. The result is an amplification of the phenotype, or expressed trait, associated with the gene. Not all gene amplification has great importance to evolution. Sometimes, the amplified trait dies with the single organism that experiences the gene duplication. This happens when a gene is over expressed and the trait it codes for is expressed to a level that is unhealthy to the organism.