An ATSC tuner is specifically used by broadcast television stations in North America to send their over the air TV signals to homes that have a television with either an internal ATSC tuner or an external ATSC tuner in the form of a set top box. In the context of an ATSC tuner, an analog TV broadcast that is broadcasted over the air is received by the ATSC tuner and converted from its original analog signal to a new digital signal that can be viewed on a digital TV set.
ATSC (Advanced Television Systems Committee) is a group which defines the standards for digital television transmission in the United States and many other counties. ATSC is the digital replacement for the earlier analog standard, NTSC. In the context of an ATSC tuner, an analog TV broadcast that is broadcasted over the air is received by the ATSC tuner and converted from its original analog signal to a new digital signal that can be viewed on a digital TV set.
Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC) standards are a set of standards developed by the Advanced Television Systems Committee for digital television transmission over terrestrial, cable, and satellite networks. The high definition television standards defined by the ATSC produce wide screen 16:9 images up to 1920×1080 pixels in size — more than six times the display resolution of the earlier standard. However, many different image sizes are also supported.
ATSC Tuners. An ATSC tuner is a device that is used in the reception of digital TV signals (DTV), including HDTV (High Definition TV) signals. In the context of an ATSC tuner, an analog TV broadcast that is broadcasted over the air is received by the ATSC tuner and converted from its original analog signal to a new digital signal that can be viewed on a digital TV set.
ATSC Channels. This type of channel, also known as 8-VSB, is broadcast over the air, received from an antenna to your TV or HDTV tuner. Looking at a the signal on a scope, the data points the carry the information appear a bit scattered compared to QAM, and it carries half the data, 19.2 Mbps. ATSC stands for Advanced Television Standards Committee and QAM is an acronym for Quadrature Amplitude Modulation. There is also QPSK, which is a format used for satellite broadcasting – but since those are received by proprietary satellite TV boxes, not HDTV tuners and TVs, it’s not important for this discussion.
An ATSC (Advanced Television Systems Committee) tuner, often called an ATSC receiver or HDTV tuner is a type of television tuner that allows reception of digital television (DTV) television channels transmitted by television stations in North America, parts of Central America and South Korea that use ATSC standards. When the ATSC tuner does a channel scan, it finds the signal on channel 43, learns that this material is called Channel 4, and remembers that mapping. The user can tune to 4, and the tuner will know to tune in 43.
In this video I'll show you how to receive FREE HD channels using an antenna and an ATSC digital tuner. Of course you will also need an HDTV. The simplest and most cost effective thing to do is get a TV that has an ATSC tuner built in. Then all you need is an antenna. 
NTSC-This is your analog TV tuner that is built into every VCR and Television in America. Basically its purpose is to bring in ANALOG broadcasts. Will receive Cable or Antenna Broadcasts. It will be in every TV that you buy. ATSC-This is the Hight Definition Tuner that by this time next year is required to be in every new television 20 and larger. Its purpose is to receive OVER THE AIR (OTA) broadcasts from local channels via an Antenna, not cable. QAM-is a High Definition Cable tuner. Used to receive HD Cable broadcasts without a box, just connect your coax directly to the Television.
ATSC is the standard for over-the-air broadcasts of digital TV stations. You can buy ATSC antennas and ATSC tuners that will enable you to receive digital stations over the air. You can use HDTV's to display digital stations, or buy an ATSC converter box to use an older television. Check out NAB Station List to find what RF channels are used by the tv stations in your area. If the RF channel is. , then you need a VHF antenna for that channel.