Diazepam (Valium) is a benzodiazepine used to treat anxiety, alcohol withdrawal, and muscle spasms. It may also be used to treat seizures, insomnia, and other conditions as determined by your doctor. Anxiolytic, Sedative, Muscle Relaxant.
Generic Name: Diazepam. Valium (Diazepam) is a benzodiazepine used to treat anxiety, alcohol withdrawal, and insomnia. Usage, dosage, side effects of Valium.
Drug Interactions: Effects of diphenhydramine are increased by the presence of alcohol, MAOI’s, diazepam, hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, and other CNS depressants. Alcohol enhances such effects as drowsiness, sedation and decreased motor skills. These decrements in effect are more pronounced in the elderly.
SSRIs should not be used with MAOIs. Additionally, serotonin syndrome may occur if SSRIs are administered with triptan migraine drugs, linezolid (Zyvox), St. John's Wort, lithium, or tramadol. Combining SSRIs with aspirin, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or warfarin, increases the risk of bleeding.
Drug Interactions: Other benzodiazepines, alcohol, phenothiazines, narcotic analgesics, barbiturates, MAOI’s, and other CNS depressants may potentiate action of diazepam. Alcohol enhances such effects as drowsiness, sedation, and decreased motor skills, and can also exacerbate the memory impairing effects
Valium belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, which work by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the activity of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved diazepam in 1963 under the brand name Valium for the Roche drug company.
A: Diazepam (Valium) is a benzodiazepine commonly used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Diazepam is not indicated for the treatment of depression. Diazepam is a controlled substance and may become habit forming. Only take diazepam as prescribed by your doctor.
Diazepam is the generic name for Valium, a prescription drug doctors prescribe to treat symptoms of anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) .