Lewis is the 4th most common surname in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 6th most common surname in Wales, 22nd most common in England, 24th most common in the United States, 129th most common in Scotland, . The surname Lewis is also an Americanization of several like-sounding Jewish surnames, such as  Levi , and of the Arab form of the name  Elias .
LEWIS Surname Meaning & Origin: The Lewis surname is generally derived from the Germanic given name Lewis (Lowis, Lodovicus), meaning reknowned, famous battle, from the Germanic elements hlod ‘fame’ + wig ‘war’. Lewis is also a common Americanization of several similar sounding Jewish surnames, such as Levy and Lewin. Lewis is the 26th most popular surname in the United States and the 21st most common surname in England. Surname Origin: English.
Answers. Best Answer: Surname: Lewis Recorded in over fifty different spellings from Lewis, Lois, Lowis and Loisi, to such as Ludovici, Lotze, Lohde, and Ludwikiewicz, throughout Europe this great and ancient name is generally accepted as being of pre 5th century Frankish origins. The Lewis surname is English but most common in Wales derived from Lowis, Lodovicus, a Norman personal name composed of the Germanic elements hlod ‘fame’ + wig ‘war’. Source(s): Sources in text of answer.
In Wales, the Lewis surname may have derived from an Anglicized form of the personal name Llywelyn. As an Irish or Scottish surname, Lewis can be an Anglicized form of the Gaelic Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh, derived from Lugh 'brightness.'. Lewis is also a common Americanization of several similar sounding Jewish surnames, such as Levy and Lewin. Lewis is the 26th most popular surname in the United States and the 21st most common surname in England. Surname Origin: English.
It is derived from Lugh ‘brightness’, which was the name of a Celtic god. Americanized form of any of various like-sounding Jewish surnames. http://www.ancestry.com/facts/Lewis-fami... Lewis Surname The surname of LEWIS was a baptismal name 'the son of Louis or Llewis', an ancient and still popular font name. This English surname is widely spread in Ireland where it was taken by settlers. The Lewis surname is English but most common in Wales derived from Lowis, Lodovicus, a Norman personal name composed of the Germanic elements hlod ‘fame’ + wig ‘war’. Source(s): Sources in text of answer.
Lewis is a surname in the English language. It has several independent origins. One of origins of the surname, in England and Wales, is from the Norman personal name Lowis, Lodovicus. This name is composed of the Germanic elements hlod and wig, meaning fame and war. The name developed into the Old French Clovis, Clouis, Louis; as well as into the German Ludwig. The surname Lewis is also an Americanization of several like-sounding Jewish surnames, such as  Levi , and of the Arab form of the name  Elias .
Recorded in over fifty different spellings from Lewis, Lois, Lowis and Loisi, to such as Ludovici, Lotze, Lohde, and Ludwikiewicz, throughout Europe this great and ancient name is generally accepted as being of pre 5th century Frankish origins. The surname first appears on record at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below). William Lewys was noted as a witness in the 1267 Fines Court Rolls of Suffolk. Confusingly in Wales, Lewis was also used as an anglicization of the Welsh name Llywelyn, from llyw, leader, and eilyn, likeness.
Lewis Name Meaning. English (but most common in Wales): from Lowis, Lodovicus, a Norman personal name composed of the Germanic elements hlod ‘fame’ + wig ‘war’.