1. If the incubator is not already in operation, start the incubator and allow the temperature and humidity to stabilize a day or two before setting eggs. Set the temperature at 37.5°C (99.5°F) and relative humidity at 55% (84.5°F on wet bulb thermometer). Set ventilation as recommended by the incubator manufacturer. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. Pekin duck eggs are kept in a setter for 25 days and then transferred on the 25th day to a hatcher where they remain until they hatch on the 28th day.
After spending the last 4 years hatching ducklings, I have kept accurate records of humidity (more recently using the recording software of the RCOM 20 Pro USB) and I have kept records of the weight of each egg at different times during the incubation period, in a search to find the ‘right’ humidity for duck eggs. 1 If the air sack in your duck eggs is too small, your incubator humidity is too high. 2  If the air sack is too big, your incubator humidity is too low. 3  The air sac changes slowly at first.
1 If the incubator is not already in operation, start the incubator and allow the temperature and humidity to stabilize a day or two before setting eggs. 2  Set the temperature at 37.5°C (99.5°F) and relative humidity at 55% (84.5°F on wet bulb thermometer). 3  Set ventilation as recommended by the incubator manufacturer. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.
They all developed until the end but most of those that did not hatch never pipped. I had the temperature at 99.5 degrees F to 101 degrees F with 50% - 65% humidity until lock-down and then I raised it to 70% - 75%. I had a brand-new Hova Bator with the circulated air and the automatic egg-turner. What did I do wrong-I did mist the eggs everyday. They also started hatching at day 25 when I increased the humidity. I just read the Wikipedia and it says  When using an incubator the temperature should be 99.5 °F at 86% humidity for days 1-25, and 98.5 °F at 94% humidity for days 26-28.. From all I have read, this seems really high
99.5 degrees Fahrenheit (37.5 degrees Celsius) is optimum incubating temp. for duck eggs with the temp. being lowered by one degree to 98.5 in the last 3 days of incubat … ion (25-28th day). Lowest temp. - highest temp. range is 97 - 102. 
Notes: 1  Use a soft (e.g. HB) pencil to mark the extent of air sac development on the egg shell and compare it to the egg above. 2  If the air sack in your duck eggs is too small, your incubator humidity is too high. 3  If the air sack is too big, your incubator humidity is too low. 4  The air sac changes slowly at first. 1 If the air sack in your duck eggs is too small, your incubator humidity is too high. 2  If the air sack is too big, your incubator humidity is too low. 3  The air sac changes slowly at first.
1 Use a soft (e.g. HB) pencil to mark the extent of air sac development on the egg shell and compare it to the egg above. 2  If the air sack in your duck eggs is too small, your incubator humidity is too high. 3  If the air sack is too big, your incubator humidity is too low. 4  The air sac changes slowly at first. 1 If the air sack in your duck eggs is too small, your incubator humidity is too high. 2  If the air sack is too big, your incubator humidity is too low. 3  The air sac changes slowly at first.
1 At the time of transfer, the temperature of the hatcher should be set at 37.2°C (99°F) and the humidity set at 65% (88°F wet bulb). 2  As the hatch progresses, and eggs begin to pip, increase the humidity to 80% (93°F wet bulb), and increase ventilation openings by about 50%. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.
Chicken eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Chicken eggs incubate for 21 days. Your countdown for days starts when you put your eggs in your incubator. It does not start when the hen lays her eggs. Duck eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Mallard and domestic duck eggs (including Ancona) incubate for 28 days. Muscovy duck eggs incubate for 35 days. You start counting your days when you put the