Freight forwarder. A freight forwarder, forwarder, or forwarding agent, is a person or company that organizes shipments for individuals or corporations to get goods from the manufacturer or producer to a market, customer or final point of distribution. Forwarders contract with a carrier to move the goods. A forwarder does not move the goods but acts as an expert in supply chain management. A forwarder contracts with carriers to move cargo ranging from raw agricultural products to manufactured goods.
Definition. Cargo consolidation service provided by a freight forwarder in which several smaller shipments are assembled and shipped together to avail of better freight rates and security of cargo. Also called assembly service, cargo consolidation, or freight consolidation. 
What Is Freight Forwarding? Freight forwarding is the coordination and shipment of goods from one place to another via a single or multiple carriers via air, marine, rail or highway. Request a Quote Newsletter Signup.
Information typically reviewed by a freight forwarder includes the commercial invoice, shipper's export declaration, bill of lading and other documents required by the carrier or country of export, import, and/or transshipment. Much of this information is now processed in a paperless environment. The U.S. legal distinction between the two is that a freight forwarder acts as the agent of a principal (typically a shipper or consignee) and the NVOCC is a transportation company (carrier) that is physically responsible for the carriage of goods and acts as its own principal.
Freight forwarders usually ship under their own bills of lading or air waybills (called house bill of lading or house air waybill) and their agents or associates at the destination (overseas freight forwarders) provide document delivery, deconsolidation, and freight collection services. Also called forwarder. Sometimes a freight forwarder will damage some of your shipment and you will need to have the shipping company contact them.
International ocean freight forwarders arranging for shipments to and from the US must be licensed by the Federal Maritime Commission as Ocean Transportation Intermediaries. An Ocean Transportation Intermediary is either an ocean freight forwarder or a non-vessel operating common carrier (NVOCC). The U.S. legal distinction between the two is that a freight forwarder acts as the agent of a principal (typically a shipper or consignee) and the NVOCC is a transportation company (carrier) that is physically responsible for the carriage of goods and acts as its own principal.
A freight forwarder, forwarder, or forwarding agent, also known as a non-vessel operating common carrier (NVOCC) , is a person or company that organizes shipments for individuals or corporations to get goods from the manufacturer or producer to a market, customer or final point of distribution. The U.S. legal distinction between the two is that a freight forwarder acts as the agent of a principal (typically a shipper or consignee) and the NVOCC is a transportation company (carrier) that is physically responsible for the carriage of goods and acts as its own principal.
The role of a freight forwarder is to collect and consolidate shipments that are less than a carload or truckload and obtain common carrier transportation for the long-haul transport of the property, which is owned by individual carload or truckload shippers. 
The freight forwarder carried out their job duties as expected and the goods were delivered on time and in perfect condition. 8 people found this helpful. Sometimes a freight forwarder will damage some of your shipment and you will need to have the shipping company contact them. 5 people found this helpful. My father was an expert freight forwarder and everything to do with imports, which made me proud to be his son