Cheetahs are mostly found in Africa, but there is a small population of Cheetahs in the country of Iran. Cheetahs are found in a wide variety of habitats and like to live in open areas of land like the African grasslands and savanna. 
The primitive cheetahs were known to live in Asia and occupied all the major habitats of the world. According to the fossils some two to four hundred million years ago a giant cheetah named Acinonyx pardinensis lived all across Europe. The weight of the cat was measured at 200 pounds. Where Do Cheetahs Live in the World. If you want to know where do cheetahs live in the world probably you should check out all these essential facts about the cheetahs habitat and distribution. The cheetah fancy living in open country including several parts of the geographic range.
The cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) is a big cat in the subfamily Felinae that inhabits most of Africa and parts of Iran. It is the only extant member of the genus Acinonyx. The cheetah can run as fast as 109.4 to 120.7 km/h (68.0 to 75.0 mph), faster than any other land animal. The cheetah is a unique felid, with its closest living relatives being the puma and jaguarundi of the Americas. This cat is notable for modifications in the species' paws, being one of the few felids with only semi-retractable claws.
If you want to know where do cheetahs live in the world probably you should check out all these essential facts about the cheetahs habitat and distribution. Where Do Cheetahs Live in the World. If you want to know where do cheetahs live in the world probably you should check out all these essential facts about the cheetahs habitat and distribution. The cheetah fancy living in open country including several parts of the geographic range.
Cheetah Diet. As a truly carnivorous animal that depends on meat for survival, the cheetah utilizing its speed to hunt various prey that inhabit the open or partially open savannah. In general, the diet of the cheetah consists of gazelles, wildebeest calves, impalas, and smaller hoofed animals in its habitat. 
Where Do Cheetahs Live in the World. There was a time when cheetah roamed all across Africa, Asia, North America, and Europe. Besides, they were fairly common in western and central India of the Ganges predating four hundred years ago. Where Do Cheetahs Live in the World. If you want to know where do cheetahs live in the world probably you should check out all these essential facts about the cheetahs habitat and distribution. The cheetah fancy living in open country including several parts of the geographic range.
Cheetahs are mostly found in sub-Saharan Africa and in eastern and southern African parks. Some of the animals can still be found in southern Algeria, northern Niger and Iran. They like dry, open grasslands where they can pick up speed to kill prey. During daybreak and dusk, cheetahs spend their time stalking and catching prey. Usually, large cats go for the throat right away in a pursuit, but cheetahs do not do this.
A Cheetah lives mostly in Africa south of the Sahara. Very few remain in Asia in Iran and adjacent areas of Pakistan and Turkmenistan. Their habitat is now essentially limited … to steppes and semi-deserts and African deserts in Namibia. They are also spread across parts of eastern and southern Africa. Cheetahs are also found living naturally in the wild in certain parts of India; but there are very few left there. They also have a very confined population in Ir
The geographic area of the cheetah population is dwindling. Today they are mainly found in sub-Sahara Africa. Cheetahs mainly exist in Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, and Tanzania, and Northwestern Iran. These cats are now thought to be extinct in India and rare in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Russia. 
Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) historically lived throughout Africa, the Middle East, and Southern Asia. However, most of the remaining wild cheetah populations are located in sub-Saharan Africa (south of the Saharan Desert) with some smaller populations in Northern Africa and one isolated population still living in Iran. 