Glycine also acts as a neurotransmitter, which is a chemical messenger that transmits signals in the brain. Glycine encephalopathy is caused by the shortage of an enzyme that normally breaks down glycine in the body. A lack of this enzyme allows excess glycine to build up in tissues and organs, particularly the brain, leading to serious medical problems. About 80 percent of cases of glycine encephalopathy result from mutations in the GLDC gene, while AMT mutations cause 10 percent to 15 percent of all cases. In a small percentage of affected individuals, the cause of this condition is unknown.
To avoid confusion, the term glycine encephalopathy is often used, as this term more accurately describes the clinical symptoms of the disorder. Glycine encephalopathy has an estimated incidence of 1 in 60,000, making it the second most common disorder of amino acid metabolism, after phenylketonuria. It is caused by a defect in the glycine cleavage system (GCS), which is made up of four protein subunits.
Glycine acts as a chemical messenger that transmits signals in the brain. Glycine encephalopathy is caused by the shortage of an enzyme that normally breaks down glycine in the body, thus allowing excess glycine to build up in tissues and organs, particularly the brain. Basic Information. 1  Genetics Home Reference (GHR) contains information on Glycine encephalopathy. 2  The National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) is a federation of more than 130 nonprofit voluntary health organizations serving people with rare disorders.
Glycine encephalopathy is sometimes referred to as nonketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH), as a reference to the biochemical findings seen in patients with the disorder, and to distinguish it from the disorders that cause ketotic hyperglycinemia (seen in propionic acidemia and several other inherited metabolic disorders). Glycine encephalopathy has an estimated incidence of 1 in 60,000, making it the second most common disorder of amino acid metabolism, after phenylketonuria. It is caused by a defect in the glycine cleavage system (GCS), which is made up of four protein subunits.
These cases are classified as transient glycine encephalopathy. In this form of the condition, glycine levels decrease to normal or near-normal after being very high at birth. Many children with temporarily high glycine levels go on to develop normally and experience few long-term medical problems. About 80 percent of cases of glycine encephalopathy result from mutations in the GLDC gene, while AMT mutations cause 10 percent to 15 percent of all cases. In a small percentage of affected individuals, the cause of this condition is unknown.
Glycine encephalopathy, which is also known as nonketotic hyperglycinemia or NKH, is a genetic disorder characterized by abnormally high levels of a molecule called glycine. About 80 percent of cases of glycine encephalopathy result from mutations in the GLDC gene, while AMT mutations cause 10 percent to 15 percent of all cases. In a small percentage of affected individuals, the cause of this condition is unknown.
Nonketotic hyperglycinemia (also known as glycine encephalopathy) is a genetic disorder characterized by abnormally high levels of the amino acid glycine. 
After phenylketonuria, glycine encephalopathy is the second most common disorder of amino acid metabolism. The disease is caused by defects in the glycine cleavage system, an enzyme responsible for glycine catabolism. Glycine encephalopathy has an estimated incidence of 1 in 60,000, making it the second most common disorder of amino acid metabolism, after phenylketonuria. It is caused by a defect in the glycine cleavage system (GCS), which is made up of four protein subunits.
Glycine encephalopathy is sometimes referred to as “nonketotic hyperglycinemia” (NKH), as a reference to the biochemical findings seen in patients with the disorder, and to distinguish it from the disorders that cause “ketotic hyperglycinemia” (seen in propionic acidemia and several other inherited metabolic disorders). Below is what Wikipedia has to say about NKH. Glycine encephalopathy (also known as non-ketotic hyperglycinemia or NKH) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of glycine metabolism.