He practiced staying underwater, and he would lie in the bathtub and see how long he could stay underwater, with his wife timing him.. Inspired by Houdini, magician David Blaine subjects himself to punishing, even life-threatening feats of endurance. I had always heard that he could hold his breath for three minutes and 30 seconds, Blaine said, And I remember fighting really hard to get to that mark. 
Ordinary cardiovascular training, such as running or biking, likely has little effect on how long you can hold your breath, but exercise is crucial for freedivers. They need to swim to the depths with as little exertion as possible to save oxygen for their brains. Nicholas Mevoli. Jacques Mayol may be the best empirical evidence for the advantages of breath-hold training. The Frenchman was the first freediver to reach 60 meters (197 feet), in 1966. Seventeen years later, at the age of 56, Mayol broke his own personal best by diving to 105 meters (344 feet).
Stig Severinsen can hold his breath for 22 minutes. Watch as he swims the length of three Olympic swimming pools under metre thick ice. It's an extraordinary feat. But he's not done. What happens next, could kill him. 1  Entertainment. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
The average person can hold there breath for about 30 to 40 seconds, not that long uh. But some people mainly free divers who have been diving for a long period of time their … lungs and heart have expanded and got used to holding their breath for longer times. There was a case in NYC which a man for the Guinness Records held his breath for 15 minutes.
Harry Houdini was renowned for his ability to hold his breath for three and a half minutes in the early 20 th century. Five years ago, his fellow illusionist David Blaine broke the world record for breath-holding with a total of 17 minutes and 4 seconds. Jacques Mayol may be the best empirical evidence for the advantages of breath-hold training. The Frenchman was the first freediver to reach 60 meters (197 feet), in 1966. Seventeen years later, at the age of 56, Mayol broke his own personal best by diving to 105 meters (344 feet).
He was reputed to be able to hold his breath for over four minutes. I am a man of few skills, but one thing I excel in is holding my breath. After a good two minutes plus-fifteen seconds longer than any one else in the group-I finally gave in, unable to equal Houdini's performance. 
Houdini performed the escape for the rest of his career. During his career, Houdini explained some of his tricks in books written for the magic brotherhood. In Handcuff Secrets (1909), he revealed how many locks and handcuffs could be opened with properly applied force, others with shoestrings. The stunt was to be the feature escape of his 1927 season, but Houdini died on October 31, 1926. The bronze casket Houdini created for buried alive was used to transport Houdini's body from Detroit back to New York following his death on Hallowe'en.
In 1913, Houdini introduced perhaps his most famous act, the Chinese Water Torture Cell, in which he was suspended upside-down in a locked glass-and-steel cabinet full to overflowing with water. The act required that Houdini hold his breath for more than three minutes. The stunt was to be the feature escape of his 1927 season, but Houdini died on October 31, 1926. The bronze casket Houdini created for buried alive was used to transport Houdini's body from Detroit back to New York following his death on Hallowe'en.
He then brought the specter of a drowning death to the indoor stage, first with the milk can escape and then with the water torture cell. To build suspense for his milk can trick, Houdini would have the audience hold their breath for as long as they could. After a minute or so, all would have given up. 
Out of roughly 12 TEDMED attendees he also taught, all but one beat Harry Houdini’s lifelong record of 3 minutes and 30 seconds. One woman held her breath for more than 5 minutes. Here is a photograph of the session. I’m sitting in the vest, four people to the right of Roni Zeiger, MD, Google Health product manager. If you continually check your time, it seems you hold your breath for less time. It is the opposite of the above. Too much focus on the time creates tension. All of the test subjects, myself included, had a harder time holding their breath when David announced the time every 5 seconds vs.