Definition. The surplus remaining after total costs are deducted from total revenue, and the basis on which tax is computed and dividend is paid. It is the best known measure of success in an enterprise. Profit is reflected in reduction in liabilities, increase in assets, and/or increase in owners' equity. 
Profitability is the ability of a business to earn a profit. A profit is what is left of the revenue a business generates after it pays all expenses directly related to the generation of the revenue, such as producing a product, and other expenses related to the conduct of the business activities. There are many different ways for you to analyze profitability. This lesson will focus on profitability ratios, which are a measure of the business' ability to generate revenue compared to the amount of expenses it incurs. Let's look at a few of the primary analytical approaches.
Full Definition of PROFITABLE. : affording profits: yielding advantageous returns or results. — prof·it·abil·i·ty \ˌprae-ˌprä-fə-tə-ˈbi-lə\ tē. — noun·prof·it·able \ness-ˈprae-ˈprä-fə-tə\ bəl. — nəs·noun·prof \-it\ ably. Blē adverb see profitable Defined-for english. Language learners see profitable defined. for kids Full Definition of PROFITABLE. : affording profits: yielding advantageous returns or results. — prof·it·abil·i·ty \ˌprae-ˌprä-fə-tə-ˈbi-lə\ tē. — noun·prof·it·able \ness-ˈprae-ˈprä-fə-tə\ bəl. — nəs·noun·prof \-it\ ably. blē adverb
DEFINITION of 'Profitability Ratios'. A class of financial metrics that are used to assess a business's ability to generate earnings as compared to its expenses and other relevant costs incurred during a specific period of time.
Profitability is the ability for a business to earn a profit. A profit is simply the revenue left over after you have paid all the costs and expenses related to your business activities. Profitability ratios are a series of metrics that you can use to measure the relative profitability of a business. There are many different ways for you to analyze profitability. This lesson will focus on profitability ratios, which are a measure of the business' ability to generate revenue compared to the amount of expenses it incurs. Let's look at a few of the primary analytical approaches.
A profitability ratio is a measure of profitability, which is a way to measure a company's performance. Profitability is simply the capacity to make a profit, and a profit is what is left over from income earned after you have deducted all costs and expenses related to earning the income. 
Full Definition of PROFITABLE. : affording profits: yielding advantageous returns or results. — prof·it·abil·i·ty \ˌprae-ˌprä-fə-tə-ˈbi-lə\ tē. — noun·prof·it·able \ness-ˈprae-ˈprä-fə-tə\ bəl. nəs noun Full Definition of PROFITABLE. : affording profits: yielding advantageous returns or results. — prof·it·abil·i·ty \ˌprae-ˌprä-fə-tə-ˈbi-lə\ tē. — noun·prof·it·able \ness-ˈprae-ˈprä-fə-tə\ bəl. — nəs·noun·prof \-it\ ably. blē adverb
DEFINITION of 'Profit'. A financial benefit that is realized when the amount of revenue gained from a business activity exceeds the expenses, costs and taxes needed to sustain the activity. Any profit that is gained goes to the business's owners, who may or may not decide to spend it on the business. Calculated as:
BREAKING DOWN 'Profitability Ratios'. Some examples of profitability ratios are profit margin, return on assets and return on equity. It is important to note that a little bit of background knowledge is necessary in order to make relevant comparisons when analyzing these ratios. For instance, some industries experience seasonality in their operations. A class of financial metrics that are used to assess a business's ability to generate earnings as compared to its expenses and other relevant costs incurred during a specific period of time.