A budget is a quantitative expression of a plan for a defined period of time. It may include planned sales volumes and revenues, resource quantities, costs and expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows. It expresses strategic plans of business units, organizations, activities or events in measurable terms. A budget (derived from old French word bougette, purse) is a quantified financial plan for a forthcoming accounting period.
A cyclically balanced budget is a budget that is not necessarily balanced year-to-year, but is balanced over the economic cycle, running a surplus in boom years and running a deficit in lean years, with these offsetting over time. Balanced budgets and the associated topic of budget deficits are a contentious point within academic economics and within politics. The mainstream economic view is that having a balanced budget in every year is not desirable, with budget deficits in lean times being desirable.
Healthy Eating Plan. A healthy eating plan gives your body the nutrients it needs every day while staying within your daily calorie goal for weight loss. A healthy eating plan also will lower your risk for heart disease and other health conditions. A healthy eating plan: 1  Emphasizes vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and fat-free or low-fat dairy products. 2  Includes lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, eggs, and nuts. 3  Limits saturated and trans fats, sodium, and added sugars. 
healthy, sound, wholesome, robust, hale, well mean enjoying or indicative of good health. healthy implies full strength and vigor as well as freedom from signs of disease. sound emphasizes the absence of disease, weakness, or malfunction. wholesome implies appearance and behavior indicating soundness and balance. 
The Healthy Eating Index (HEI) is a measure of diet quality that assesses conformance to The Dietary Guidelines for Americans. USDA’s primary use of the HEI is to monitor the diet quality of the U.S. population and the low-income subpopulation. 
It is important to understand that the phrase balanced budget can refer to either a situation where revenues equal expenses or where revenues exceed expenses, but not where expenses exceed revenues. For example, governments may issue a press release stating that they have a balanced budget for the upcoming fiscal year, or politicians may campaign on a promise to balance the budget once in office.
English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: health camp, health centre, health farm, health food. ! Medicosanitary Regulation of Emergencies. Medicosanitary Regulation of Emergencies. n. 2 the general condition of body and mind. in poor health. 3 the condition of any unit, society, etc. the economic health of a nation. 4 a toast to a person, wishing him or her good health, happiness, etc.
This is the British English definition of budget. View American English definition of budget. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for budget. 
Energy is another word for calories.. Your energy balance is the balance of calories consumed through eating and drinking compared to calories burned through physical activity. What you eat and drink is ENERGY IN. What you burn through physical activity is ENERGY OUT. You burn a certain number of calories just by breathing air and digesting food. You also burn a certain number of calories (ENERGY OUT) through your daily routine.
DEFINITION of 'Balanced Budget'. A situation in financial planning or the budgeting process where total revenues are equal to or greater than total expenses. For example, governments may issue a press release stating that they have a balanced budget for the upcoming fiscal year, or politicians may campaign on a promise to balance the budget once in office.