On the April 30 episode of Grey’s Anatomy, Meredith (Ellen Pompeo) is forced to tell the staff at Grey-Sloane Memorial Hospital that her husband, Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey), is dead. 
Kate Walsh first appeared as Addison on Grey's Anatomy. The character was initially planned to appear in several episodes but quickly became a regular on the show before leaving for Private Practice. In June 2012, Kate Walsh announced on Bethenny that the upcoming sixth season of Private Practice would be her last one. Soon after, Addison decides to leave Seattle and move to Los Angeles, joining Oceanside Wellness, led by Sam and Naomi. This marks Addison's departure from Grey's Anatomy as a regular, although she makes later guest appearances.
Back at Meredith's house, Meredith confesses to Cristina that she had sex with Derek and at Derek's trailer, Addison takes the panties out of the dryer, folds them carefully and puts them in a clear plastic bag. ‎ In the hospital a couple who had an accident checks in and Derek has to handle it. Time Has Come Today is the first episode of the third season and the 37th overall episode of Grey's Anatomy.
Mark makes Addison realize that Derek is in love with Meredith and that he (Mark) does love her. Derek sleeps with Addison after he sees that Meredith has moved on. When Addison finds out that Derek had sex with Meredith, she gets drunk and sleeps with Mark. Soon after, Addison decides to leave Seattle and move to Los Angeles, joining Oceanside Wellness, led by Sam and Naomi. This marks Addison's departure from Grey's Anatomy as a regular, although she makes later guest appearances.
Grey's Anatomy, Season 3 Edit. In the wake of her divorce, Addison sleeps with Mark. (I Am A Tree). Addison discovers that Derek and Meredith slept together when she finds her panties in the pocket of Derek's tux and struggles with the end of her marriage. Addison and Derek would eventually relocate to New York where they both began their practice alongside Derek's childhood best friend Mark Sloan. Her relationship with Derek eventually becomes strained and she
Grey's Anatomy Season 1 Edit. 1  Seasons 1-3 take up a year and is reflected in the summer and autumnal weather of Season 1. 2  Seasons 1-3, Meredith, Cristina, Izzie, George, and Alex are 1st year surgical interns and in the first year of their surgical residency. 3  Bailey is in her fourth year of surgical residency. Grey's Anatomy Season 3 Edit. 1  Seasons 1-3 take up a year and is reflected in the spring and summer like weather of Season 3
Much of Addison's past is presented in a non-linear fashion, primarily revealed in the second season of Grey's Anatomy and the second and third season of Private Practice. Addison is the daughter of wealthy parents, and has a $25 million trust fund. Soon after, Addison decides to leave Seattle and move to Los Angeles, joining Oceanside Wellness, led by Sam and Naomi. This marks Addison's departure from Grey's Anatomy as a regular, although she makes later guest appearances.
Dr. Addison Adrianne Forbes Montgomery (formerly Shepherd), M.D. is a fictional character on the ABC television series Grey's Anatomy and Private Practice played by Kate Walsh. Soon after, Addison decides to leave Seattle and move to Los Angeles, joining Oceanside Wellness, led by Sam and Naomi. This marks Addison's departure from Grey's Anatomy as a regular, although she makes later guest appearances.
Seasons: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 | Main. Grey's Anatomy (2005-) is a primetime television medical drama, airing on ABC, that follows Meredith Grey, a first-year surgical intern at the beginning of the drama, and her fellow interns as they struggle to become doctors.