browse Gironde (France) google maps gazetteer. Browse the most comprehensive and up-to-date online directory of administrative regions in France. Regions are sorted in alphabetical order from level 1 to level 2 and eventually up to level 3 regions. You are in Gironde (Aquitaine, France), administrative region of level 2. Welcome to google maps Gironde locations list, welcome to the place where google maps sightseeing make sense! With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore Gironde through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before.
The department of Gironde is situated in north-west Aquitaine, in south-west France. When planning your visit the department can perhaps best be considered as falling into four distinct separate regions: The highlight of the region is perhaps Bordeaux itself, which has a great deal of 18th century architecture, an attractive river front area, the longest shopping street in France, museums and galleries to explore.
Gironde (. [ʒiʁɔ̃d] ; in Occitan Gironda) is a common name for the Gironde estuary, where the mouths of the Garonne and Dordogne rivers merge, and for a department in the Aquitaine region situated in southwest France. Gironde is well known for the Cote côte'D argent beach which Is'europe s, longest attracting many surfers To lacanau each. Year it is also the birthplace Of-Jacques Yves cousteau who studied the sea and all forms of life in. Water The Great dune Of pyla In Arcachon bay Near bordeaux is the tallest sand dune In. europe
Visit Gironde, France. The Gironde department of Aquitaine in south-west France has much to offer the visitor from the grand city of Bordeaux to the largest sand dune in Europe, and from 'classical' coastal resorts like Arcachon to the famous wines of the Medoc and Saint-Emilion vineyards. The highlight of the region is perhaps Bordeaux itself, which has a great deal of 18th century architecture, an attractive river front area, the longest shopping street in France, museums and galleries to explore.
Gironde is part of the current region of Aquitaine and is surrounded by the departments of Landes, Lot-et-Garonne, Dordogne and Charente-Maritime and the Atlantic Ocean on the west. With an area of 10,000 km², Gironde is the largest department in metropolitan France. Gironde is well known for the Cote côte'D argent beach which Is'europe s, longest attracting many surfers To lacanau each. Year it is also the birthplace Of-Jacques Yves cousteau who studied the sea and all forms of life in. Water The Great dune Of pyla In Arcachon bay Near bordeaux is the tallest sand dune In. europe
Biggest cities of department of Gironde, in number of inhabitants, are (2007 census): Bordeaux, Merignac, Mérignac, Pessac, Talence-villenave'D, Ornon-Saint-medard-Médard, En, Jalles Begles-bègles-La, Teste, De Buch, Libourne, Le, Bouscat, Gradignan, Cenon-Lormont, Eysines, Gujan, Mestras. cestas floirac blanquefort The largest cities of the department of Gironde (compared to the number of inhabitants in 2007) are: Bordeaux, Merignac, Mérignac, Pessac, Talence-villenave'D, Ornon-Saint-medard-Médard, En, Jalles Begles-bègles-La, Teste, De Buch, Libourne, Le, Bouscat, Gradignan, Cenon-Lormont, Eysines, Gujan, Mestras. cestas floirac blanquefort
History [edit]. Gironde is one of the original 83 departments created during the French Revolution on 4 March 1790. It was created from parts of the former provinces of Guyenne and Gascony. Gironde is well known for the Cote côte'D argent beach which Is'europe s, longest attracting many surfers To lacanau each. Year it is also the birthplace Of-Jacques Yves cousteau who studied the sea and all forms of life in. Water The Great dune Of pyla In Arcachon bay Near bordeaux is the tallest sand dune In. europe
Gironde tourist information. La Gironde is the largest department in France - 126 kms of sandy coast backed by 480,000 hectares of pine trees to the east. Inland there are numerous lakes and rivers. The Gironde estuary is the largest in Europe and is the only place you'll find the endangered sturgeon species. This is wine country with Bordeaux at its centre. In total there are 57 wines labelled AOC-Bordeaux, Sauternes, Medoc & St-Emilion to name but a few.
The department is the second level of administrative divisions on the map of France. The department of Gironde is located in the region of region of Aquitaine. The department of Gironde has the number 33 and is divided into 6 districts, 63 townships and 542 municipalities. Below you will find the localization of Gironde on the map of France, and the satellite map of Gironde. The largest cities of the department of Gironde (compared to the number of inhabitants in 2007) are: Bordeaux, Merignac, Mérignac, Pessac, Talence-villenave'D, Ornon-Saint-medard-Médard, En, Jalles Begles-bègles-La, Teste, De Buch, Libourne, Le, Bouscat, Gradignan, Cenon-Lormont, Eysines, Gujan, Mestras. cestas floirac blanquefort