There are many types of trainers on the market, so get advice from a specialist running retailer who will assess your foot and find the right shoe for you. The shoes’ shock absorbers weaken over time, increasing your risk of injury. It’s advisable to replace running shoes every 300 miles (482km). Plan your runs. Work out when and where (the exact route and time) you're going to run and put it in your diary.
Generally all that’s needed are the right clothes and, more importantly, a good pair of running shoes. But just how long does a quality pair of running kicks last, and how do you know when it's time to swap in a brand-new pair? (Hint: Don’t ask Forrest!). 
Numbers wise, a good running shoe should last you between 400 and 600 miles. That’s a pretty large range, I know, but your build, running style and training load all factor in to what end of that range your shoes will fall. Dear Mario, I’m a new runner training for my first half marathon with Team in Training. Our training group’s coach told me to change my shoes every six months, but the guy at the running store in town told me every 300-400 miles.
Check the wear of your shoes regularly. Make sure you examine and replace your shoes regularly. Most running shoes last for between 350 miles and 500 miles of running. Walking shoes should likely be changed every 6 to 9 months. If you walk 4-5 miles or so a day this works out to be around 1,000 – 1,500 miles of walking. Checking and changing your shoes is one of the best ways to avoid the doctor's office
If you are walking or running for exercise on a regular basis, your shoes have a limited lifespan. Each time you take a step, you are breaking down the material in your shoes that provides cushioning and support. If you walk or run for exercise, you should plan on replacing your shoes every 350 to 500 miles or every three to six months. Posted on March 24, 2013 by Kris Swartzendruber, Michigan State University Extension. 1  Tweet.
Shoe durability: How long your shoes last and how to care for them. There’s no getting around it: Running shoes are not inexpensive. Fortunately, a good pair of shoes—hopefully a Mizuno—is the only piece of equipment we absolutely need. So almost all of us are concerned with getting the most miles out of our shoes. 
One is that if they smell bad even after she washes them in her washing machine, it’s time for a new pair. She estimates she puts 500 miles on each pair of shoes. Henry Klugh, a running coach and manager of The Inside Track, a running store in Harrisburg, Pa., says he goes as far as 2,000 miles in some shoes. He often runs on dirt roads, he said, which are easier on shoes than asphalt is and do not compress and beat up the midsole as much. But their studies indicated that shoes could last much longer. Most shoemakers, of course, would prefer to see us trade in sooner. Kira Harrison, a spokeswoman for Brooks, said shoes should last for 400 to 500 miles. The very light models last about 300 miles, she said.
If you do most of your running on a treadmill, a smooth road, or a groomed trail, the outsole of the shoe can look fine for a long time, but the internal damage is still taking place. Note in your training log when you start running in a new pair of shoes, and keep track of how many miles you run on them. Over the course of a 12- to 16-week training cycle, you can expect to go through between two and four pairs of shoes. That said, most running shoes will last between 300 and 500 miles, which is, admittedly, quite a range. Minimalist shoes and racing flats, since they have less material underfoot and are generally less durable, will typically last 200 to 400 miles.
Do not wait until your running shoes look like this before you replace them. Q. Dear Mario, I’m a new runner training for my first half marathon with Team in Training. Our training group’s coach told me to change my shoes every six months, but the guy at the running store in town told me every 300-400 miles. Who’s right, and how do I really know when it’s time for new shoes? Please clear this up for me
Learn how long you can expect your running shoes to last you before you need to replace them. 