S. pneumoniae is one of the most common causes of bacterial meningitis in adults and young adults, along with Neisseria meningitidis, and is the leading cause of bacterial meningitis in adults in the USA. It is also one of the top two isolates found in ear infection, otitis media. A significant human pathogenic bacterium, S. pneumoniae was recognized as a major cause of pneumonia in the late 19th century, and is the subject of many humoral immunity studies.
Pneumococcal disease is an infection caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, sometimes referred to as pneumococcus. Pneumococcus can cause many types of illnesses, including ear infections and meningitis. There are vaccines to prevent pneumococcal disease in children and adults. 
Streptococcus pneumoniae are bacteria frequently found in the upper respiratory tract of healthy children and adults. These bacteria, however, can also cause a range of infections—from relatively mild ear infections to fatal pneumonia, meningitis, and sepsis. 
These bacteria can cause many types of illnesses, including: pneumonia (infection of the lungs), ear infections, sinus infections, meningitis (infection of the covering around the brain and spinal cord), and bacteremia (blood stream infection). Pneumococcal disease is an infection caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria (“pneumococcus”).
Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, or pneumococcus, can cause many types of illnesses. Some of these illnesses can be life-threatening. Pneumococcus is the most common cause of bloodstream infections, pneumonia, meningitis, and middle ear infections in young children. You have probably heard of pneumonia, which is an infection of the lungs. Pneumonia can be caused by many different bacteria, viruses, and even fungi. Pneumococcus is one of the most common causes of severe pneumonia. Besides pneumonia, pneumococcus can cause other types of infections too, such as: 1  Ear infections. 2  Sinus infections.
Introduction. Pneumococcal infections are caused by the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, and range from mild to severe. There are more than 90 different strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) bacteria (known as serotypes), some of which cause more serious infection than others. The symptoms of a pneumococcal infection can vary, depending on the type of infection you have. Common symptoms include:
Pneumonia: S pneumoniae is the most common bacterial cause of childhood pneumonia, especially in children younger than 5 years. Meningitis/CNS infections: S pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in children. Yearly incidence in all age groups is 1-2 cases per 100,000 population. Background. Streptococcus pneumoniae colonizes the upper respiratory tract of healthy individuals and is one of the most frequent causes of bacterial infection in children. Common infections caused by this pathogen include otitis media (OM) , sinusitis, occult bacteremia, pneumonia, and meningitis.
Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus, is a Gram-positive, alpha-hemolytic, facultative anaerobic member of the genus Streptococcus. A significant human pathogenic bacterium, S. pneumoniae was recognized as a major cause of pneumonia in the late 19th century, and is the subject of many humoral immunity studies. S. pneumoniae resides asymptomatically in the nasopharynx of healthy carrier
S pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), bacterial meningitis, bacteremia, and otitis media, as well as an important cause of sinusitis, septic arthritis, osteomyelitis, peritonitis, and endocarditis and an infrequent cause of other less common diseases. See the image below. 