Salary. School nurses enjoy competitive salaries and benefits as well as flexible hours. The average annual salary for a school nurse is $43,856. Some of these professionals supplement their income by working temporary positions during the summer months. Only 45% of public schools had a dedicated, full-time nurse in 2011. Due to funding cuts, more and more nurses are covering several public schools within a district. Most school nurses work regular, daytime hours. In some districts, they enjoy the same summer and holiday vacations as students and faculty.
Graduates of BSN and ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) programs are eligible to sit for the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN). Licensure is required of all registered nurses in the United States and is also a requirement for school nurse certification. Note that an ADN-educated RN still needs to obtain a bachelor's degree in nursing or one of the other NBCSN-approved programs to qualify to become a certified school nurse.
School Nurse Training and Education Requirements. To become a school nurse, it is mandatory to first earn a nursing degree from an accredited program. State requirements vary, so it is important to learn the requirements in your state before choosing a nursing program. Some states may also require a master s degree, or a teaching certificate, or a specialized certificate in school nursing.
The salary for a school nurse can vary, and depends on school, region, and years of experience. According to salary.com, the national median is $43,000. In many states, school nurses are on the same pay scale as teachers, and in general earn less than full-time registered nurses working in hospitals. State requirements vary, so it is important to learn the requirements in your state before choosing a nursing program. Some states may also require a master s degree, or a teaching certificate, or a specialized certificate in school nursing.
How to Become a School Nurse in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become a school nurse. Learn about education requirements, licensure, job outlook and salary to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Nursing & Public Health degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Three years of experience as a school nurse is recommended. The exam consists of 250 multiple-choice questions in five subject areas. The areas include health appraisal, nursing management, disease prevention, special issues and professional issues.
Some school nursing positions require frequent travel among schools. Only 45% of public schools had a dedicated, full-time nurse in 2011. Due to funding cuts, more and more nurses are covering several public schools within a district. Most school nurses work regular, daytime hours. In some districts, they enjoy the same summer and holiday vacations as students and faculty.
What are the requirements to become a school nurse? Class is now in session for nurses with a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN). The National Association of School Nurses (NASN) expressively states that a four-year nursing degree is necessary to pursue a role as a school nurse. 
School Nurses. In New Jersey, a certified school nurse must complete specific requirements and be licensed not only by the New Jersey Board of Nursing but by the Department of Education. Registered nurses may be used to supplement the services of the certified school nurse. 1  Resources. 2  Regulations.
Part 1 of 4: Acquiring the Proper Education. 1. Check the state-level requirements for being a school nurse. Many states may require a school nurse to be a registered nurse who holds a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), but others may have different requirements. 
Cancel. School nurses need to have a degree, whether it's an ADN or a bachelor's degree, and they will have to pass the boards and be licensed in the state of their employment. Find out what special certifications a school nurse must obtain with help from a licensed RN in this free video on nursing jobs and health care. 