Hollandaise sauce (/hɒlənˈdeɪz/ or /ˈhɒləndeɪz/ ; [ʔɔ.lɑ̃.dɛz]) is an emulsion of egg yolk and liquid butter, usually seasoned with lemon juice, salt, and a little white pepper or cayenne pepper. In appearance, it is light yellow and opaque, smooth and creamy. The flavor is rich and buttery, with a mild tang added by an acidic component such as lemon juice, yet not so strong as to overpower mildly flavored foods. Hollandaise is one of the five sauces in the French haute cuisine mother sauce repertoire.
Directions. Vigorously whisk the egg yolks and lemon juice together in a stainless steel bowl and until the mixture is thickened and doubled in volume. Place the bowl over a saucepan containing barely simmering water (or use a double boiler ,) the water should not touch the bottom of the bowl. Continue to whisk rapidly. Be careful not to let the eggs get too hot or they will scramble. Slowly drizzle in the melted butter and continue to whisk until the sauce is thickened and doubled in volume. Remove from heat, whisk in cayenne and salt. Cover and place in a warm spot until ready to use for the eggs benedict.
1 1 In 1 1/2-quart saucepan, vigorously stir egg yolks and lemon juice with wire whisk. 2  Add 1/4 cup of the butter. 3  Heat over very low heat, stirring constantly with wire whisk, until butter is melted. 4  2 Add remaining 1/4 cup butter. 5  Continue stirring vigorously until butter is melted and sauce is thickened. Directions. 1  1 In 1 1/2-quart saucepan, vigorously stir egg yolks and lemon juice with wire whisk. 2  Add 1/4 cup of the butter. 3  Heat over very low heat, stirring constantly with wire whisk, until butter is melted.
Hollandaise is made from egg yolks, lemon juice, salt, and warm butter. White pepper and cayenne are sometimes added. It's a delicate sauce, made thick by the emulsion between the egg yolks and butter. In appearance, hollandaise is pale yellow, smooth, and creamy. It's commonly served as a finishing sauce for eggs Benedict, poached fish, and asparagus. Bearnaise béarnaise sauce was introduced, later and is a derivative of. Hollandaise this sauce differs from hollandaise in the ingredients, used as well as the food'it s served. With bearnaise béarnaise gets its acidity from white, wine vinegar rather than the lemon juice used in. hollandaise sauce
1 In a small bowl, whisk together egg yolks, lemon juice, cold water, salt and pepper. 2  Melt butter in a saucepan over low heat. 3  Gradually whisk yolk mixture into butter. 4  Continue whisking over low heat for 8 minutes, or until sauce is thickened. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  In a small bowl, whisk together egg yolks, lemon juice, cold water, salt and pepper. 2  Melt butter in a saucepan over low heat. 3  Gradually whisk yolk mixture into butter. 4  Continue whisking over low heat for 8 minutes, or until sauce is thickened. 5  Serve immediately.
Place the egg yolks and the 2 tablespoons water in the heatproof bowl and place over the pan. Use a wire balloon whisk to whisk the mixture constantly for 3 minutes or until it is thick and pale, has doubled in volume and a ribbon trail forms when the whisk is lifted. 1  Step 4. 
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  In a small bowl, whisk together egg yolks, lemon juice, cold water, salt and pepper. 2  Melt butter in a saucepan over low heat. 3  Gradually whisk yolk mixture into butter. 4  Continue whisking over low heat for 8 minutes, or until sauce is thickened. 5  Serve immediately.
Hollandaise. This rich sauce is one of the five French mother sauces, and it was introduced well before bearnaise. Béarnaise hollandaise is made from egg, yolks lemon, juice, salt and warm. Butter white pepper and cayenne are sometimes. Added'it s a delicate, sauce made thick by the emulsion between the egg yolks and. butter Bearnaise béarnaise sauce was introduced, later and is a derivative of. Hollandaise this sauce differs from hollandaise in the ingredients, used as well as the food'it s served. With bearnaise béarnaise gets its acidity from white, wine vinegar rather than the lemon juice used in. hollandaise sauce