Go Google: Google DriveIntroducing the all-new Google Drive. Now access your files, even the big ones, from wherever you are. Share them with whomever you want, and edit them toget...youtube.com. Go Google: Google Drive. Introducing the all-new Google Drive. 
All of your uploaded videos can be found when you search Google Drive for Videos using the drop-down arrow in the search box. Click a file name to open and play the video using the Google Drive video player. When you open a video, you'll also see additional information about the file: 1  Owner. 2  Sharing settings. 3  When the file was synced or uploaded. 4  Download previous versions of the file (you can’t view these versions in the video player).
Step 1. Launch the Web browser on your computer and navigate to Google. Step 2. Click the Images link to search only for images. Related Reading: How to Upload a Picture From Your Phone to Facebook. Step 3. Type your query and press Enter to search for relevant images. A list of images is immediately displayed. Step 4. Click one of the images to open it in the Web browser.
Video files in Google Drive. Google Drive gives you control over all of your file types in a single place, including video files. With Google Drive, you can: 1  Sync or upload video files up to 5 TB in size (limited by available storage space). 2  Sync or upload video files in the following formats: . 3 WebM files (Vp8 video codec; Vorbis Audio codec). Click a file name to open and play the video using the Google Drive video player. When you open a video, you'll also see additional information about the file: 1  Owner. 2  Sharing settings. 3  When the file was synced or uploaded. 4  Download previous versions of the file (you can’t view these versions in the video player).
1 If you don't have an account, then create one. 2  Download Google Drive App on your Android phone from the Play store & launch it. 3  Open Google Drive App on your Android phone. 4  You will see all your photos & videos. 5  Tap or long press your photos which you want to share. 6  A pop up window opens up. 7  Tap Send button. Here are the steps to share photos from Google Drive to Facebook on Android phone: 1  Go to https://drive.google.com & sign in to your account. 2  If you don't have an account, then create one. 3  Download Google Drive App on your Android phone from the Play store & launch it. 4  Open Google Drive App on your Android phone.
1 Download Google Drive App on your Android phone from the Play store & launch it. 2  Open Google Drive App on your Android phone. 3  You will see all your photos & videos. 4  Tap or long press your photos which you want to share. 5  A pop up window opens up. 6  Tap Send button. 7  You will see list of applications. 8  Tap Facebook. Here are the steps to share photos from Google Drive to Facebook on Android phone: 1  Go to https://drive.google.com & sign in to your account. 2  If you don't have an account, then create one. 3  Download Google Drive App on your Android phone from the Play store & launch it. 4  Open Google Drive App on your Android phone.
Google Drive. Click the Google Drive button on the Upload page for the Google Drive upload setup. Choose your preset options and then click Link Google Drive, you must then enter your log in credentials or create a new Google account. Your video will be stored with the File Name you want to appear on your Google Drive account. To complete the upload process, you will need to authorize VideoPad to connect to your Google Drive account. Click the Authorize button to be connected to your Google Drive account online to complete this process.
Users can upload any type of file to Google Drive and convert certain types of files to a web-based Google document format—a Google Doc, Sheet, or Slide. See Manually upload files and folders to Google Drive in the user help center to learn more. Upload files to Google Drive. If you share an uploaded file that hasn't been converted to a web-based Google document, (such as a Doc, Sheet, or Slide), both the view and edit permissions allow users to only download the file. Users can collaborate only on web-based Google documents