Welsh, French, Scottish, Native American, English; Hillary Clinton's paternal grandfather Hugh Rodham was born in 1879 in Northumberland, England and immigrated to Pennsylvania to work at the Scranton Lace Company. A year after her marriage, Hillary Clinton, retaining her maiden name for work, joined the Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Arkansas. President Jimmy Carter appointed her to the board of the Legal Services Corporation in 1978. That same year, Bill Clinton was elected to the first of five terms as Governor of Arkansas.
I heard he might become Embassador of the worlds food supply and was wondering if this is true and what his nationality is. After I recieve answers to this I will let everyone know the significance pertaining to who the next ruler of the worlds food supply is. It's very interresting..... 
Bill Clinton. by ethnic on. Birth Name: William Jefferson Blythe III. Place of Birth: Hope, Arkansas, United States. Date of Birth: August 19, 1946. Ethnicity: English, as well as Scots-Irish (Northern Irish), Irish, German, Swiss-German, and Scottish, distant French Huguenot. Bill Clinton is an American politician. A Democrat, he served as the President of the United States from 1993 to 2001. He had previously been the Governor of Arkansas (from 1979 to 1981 and from 1983 to 1992)
Clinton was born and raised in Arkansas, and is an alumnus of Georgetown University, where he was a member of Kappa Kappa Psi and Phi Beta Kappa and earned a Rhodes Scholarship to attend the University of Oxford. He is married to Hillary Clinton, who served as United States Secretary of State from 2009 to 2013 and who was a Senator from New York from 2001 to 2009. Both Clintons earned law degrees from Yale Law School, where they met and began dating.
Play Video CBS This Morning Bill Clinton slams Clinton Cash and questions over foundation donors While presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is in California on a two-day fundraising trip, former President Bill Clinton is in Africa, facing q... 
Clinton was born William Jefferson Blythe III on August 19, 1946, at Julia Chester Hospital in Hope, Arkansas. His father, William Jefferson Blythe, Jr. (1918–1946), was a traveling salesman who died in an automobile accident three months before Clinton was born. He is married to Hillary Clinton, who served as United States Secretary of State from 2009 to 2013 and who was a Senator from New York from 2001 to 2009. Both Clintons earned law degrees from Yale Law School, where they met and began dating.
Clinton is an English family name, indicating one's ancestors came from English places called Glympton or Glinton. Clinton has frequently been used as a given name in the United States since the late 19th century. Baron Clinton is a title of peerage in England, originally created in 1298. 
A Democrat, she has served as First Lady of the United States (1993-2001), as Senator from New York (2001-2009), and as U.S. Secretary of State (2009-2013). She was a candidate for the Democratic Party’s nomination for President of the United States in 2008. Hillary is married to President Bill Clinton. Hillary is a candidate for the Democratic Party’s nomination for President of the United States in 2016. Hillary’s father, Hugh Ellsworth Rodham, was of half English and half Welsh descent. Hillary’s mother, Dorothy Emma (Howell), had Welsh, English, Scottish, French, French-Canadian, and remote Dutch, ancestry.
Is Bill Clinton the same as William Clinton?   Bill Clinton's proper name is William Jefferson Clinton, though given name at birth was William Jefferson Blythe III. His mother remarried and Bill took the name of his … stepfather when he was a teenager. No. Bill Clinton was born William Blythe, his biological father died 3 months before his birth. His mother remarried a man named Clinton when he was four and he legally took t … hat name at the age of fourteen as a gesture to his stepfather. + 2 others found this useful.
Mini Bio (1). Bill Clinton was born William Jefferson Blythe III in Hope, Arkansas, to Virginia Dell (Cassidy) and William Jefferson Blythe, Jr., a traveling salesman. His father died in a car crash three months before Bill was born. 