SQL (pronounced ess-que-el) stands for Structured Query Language. SQL is used to communicate with a database. According to ANSI (American National Standards Institute), it is the standard language for relational database management systems. SQL statements are used to perform tasks such as update data on a database, or retrieve data from a database.
SQL (Structured Query Language) is a standard interactive and programming language for getting information from and updating a database. Although SQL is both an ANSI and an ISO standard, many database products support SQL with proprietary extensions to the standard language. 
This version, initially called SEQUEL (Structured English QUEry Language), was designed to manipulate and retrieve data stored in IBM's original quasi-relational database management system, System R, which a group at IBM San Jose Research Laboratory had developed during the 1970s. SQL was one of the first commercial languages for Edgar F. Codd 's relational model, as described in his influential 1970 paper, A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks.. Despite not entirely adhering to the relational model as described by Codd, it became the most widely used database language.
Overview. Structured Query Language (SQL) is a specialized language for updating, deleting, and requesting information from databases. SQL is an ANSI and ISO standard, and is the de facto standard database query language. 
Structured Query Language (SQL) is a standard programming language used for accessing and maintaining a database.The key feature of the SQL is an interactive approach for getting information from and updating a database. SQL-Structured Query Language is the set of commands that are used to create, manuplate the structures in a relational database. Also, SQL is the most powerful way of retriving the data from DB. SQL supports different types of operations. Based on this the commands can be broadly classified into following types
Abbreviation of structured query language, and pronounced either see-kwell or as separate letters. SQL is a standardized query language for requesting information from a database. The original version called SEQUEL (structured English query language) was designed by an IBM research center in 1974 and 1975. SQL was first introduced as a commercial database system in 1979 by Oracle Corporation.
Structured Query Language (SQL) is a language used to view or change data in databases. The sentences used in this language are called SQL Queries. If we want to add data to the database in a computer, or to remove data from the database, or to just view the data in the database, we can use SQL Queries. Here is an example of inserting information into a table called 'people.' The query first names the table, people, then the columns that data is going to be inserted into, (first name, last name, age, and favorite food), and the data that is going into the columns.
While Structured Query Language is arguably easier to use than traditional computer programming languages, it is also considered to be a very powerful and often complex technology. SQL has many uses. For example, it can be used to insert or change information in database tables. It can also be used to remove that data. 10 most extreme places on Earth. Structured Query Language (SQL) is a computer programming language used to manipulate information in relational database management systems (RDBMS). SQL is both the American National Standards Insitute (ANSI) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard for accessing data in RDBMS