Required Forms Notice. Forms (surety bond and certificate of insurance) not printed through the Motor Vehicle Dealer Regulatory License Portal are not acceptable. The surety bond must have form number MV 539-BN or MV 539-BU printed in the top right hand corner. You have reached the Alabama Department of Revenue Motor Vehicle Division portal for Dealer Regulatory Licenses. Use the links below to log in or register for access. The dealer license portal will be available on Monday August 3, 2015, for dealers to renew their dealer regulatory license for the 2016 license year.
1 To see the business location, click on the name or number of any of the individual businesses given in the search results. 2  To find out if your tradie or service provider is licensed, select the licence type as well as the company name or the suburb or postcode. 1 To find out if your tradie or service provider is licensed, select the licence type as well as the company name or the suburb or postcode. 2  If you want to do multiple searches select the Refine Search or New Search buttons at the top of each search results page. DO NOT select the back page button.
Information. Welcome to the Business Licensing Authority's Public Register. You can search the register for free to see if a person, company or partnership is licensed or registered. To perform a Trading Name search please insert the trading name for the registration/licence search you wish to perform for example 'ABC Gym'. A Registration/Licence Type must be selected in order to perform a Registration/Licence Search.
There are six classes of licenses issued to motor vehicle dealers. They are: Independent Dealer (VI) -- for a person dealing in used motor vehicles only. This license permits the licensee to transact business at retail or wholesale. Franchise Dealer (VF) -- allows the licensee to sell new motor vehicles under an agreement with a manufacturer. The Law. Florida law states that any person, firm partnership, or corporation that buys, sells, offers for sale, displays for sale or deals in three or more motor vehicles in any 12-month period is presumed to be a motor vehicle dealer and must have an appropriate license issued by the State.
Business / company Consumer Home buyer / owner Landlord / lessor Licence holders. This page is for: Search for a licensed car repairer, real estate agent, settlement agent, land valuer, car dealer, employment agent or debt collector. You can also see if your favourite electrician (issued by EnergySafety), gasfitter (issued by EnergySafety) or plumber (issued by Plumbers Licensing Board) is licensed. 1 To find out if your tradie or service provider is licensed, select the licence type as well as the company name or the suburb or postcode. 2  If you want to do multiple searches select the Refine Search or New Search buttons at the top of each search results page. DO NOT select the back page button.
Information about becoming a licensed motor vehicle dealer can be found on the Department of Revenue’s Dealer/Lienholder website and in the Dealer Operating Manual. To request an Application for Dealer License (Form 4682), you may complete the web form below. 
1 The lease facilitator license is required to operate as a leasing agent or leasing company. 2  The lessor license is required, under the terms of a lease agreement in excess of 180 days, to give another person the right to possess and use a motor vehicle that is titled in the name of the lessor. Motor Vehicle and Trailer Sales. In general, it is illegal for motor vehicle and trailer sales to take place at any location other than a licensed location. However, the law allows for the sales of specific types of motor vehicles and trailers in approved types of events.
To Perform a Registration/Licence Number search please insert a relevant Registration/Licence Number. The Suburb field is used to search on the trading premises of a registration/licence. Please enter the details of the suburb for the registration/licence that you are searching for. To perform a Trading Name search please insert the trading name for the registration/licence search you wish to perform for example 'ABC Gym'. A Registration/Licence Type must be selected in order to perform a Registration/Licence Search.
Search tips. 1  To find a licensed service provider in your area select the licence type and the suburb or postcode. 2  To see the business location, click on the name or number of any of the individual businesses given in the search results. 1 To find out if your tradie or service provider is licensed, select the licence type as well as the company name or the suburb or postcode. 2  If you want to do multiple searches select the Refine Search or New Search buttons at the top of each search results page. DO NOT select the back page button.
Apply Now. Recreational Fishing Get a fishing licence online and help improve recreational fishing stocks in NSW. Boating Keep NSW waterways safe by becoming a competent boat driver. Contractors & Tradespeople Renew your licence and update your details online.