When to cut down a tree. It's not always easy to tell when a tree should be put out of its misery. Listen to the radio story mp3. Trees, like other living organisms, eventually end up dying. If your tree is dropping dead branches or full of brown leaves, that's a fairly obvious clue that something is wrong. 
Start by studying the tree. Don't cut it down if you see: - Dead branches that are broken but attached, or that are actually broken off and supported by other branches. You're bound to knock a branch loose and have it fall on you. - It is obviously leaning in one direction or heavily loaded with branches on one side. Use Wedges on Big Trees. If you have a tree that's more than 18 in. in diameter, go ahead and make your notch cut and begin the felling cut. Stop cutting as soon as you've penetrated far enough to pound wedges behind the bar. Leave the bar in the cut with the saw running, but lock the chain brake and tap in the wedges.
In order to avoid such situations, look for signs that indicate your tree has to be cut down. The most obvious telltale signs a tree should be cut down are: poor structure, root problems, decay, weak branch unions, cracks and dead wood. Besides this, a tree may also fall victim to pests and disease. Luckily, there are plenty of solutions to save a tree from disease or pest damage. Sometimes, it’s easy to say if a tree has no chance other than to be cut, but there have been situations when the tree looked perfectly fine one day, but it fell down the very next day.
1 Start a cut on your side of the tree, lining up the bottom of your cut with that side of the horizontal cut. 2  You can project your cuts path by looking down the bar. 3  Stop cutting and peek down your bar to see if you are lined up with the stick on the other side. 4  Adjust as needed. 1 Make a mark on your side of the tree where you want your Back Cut to stop, determining the width of the Holding Wood. 2  The Back Cut should be a horizontal cut least 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) above your Horizontal Cut. 3  Start the cut on the back of the tree and bring the saw around toward the holding woo
Cut down the tree if: 1  The hollow area is extremely large and the tree is old or unhealthy. 2  Young or healthy trees should be able to adapt to the hollow areas, even if they are large, as long as everything else about the tree is healthy. 
No problem. As soon as you know how to cut down a tree people will sense it and constantly ask you to cut down trees for them. It will help if you know some of the technical vocabulary: Equipment: Every piece of equipment used in this process is called a Widowmaker. 
Cutting down a tree, or felling a tree, is generally something that should be left to the professionals. If the tree that you’d like to remove is relatively short and small, however, it may be possible to tackle the task yourself. Whether it’s a tiny tree or a massive one, you need to keep safety in mind at all times. The cost to cut down a tree depends on a variety of different factors. You can spend as little as $125, or you could end up spending around $1,500 or more. Read our Tree Cutting Pricing Guide and learn more how much it costs to cut down a tree.
Unless you have actual training as an arborist and own the right equipment, it’s always best to hire a professional company to cut down a tree for you. Before doing so, you should educate yourself about typical tree cutting prices. The cost to cut down a tree depends on a variety of different factors. You can spend as little as $125, or you could end up spending around $1,500 or more. Learn about the main factors that affect tree cutting costs below. Tree Sizes. The size of the tree in question plays a large role in how much you’ll pay to have it removed. For example: 1  Small Trees up to 30 Feet in Height – $125 to $450. 2  Medium Trees between 30 and 60 Feet in Height – $175 to $950. 3  Large Trees between 60 and 80 Feet in Height – $400 to $1,100.
We should replant the trees we cut down. When you cut down trees you can always plant them again. So if you are going to cut down a tree you should always make sure you have a seed to plant. Then it will re-grow and you get the oxygen from that plant instead of the tree that you cut down. I think we should not cut down trees because it puts oxygen in the air so humans and animals could breath, animals need trees to provide a habitat for them to live, and trees make the world a beautiful place.