Gluteus Maximus. As the name suggests the Gluteus Maximus is the largest in size and thickness and most superficial muscle of the three gluteus muscles and as a result of the largest mass it contributes most to forming the shape of the buttocks as we know. Gluteus. Gluteus, 4.0 out of 5 based on 5 ratings. The Gluteal Muscles or more commonly referred to as the Gluteus Muscles are located on the Buttocks and are made up of three individual muscles, the Gluteus Maximus, the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus.
The buttocks (singular: buttock) are two rounded portions of the anatomy, located on the posterior of the pelvic region of apes (including humans), and many other bipeds or quadrupeds, and comprise a layer of fat superimposed on the gluteus maximus and gluteus medius muscles. Anatomy. The buttocks are formed by the masses of the gluteal muscles or glutes (the gluteus maximus muscle and the gluteus medius muscle) superimposed by a layer of fat. The superior aspect of the buttock ends at the iliac crest, and the lower aspect is outlined by the horizontal gluteal crease.
PCH Answer: The Buttocks Gluteus maximus is the largest and most superficial muscle in the buttock. It is attached to the Ilium bone(part of the pelvis), the Sacrum, the side of the Coccyx via the Sacrotuberus ligament and apponueroses (the Gluteal apponeurosis and the Erector spinae). 1 Top Workouts for Your Gluteus Maximus The gluteus maximus is a large muscle found in the buttocks as a part of the gluteus muscle group, referred to informally as the glutes..
Buttocks is just another name for your bum or bottom. When you sit down, you are sitting on your buttocks. Medically, the back of the body is known as the posterior side. So your buttocks is posterior, located between your thighs and waist. Buttocks is sometimes called the posterior. In laymen's terms, rather than medical terms, most people call it their butt, short for buttocks. 
Muscles of the gluteal and posterior femoral regions. Gluteus minimus and the origins and insertions of medius and maximus labeled. The gluteal muscles are a group of three muscles which make up the buttocks: the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius and gluteus minimus. The three muscles originate from the ilium and sacrum and insert on the femur. The gluteus maximus is the largest of the gluteal muscles and one of the strongest muscles in the human body. It inserts at the iliotibial band and the gluteal tuberosity of the femur. Its action is to extend and to laterally rotate the hip, and also to extend the trunk
Gluteus maximus. The gluteus maximus muscle is located in the buttocks and is regarded as one of the strongest muscles in the human body. It is connected to the coccyx, or tailbone, as well as other surrounding bones. The gluteus maximus muscle is responsible for movement of the hip and thigh. Standing up from a sitting position, climbing stairs, and staying in an erect position are all aided by the gluteus maximus. Pain while rising to a standing position or lowering to sit may be caused by gluteus maximus syndrome. This syndrome is caused by a spasm in the muscle of the gluteus maximus. The pain usually disappears when sitting and affects only one side of the body.
The gluteus maximus (also known collectively with the gluteus medius and minimus, as the gluteal muscles, and sometimes referred to informally as the 'glutes') is the largest and most superficial of the three gluteal muscles. 
This video brings you through two stretches and three strengthening exercises for your Glute Muscles (Gluteus Maximus). Weak Glutes can be a factor in lower back pain, knee problems and hamstring strain. 