The official language in Ghana is English. Other languages are: Dagbani, Frafra, Twi, Akan, Kyerepan, Ewe and Ga. Ghana's main language is actually English but it has over 100 different language such as Twi Ga and Ewe. There is no official language de jure but English is de facto the official language.
Sign in English in Accra. Ghana is a multilingual country in which about eighty languages are spoken. Of these, English, which was inherited from the colonial era, is the official language and lingua franca. Of the languages indigenous to Ghana, Akan is the most widely spoken. Ghana has more than seventy tribal groups, each with its own distinct language. There are nine government-sponsored languages. They are supported by the Bureau of Ghana Languages, which was established in 1951 and publishes materials in them. During the periods when Ghanaian languages were used in primary education, these were the languages which were used.
Confidence votes 43. The official language that is spoken by most people in Ghana (West Africa) is English. However Ghana has over 79 dialects which is spoken by the people of the different regions in the nation. I am originally from Ghana and I speak two dialects which i adapted from my parents.
Languages. The major languages spoken are Twi, Fante, Ga, Hausa, Dagbani, Ewe and Nzema. English is the official language of Ghana. The Ashante are part of the Akan tribes who speak various dialects of Twi. The language is very rich in proverbs, the use of which is taken to be a sign of wisdom. Euphemisms are very common, especially about events connected with death
As with many ex-colonies in Africa, the official language of Ghana is the colonial language, English. Nine languages have the status of government-sponsored languages: Akan,Dagaare/Wale, Dagbane, Dangme, Ewe, Ga, Gonja, Kasem, Nzema. However, two dialects of Akan, Twi and Fante, although not government-sponsored, are also widely-spoken in Ghana. Hausa is widely used as a lingua franca by Muslims in Ghana. Other languages are: Dagbani, Frafra, Twi, Akan, Kyerepan, Ewe and Ga. Ghana's main language is actually English but it has over 100 different language such as Twi Ga and Ewe. There is no official language de jure but English is de facto the official language.