You've probably experienced muscle twitches after working out at least once in your life. It could be a tic in your biceps, or maybe one of your calves starts jerking and trembling. Muscle twitches are typically more of an annoyance than anything, and they'll stop as abruptly as they started. When your muscles start quivering and shaking involuntarily after a challenging workout, though, you might wonder if it was the workout that set them off.
Magnesium. Twitching in your thighs right after a workout can be caused by a lack of magnesium. Magnesium is an important electrolyte in your body that regulates muscle contraction and relaxation. If you don't have enough of it, the muscles in your thighs can start contracting excessively, causing twitching or cramping
A fasciculation /fəˌsɪkjʉˈleɪʃən/ , or muscle twitch, is a small, local, involuntary muscle contraction and relaxation which may be visible under the skin. Deeper areas can be detected by EMG testing, though they can happen in any skeletal muscle in the body. 
My left eyelid is twitching uncontrollably. It is very annoying. The most common type of muscle twitches are fasciculations.. Fasciculations can occur in any muscle in the body, but, says Drachman, they tend to occur most noticeably in the limbs and the eyelids. 
Muscle twitches are often short-lived. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Muscular twitches, also known as fasciculations, are typically harmless, common and short-lived. Time is typically the solution to minor muscle twitches--most resolve themselves within a couple of days. Rarely, muscular twitches are symptomatic of a medical disorder and require medical attention and intervention. Harmless twitches typically occur in the eyelids, calves, thumbs and legs. Excessive caffeine intake, anxiety and inefficient amounts of sleep can cause muscle twitches. Muscular fatigue or injury because of exercise can contribute to
Muscles exhausted from manual exercise are often subject to muscle twitches. As the muscle loses all energy in it, you will lose direct control over that muscle temporarily and thus involuntary nerve signals responsible for muscle twitches, may act. Diabetics may experience involuntary muscle twitches due to the effect of insulin, but there are other drugs as well, which are known to affect the nervous system in such a way that certain muscles begin to twitch.
Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed. However, other types of twitching may be a sign of a nervous system condition and should be checked out by your doctor. This condition is fairly common, and symptoms usually go away after a couple of days. There are also less common and more serious causes of muscle twitching. These medical conditions and illnesses are often related to your nervous system. They may damage the nerves connected to your muscles, leading to
Why do muscles twitch. When we experience involuntary muscle contraction and relaxation, it is known as a muscle twitch. A muscle twitch is the result of an electronic impulse sent to that particular muscle by a nerve that is out of voluntary control for the moment at least. Muscle fasciculation can exhibit in different forms and in different degrees, but the most common form of the phenomenon is twitching of the eyelids. Diabetics may experience involuntary muscle twitches due to the effect of insulin, but there are other drugs as well, which are known to affect the nervous system in such a way that certain muscles begin to twitch.