So, what is the proper temperature to keep your reef tank at? Many LFS keep their tanks at 75-78°F and recommend to their customers that they do also. A number of OLS coral shippers recommend keeping your tank temperature at 82°F. Perhaps the best way to make a decision is to look at what the temperatures were when your corals were in the wild. If you look at Coral Reef Regions in the World, you will see where corals grow
Because of strict environmental restrictions, coral reefs generally are confined to tropical and semi-tropical waters. Coral reef locations around the world. Download. Reef-building corals cannot tolerate water temperatures below 64° Fahrenheit (18° Celsius). Many grow optimally in water temperatures between 73° and 84° Fahrenheit (23°–29°Celsius), but some can tolerate temperatures as high as 104° Fahrenheit (40° Celsius) for short periods. Most reef-building corals also require very saline (salty) water ranging from 32 to 42 parts per thousand. 
Most aquarists with reef tanks understand that maintaining their corals within the proper temperature range is important in order to keep them healthy and growing. If the temperature is too low or too high, the zooxanthellae algae, which most corals require for survival, will die or vacate the polyps. Perhaps the best way to make a decision is to look at what the temperatures were when your corals were in the wild. If you look at Coral Reef Regions in the World, you will see where corals grow
Controlling High Temperature in Reef Aquariums. Reef aquarists are focused on providing their fish and invertebrates with the best of care. Much effort is spent maintaining water quality, lighting and water movement. Ideal water temperature is an area of debate, but most reef aquariums are kept between 76-83F. 
Add to Favorites. Maintaining proper reef tank parameters is essential to the health and well-being of fish, coral and invertebrate inside your aquarium. Fluctuations in a key aquarium parameter, such as temperature, ammonia or nitrate, can result in algae blooms, animal sickness and even death
Corals reefs are only found in the regions of the ocean where the conditions are just right for zooxanthellae to photosynthesize and build up the limestone skeletons that form reef structures. Start your investigation of coral's ideal living conditions by exploring the ocean temperatures at which coral reefs are found. 
If you let the ammonia, nitrite or nitrate levels in your tank get too high, it could have a negative impact on your fish. Choosing the Correct Temperature for a Marine Aquarium. One of the most important things you must to do ensure the health of your marine tank is to achieve and maintain the ideal temperature. To ensure the health of your fish and other tank inhabitants, take the time to determine the ideal temperature and then do whatever is necessary to achieve it. “Reef Aquarium Water Parameters.” Reefkeeping.com.
With so many recommended temperatures, what is the best temperature for your reef tank? Perhaps the best way to make a decision is to look at what the temperatures were when your corals were in the wild. If you look at Coral Reef Regions in the World, you will see where corals grow in the wild.
The actual coral make up only a small part of the life found on the reefs, but the reefs provide habitat for numerous other species. Tropical waters that are warm, clear, low in nutrients (like phosphorous and nitrogen), and have a stable temperature and salinity (salt content), are ideal for reef development. Coral reefs are classified into three types: barrier reefs, fringing reefs, and atolls. Like the tropical rainforests, coral reefs are normally found in the tropical and semitropical areas of the world where water temperatures range between 16 and 30 degrees Celsius (61 and 86 degrees Fahrenheit).