By Pierre Tristam. Definition: Ihram is the state of sacred purity the Muslim faithful must enter before conducting the hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca. Ihram is achieved through ritual cleansing, shaving and manicure for men. Men symbolize their state of Ihram by wearing a white, two-piece, seamless garment--sheets or towels--that covers the upper and lower part of the body. Ihram's symbolic clothing has two purposes. The first is to reflect a total equality among men, regardless of their backgrounds and station in life. Before God, Islam teaches, all are humble, all are equal, and worldly differences of race, age, nationality, class and culture do not apply.
Definition: Ihram is the state of sacred purity the Muslim faithful must enter before conducting the hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca. Ihram's symbolic clothing has two purposes. The first is to reflect a total equality among men, regardless of their backgrounds and station in life. Before God, Islam teaches, all are humble, all are equal, and worldly differences of race, age, nationality, class and culture do not apply.
Ihram refers to the state one is in when they the begin their Haj or Umrah (lesser haj) and is related to the clothing that is worn (two pieces of white cloth for men), not cutting the hair or fingernails, not applying perfume/scented oils, not hunting and not having sexual relations with one's spouse. 
In order to perform Umrah or Hajj, a Muslim man or woman has to enter Ihram. Without Ihram, one's Umrah or Hajj cannot be performed. It is important to make the Niyah (intention) of bathing for Ihram. However, in case adequate water is not available for Ghusl, one can perform Wudu (ablution) and continue their Hajj/Umrah rituals. However, women are also allowed to wear regular clothes if Ihram is not available.
The moment we intend to perform Hajj or Umrah, certain things that were halal or could be done during our normal life become haram or should not be done and this state is called Ihram. There are some terms and conditions of Ihram. Men should wear only white dress without any stitches. For people from Madina, Dhul Hulaifa is the Miqat and it is situated at a distance of 5 km from Madina. For those who are heading for Hajj or Umrah from Siriya, Jordan, Sudan, Egypt, Thabook and Kaiber, Al Juhfah is the Miqat and this is situated 9 km from a place named Raabik near Red Sea.
Lastly, one should avoid the acts that are prohibited for a person who is in the state of Ihram such as; wearing Attar (perfume), wearing makeup, wearing socks etc. May Allah (SWT) give us the opportunity to go into Ihram during Umrah and Hajj dates and only come out of it after performing Umrah or Hajj (Amen). It is important to make the Niyah (intention) of bathing for Ihram. However, in case adequate water is not available for Ghusl, one can perform Wudu (ablution) and continue their Hajj/Umrah rituals. However, women are also allowed to wear regular clothes if Ihram is not available.
Ihram is a state in which a pilgrim for Hajj or Umrah once enters, must abide by certain rules; otherwise that pilgrim's Hajj or Umrah can be voided, depending on the kind of violation being made during the period of Ihram. 
The Hajjis or pilgrims wear simple white clothes called Ihram. During the Hajj the Pilgrims perform acts of worship and they renew their sense of purpose in the world. Mecca is a place that is holy to all Muslims. Now make your intention for the Hajj and put on the Ihram garments again. Travel to Mina on the 8th of Dhul Hijjah (a date in the Islamic calendar) and remain there until Fajr (dawn) next morning. Then you travel to the valley of Arafat and stand in the open praising Allah.
This is a sub-article of Hajj and Islamic hygienical jurisprudence. Ihram (إحرام iḥrām, from the triconsonantal root Ḥ-R-M) is, in Islam, a sacred state which a Muslim must enter in order to perform the major pilgrimage (Hajj) or the minor pilgrimage (Umra During ihram, women must have their faces uncovered; they are forbidden to wear the Burqa or Niqab. However, the Hijab or Dupatta is permitted. There is also no Gender segregation during the Hajj.
Whilst in the state of Ihram, a Muslim must not use any scents on the body or on the robes. If the robe has been fouled by najas (dirty) material or has been wiped, rubbed or touched by scented liquids (intentionally), then a new iḥrām clothing must be worn, or the Umrah or Hajj will be invalid. During ihram, women must have their faces uncovered; they are forbidden to wear the Burqa or Niqab. However, the Hijab or Dupatta is permitted. There is also no Gender segregation during the Hajj.