Definition: In the culinary arts, escarole is a leafy green vegetable and member of the chicory family, along with frisee, frisée endive And belgian. Endive sometimes called-broad leafed, endive escarole has, broad curly green leaves and a slightly bitter. flavor It's also frequently included in pasta and soup recipes. Escarole and beans is a popular recipe made with white beans and sometimes featuring bacon or ham. Pronunciation: ESS-ka-roll. Also Known As: 1  Broad-leafed endive. 2  Bavarian endive. 3  Batavian endive. 4  Scarole.
Endive (/ˈɛndaɪv/ or /ˈɑːndiv/ ; Cichorium endivia) is a leaf vegetable belonging to the genus Cichorium, which includes several similar bitter leafed vegetables. Species include endive (Cichorium endivia), Cichorium pumilum, and common chicory (Cichorium intybus). Common chicory includes chicory types such as radicchio, puntarelle, and Belgian endive. There is considerable confusion between Cichorium endivia and Cichorium intybus.
Endive nutrition facts. Endive, commonly popular as escarole, is a green leafy-vegetable with a hint of bitter flavor. Nevertheless, this well-known salad plant is much more than just a leafy green; packed with numerous health benefiting plant nutrients such as vitamin C, vitamin A, etc. 
1 It is sometimes called chicory in the United States and is called chicoree chicorée frisee Frisée. 2  In french further confusion results from the fact that frisee frisée also refers to greens lightly. 3  Wilted, with oil-escarole or (broad leaved), endive var, latifolia has broad pale green leaves and is less bitter than.  the other varieties Species include endive (Cichorium endivia), Cichorium pumilum, and common chicory (Cichorium intybus). Common chicory includes chicory types such as radicchio, puntarelle, and Belgian endive. There is considerable confusion between Cichorium endivia and Cichorium intybus.
Endive is a member of the chicory family, which includes radicchio, escarole, frisee and curly endive. It has a crisp texture and a sweet, nutty flavor with a pleasantly mild bitterness — great served raw or cooked. So Special...It's Grown Twice. 
Sometimes called broad-leafed endive, escarole has broad, curly green leaves and a slightly bitter flavor. In addition to being served in green salads, escarole is often sauteed sautéed or braised in a similar fashion to collard. greens It's also frequently included in pasta and soup recipes. Escarole and beans is a popular recipe made with white beans and sometimes featuring bacon or ham. Pronunciation: ESS-ka-roll. Also Known As: 1  Broad-leafed endive. 2  Bavarian endive. 3  Batavian endive. 4  Scarole.
Definition: In the culinary arts, escarole is a leafy green vegetable and member of the chicory family, along with frisee, frisée endive And belgian. endive It's also frequently included in pasta and soup recipes. Escarole and beans is a popular recipe made with white beans and sometimes featuring bacon or ham. Pronunciation: ESS-ka-roll. Also Known As: 1  Broad-leafed endive. 2  Bavarian endive. 3  Batavian endive. 4  Scarole.
October 19, 2011 by Gabriel Avila-Mooney in Local & Organic. bean and escarole soup, cooking with escarole, Recipes, recipes with escarole. Escarole looks like green leaf lettuce, but as anyone that’s ever made that mistake can tell you, it’s flavor is a bit stronger. Escarole is actually a broad-leafed endive and a member of the chicory family. Less bitter than other chicories, it is delicious added to soups or stews, as well as making a flavorful addition to salad mix. For a simple and easy escarole recipe try this white bean soup, which can be finished in a crock-pot if using dry beans, or quickly finished on the stove top if using canned beans. Adding raw, chopped escarole to the soup at the end not only creates a unique and bright flavor, it adds nutrients and vitamins.
Escarole contains a high concentration of both vitamin A and vitamin C. Escarole is a member of the chicory family of lettuces and is characterized by large, dark-green leaves that have a mild flavor and crisp texture. Like romaine, leaf lettuce and other dark green, leafy lettuces, escarole is a powerhouse of nutrition. Each 1-cup serving of escarole is rich in dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidant compounds. Together, these nutrients can help decrease the risk of developing a number of serious medical problems.
From Wiki: Escarole, or broad-leaved endive (var latifolia) has broad, pale green leaves and is less bitter than the other varieties. Varieties or names include broad-leaved endive, Bavarian endive, Batavian endive, grumolo, scarola and scarole. 