The liver is responsible for the mainstay of protein metabolism, synthesis as well as degradation. It is also responsible for a large part of amino acid synthesis. The liver plays a role in the production of clotting factors as well as red blood cell production. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body. Located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, it rests just below the diaphragm, to the right of the stomach and overlying the gallbladder.
Share this! This article outlines seven ways you can support your natural liver cleanse every day. Your liver is the largest internal organ in your body and it is responsible for a large array of functions that keep your entire body healthy. You can read more about the liver and how it works here. There is a lot of focus on liver health within the alternative health community. 
The liver is a reddish brown wedge-shaped organ with four lobes of unequal size and shape. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body. Located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, it rests just below the diaphragm, to the right of the stomach and overlying the gallbladder.
Click to read more below. Weighing in at around 3 pounds, the liver is the body’s second largest organ; only the skin is larger and heavier. The liver performs many essential functions related to digestion, metabolism, immunity, and the storage of nutrients within the body. Blood Vessels. The blood supply of the liver is unique among all organs of the body due to the hepatic portal vein system. Blood traveling to the spleen, stomach, pancreas, gallbladder, and intestines passes through capillaries in these organs and is collected into the hepatic portal vein.
Your liver is the primary organ responsible for the production of cholesterol in your body, although a small amount is made by the lining of the small intestine and the individual cells of the body. Cholesterol is a soft, waxy, fatty compound that is a type of steroid. 
The liver is a gland and plays a major role in metabolism with numerous functions in the human body, including regulation of glycogen storage, decomposition of red blood cells, plasma protein synthesis, hormone production, and detoxification. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body. Located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, it rests just below the diaphragm, to the right of the stomach and overlying the gallbladder.
The liver has well over 500 functions and is known as the laboratory of the human body. The liver is tied to all bodily processes because it is responsible for filtration of all incoming foods and fluids. 
The liver is one of the vital organs of the body, responsible for hundreds of chemical actions that the body needs to survive. It is also a gland because it secretes chemicals that are used by other parts of the body. For these reasons the liver is both an organ and a gland. The liver also breaks down medications and drugs, including alcohol, and is responsible for breaking down insulin and other hormones in the body. The liver is also able to store vitamins and chemicals that the body requires as building blocks. This includes: 1  vitamin B12,
Hepatocytes (hepar=liver + cyte=cell) are responsible for making much of the proteins in the body that are required for protein synthesis, including blood clotting factors, and albumin, required to maintain fluid within the circulation system. The liver also breaks down medications and drugs, including alcohol, and is responsible for breaking down insulin and other hormones in the body. The liver is also able to store vitamins and chemicals that the body requires as building blocks. This includes: 1  vitamin B12,
The liver is the largest gland in the body and is located in the upper right quadrant of the abdomen. The liver is an important organ that performs many functions necessary for survival. The liver breaks nutrients down and builds up body tissue. The liver also acts as a storage site for vitamins and minerals. 