By Rick Steves. Naples Bay rounds out any trip to Italy with an antipasto misto of travel thrills. Serene Sorrento, an hour south of Naples' urban intensity, is a great home base and the gateway to the much-drooled-over Amalfi Coast. From the jet-setting island of Capri to the stunning Amalfi towns, from ancient Pompeii to even more ancient Paestum, this is Italy's coast with the most. 
Located in the southern part of Italy on the picturesque Amalfi Coast, the town of Sorrento is very small in size, but big on culture. Tourists can travel to Sorrento on land by way of Naples or Pompeii, or by ferry. The ferry also connects Sorrento to Capri, Ischia, Amalfi, Positano and Naples. Sorrento is located over the Bay of Naples and is a popular destination for travel. Many people travel to Sorrento throughout the year to eat, relax and see the lovely sights that Italy has to offer
Display specific location Select to locate on the map. The above topographic map of Sorrento and the surrounding area has been derived from satellite mapping. The topographic data has been illuminated by a light source corresponding to the position of the sun at mid afternoon in summer. Sorrento. Photo credit: Gabor Gábor. Huszti our location guide For sorrento provides some basic essentials for the more adventurous. Visitor a simple location map is provided but also a detailed topography map that shows the location of the nearest places where you can, surf ski or mountain (climb if they are close). by
Naples International Airport is located 3 miles from the Capodichino district of Naples and about 18 miles from Sorrento. You can stay in one of the Sorrento hotels, B&Bs and pensions with Booking.com. Overlooking the Bay of Naples and mount Vesuvius, Sorrento is a colorful town in Campania. According to legend, it was the land of the sirens that had the power to enchant with their singing. The town of Sorrento has gorgeous Renaissance and Baroque architecture, and a wide variety of restaurants, shops and cafes. cafés
by WCC on. in Europe. Sorrento is an Italian city with 16 589 inhabitants (as of 31 December 2010) in the province of Naples. It is part of the mountain community Comunita Comunità Montana Monti – Lattari Sorrento. Peninsula the city lies on The sorrento peninsula Of sorrento on The bay Of naples in the province Of. naples It is part of the mountain community Comunita Comunità Montana Monti – Lattari Sorrento. Peninsula the city lies on The sorrento peninsula Of sorrento on The bay Of naples in the province Of. Naples it is about black cliffs of dark volcanic rock on a tufa. terrace
) is a town overlooking the Bay of Naples in Southern Italy. A popular tourist destination, it can be reached easily from Naples and Pompeii as it is at the south-eastern end of the Circumvesuviana rail line. The Sorrentine Peninsula has views of Naples, Vesuvius and the Isle of Capri. The Amalfi Drive, connecting Sorrento and Amalfi, is a narrow road that threads along the high cliffs above the Tyrrhenian Sea. Ferries and hydrofoils connect the town to Naples, Amalfi, Positano, Capri and Ischia. Sorrento's sea cliffs and luxury hotels have attracted celebrities including Enrico Caruso and Luciano Pavarotti. Limoncello is a digestif made from lemon rinds, alcohol, water and sugar which is produced in Sorrento. 
The city lies on the Sorrento peninsula of Sorrento on the Bay of Naples in the province of Naples. It is about black cliffs of dark volcanic rock on a tufa terrace. Sorrento is by imposing cliffs of the limestone mountain surrounded. It is part of the mountain community Comunita Comunità Montana Monti – Lattari Sorrento. Peninsula the city lies on The sorrento peninsula Of sorrento on The bay Of naples in the province Of. Naples it is about black cliffs of dark volcanic rock on a tufa. terrace
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Piano di Sorrento is a comune (municipality) in the Metropolitan City of Naples in the Italian region Campania, located about 25 km (16 mi) southeast of Naples. Piano di Sorrento borders the following municipalities: Meta, Sant'Agnello, Vico Equense. Victorian poet Robert Browning sojourned in the area and mentions the countryside of Piano and other localities of the Surrentine peninsula in the poem The Englishman in Italy.
Sorrento is an Italian city with 16 589 inhabitants (as of 31 December 2010) in the province of Naples. It is part of the mountain community Comunita Comunità Montana Monti – Lattari Sorrento. peninsula It is part of the mountain community Comunita Comunità Montana Monti – Lattari Sorrento. Peninsula the city lies on The sorrento peninsula Of sorrento on The bay Of naples in the province Of. Naples it is about black cliffs of dark volcanic rock on a tufa. terrace
1 Casa Gilda, Marina Grande 42 - 80067 Sorrento(NA), Italy (Marina Grande), ☎ +39 338 85 60 460, [25]. 2  Holiday Home in Sorrento, located in the old fisherman's village called Marina Grande; this seaview house is really close to the beach, the most famous restaurants and the center of the city. 3  edit. 