The prevailing winds that blow across Racetrack Playa blow from the southwest to the northeast. Most of the rock trails are parallel to this direction. This is strong evidence that wind might be the force that moves the rocks or is at least involved with the motion of the rocks. The shape of trails behind the rocks suggest that they move during times when the floor of Racetrack Playa is covered with a very soft mud. A lack of disturbed mud around the rock trails eliminates the possibility of a human or animal pushing or assisting the motion of the rocks. This was once the favorite explanation.
One of the most interesting mysteries of Death Valley National Park is the sliding rocks at Racetrack Playa (a playa is a dry lake bed). These rocks can be found on the floor of the playa with long trails behind them. Somehow these rocks slide across the playa, cutting a furrow in the sediment as they move. The shape of trails behind the rocks suggest that they move during times when the floor of Racetrack Playa is covered with a very soft mud. A lack of disturbed mud around the rock trails eliminates the possibility of a human or animal pushing or assisting the motion of the rocks. This was once the favorite explanation.
Greetings, rock fans! This website describes research on the sailing stones of Racetrack Playa in beautiful Death Valley National Park. The famous sailing stones range from several grams up to tens of kg and leave long (hundreds of meters) arcuate trails on the playa’s surface. Kite-borne view through several cm of water showing two general classes of fresh trails. Rock Fans, After several decades of study and observation, the sailing stones of Racetrack Playa have been observed in motion ! During winter 2013-2014, members of our group were present while the playa was flooded and frozen.
The Racetrack Playa is 3608 feet (1130 m) above sea level, and 2.8 mi (4.5 km) long (north-south) by 1.3 mi (2.1 km) wide (east-west). The playa is exceptionally flat and level with the northern end being only 1.5 inches (4 cm) higher than the southern. The highest point surrounding the Racetrack is the 5,678 feet (1731 m) high Ubehebe Peak, rising 1970 feet (571 m) above the lakebed 0.85 mile (1.37 km) to the west. The playa is in the small Racetrack Valley endorheic basin between the Cottonwood Mountains on the east and Nelson Range
A sailing stone in Racetrack Playa. Sailing stones, sliding rocks, rolling stones, and moving rocks are a geological phenomenon where rocks move and inscribe long tracks along a smooth valley floor without human or animal intervention. Tracks of sliding rocks have been observed and studied in various locations, including Little Bonnie Claire Playa in Nevada, and most notably Racetrack Playa, Death Valley National Park, California, where the number and length of tracks are notable.
It’s quite clear that people tamper with the rocks at Racetrack Playa. Unfortunately, the likely source of this mischief is other photographers. It takes a LOT of walking and a LOT of patience to find the perfect rock, with a perfect trail behind it, with a perfect backdrop behind that. The Racetrack Playa is a remote location deep within Death Valley National Park. It is a massive playa (dry lake bed) that measures 2.8 miles long by 1.3 miles (4.5 km by 2.1 km) wide.
The Racetrack Playa, or The Racetrack, is a scenic dry lake feature with  sailing stones  that inscribe linear racetrack imprints. The highest point surrounding the Racetrack is the 5,678 feet (1731 m) high Ubehebe Peak, rising 1970 feet (571 m) above the lakebed 0.85 mile (1.37 km) to the west. The playa is in the small Racetrack Valley endorheic basin between the Cottonwood Mountains on the east and Nelson Range
It is one of Death Valley’s most intriguing geological whodunits — the sliding rocks of the Racetrack Playa. On an ancient lakebed located on the western side of Death Valley National Park, boulders that weigh up to 700 pounds sail across the almost perfectly flat terrain, leaving grooved trails in their wake. 
When you see these amazing rocks and trails, says Mindy Krzykowski, an intern from the University of Alaska in Fairbanks, you really get into coming up with your own ideas about what's going on.. The rocks on Racetrack Playa in Death Valley, Calif., move across the flat, dry bed of this ancient lake. The interns with the 2010 Lunar and Planetary Science Academy (LPSA) at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center traveled there to investigate how this happens. In many cases, the trails lead right to resting rocks, but in others, the joyriders have vanished. This may sound like an alien world, but it's actually Racetrack Playa in Death Valley, Calif. Since the 1940s, researchers have documented trails here and on several other playas in California and Nevada.
Racetrack playa is lake bed that is almost perfectly flat and almost always dry. It is about 4 kilometers long (2.5 miles) - north to south and about 2 kilometers wide (1.25 miles) east to west. The surface is covered with mud cracks and the sediment is made up mainly of silt and clay. The shape of trails behind the rocks suggest that they move during times when the floor of Racetrack Playa is covered with a very soft mud. A lack of disturbed mud around the rock trails eliminates the possibility of a human or animal pushing or assisting the motion of the rocks. This was once the favorite explanation.