To find someone who can hatch your egg shiny, look at the Shiny Hatcher Community Database. This contains a list of people's, their games' corresponding SV, and their contact info. If you find your egg's SV matches that of a person on the list, you can contact them and have them hatch your egg shiny. Do not post your SV info here or post requesting someone hatch your egg shiny. If you have a match, contact that person directly. If you need to submit your info to the Shiny Hatcher Community Database, please use the submission form here. - Only six Pokemon pokémon can be checked at a. - Time can also be used to view' opponents teams after a. Battle to find someone who can hatch your egg, shiny look at The Shiny Hatcher Community. Database this contains a list of'people, s their' games CORRESPONDING, sv and their contact. info
^^; Instacheck allows you to view all the hidden stats of your pokemon/egg. To see the hidden stats you need to enter a trade with someone and Show the pokemon. You don't actually have to trade the egg/pokemon. If you show an egg, you will see only the Pokemon Shiny Value, not your Trainer Shiny Value. To find out your own Trainer Shiny Value, you need to Show a pokemon you have caught or hatched. This is what instacheck looks like when you open it. Shiny Value and Trainer Shiny Value are what make your eggs hatch shiny
... Until now, that is. With the help of this Action Replay device and additional software by people on the Project Pokemon forums, I can dump data of Pokemon and Eggs from my game. If you would like to find out your Shiny Value, please post a comment below with your Friend Code. UPDATE: I've been too busy to find people's Shiny Values lately. Besides, my 3DS friends list is getting full. If you have an AR PowerSaves device and want to find your TSV, then check out this guide on Reddit: http://www.reddit.com/r/SVExchange/wi... -------------------------.
English 日本語. This tool will let you check the shiny value of a player or of an egg (a value between 0 and 4096). If the egg and the player's SVs are the same, the resulting Pokemon pokémon will be hatched. Shiny: note this tool is only accurate For Pokemon pokémon X. And'y don t PIDs—decimal pids convert them to. hexadecimal first English 日本語. This tool will let you check the shiny value of a player or of an egg (a value between 0 and 4096). If the egg and the player's SVs are the same, the resulting Pokemon pokémon will be hatched. shiny
Results will be exported to the lower window. Instacheck kicked the bucket a couple of months ago, but it didn’t take too long for someone to create a replacement for the tool. Yes, KeySav is another tool that gives Pokemon X/Y players the ability to check their trainer shiny value (TSV) and egg shiny value (ESV). 
you need to download that program to check your trainer value and your egg value, if the pokemon shiny value is the same as your trainer value the egg will be 100 percent shiny. The thing is that the egg will have different shiny value everytime, so you're gonna need a trainer who knows his trainer value and see if its the same as the eggs shiny value and let him hatch it, it will be guaranteed to be a shiny. http://www.twitch.tv/thejustinflynn/b/480118212
If your Trainer Shiny Value is 1849 (mine), then the egg you are trying hatch must have a Shiny Value of 1849 to hatch shiny. If your egg has a Shiny Value of 1940, then you need to trade your egg to someone who has a Trainer Shiny Value of 1940 and have them hatch it for you. If you show an egg, you will see only the Pokemon Shiny Value, not your Trainer Shiny Value. To find out your own Trainer Shiny Value, you need to Show a pokemon you have caught or hatched. This is what instacheck looks like when you open it.
UPDATE 2: For a more up-to-date list of my Eggs, see my Tumblr page-http://YoshiOG1.tumblr.com/ShinyValues. UPDATE: Since the 1.2 update, Instacheck is officially dead, which means my friends can no longer check eggs for me. But, if you see your Shiny Value in the list of eggs below, you might still be able to hatch it. I already have shiny Gourgeist, so if you hatch a shiny Pumpkaboo, you can keep it if you'd like. (This doesn't necessarily apply to other eggs.). ------------------. READ DESCRIPTION FOR LIST OF EGGS AND SHINY VALUES! And make sure to add my Friend Code! ----------. Friend Code: 3695-0511-6604. Trainer SV: 283