Dewart Name Meaning. Scottish: variant of Dewar, formerly found chiefly in Lanarkshire.Possibly an altered spelling of Dutch de Waart, a variant of De Weerd.Possibly a variant spelling of German Deward, from an old personal name Teudoard, composed of Old High German diot ‘people’, ‘nation’ + wart- ‘observer’, ‘guard’. Click on a circle in the chart to view Dewart birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Web Sites. Dewart Genealogy. Welcome to some of the best Dewart genealogy resources found on the web. We hope you will participate on the Dewart forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Dewart genealogy and is completely free to participate. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Dewart history, Dewart ancestory, and Dewart family connections. If you are a Dewart, or are realated to the Dewart family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information.
Click on a place to view Dewart immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Dewart families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Dewart birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
This is a famous Scottish clan surname. Spelt as Dewar, Deware, Dewer, and the extraordinary Dewire, it derives from two possible sources. James Dewar (1793 - 1846) was the organist at St. George's Episcopal church, Edinburgh, and conducted the Edinburgh Musical Association.
There are several different origins for the surname MacLean, however, the clan surname is an Anglicisation of the Scottish Gaelic MacGilleEathain. This was the patronymic form of the personal name meaning servant of (Saint) John . Or the son of the servant of Saint John. 
©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Dewart Last Name-Surname-Family Name Dewart. 
Dewart in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Dewart genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Dewart surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Dewart history, Dewart ancestory, and Dewart family connections. If you are a Dewart, or are realated to the Dewart family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information.
Passenger and immigration lists show many early and influential immigrants bearing the name Dewart: William and his wife Jane Dewar and two children settled in Antigua in 1774; John Dewar arrived in New York in 1823; Steven Dewer arrived in Antigua in 1679. More. Our PDF Coat of Arms + Extended History product is the whole package all in one. With a full color Coat of Arms along with a very detailed History, full symbolism, bibliography and settlers listed by the centuries. More about the Dewart Family Crest...
Dewart genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Dewart surname and its variations. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Dewart history, Dewart ancestory, and Dewart family connections. If you are a Dewart, or are realated to the Dewart family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information.