Average Internal Audit Manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 46% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
(United Kingdom). An Internal Auditor earns an average salary of £30,274 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. A skill in Risk Management / Risk Control is associated with high pay for this job. An Internal Auditor earns an average salary of £30,274 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Internal Auditor I in the United States is $52,140 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Internal Auditor I in the United States are expected to make less than $52,140. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $52,140. 1  Salary. View Internal Auditor I job description. View Accounting Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: Accounting, Banking, Entry Level, Financial Services. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
Pay by Experience Level for Internal Auditor. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Salaries of relatively inexperienced workers fall in the neighborhood of $50K, but folks who have racked up five to 10 years see a notably higher median of $58K. Pay Difference by Location. Internal Auditors will find that New York offers an impressive pay rate, one which exceeds the national average by 36 percent. Internal Auditors will also find cushy salaries in Washington (+31 percent), Seattle (+21 percent), Houston (+21 percent), and Los Angeles (+18 percent).
Internal Auditor Salary. (United States). Internal Auditors in the United States take home approximately $53K per year on average. Total cash compensation for Internal Auditors runs from $35K to $76K depending on bonuses that can occasionally exceed $7K and profit sharing that can reach almost $6K. Pay Difference by Location. Internal Auditors will find that New York offers an impressive pay rate, one which exceeds the national average by 36 percent. Internal Auditors will also find cushy salaries in Washington (+31 percent), Seattle (+21 percent), Houston (+21 percent), and Los Angeles (+18 percent).
Junior Auditor. Junior auditors are more recently certified internal auditors with about one to three years experience in auditing. The average internal auditor salary at the junior level ranges between $49,500-$65,500. Some of the responsibilities of a junior auditor include working with more senior auditors to plan audits. After a few years of experience, you may qualify for senior auditor positions. On average, the salary of a senior internal auditor ranges from $62,750-$80,750. Senior auditors are responsible for monitoring the day-to-day operations of clients in an accounting firm
Average Internal Auditor Salaries. The average salary for internal auditor jobs in Houston, TX is $66,000. Average internal auditor salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term internal auditor anywhere in the job listing. The internal auditor salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional internal auditor salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.