Then she eventually eats him! (most species of female spiders do this-they are bi … gger than the males as well). The female black widow spider uses the male one just to make babies. Then they are off-unless the female is hungry! So, black widows are not asexual. By the way, I am female and 13 years old and I love spiders.
The Black widow spider is one of the most poisonous and dangerous spiders in North America. They are usually identified by their black color and red marking on the underside of their abdomen, also called the opisthosoma. This red marking is usually shaped like an hour glass. They Are Arachnids. The female black widow spider is darker and larger than the male. Where the female is usually dark black, the male is often dark brown and doesn't have as bright red of an hour glass shape on the abdomen. The female can grow to about ½ an inch long body and 1 ½ inch leg span.
The name “black widow” comes from the female’s habit of eating the male after mating. Facts about Black Widows: Female black widows are shiny black, with a red-orange hourglass pattern on their abdomen. Male black widows are not black, but brown or gray with small red spots. Black widows are poisonous arachnids--animals that have a skeleton outside their body, a segmented body, and eight jointed legs. They are not insects.
Black widow spiders are carnivores. They eat insects that they catch in their web such as flies, grasshoppers, beetles, and mosquitoes. Sometimes the female will kill and eat the male spider, which is how the black widow got its name. The female black widow spider is darker and larger than the male. Where the female is usually dark black, the male is often dark brown and doesn't have as bright red of an hour glass shape on the abdomen. The female can grow to about ½ an inch long body and 1 ½ inch leg span.
Venom toxicity-the bite of these spiders is of low risk to humans. Spider Identification-are common outdoors and are occasionally found indoors. They are generally brownish or grayish with light and dark stripes near the head. They have long spinnerets and are moderate-sized (3/4 inch long). 
When they do bite, they don't usually kill. Black widows eat insects, as well as other arachnids, that they catch in their webs. The spiders' venomous bites can kill a mosquito, fly, caterpillar or even a grasshopper. However, their venom isn't meant to kill you.
No. When a female black widow spider is looking for a mate, well she finds one and mates it. Then she eventually eats him! (most species of female spiders do this-they are bi … gger than the males as well). The female black widow spider uses the male one just to make babies. Then they are off-unless the female is hungry! So, black widows are not asexual. By the way, I am female and 13 years old and I love spiders. The female's bite is poisonous to humans and is sometimes fatal. This spider is not aggressive and bites humans only in defe … nse when threatened. Yes. If they are not treated, they could lead to becoming comatose, seizures, paralysis or death.
Black widow spiders are called such because the females eat the males after mating with them. Immature Black Widows have the same shape as the mature Widow but with dramatic … color markings. An immature Widow, although much smaller that an adult, can still cause a painful and dangerous bite. The female black widow spider uses the male one just to make babies. Then they are off-unless the female is hungry! So, black widows are not asexual. By the way, I am female and 13 years old and I love spiders.
Best Answer: While it is common knowledge that widow spiders are called widow spiders because the female eats the male after mating, it is not common knowledge that the male actually rarely gets eaten. The black widow spider is so named because of the fact that the female sometimes kills and eats the male upon conception, hence making it a widow. zelnar13 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 0. Comment. Add a comment. Submit. · just now