alveolar plate fenestration apical fenestration. aorticopulmonary fenestration aortic septal defect. apical fenestration a condition sometimes seen in children, consisting of round or oval openings perforating the plate of bone that overlies a pulpless primary tooth. Called also alveolar plate fenestration. fenestration. 1. the act of perforating or the condition of being perforated. 2. the surgical creation of a new opening in the labyrinth of the ear for the restoration of hearing in otosclerosis.
To relieve this pressure, the surgeon makes a fenestration (hole) between the tunnel and the heart. The fenestration allows some blood to flow from the tunnel into the heart. It acts as a temporary pressure release valve while your child's body is adjusting to the new circulation. It is usually closed several months after the Fontan operation, so that oxygen-poor and oxygen-rich blood no longer mix. Fenestration closure after a Fontan operation is a procedure to close the hole between your child's heart and the tunnel that takes oxygen-poor blood from the body to the lungs. 1  The procedure is done in the heart catheterization lab.
The catheter is moved up the blood vessel into the heart and into the fenestration. An X-ray picture is taken of the fenestration. The balloon is then inflated so that it fills the hole and closes it for a short time. This lets the doctor see if your child's heart is ready to have the closure device in place.enestration closure after a Fontan operation is a procedure to close the hole between your child's heart and the tunnel that takes oxygen-poor blood from the body to the lungs. 1  The procedure is done in the heart catheterization lab.
fenestration. n. 1. (Architecture) the arrangement and design of windows in a building. 2. (Surgery) a surgical operation to restore hearing by making an artificial opening into the labyrinth of the ear.
1 Fenestration (architecture) , refers to the design, construction, or presence of windows and doors in a building. 
• FENESTRATION (noun). The noun FENESTRATION has 2 senses: 1. the arrangement of windows in a building. 2. surgical procedure that creates a new fenestra to the cochlea in order to restore hearing lost because of osteosclerosis. Familiarity information: FENESTRATION used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. Nouns denoting acts or actions. Hypernyms (fenestration is a kind of...): operation; surgery; surgical operation; surgical procedure; surgical process (a medical procedure involving an incision with instruments; performed to repair damage or arrest disease in a living body). Domain category:
Fenestration: Any opening in a building's envelope including windows, doors and skylights. Windows, doors, skylights, and curtain wall manufacturers are constantly improving and re-designing their products to meet the needs of their customers. 
Definition of FENESTRATION. 1. : the arrangement, proportioning, and design of windows and doors in a building. 2. : an opening in a surface (as a wall or membrane). 3. : the operation of cutting an opening in the bony labyrinth between the inner ear and tympanum to replace natural fenestrae that are not functional. 1. a: a natural or surgically created opening in a surface b: the presence of such openings. 2
Medical Definition of FENESTRATION. 1. a: a natural or surgically created opening in a surface b: the presence of such openings. 2. : the operation of cutting an opening in the bony labyrinth between the inner ear and tympanum to replace natural fenestrae that are not functional.
The National Fenestration Rating Council (NFRC) is a nonprofit organization that empowers consumers who are in the market for energy efficient windows, doors, and skylights. When you see the NFRC label on these products, this is your assurance that it’s going to perform the way it’s advertised to perform. Under our program, windows, doors, and skylights – otherwise known as fenestration products – are independently tested, certified, and labeled. Our label does not recommend which products to buy. It simply provides you with information on how the product will perform so you can decide for yourself if it’s right for you.