Remove the new print cartridge from its packaging, remove the orange cover from the print cartridge, and then pull the orange tab straight out to remove the sealing tape. Squeeze the blue release levers on the print cartridge, holding and the roller.
Place cartridge in the printer -- ignore the cartridge error message displayed on your printer. Your printer should print a test page. Step 4. Remove the cartridge from the printer and leave the tape on. Step 5. Place another piece of tape over the top contact in the sixth row.
3. Slide the color cartridge in, label side up, with the arrow pointing toward the printer dock. Push the cartridge until it clicks into place. 4. Close the cartridge door. 1  To remove the color cartridge, open the cartridge door, then push up on the green lever and slide the cartridge out.
1 Turn on your product. 2  If an ink cartridge is expended, you see a message on the LCD screen. 3  Note which cartridges need to be replaced and select Proceed, then choose Yes, replace now. 4  If you are replacing a cartridge before you see a message on the LCD screen, select Setup Maintenance Ink Cartridge Replacement.
Visit http://www.suresupply.com. Learn how to replace a toner cartridge in the HP LaserJet CP1025nw printer. For other helpful videos go to hp.com/supportvideos or youtube.com/hpsupport. More support options for your printer are available at hp.com/support.
When you refill HP color ink cartridges, you also need to reset the cartridge. Each HP color cartridge contains a chip that communicates with the printer. When the ink in the cartridge becomes low, the chip signals the printer to display a low ink warning. This warning will still be displayed after you refill the cartridge. Resetting the chip takes about two minutes.
1. Open the cartridge door on the side of the printer dock. 2. Check to make sure there is no slack in the color cartridge ribbon. To remove slack, push in on the cartridge spool, then rotate the spool clockwise.
To remove the color cartridge, open the color cartridge door, then push up on the green lever and slide the cartridge out. 1  When the cartridge is almost empty, the Color cartridge light blinks slowly for several seconds. 2  When the cartridge is depleted, the Color cartridge light glows steady amber.