Cynthia is a feminine given name of Greek origin: κυνθία, Kynthia, kynthía From Mount  cynthus On delos. island Cynthia is a feminine given name of Greek origin: κυνθία, Kynthia, kynthía From Mount  cynthus On delos. Island it can be abbreviated As cindy or As. Cyndy there are various spellings for this. name
Origin of the name Cynthia: Popular name derived from the Latin and Greek Kynthia, a name for Artemus, the mythological goddess of the moon and hunting and twin sister of Apollo. The name has its root in Kynthios (from Kynthos, a mountain on the island of Delos). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Cynthia : | Edit. Cynthia comes from the birth of the goddess Artemis (the moon) on the mountain Cynthus on the island of Delos, along with her brother Apollo (the sun).
Cynthia /cyn-thia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SIN-thee-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Cynthia is from Mount Kynthos. Mythology: Kynthia was one of the names of Artemis, the goddess of the moon (known to the Romans as Diana), referring to her birthplace on Mount Kynthos on the island of Delos. Cynthia is a very prominent first name for women (#28 out of 4276, Top 1%) but an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Cynthia for girls. Cynthia reached its top position of #10 in the U.S. during the years 1960-1969, and is currently at #491.
Cynthia is the Latin spelling of the Greek name Kynthia, meaning woman from Kynthos.. Kynthia was an epithet for the Greek goddess Artemis that referred to her birth on Mount Kynthos, hence the meaning, woman from Kynthos.. Artemis was the goddess of the hunt, wild animals, childbirth, virginity, and young girls. The meaning of Cynthia is  Woman from Kynthos . Its origin is  Latin variant of the Greek name Kynthia . Cynthia is a form of Kynthia and is generally pronounced like  SIN thee ah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 499th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl name
Meaning of Cynthia. Greek name. In Greek, the name Cynthia means-the moon personified.The name Cynthia originated as an Greek name. The name Cynthia is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-the moon personified. Origin-Greece. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Cynthia is a feminine given name of Greek origin: κυνθία, Kynthia, kynthía From Mount  cynthus On delos. Island it can be abbreviated As cindy or As. Cyndy there are various spellings for this. Name cynthia was originally an epithet of The greek goddess of the, Moon, artemis who according to, legend was born On Mount. cynthus Cynthia is a feminine given name of Greek origin: κυνθία, Kynthia, kynthía From Mount  cynthus On delos. Island it can be abbreviated As cindy or As. Cyndy there are various spellings for this. name