Best Answer: It was written by Roland Orzabal of the band Tears for Fears-released originally in 1982 For Donnie Darko it was covered by Gary Jules & Michael Andrews. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mad_World. Mad World is a song originally written by Roland Orzabal of the British band Tears for Fears. It was released in 1982 ,and was included on the album The Hurting which was released early in 1983. souixe b · 9 years ago.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Roland Orzabal, one of the founding members of Tears For Fears, wrote this when he was a teenager. TFF recorded it a few years later, in 1983, for their debut album The Hurting. It was a big hit in the UK. Source(s): I've had the album for over 20 years. 
erasure   Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 19 … 82, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
It is so cool! Gives me the chills everytime, so incredibly rad. Mad World is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982.
Answer by Terry Mey.  Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982. Both Mad World and its B-side, Ideas As Opiates, would turn up on the band's debut LP The Hurting the following year. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
Confidence votes 1.0K. Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears of Fears ...Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith................... Minor edit? 'This was a hit for Tears For Fears in 1983 and then hit the charts  again twenty years later in 2003 with a version done by Gary Jules.  The lyrics are written from the vie … wpoint of a troubled teenager,  looking out on a `mad world' and struggling with thoughts of  suicide.
Well Gary jules didn't write the song. Roland Orzabal from tears for fears wrote it and the song was released in 1982. Gary Jules's version was released in 2001. 'This was a hit for Tears For Fears in 1983 and then hit the charts  again twenty years later in 2003 with a version done by Gary Jules.  The lyrics are written from the vie … wpoint of a troubled teenager,  looking out on a `mad world' and struggling with thoughts of  suicide.
Mad World was originally written on acoustic guitar when Orzabal was 19, it was a deliberate attempt to write something in the vein of Duran Duran's  Girls on Film . After a few false starts with Orzabal on vocals, Smith took over and suddenly it sounded fabulous. Not that Bath is very mad – I should have called it Bourgeois World! — Roland Orzabal Mad World was the first single off the finished album. The intention was to gain attention from it and we'd hopefully build up a little following. We had no idea that it would become a hit.
Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears, written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith. Not that Bath is very mad – I should have called it Bourgeois World! — Roland Orzabal Mad World was the first single off the finished album. The intention was to gain attention from it and we'd hopefully build up a little following. We had no idea that it would become a hit.