Noteworthy is the work of Piet Mondrian, who linearized cubism in his 1912 Apple Tree painting, a process which ultimately led to the first really non-figurative paintings (or pure abstract art), from 1914 on. Instead of an emphasis on color, Analytic cubists focused on forms like the cylinder, sphere and the cone to represent the natural world. During this movement, the works produced by Picasso and Braque shared stylistic similarities.
Cubism is an early-20th-century avant-garde art movement that revolutionized European painting and sculpture, and inspired related movements in music, literature and architecture. Cubism has been considered the most influential art movement of the 20th century. The term is broadly used in association with a wide variety of art produced in Paris (Montmartre, Montparnasse and Puteaux) during the 1910s and extending through the 1920s. In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
In 1912, pasting paper and a piece of oilcloth to the canvas and combining these with painted areas, Picasso created his first collage, Still Life with Chair Caning (Musee Musée, Picasso). Paris this technique marked a transition to synthetic. cubism One of his most famous paintings Still life with Chair Caning 1912, was in fact his very first attempt at this way of working. In this case, he glued on to his canvas, printed fabric to imitate the appearance of chair caning. And, also used rope around this picture instead of a traditional frame.
Cubism began between 1907 and 1911. Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon has often been considered a proto-Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 Houses at L’Estaque (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles to refer to bizarreries cubiques (cubic oddities). In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
Pablo Picasso's Cubism Period - 1909 to 1912. Analytical Cubism is one of the two major branches of the artistic movement of Cubism and was developed between 1908 and 1912. In contrast to Synthetic cubism, Analytic cubists analyzed natural forms and reduced the forms into basic geometric parts on the two-dimensional picture plane. Instead of an emphasis on color, Analytic cubists focused on forms like the cylinder, sphere and the cone to represent the natural world. During this movement, the works produced by Picasso and Braque shared stylistic similarities.
Greatest Synthetic Cubist Paintings. Here is a short list of some of the best works of Synthetic Cubism by Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque and Juan Gris. Pablo Picasso: Still Life with Chair-Caning (1911-12) Picasso Museum, Paris. Musical Instruments (1912) Hermitage Museum, St Petersburg. Clarinet and Violin (1913) Hermitage Museum, St Petersburg
Cubism -- highly influential visual arts style of the 20th century that was created principally by the painters Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque in Paris between 1907 and 1914. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Picasso's cubist pictures fall into two categories: for the first category-his analytic cubist paintings-where the forms and objects were broken up into fragments looking like shards of glass-he used traditional materials-oil paints on canvas, or occasionally on board. One of his most famous paintings Still life with Chair Caning 1912, was in fact his very first attempt at this way of working. In this case, he glued on to his canvas, printed fabric to imitate the appearance of chair caning. And, also used rope around this picture instead of a traditional frame.
Probably Picasso's most famous work, Guernica is certainly the his most powerful political statement, painted as an immediate reaction to the Nazi's devastating casual bombing practice on the Basque town of Guernica during Spanish Civil War. 