When we write a polynomial, the style is to begin with the highest exponent and go to the lowest. 4, 3, 2, 1. (For the general form of a polynomial, see Problem 6 below.). 6. The degree of a term is the sum of the exponents of all the variables in that term. In functions of a single variable, such as x, the degree of a term is simply the exponent.
For example, the polynomial. has a constant term of −4, which can be considered to be the coefficient of x 0 y 0, where the variables are become eliminated by exponentiated to 0 (any number exponentiated to 0 becomes 1).
Any polynomial written in standard form has a unique constant term, which can be considered a coefficient of x 0. In particular, the constant term will always be the lowest degree term of the polynomial. This also applies to multivariate polynomials. has a constant term of −4, which can be considered to be the coefficient of x 0 y 0, where the variables are become eliminated by exponentiated to 0 (any number exponentiated to 0 becomes 1).
(Yes, even 5 is a polynomial, one term is allowed, and it can even be just a constant!). And these are not polynomials. 1  3xy-2 is not, because the exponent is -2 (exponents can only be 0,1,2,...). 2  2/(x+2) is not, because dividing by a variable is not allowed. 3  1/x is not either. 1 3xy-2 is not, because the exponent is -2 (exponents can only be 0,1,2,...). 2  2/(x+2) is not, because dividing by a variable is not allowed. 3  1/x is not either. √ 4 x is not, because the exponent is ½ (see fractional exponents).
When it matters we use the phrases polynomial expression or polynomial function, but more frequently we use just the word polynomial by itself. A polynomial can always be written in standard form as. where the are constants (called the coefficients) of the polynomial. The integer is called the degree of the polynomial. (In this context it is sometimes assumed that. and we adopt that convention for the purposes of this class.) The form indicates the origin of the word polynomial which is Greek for many terms. Polynomials. A polynomial (in a variable) is a function or an expression that can be evaluated by combining the variable and possibly some constants by a finite number of additions, subtractions, and multiplications.
Finally, 0 should not be the coefficient of any term; the exception to this is that if every coefficient is 0, then we keep the constant term so that we have at least one term. So a typical polynomial in standard form is 2 x 3 + 4 x 2 y − 3 y 3 + x 2 − x y + 1/2. Notice that the respective degrees of these terms are 3, 3, 3, 2, 1, and 0; among the degree-3 terms, the degrees on x are 3, 2, and 0. The largest degree of the terms is 3; we call this the degree of the polynomial as a whole. In this way, you can put any polynomial into standard form once it's given as the sum of monomials in standard form. Just rearrange the terms in the correct order and combine the like terms. Go back to the course homepage. This web page was written in 2007 and 2008 by Toby Bartels.
Example 2: Write the polynomial 7 x 2 −6.5 x 8 +9 x 4 +3− x in standard form.(i) Polynomial in many variables: A polynomial in many variables is the sum of one or more terms of the form ax n y m z k (could have more variables!) with a ∈ and n, m, and k non-negative integers. The degree of ax n y m z k is n + m + k. 
For example, in the quadratic polynomial. the 3 is a constant term. After like terms are combined, an algebraic expression will have at most one constant term. Thus, it is common to speak of the quadratic polynomial. where x is the variable, and has a constant term of c. has a constant term of −4, which can be considered to be the coefficient of x 0 y 0, where the variables are become eliminated by exponentiated to 0 (any number exponentiated to 0 becomes 1).
Standard Form of a Polynomial. The Standard Form for writing down a polynomial is to put the terms with the highest degree first (like the 2 in x 2 if there is one variable). Example: Put this in Standard Form: 3 x2 - 7 + 4 x3 + x6
Example: Put this in Standard Form: 3 x2 - 7 + 4 x3 + x6. The highest degree is 6, so that goes first, then 3, 2 and then the constant last: x6 + 4 x3 + 3 x2 - 7. You don't have to use Standard Form, but it helps. 1 3xy-2 is not, because the exponent is -2 (exponents can only be 0,1,2,...). 2  2/(x+2) is not, because dividing by a variable is not allowed. 3  1/x is not either. √ 4 x is not, because the exponent is ½ (see fractional exponents).