As with any medicine, acamprosate can cause side effects. However, not everyone who takes the drug will experience side effects. In fact, most people tolerate it quite well. If side effects do occur, in most cases, they are minor and either require no treatment or are easily treated by you or your healthcare provider.
Synopsis. Acamprosate has been used in Europe for the treatment of alcohol dependency since 1989. In 2004 it became the third drug to receive approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for this indication, following disulfiram (Antabuse) and naltrexone (ReVia).
Acamprosate, also called Campral or Acamprosate Calcium, is a medicine used to reduce cravings for alcohol. Alcohol cravings occur as part of the syndrome of alcoholism, and these tablets have been shown to reduce them.
Acamprosate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use acamprosate if you have severe kidney disease. You should not use acamprosate if you are allergic to it, or if you have severe kidney disease. Acamprosate will not treat or prevent alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
Acamprosate is not likely to be helpful if you have not already quit drinking or undergone detoxification. It may not help you if you are also addicted to other substances besides alcohol.
Acamprosate works by restoring this chemical balance in the brain in an alcohol-dependent person who has recently quit drinking. Acamprosate is used together with behavior modification and counseling support to help a person who has recently quit drinking alcohol continue to choose not to drink.
Acamprosate is used along with counseling and social support to help people who have stopped drinking large amounts of alcohol (alcoholism) to avoid drinking alcohol again. Drinking alcohol for a long time changes the way the brain works. Acamprosate works by helping the brains of people who have drunk large amounts of alcohol to work normally again. Acamprosate does not prevent the withdrawal symptoms that people may experience when they stop drinking alcohol.