Polyunsaturated fats are mostly found in plant foods such as nuts, seeds and vegetable oils, and in cold-blooded sea-foods. In natural foods, they come protected with antioxidant vitamins. There are two main classes polyunsaturated fatty acids, omega-3 and omega-6. These include the essential fatty acids. 1 A source of energy – Our body uses the fat we eat, and fats we make from other nutrients in our bodies, to provide the energy for most of our life-functions. 2  Energy store – The extra calories that we consume, but do not need to use immediately, are stored for future use in special fat cells (adipose tissue).
Credit: Tomboy2290 | Dreamstime. It’s common knowledge that too much cholesterol and other fats can lead to disease, and that a healthy diet involves watching how much fatty food we eat. However, our bodies need a certain amount of fat to function—and we can’t make it from scratch. Triglycerides, cholesterol and other essential fatty acids—the scientific term for fats the body can’t make on its own—store energy, insulate us and protect our vital organs. They act as messengers, helping proteins do their jobs.
But, when fats are being transported in the lymph or blood, it is better to have a few, large fat molecules than many smaller fatty acids, because the larger fats do not attract as many excess water molecules by osmosis as many smaller molecules would. The human body contains two types of fat tissue: 1  White fat is important in energy metabolism, heat insulation and mechanical cushioning. 2  Brown fat is found mostly in newborn babies, between the shoulders, and is important for thermogenesis (making heat)
There are two types of polyunsaturated fats: omega-3 and omega-6. Some types of omega-3 and omega-6 fats cannot be made by the body and are therefore essential in small amounts in the diet. Omega-6 fats are found in vegetable oils such as rapeseed, corn, sunflower and some nuts. Not all fat is bad. A small amount of fat is an essential part of a healthy, balanced diet. Fat is a source of essential fatty acids such as omega-3 – essential because the body can't make them itself. Fat helps the body absorb vitamins A, D and E. These vitamins are fat-soluble, meaning they can only be absorbed with the help of fa
Too much dietary fat causes many health problems. However, it is important to have some fat in your diet; about 20 to 35 percent of your calories should come from a variety and balance of healthy fats (polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats). Healthy fats are used by your body in several ways: 1  Fat provides a highly-concentrated form of energy. 2  One gram of fat gives you nine calories of energy, which is over twice that provided by carbohydrates or protein. 3  Fat enables your body to transport, store and absorb the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K
Determining your percent body fat is very important because the amount of fat in your body is related to health as well as fitness and sports performance. In fact, if you go to a gym or health club, assessing your percent body fat has become quite common. In men, essential fat is approximately 3% of body weight. Women, however, have a higher percentage of essential fat — about 12%. This is because their essential fat also includes some sex-specific fat found in the breasts, pelvis, hips and thighs.
Storage fat is the other type of body fat. This is the fat you accumulate beneath your skin, in certain specific areas inside your body, and in your muscles. It also includes the deep fat that protects your internal organs from injury. Men and women have similar amounts of storage fat. In men, essential fat is approximately 3% of body weight. Women, however, have a higher percentage of essential fat — about 12%. This is because their essential fat also includes some sex-specific fat found in the breasts, pelvis, hips and thighs.
Body fat can be divided into two categories: Essential fat and storage fat. As its name implies, essential fat is necessary for normal, healthy functioning. It is stored in small amounts in your bone marrow, organs, central nervous system and muscles. In men, essential fat is approximately 3% of body weight. Women, however, have a higher percentage of essential fat — about 12%. This is because their essential fat also includes some sex-specific fat found in the breasts, pelvis, hips and thighs.