The driver comes in for a license renewal, pays the renewal fee and then is issued a full license. The minimum age for conversion is 18 years, 0 months. Provisional license holders under 18 must have the application co-signed by a parent. After gaining experience driving with a learner's permit for a minimum of 9 months, maintaining a conviction-free driving record and completing a Maryland MVA licensed and approved standardized driver education course, new drivers are eligible for a provisional license.
If you are under 18 and at least 15 ½ you can apply for a provisional driver license. The first step to getting your license is to get your instruction permit. Because you are under 18, your permit and driver license are called, Provisional.. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If the provisional licence is a photocard style licence and is over 10 years old, a new one is needed before the person starts learning to drive (there's a fee of £17.50 to pay too!). 
Driving licence fees. There are different fees if you want to renew, exchange or amend your driving licence-or get a replacement if yours has been lost, stolen or damaged. There are different driving licence fees in Northern Ireland. This costs £20.
1 Provisional license holders under the age of 18, during the first 5 months (151 days) of the provisional period, are not allowed to have passengers under the age of 18, unless accompanied by a qualified supervising driver or the passengers are direct family members. After gaining experience driving with a learner's permit for a minimum of 9 months, maintaining a conviction-free driving record and completing a Maryland MVA licensed and approved standardized driver education course, new drivers are eligible for a provisional license.
The fee schedule and Terms issued are shown below. Fees do not reflect a $5.00 discount received for renewing your driver's license or ID card using Online Services, (free documents are excluded). Short term driver's licenses are for 5 years and long term driver’s licenses are for 8 years. If a replacement driver's license/permit/ID card is requested within 150 days of the original date, it will be processed as a Renewal and new term and fees apply.
Other cuts coming into effect on 31 October include the costs of renewing a licence online every 10 years, reduced from £20 to £14, and a tachograph card used by businesses to monitor how far staff drive, which will fall from £38 to £32. Cost of provisional licence will fall to £34 from £50, while cost of renewing licence online will drop to £14. The cost of renewing a driving licence will fall, as will the cost of a provisional. Photograph: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images
UK driving licence fees fall. Cost of provisional licence will fall to £34 from £50, while cost of renewing licence online will drop to £14. The cost of renewing a driving licence will fall, as will the cost of a provisional. Photograph: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images