Meanders are bends in a river that form as a river’s sinuosity increases. The sinuosity of a river is a measurement of how much a river varies from a straight line. It’s a ratio between the channel length and displacement (straight line distance) between two points in the river’s course:
A river is a course of water that flows to another water source such as an ocean, lake or even another river. Related to Rivers: Braided River, Drainage Basin, Estuary, floodplain, meander, oxbow lake, rapids, riffle, river delta, river island,
Potholes are cylindrical holes drilled into the bed of a river that vary in depth & diameter from a few centimetres to several metres. They’re found in the upper course of a river where it has enough potential energy to erode vertically and its flow is turbulent.
Before looking at specific river landforms it is important to look at how the river channel itself changes downstream. We have already looked at how the river channel in the upper course is shallow and narrow with large bedload that disrupts the efficiency of flow.
The river tees is a complex river. its landforms should be divided into three regions. The upper course contains steep v shaped valleys, interlocking spurs, waterfalls such as … High Force falls and gorges. The middle course has meanders such as those around the town of Yarm.
Rivers are formed in many different ways. One common way a river is formed is water feeding it from lakes. The Mississippi starts from Lake Itasca in Minnesota. It then is fed from other lakes and rivers during its trip to the gulf of Mexico.
V-Shaped valleys are found in the upper course of the river and are a result of both erosion by the river and weathering. V-Shaped valleys are deep river valleys with steep sides that look like a letter V when a cross section of them is taken, hence the name.
A river is a course of water that flows to another. water source such as an ocean, lake or even another river. A river is not exactly a landform but part of other landforms such as mountains, prairies and valleys. They can even be parts of many different landforms at the same time.