Diarrhea. Many things can lead to diarrhea in dogs, including inflammatory bowel disease, medications, allergies, food poisoning, parasites, a change in diet, and gastrointestinal infections. Symptoms of diarrhea are pretty easy to spot: loose, liquid, or frequent stools. Constipation. Like diarrhea, constipation in dogs can be caused by a wide range of things, including certain drugs, intestinal obstruction, enlarged prostate or lymph nodes, dehydration, tumors, and neuromuscular problems.
Another cause of diarrhea is a sudden change in a dog’s regular food. Also allergies to certain foods and poor quality dog food in general. I see a lot of kibble-related diarrhea in dogs. Parasites like giardia can cause intermittent diarrhea. If your dog seems fine but is experiencing recurrent bouts of diarrhea, you should make an appointment. It’s important to bring a sample of your dog’s stool to your appointment, even if it’s watery. Use a plastic baggie and shovel a bit in there to take with you.
1 Every dog owner at some point deals with a bout of doggy diarrhea. 2  It’s not a matter of IF it will happen, just when! 3  Knowing what to do ahead of time can give you peace of mind the next time your pet has a problem. If your dog seems fine but is experiencing recurrent bouts of diarrhea, you should make an appointment. It’s important to bring a sample of your dog’s stool to your appointment, even if it’s watery. Use a plastic baggie and shovel a bit in there to take with you.
Knowing ahead of time the steps to take when your dog develops diarrhea or loose, watery stools can give you peace of mind when the time comes. And as we all know, the time will come! Causes of Diarrhea There are a lot of reasons dogs develop loose stools. If your dog seems fine but is experiencing recurrent bouts of diarrhea, you should make an appointment. It’s important to bring a sample of your dog’s stool to your appointment, even if it’s watery. Use a plastic baggie and shovel a bit in there to take with you.
Causes of diarrhea in dogs. Since there are numerous causes of diarrhea in dogs it is always a good idea to have your dog examined by a veterinarian to rule out more serious causes. Here is a brief list of causes of diarrhea. 1  Parvovirus Infection. 2  Usually vomiting and diarrhea accompanied by a fever typically in young dogs. 3  An antigen test is usually used to diagnose this infection. 4  Parasites in dogs. 5  Including roundworms, hookworms, whipworms, coccidia, Giardia, tapeworms.
Chronic diarrhea is a change in the frequency, consistency and volume of the dog's feces for more than three weeks. Starting in the small or large intestine, diarrhea can either be secretory (where it is very watery) or osmotic (not watery), and is due to various reasons, including diet, disease, or infection. 
Injury or illness. Excessive barking may be a sign that your pup is in pain from an injury or illness or is suffering some other form of discomfort. His constant barking may be his way of alerting you to the condition and asking for help. Older dogs may develop a constant bark due to dementia or neurological problems. You may have to play detective to learn why Fido is constantly barking. Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. Barking is your pup's natural way of communicating. Fido's bark lets you know when he's hungry, lonely, wants to go outside, hears an intruder or is happy to see you when you return home.
1 If other symptoms accompany watery stool – symptoms like lethargy, loss of appetite, fever or a change in behavior – it’s time to make an appointment with your vet. 2  Home care for otherwise healthy dogs with a bout of diarrhea should include a bland diet of cooked ground turkey and 100 percent canned pumpkin. If your dog seems fine but is experiencing recurrent bouts of diarrhea, you should make an appointment. It’s important to bring a sample of your dog’s stool to your appointment, even if it’s watery. Use a plastic baggie and shovel a bit in there to take with you.
Consult your doctor if diarrhea persists in a child for more than 24 hours, or after three days for an adult. Call immediately if you see any of these symptoms: 1  Severe abdominal or rectal pain. 2  Blood in your stool. 3  Black, tarry stools. 4  Fever. To determine the cause of your diarrhea, your doctor will want to know your symptoms and medical history. You will get the most out of your appointment if you can accurately provide the following information: 1  How long you have had diarrhea. 2  Whether your diarrhea comes and goes or is continuous.