A word is the spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas; a single component part of human speech or language; a constituent part of a sentence; a term. 
Consequently, he proposed the theory of Universal Grammar: an idea of innate, biological grammatical categories, such as a noun category and a verb category that facilitate the entire language development in children and overall language processing in adults. 
Psycholinguistics is an interdisciplinary field. Hence, it is studied by researchers from a variety of different backgrounds, such as psychology, cognitive science, linguistics, and speech and language pathology. There are a number of unanswered questions in psycholinguistics, such as whether the human ability to use syntax is based on innate mental structures or emerges from interaction with other humans, and whether some animals can be taught the syntax of human language.
The definition of cognitive psychology is the study of mental processes, such as perceiving, thinking, believing, problem solving, remembering, speaking, decision making, learning, and reasoning implies that language influences cognitive processes. The role of processing language in cognitive psychology determines the comprehension of sentences. What an individual learns and interprets through language and the ability of language ability is a cognitive process.
It is a group of the rules that are used to describe how the phrases and the words should be used in a language so that they can make a grammatically acceptable sentence. 
Unsolved problems. Grammar is the study of rules governing the use of language. The set of rules governing a particular language is also called the grammar of the language; thus, each language can be said to have its own distinct grammar. Grammar is part of the general study of language called linguistics. In computer science, the syntax of each programming language is defined by a formal grammar. In theoretical computer science and mathematics, formal grammars define formal languages. The Chomsky hierarchy defines several important classes of formal grammar
In linguistics, a transformational grammar or transformational-generative grammar (TG, TGG) is a generative grammar, especially of a natural language, that involves the use of defined operations called transformations to produce new sentences from existing ones. 
(November 2008). Psycholinguistics or psychology of language is the study of the psychological and neurobiological factors that enable humans to acquire, use, comprehend and produce language. There are a number of unanswered questions in psycholinguistics, such as whether the human ability to use syntax is based on innate mental structures or emerges from interaction with other humans, and whether some animals can be taught the syntax of human language.
Learner's definition of PSYCHOLOGY. 1. [noncount] : the science or study of the mind and behavior. She studied psychology in college. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. : the way a person or group thinks. [noncount]. the psychology of an athlete. mob psychology. 