Share. The cerebral cortex is the layer of the brain often referred to as gray matter. The cortex (thin layer of tissue) is gray because nerves in this area lack the insulation that makes most other parts of the brain appear to be white. The cortex covers the outer portion (1.5mm to 5mm) of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The portion of the cortex that covers the cerebrum is called the cerebral cortex
Specialized membrane domains are an important feature of almost all cells. In particular, they are essential to tissues that have a highly organized cell cortex, such as the intestinal brush border epithelium. The ERM proteins (ezrin, radixin and moesin) have a crucial role in organizing membrane domains through their ability to interact with transmembrane proteins and the cytoskeleton. In doing so, they can provide structural links to strengthen the cell cortex and regulate the activities of signal transduction pathways. Recent studies examining the structure and in vivo functions of ERMs have greatly advanced our understanding of the importance of membrane-cytoskeleton interactions. 
Like all parts of the neocortex, the primary motor cortex is made of six layers (Figure 3.6). Unlike primary sensory areas, primary motor cortex is agranular cortex; that is, it does not have a cell-packed granular layer (layer 4). Instead, the most distinctive layer of primary motor cortex is its descending output layer (Layer 5), which contains the giant Betz cells. 1 Primary motor cortex encodes the direction of movement. 2  Many neurons in the primary motor cortex are selective for a particular direction of movement. 3  For example, one cell may fire strongly when the hand is moved to the left, whereas it will be inhibited when the hand is moved to the right (Figure 3.8).
In the human brain more than two-thirds of the cerebral cortex is buried in the sulci. The cerebral cortex is gray matter, consisting mainly of cell bodies (with astrocytes being the most abundant cell type in the cortex as well as the human brain as a whole) and capillaries. It contrasts with the underlying white matter, consisting mainly of the white myelinated sheaths of neuronal axons. The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure
Abstract. Specialized membrane domains are an important feature of almost all cells. In particular, they are essential to tissues that have a highly organized cell cortex, such as the intestinal brush border epithelium. The ERM proteins (ezrin, radixin and moesin) have a crucial role in organizing membrane domains through their ability to interact with transmembrane proteins and the cytoskeleton. In doing so, they can provide structural links to strengthen the cell cortex and regulate the activities of signal transduction pathways. Recent studies examining the structure and in vivo functions of ERMs have greatly advanced our understanding of the importance of membrane–cytoskeleton interactions. 
The embryonic development of the cerebral cortex is under the control of a number of genes. In the first trimester of fetal life, neurons arise in a region lining the cerebral cavity. Precursor cells in this proliferative zone give rise to neurons that migrate up and out into the cortex, forming its layers. Much can also go wrong with the cerebral cortex after birth. Nerve cells in the cerebral cortex are known to die in Alzheimer disease and in many other brain diseases. The word cortex is Latin for the bark of a tree. The plural of cortex is cortices.
There are several identifiable cell types in the cerebral cortex. The pyramidal cells are the main cell type within layers III and V. These cells can be extremely large in layer V of the motor cortex, giving rise to most corticobulbar and corticospinal fibers. The largest of these neurons are called Betz cells. General Organization. The cerebral cortex is the outer covering of gray matter over the hemispheres. This is typically 2- 3 mm thick, covering the gyri and sulci. Certain cortical regions have somewhat simpler functions, termed the primary cortices.