1 Pour water into dish around squash halves. 2  Bake in the preheated oven until tender and easily pierced with a fork, about 1 1/2 hours. 3  Carefully remove the skin with a fork; it should be very easy to remove. 4  Top squash halves with butter and season with salt and pepper to taste. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place squash, cut sides down, in a 9x13 baking dish. 3  Pour water into dish around squash halves. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until tender and easily pierced with a fork, about 1 1/2 hours. 5
Step 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Wash the butternut squash under cool, running water, scrubbing lightly with a vegetable brush to remove external dirt. Blot dry with a paper towel and place the squash onto a large cutting board. Step 2. Cut the squash in half lengthwise with a sturdy butcher's knife. Use a spoon to scoop out the strings and seeds from inside each squash half. Discard the seeds and strings and set the squash aside.
1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place squash, cut sides down, in a 9x13 baking dish. 3  Pour water into dish around squash halves. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until tender and easily pierced with a fork, about 1 1/2 hours. 5  Carefully remove the skin with a fork; it should be very easy to remove. Ready In. 1 
Fill a large baking dish with 1/4 inch of water and place the butternut squash halves inside with the cut sides facing down. Place the pan in the oven and bake, uncovered, for about 45 minutes or until the squash is easily pierced with a fork. Step 2. Cut the squash in half lengthwise with a sturdy butcher's knife. Use a spoon to scoop out the strings and seeds from inside each squash half. Discard the seeds and strings and set the squash aside.
6. Mash the inside of the squash with butter, brown sugar, and cinnamon. If desired, scoop out the softened flesh and place it into a large bowl. Use a potato masher to mash brown sugar, butter, and cinnamon into the squash. 1  Wait several minutes after pulling the squash out of the oven before handling it. 1 Dot the cut surface with small chunks of butter. 2  Sprinkle salt and pepper over the squash. 3  This should be done according to taste, but if you are uncertain where to start, use roughly 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) salt and 1/8 tsp (0.62 ml) pepper per quarter. 4  Additional herbs and seasonings can also be used.
Scoop the seeds and stringy pulp out of the squash cavities and discard. In a small mixing bowl, combine the brown sugar, butter, syrup and salt and pepper, to taste. Rub the squash cavities and cut sides of the squash with the butter mixture and place them on a baking sheet, cut side up. Bake in the preheated oven for about 1 hour until the squash is tender when pierced with a fork.
Peel and slice the squash. Use a vegetable peeler to shave off the peel and a sharp knife to cut the squash into 1-inch (2.5-cm) slices. 1  Cut 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the top and bottom of the squash. 2  Discard pieces. 3  Use a serrated vegetable peeler to remove the thick skin until you reveal the orange flesh beneath. 1 Dot the cut surface with small chunks of butter. 2  Sprinkle salt and pepper over the squash. 3  This should be done according to taste, but if you are uncertain where to start, use roughly 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) salt and 1/8 tsp (0.62 ml) pepper per quarter. 4  Additional herbs and seasonings can also be used.
Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place squash, cut sides down, in a 9x13 baking dish. 3  Pour water into dish around squash halves. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until tender and easily pierced with a fork, about 1 1/2 hours. 5  Carefully remove the skin with a fork; it should be very easy to remove.
Directions. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place butternut squash halves on a large baking sheet flesh side up. Place 1 teaspoon butter in the middle of each squash. Sprinkle brown sugar over each squash. Season with salt and black pepper. Roast 25 minutes, until flesh is fork-tender. Reserve 2 halves for future meal. 
10. Drizzle the butter and brown sugar mixture over the squash. Drizzle 1/2 cup of butter and 1/2 cup of brown sugar over the squash and toss it to coat evenly. Then, season it with 2 tbsp. of cinnamon and with salt and pepper to taste. 