Dr. Suradej Pong, the sole founder and surgeon of the renowned, well established Thailand Hair Transplant Center (THTC) in Chiang Mai, Thailand. We realize how costly it can be to have a hair transplant done; not everybody can afford it. That is why here at the THTC we try to keep our prices more affordable for everyone. Our cost are a fraction of the pricing you find in most western countries and furthermore they are all-inclusive.
Welcome to THTC Thailand Hair Transplant Center (THTC) is exclusively dedicated to the practice of hair transplantation, offering the latest in medical hair restoration and hair transplant techniques for both men and women. We realize how costly it can be to have a hair transplant done; not everybody can afford it. That is why here at the THTC we try to keep our prices more affordable for everyone. Our cost are a fraction of the pricing you find in most western countries and furthermore they are all-inclusive.
guidance and recommendations. Cost is the key factor in the Hair Transplant Procedure because it is a minimal invasive procedure involving surgery. For every patient suffering from Alopecia or Baldness it is very essential and important to know the cost of hair transplant procedure. 
Hair transplant cost is based on the number of grafts per each hair transplant procedure. The cost per graft is gradually reduced as the number of grafts per procedure increases. Hair transplant cost for smaller sessions start from US$ 2.00 per graft and are lowered to US$ 1.72-1.96 range for larger sessions. Pric
Cost. Average cost of Hair Transplantation procedure in Thailand is US$ 2,500 for up to 1000 grafts. But this cost may vary individually depending on the patients medical history and the surgeon and facility you chose to get the surgery done.
MAXIM Hair Restoration, Manila, Philippines, has performed thousands of hair transplant procedures on clients from the Philippines as well as the United States, Canada, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E., Gulf region and other countries in Asia and elsewhere. 
He is a diplomate of American Board of Hair Restoration Surgery and is also a member of the International Society of Hair Restoration Surgeons (ISHRS). Dr.Suradej has been devoting his entire medical practice to the treatment of hair loss, exclusively in the art of hair transplantation. We realize how costly it can be to have a hair transplant done; not everybody can afford it. That is why here at the THTC we try to keep our prices more affordable for everyone. Our cost are a fraction of the pricing you find in most western countries and furthermore they are all-inclusive.
Financing with low monthly payments is also often offered. Hair transplant prices typically range from $3.00 to $8.00 per graft, with $5 to $6 per graft being about average. Normally the price per graft also drops as the size of the surgical session increases. Hair transplant surgery is not inexpensive. It then needs to be reattached and groomed every 5 to 6 weeks for about $75 per visit or $675 per year. Therefore the cost of buying and maintaining quality hair systems over 15 years is about $28,125.00 ($1,200 plus $675 in annual upkeep = $1,875 x 15 years = $28,125.00). This total cost far exceeds the typical cost of surgical hair restoration
Choose from 61 Hair Transplant Clinics in Bangkok and compare prices, patient reviews, and availability. Find the Best Price for Hair Transplant in Bangkok. Compare how much Hair Transplant cost at all 61 clinics and save money on your treatment. Consultation fee = 1,000 Baht 1,500 grafts = 120 per graft. Total = 180,000 Baht 3,000 grafts = 100 per graf. Total - 300,000 Baht The doctor is US Board Certified and has over 19 years experience.