A beta blocker is often used to treat high blood pressure or an irregular heart beat. This medicine can also be used to treat congestive heart failure, but people with severe heart failure may not be able to take a beta blocker. A beta blocker reduces the risk of another heart attack for people who have already had one.
A beta blocker is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure and heart problems. Some beta blockers are Atenolol (brand name: Tenormin), Metoprolol (brand names: Lopressor, Toprol XL) and Propranolol (brand name: Inderal). A beta blocker blocks the harmful effects of stress hormones on your heart.
Most people who take beta-blockers do well and have no side effects. But because beta-blockers slow your heart, they may make you feel tired. You also may notice that you can't exercise as hard as you used to. For example, you may get out of breath when you take a walk or climb stairs.
A beta blocker can cause asthma attacks. Sometimes people with a chronic lung disease such as emphysema or bronchitis can take beta blockers. If you have lung disease and are taking a beta blocker, call your doctor right away if you start having breathing problems.
A beta-blocker can cause asthma attacks. If there is an important reason to try a beta blocker, your doctor will need to help you monitor your asthma very carefully. Sometimes people who have a chronic lung disease such as emphysema or bronchitis can take beta-blockers. If you have lung disease and are taking a beta-blocker, call your doctor right away if you start having breathing problems.
A beta-blocker is often used to treat high blood pressure or an irregular heart beat. This medicine can also be used to treat congestive heart failure, but some people who have severe heart failure may not be able to take a beta-blocker.
A beta blocker is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure and heart problems. Some beta blockers are atenolol (brand name: Tenormin), metoprolol (brand name: Lopressor) and propranolol (brand name: Inderal). A beta blocker blocks the harmful effects of stress hormones on your heart.
Beta-blockers are used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) , congestive heart failure (CHF) , abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) , and chest pain (angina) . Beta-blockers are sometimes used in heart attack patients to prevent future heart attacks.
A beta-blocker is a medicine that is often used to treat high blood pressure and heart problems. Some examples of beta-blockers are atenolol, metoprolol and propranolol. This kind of medicine blocks the harmful effects of stress hormones on your heart. It also slows your heart rate.