1 If you are growing your plant from a cutting, loosen the soil and plant your pomegranate branch vertically so that the cut end is about five to six inches down in the soil, with the dormant buds pointing up towards the sky.
Two great reasons to consider planting a tree: For the health benefits of the pomegranate fruit or because the tree looks wonderful and is a great natural decor to your backyard. Plant trees 6 to 8 feet apart. Dig a hole larger than the planting container. Break up the soil around the planter.
1 There are several ways you can grow a pomegranate: from a seedling, a cutting, or from seed. 2  Growing pomegranates from seeds does not guarantee you will get a certain variety of pomegranate and you will have to wait three or four years before your plant produces any fruit.
Two great reasons to consider planting a tree: For the health benefits of the pomegranate fruit or because the tree looks wonderful and is a great natural decor to your backyard. Plant trees 6 to 8 feet apart. Dig a hole larger than the planting container. Break up the soil around the planter.
A shrub that can be trained to a 15- to 20-foot tree, pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) is an eye-catching, extremely long-lived plant that produces striking red flowers and the signature round fruit full of hundred of seed sacs.
These pomegranate trees grow to 18-feet tall and the Wonderful fruits ripen in September. Grocery stores demand over $2.00 per fruit, so to plant your own trees to produce hundreds of valuable fruits each year would be a wise investment.
The pomegranate grows naturally as a tree 20 to 30 feet high, although commercially available cultivars grow as dense, bushy shrubs or small trees from 6 to 15 feet tall. Pomegranates grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 through 10.
Choose a variety of pomegranate. Punica granatum is a small deciduous tree. It will grow to about 2.5 metres (8.2 feet) tall, with orange flowers during the summer season. The dwarf variety Nana will grow shorter, to about 1 metre (3.2 feet) and are the best for growing in containers.