Euphrates /eu-phra-tes/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Turkish origin, and the meaning of Euphrates is great river. Name of the river that flows through Asia Minor. The valley between the Tigris and the Euphrates is often known as the cradle of civilization. Kreatif forms: Elphrates, Emphrates, Euphratesei. 
Tigris is an unusual first name for women and an uncommon last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Tigris for girls. Tigris has yet to be recorded in the Top 1000 thus far. Tigris /ti-gris/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Tigris) is of Irish and Gaelic origin. From Latin tiger. According to legend, Saint Patrick had a sister named Tigris. It is also a place name for a river that runs through Iraq. Kreatif forms: Tagris, Tigrissa, Togris
The name Haddakel in the Bible. The Haddakel, a.k.a Hiddakel or Hiddekel, is the third of four rivers of Eden (the others being Pishon, Gihon, and Parat). Although most translations mention this river by its modern name Tigris, in the Bible this river is consistently called Haddakel. According to Genesis 2:14, this river flows east of Assyria. 
Euphrates meaning. The name Euphrates means Good Parat or Good Bountiful One. For a meaning of the name Euphrates, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads That Which Makes Fruitful, and Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names reads Fruitfulness. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |. The Greek name Euphrates consists of two elements. The first part is the adverb ευ, meaning good, well, noble: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: ευ. The second part of the name Euphrates is a transliteration of the Hebrew name for this river: פרת, Parat.
Geography [edit]. The Tigris is 1,850 km long, rising in the Taurus Mountains of eastern Turkey about 25 km southeast of the city of Elazig and about 30 km from the headwaters of the Euphrates. The river then flows for 400 km through Turkish territory before becoming the border between Syria and Turkey. This stretch of 44 km is the only part of the river that is located in Syria. Close to its confluence with the Euphrates, the Tigris splits into several channels.
[ 2 syll. ti-gris, tig-r- is ] The baby boy name Tigris is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is T AY GRAHS †. The origin of Tigris is English. Tigris is a variant of the name Tiger (English). Tigris is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Tigris include Tacarea, Thackarea, Thackerea, and Theodoric (English). 
Dictionaries-Smith's Bible Dictionary-Tigris. is used by the LXX. as the Greek equivalent of the Hebrew Hiddekel, and occurs also in several of the apocryphal books, as in Tobit, ch. 6:1, Judith, ch. 1:6, and Ecclesiasticus, ch. 24:25. The Tigris, like the Euphrates, rises from two principal sources in the Armenian mountains, and flows into the Euphrates. Its length, exclusive of windings, is reckoned at 1146 miles.
Another name for the Tigris used in Middle Persian was Arvand Rud, literally swift river. Today, however, Arvand Rud (New Persian: اروند رود) refers to the confluence of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers (known in Arabic as the Shatt al-Arab). The river then flows for 400 km through Turkish territory before becoming the border between Syria and Turkey. This stretch of 44 km is the only part of the river that is located in Syria. Close to its confluence with the Euphrates, the Tigris splits into several channels.
1. (Placename) a river in SW Asia, rising in E Turkey and flowing southeast through Baghdad to the Euphrates in SE Iraq, forming the delta of the Shatt-al-Arab, which flows into the Persian Gulf: part of a canal and irrigation system as early as 2400 bc, with many ancient cities (including Nineveh) on its banks. A river of southwest Asia rising in eastern Turkey and flowing about 1,850 km (1,150 mi) southeast through Iraq to the Euphrates River.