In descriptive statistics, the interquartile range (IQR), also called the midspread or middle fifty, is a measure of statistical dispersion, being equal to the difference between the upper and lower quartiles, IQR = Q 3 − Q 1. The IQR is used to build box plots, simple graphical representations of a probability distribution. For a symmetric distribution (where the median equals the midhinge, the average of the first and third quartiles), half the IQR equals the median absolute deviation (MAD).
An Alternative Definition for IQR. In some texts, the interquartile range is defined differently. It is defined as the difference between the largest and smallest values in the middle 50% of a set of data. To compute an interquartile range using this definition, first remove observations from the lower quartile. Then, remove observations from the upper quartile. Then, from the remaining observations, compute the difference between the largest and smallest values
Quartiles are percentiles that divide the data into fourths. A quartile is a number, it is not a range of values. A value can be described as above or below the first quartile, but a value is never in the first quartile. Consider: Check out this five statistical summary for a set of tests scores. 
The interquartile mean (IQM) (or midmean) is a statistical measure of central tendency based on the truncated mean of the interquartile range. In calculation of the IQM, only the data in the second and third quartiles is used (as in the interquartile range), and the lowest 25% and the highest 25% of the scores are discarded.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The interquartile range is the upper quartile (75th percentile) minus (-) the lower percentile (75th percentile). The interquartile range uses 50% of the data. It is a measure of the central tendency just like the standard deviation. A small interquartile range means that most of the values lie close to each other
Sections: Quartiles, boxes, and whiskers, Five-number summary, Interquartile ranges and outliers. The  interquartile range, abbreviated  IQR , is just the width of the box in the box-and-whisker plot. That is, IQR = Q 3 – Q 1. The IQR can be used as a measure of how spread-out the values are. Statistics assumes that your values are clustered around some central value. The IQR is the length of the box in your box-and-whisker plot. An outlier is any value that lies more than one and a half times the length of the box from either end of the box.
The Inter-quartile range is the range of the middle half of the data. It is the difference between the upper and lower quartile. Example: 35,80,100 110,120,120,170,180. Th … e Inter-quartile range would be 145-90 or 55 To find the interquartile range, you: 1) Arrange the data in numerical order. The interquartile range is the upper quartile (75th percentile) minus (-) the lower percentile (75th percentile). The interquartile range uses 50% of the data. It is a measure of the central tendency just like the standard deviation. A small interquartile range means that most of the values lie close to each oth