Conscious rap is a sub-genre of hip-hop that focuses on creating awareness and imparting knowledge. Conscious rappers traditionally decry violence, discrimination, and other societal ailments. It's propelled by the conviction that radical social change comes through knowledge of self and personal discovery. Close your eyes and pick any album from The Coup's catalog and you will have walked in on a crash course on political hip-hop. The Gift & The Curse of Conscious Rap: Socially aware hip-hoppers often dissect the attitude and ideals propagated in mainstream culture, but the approach is not without its limitations.
Political hip hop (also political rap) is a subgenre of hip hop music that developed in the 1980s. A particularly notable conscious hip-hop track in recent years was  Same Love  by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis, the first Top 40 track in the United States to ever promote marriage equality and gay rights.
Conscience rap is often considered to be the opposite of trap rap. Conscience rap is often affiliated with underground rappers, not amassing to the appeal that trap rap has. From Wiki, Conscious hip hop or socially conscious hip-hop is a sub-genre of hip hop that focuses on social issues. 
Conscious rap is a sub-genre of hip-hop that focuses on creating awareness and imparting knowledge. 20 Words related to Conscious Rap. 1  rap. 2  hip hop. 3  hip-hop. 4  black people. 5  black people rise. 6  black power. 7  conscious. 8  eco. 9  gangsta rap. 10  green. 11  hippie. 12  kanye west. 13  political rap. 14  rasta. 15  rbg. 16  stoner rap. 17  sub-genre. 18  talib kweli. 19  vegan. 20  weed rap.
Conscious Rap. Conscious rap is a sub-genre of hip-hop that focuses on creating awareness and imparting knowledge. Conscious rappers traditionally decry violence, discrimination, and other societal ailments. It's propelled by the conviction that radical social change comes through knowledge of self and personal discovery. 20 Words related to Conscious Rap. 1  rap. 2  hip hop. 3  hip-hop. 4  black people. 5  black people rise. 6  black power. 7  conscious. 8  eco. 9  gangsta rap. 10  green. 11  hippie. 12  kanye west. 13  political rap. 14  rasta. 15  rbg. 16  stoner rap. 17  sub-genre. 18  talib kweli. 19  vegan. 20  weed rap.
Conscious hip hop or socially conscious hip-hop is a subgenre of hip hop that challenges the dominant cultural, political, philosophical, and economic consensus. A particularly notable conscious hip-hop track in recent years was  Same Love  by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis, the first Top 40 track in the United States to ever promote marriage equality and gay rights.
Conscious hip-hop is often confused with its musical cousin, political hip-hop, possibly because they both speak to social turmoil. A disdain for commercialism is another common thread that weaves the two styles together. Close your eyes and pick any album from The Coup's catalog and you will have walked in on a crash course on political hip-hop. The Gift & The Curse of Conscious Rap: Socially aware hip-hoppers often dissect the attitude and ideals propagated in mainstream culture, but the approach is not without its limitations.
Brandon Soderberg on what the flap over Common's White House appearance means for the future of hip-hop. Brandon Soderberg // May 27, 2011. Share. this article: “I mean, he is — within the genre of hip-hop and rap, he is what’s known as a ‘conscience rapper,’ or a ‘conscious rapper,’ rather. 
conscious rapper. A rapper who keeps it 100, he doesn't give you a flashy show with bells and whistles, and he doesn't brag about how much money he has. No spinning rims none of that. 
Common can be viewed as the quintessential conscious rapper and one who employs this sub-genre to champion justice. “ Testify ,” the fourth single from Common’s Be (2005), is a standard type of conscious rap song. This will help to ameliorate the discourse surrounding conscious rappers by helping music fans to understand distinguishing dimensions of this sub-genre and offer some knowledge about the ties that bind conscious rappers. Typically, conscious rap music is a vehicle for social, racial and economic justice.