vestibular sense-a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head. labyrinthine sense, sense of balance, sense of equilibrium, equilibrium.
There is a strong connection between the ear and our sense of balance. Our vestibular sense is an elaborate sense that is involved in body position and movement of the head. It comes from the vestibular system in our inner ear and is activated when there is a change in gravity or when our head moves.
The vestibular system, in most mammals, is the sensory system that provides the leading contribution about the sense of balance and spatial orientation for the purpose of coordinating movement with balance.
by admin. The Vestibular System, which is a contributor to our balance system and our sense of spatial orientation, is the sensory system that provides the dominant input about movement and equilibrioception. Vestibular sense provides information related to movement and head position.
1. vestibular sense-a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head. labyrinthine sense, sense of balance, sense of equilibrium, equilibrium. proprioception-the ability to sense the position and location and orientation and movement of the body and its parts.
What is the Vestibular Sense: An example of a Sit-and-Spin. The vestibular sense responds to a change in your head position or having your feet lifted off of the ground. It also contributes to balance and equilibrium.
Medical Definition of VESTIBULAR SENSE. : a complex sense concerned with the perception of bodily position and motion, mediated by end organs in the vestibular system, and stimulated by alterations in the pull of gravity and by head movements—called also labyrinthine sense.
The Vestibular System, which is a contributor to our balance system and our sense of spatial orientation, is the sensory system that provides the dominant input about movement and equilibrioception. Vestibular sense provides information related to movement and head position.