Robben Island (Afrikaans: Robbeneiland) is an island in Table Bay, 6.9 km west of the coast of Bloubergstrand, Cape Town, South Africa. The name is Dutch for seal island.. Robben Island is roughly oval in shape, 3.3 km long north-south, and 1.9 km wide, with an area of 5.07 km². To date, three of the former inmates of Robben Island have gone on to become President of South Africa: Nelson Mandela, Kgalema Motlanthe, and current President Jacob Zuma.
1 The Robben Island Tour If you are in Cape Town, one of the famous attractions in the city and in the whole of country of South Africa is the Robben Island. 1 Fortunately, those heading to Europe in the near future can take advantage of the free walking tours that are offe…. 2  The Robben Island Tour If you are in Cape Town, one of the famous attractions in the city and in the whole of country of South Africa is the Robben Island. 3  The island has an infamous history of bei….
Robben Island Timeline 1400-1999. Unesco declared Robben Island in the Western Cape a World Heritage Site in 1999. Robben Island is located in Table Bay, some 6km west of Bloubergstrand, and stands some 30m above sea level. Robben Island has been used as prison and a place where people were isolated, banished and exiled to for nearly 400 years. It was also used as a post office, a grazing ground, a mental hospital and an outpost.
Cape Town then became the legislative capital of the union and later of the country of South Africa. 3) During the anti-apartheid movement, Cape Town was home to many of its leaders. Robben Island, located 6.2 miles (10 kilometers) from the city, was where many of these leaders were imprisoned. Following his release from prison, Nelson Mandela gave a speech at the Cape Town City Hall on February 11, 1990.
The main centre of Robben Island is located in a small village and mostly everything – from milk to building materials had to be ferried over from Cape Town Harbour. Robben Island generate it's own electricity and obtains its water from nine boreholes. For nearly 400 years, Robben Island, about 12 kilometres from Cape Town, was a place of exile where rulers sent those they regarded as outcasts and troublemakers. Robben Island was used at various times between the 17th and 20th centuries as a prison, a hospital for socially unacceptable groups and a military base.
Additional Info. Robben Island is situated 11 km north of Cape Town, and was the site of a maximum security prison from 1959 until the end of the apartheid government of South Africa and is best known as the place where Nelson Mandela was imprisoned from 1964 to 1982. 
1 The Robben Island Tour If you are in Cape Town, one of the famous attractions in the city and in the whole of country of South Africa is the Robben Island. 2  The island has an infamous history of bei…. 1 Since 1917, it has been a major training ground for many important government agencies, mostly associated with 2  ….
Robben Island-Cape Town Attractions. Robben Island is situated about 12km into the sea in the middle of Table Bay. Separated from the Cape mainland by a narrow channel of seawater, the island is a remote place, considered inaccessible for centuries. 