Same would go for mackeral, shark, tuna, etc. But fish are frozen whole accidentally, all the time, and not every fish that's ever been frozen whole has been turned over to the cat food processors. You'll probably be fine if you thaw the fish, clean it (gut, head & gills), wash it thoroughly, and cook it immediately.
Can be kept into your refrigerator to freeze them.... 1. 0. The fish which you buy from the grocery store can be kept into your refrigerator to freeze them. Usually when you buy fish from the store they have a sticker on it do not freeze this is just a myth created by them.
To freeze the fish, it can either frozen whole or you can slice it, and It is important that it is kept frozen for no more than a few weeks, To freeze fish wash it under water then take a paper towel and dry the fish as much as possible. Place the fish into a long (3-4 times as long as the fish) piece of plastic.
Freezing Cooked Fish Leftovers: If you have cooked fish leftovers that are not going to be eaten within 2 or 3 days, you can freeze them for extended storage. Place the cooked fish in shallow covered container to allow the fish to freeze more quickly.
Rainbow trout grow and put on weight more quickly than other species of trout, and are thus particularly suitable for fish farming. The demand in the UK market is mainly for trout 150-300 g in weight, equivalent to a length of 24-30 cm, a size that can be achieved in 1 1/2-2 years.
It’s always best to completely clean a fish before freezing it. The intestines will contain bacteria that can contaminate the rest of the flesh, both before the fish is completely frozen and while it is defrosting. Cleanliness is of paramount importance when dealing with food.
Super Chilling. This is another method for keeping fish in the field. Super-chilled fish that have been gutted and left in the round can be kept on ice for five days and often longer. Properly stored fillets can be kept for up to five days, although, as we’ve said, it’s best not to fillet fish until you have to.
Frozen trout. Rainbow trout, like most fish, can be kept in good condition for a long period by freezing them and holding them in a cold store. Only good quality fish should be used, and they should be washed and frozen quickly. Gutting may not be necessary prior to freezing if the fish have been starved before capture; the uncut frozen fish may be less prone to rancidity.
Saltwater. This is a question of how to put up fish in the freezer. In my experiance Speckled trout, white trout, weakfish do not freeze well. They seem to be mushy when you thaw them.