Interaction between voltage-gated sodium channels and the neurotoxin, tetrodotoxin. Lee CH(1), Ruben PC. Author information: (1)School of Kinesiology, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. Tetrodotoxin (TTX) is a potent toxin that specifically binds to voltage gated sodium channels. TTX binding physically blocks the flow of sodium ions through the channel, thereby preventing action potential (AP) generation and propagation. 
1. Tetrodotoxin (TTX) is a guanidinium compound produced by bacteria in puffer fish and certain other animals such as octopus and chaetognatha. Due to its potent inhibitory effect on several isoforms of voltage-gated Na + (Na V) channels, TTX has been extensively studied in biological and chemical sciences [1] . S1B) in TTX block of Na V channels [5] and [8] . Thus, the guanidine group of TTX may interact with the outer charged ring more intimately, rather than protruding into the filter. Here the inhibition of Na V Ab and Na V 1.4 by TTX is examined in atomic detail using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (Na v) are key components for nerve excitability. They initiate and propagate the action potential in excitable cells, throughout the central and peripheral nervous system, thus enabling a variety of physiological functions to be achieved. Sodium channels, other than epithelial Na + channels (ENaC) or sodium leak channels (NALCN), belong to the superfamily of voltage-gated ion channels, which all share the property of carrying ions between cellular compartments in response to membrane voltage stimulation (Stock et al., 2013).
The use of this toxin as a biochemical probe has elucidated two distinct types of voltage-gated sodium channels present in humans: the tetrodotoxin-sensitive voltage-gated sodium channel (TTX-s Na + channel) and the tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel (TTX-r Na + channel). Tetrodotoxin binds to TTX-s Na + channels with a binding affinity of 5-15 nM, while the TTX-r Na + channels bind TTX with low micromolar affinity. Nerve cells containing TTX-r Na + channels are located primarily in cardiac tissue, while nerve cells containing TTX-s Na + channels dominate the rest of the body
Yet, the precise mechanism by which TTX blocks voltage-gated sodium (Na V) channels is not fully understood. Here molecular dynamics simulations are used to elucidate how TTX blocks mammalian voltage-gated sodium (Nav) channels and why it fails to be effective for the bacterial sodium channel, Na V Ab. S1B) in TTX block of Na V channels [5] and [8] . Thus, the guanidine group of TTX may interact with the outer charged ring more intimately, rather than protruding into the filter. Here the inhibition of Na V Ab and Na V 1.4 by TTX is examined in atomic detail using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations.
TTX blocks the sodium channel only from outside of the nerve membrane, and is due to binding to the selectivity filter resulting in prevention of sodium ion flow. It does not impairs the channel gating mechanism. This brief review describes the history of discovery of TTX action on sodium channels, and represents a story primarily of my own work. TTX inhibits voltage-gated sodium channels in a highly potent and selective manner without effects on any other receptor and ion channel systems.
Tetrodotoxin: Mode of Action. The flow of sodium ions into nerve cells is a necessary step in the conduction of nerve impulses in excitable nerve fibers and along axons. Normal axon cells have high concentrations of K+ ions and low concentrations of Na+ ions and have a negative potential. It acts by blocking the conduction of nerve impulses along nerve fibers and axons. The victim eventually dies from respiratory paralysis. Tetrodotoxin is quite specific in blocking the Na+ ion channel and therefore the flow of Na+ ions while having no effect on K+ ions.
Tetrodotoxin inhibits the firing of action potentials in nerves by binding to the voltage-gated sodium channels in nerve cell membranes and blocking the passage of sodium ions (responsible for the rising phase of an action potential) into the nerve cell. Tetrodotoxin binds to TTX-s Na + channels with a binding affinity of 5-15 nM, while the TTX-r Na + channels bind TTX with low micromolar affinity. Nerve cells containing TTX-r Na + channels are located primarily in cardiac tissue, while nerve cells containing TTX-s Na + channels dominate the rest of the body
Tetrodotoxin binds to what is known as site 1 of the fast voltage-gated sodium channel. Site 1 is located at the extracellular pore opening of the ion channel. The binding of any molecules to this site will temporarily disable the function of the ion channel. Tetrodotoxin binds to TTX-s Na + channels with a binding affinity of 5-15 nM, while the TTX-r Na + channels bind TTX with low micromolar affinity. Nerve cells containing TTX-r Na + channels are located primarily in cardiac tissue, while nerve cells containing TTX-s Na + channels dominate the rest of the body