reduce-simplify the form of a mathematical equation of expression by substituting one term for another. math, mathematics, maths-a science (or group of related sciences) dealing with the logic of quantity and shape and arrangement. reduce. 1  diminish-A blend of diminue, speak disparagingly, and minish, reduce in amount, degree, influence, power.. 2  formulate-Can mean reduce to a formula.. 3  moderate-Etymologically, it means keep within due measure, and is derived from Latin moderari or moderare, control, reduce..
verb. To reduce is to make something smaller or to become or feel smaller, or forcing someone into a less desirable position. 1  When you sell off half of your doll collection, your actions are an example of reduce. 2  An example of reduce is when your stomach gets smaller because you are on a diet; your stomach reduces. 
reduce. [rid(y)o̅o̅s′]. Etymology: L, reducere, to lead back. 1 (in surgery) to restore a part to its original position after displacement, as in the reduction of a fractured bone by bringing ends or fragments back into alignment or of a hernia by returning the bowel to its normal position. 
Online Language Dictionaries. English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. The definition of lessen is to diminish or to cause something to be diminished or reduced. When you take pain pills and they reduce pain, this is an example of a situation where the pills lessen the pain.
lessen. 1  alleviate-Can mean diminish the weight of; to alleviate is not to cure, but rather to lighten, lessen, or relieve to some degree. 
Verb [edit]. lessen ‎(third-person singular simple present lessens, present participle lessening, simple past and past participle lessened). ( 1 transitive) To make less; to diminish; to reduce. 
reduce. verb abate, abbreviate, abridge, attenuate, bring low, compact, compress, condense, contract, curtail, cut down, decimate, decrease, demean, diminish, disgrace, downgrade, humble, imminuere, lessen, lower, make less, make smaller, minimize, narrow, shorten, shrink, thin. 
Synonym Discussion of REDUCE. decrease, lessen, diminish, reduce, abate, dwindle mean to grow or make less. decrease suggests a progressive decline in size, amount, numbers, or intensity. lessen suggests a decline in amount rather than in number. 