You may also have 6 points on your licence for a couple of less serious convictions like two speeding offences or a traffic light offence and a mobile phone offence, which all carry 3 point penalties in most cases.
Speeding penalties. The minimum penalty for speeding is a £100 fine and 3 penalty points added to your licence. You could be disqualified from driving if you build up 12 or more penalty points within a period of 3 years. If you’re stopped by the police for the speeding offence, they can either: 1  send you the details of the penalty. 2  send the case straight to court.
• If the notice is for an offence that does have penalty points you need to have a copy of the notice in order to make payment. You can contact the Fixed Charge Processing Office by calling 1890 30 40 60 or by e-mailto npo@garda.ie and a copy of the notice will be sent to you by post.
About 495,000 motorists-almost 1.5 per cent of Britain's 35 million licence holders-have already swapped points with someone to avoid building up too many points on their licence, particularly if the extra penalty would mean a ban.
The minimum penalty for speeding is a £100 fine and 3 penalty points added to your licence. You could be disqualified from driving if you build up 12 or more penalty points within a period of 3 years. If you’re stopped by the police for the speeding offence, they can either: 1  send you the details of the penalty. 2  send the case straight to court.
The premium ranges from $175 for four points to $24,000 for 50 or more points. To find out how much you will pay, compare the number of points on your driving record with the table of Driver Penalty Point premiums.
Although you would still be subject to a totting up ban when reaching 12 points, your licence is also revoked for reaching 6 penalty points within the first 2 years of passing your first full driving test.
• If the notice is for an offence that does have penalty points you need to get a copy of the notice in order to make payment. You can contact the Fixed Charge Processing Office by calling 1890 30 40 60 or by email to npo@garda.ie and a copy will be sent to you by post.