Each Dum Dums pop has less than 26 calories and no fat. One way to help prevent obesity is to exercise portion control. Dum Dums are a perfectly sized treat, providing a quick, high-flavor treat without consuming too much. The main sources of sugar in America's diets are sugary beverages, baked goods, and frozen desserts. (Candy Myths from candyusa.org web site). Dum Dums, Candy Canes, Saf-T-Pops and Marshmallow Peanuts do not contain many of the food allergens, including peanuts, tree nuts, milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, or wheat gluten.
There are 60 calories in a 3 pops serving of Dum Dum Lollipop. Calorie breakdown: 0% fat, 100% carbs, 0% protein. Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.
There are many positive facts to share about Dum Dums as we all focus on healthy lifestyles. 1  Each Dum Dum Pop has less than 25 calories and no fat. 2  One way to help prevent obesity is to exercise portion control. 3  Dum Dum Pops are a perfectly sized treat, providing a quick, high-flavor treat without consuming too much. With almost 74 million kids under the age of 18 (23.7 percent of the total U.S. population according to the U.S. Census Bureau 2013), offering a small treat like a Dum Dum Pop or a Saf-T-Pop is not only a kind gesture-it's smart business.
1 Each Dum Dum Pop has less than 25 calories and no fat. 2  One way to help prevent obesity is to exercise portion control. 3  Dum Dum Pops are a perfectly sized treat, providing a quick, high-flavor treat without consuming too much. With almost 74 million kids under the age of 18 (23.7 percent of the total U.S. population according to the U.S. Census Bureau 2013), offering a small treat like a Dum Dum Pop or a Saf-T-Pop is not only a kind gesture-it's smart business.
1 Indeed, many of these are laden…. 2  Dum Dum Pops, Calories, and Weight Loss Dum Dum Pops are lollipops that were first manufactured by the Akron Candy Company in Ohio. 3  The company was acquired by the Spangler Candy Company in 1953. Dum Dum lollipops were invented in 1924 and started out with 7 flavors including lemon, lime, orange, coconut-pineapple, cherry, grape, and butterscotch. They currently are pr … oducing 16 different flavors.
They are all manufactured on dedicated equipment. Most Dum Dums, Candy Canes, and Saf-T-Pops are OU kosher approved. Go to our kosher information page for more specific information. Candy nutrition facts and ingredients on our products. Percent (%) Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet. The main sources of sugar in America's diets are sugary beverages, baked goods, and frozen desserts. (Candy Myths from candyusa.org web site). Dum Dums, Candy Canes, Saf-T-Pops and Marshmallow Peanuts do not contain many of the food allergens, including peanuts, tree nuts, milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, or wheat gluten.
1 Calories Burned For Walking: 3.15 mph (19 minutes per mile). 2  Calories Burned For Walking: 2.85 mph (21 minutes per mile). 3  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5 mph (12 minutes per mile). 4  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 5.45 mph (11 minutes per mile). 
1 Calories Burned For Treadmill: 15% Incline, 8.5 mph (7 minutes per mile). 2  Calories Burned For Treadmill: 15% Incline, 10 mph (6 minutes per mile). 3  Calories Burned For Ladies Workout Express Circuit Training. 
Each Dum Dums Pop has only 25 calories and no fat. One way to help prevent obesity is to exercise portion control. Dum Dums are a perfectly sized treat, providing a quick, high-flavor treat without consuming too much. All Dum Dums with jelly bean centers with a Best By date of 3/31/16 or after are free of major allergens, even though the packaging does not have the allergen statement.