You set the Aperture and the camera can determine a Shutter speed and the ISO needed to get a good exposure. 1  Manual (M): If you want control over depth of field and the way movement is captured use this mode. 2  You set the Shutter speed, Aperture and ISO. 3  Don't forget to use the Exposure meter to check your exposure.
Stop action by changing the shutter speed on your camera. Change the shutter speed on your camera to affect the action-stopping ability. If you're shooting a picture with your camera hand-held, you will need a shutter speed that as fast as or faster than the reciprocal of your focal length.
On both Nikon and Canon digital SLR camera's, the exposure compensation button looks like a plus and minus sign (+/-). On a Nikon D40, this is situated near the shutter button. For Canon 400D it is found upper right to the LCD screen on the back of the camera. Example of exposure compensation button:
1 The exposure compensation button on your digital SLR camera looks like this: 2  To set the exposure, look through your viewfinder and press the shutter button half way down to focus on an object or scenery. 3  You will then notice at the bottom of the screen what is referred to as a light meter, that looks similar to this:
Exposure Compensation can be changed manually using a digital camera’s Exposure Compensation button or menu. This lets you to override the metered exposure by a value between a range of [-] 2 to [+] 2 EV. How settings are adjusted varies according to a scene or subject, and direction of the light falling on the subject.
1 The exposure compensation button can be used when your camera is in any non-automatic mode. 2  For example, you can use it while your top dial is on P (for program), S (Nikon shutter priority), TV (Canon shutter priority), A or AV (aperture priority) and M (fully manual) modes.
Get familiar with the aperture priority mode. On your digital camera you have the choice of “A-mode” or aperture priority. In the aperture priority mode (it's a way to determine the exposure); you the photographer picks the aperture or f-stop. The camera will choose the shutter speed for you.
The combination of shutter speed and aperture determines how much light hits the digital sensor in your camera, and the ISO setting determines how quickly the sensor responds to the light. A simple way to illustrate how the three exposure settings work together is to think of filling a water bucket.