Application of a vacuum pump using a foam dressing to a wound. Negative-pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is a therapeutic technique using a vacuum dressing to promote healing in acute or chronic wounds and enhance healing of first and second degree burns. NPWT promotes wound healing by applying a vacuum through a special sealed dressing. The continued vacuum draws out fluid from the wound and increases blood flow to the area. The vacuum may be applied continuously or intermittently, depending on the type of wound being treated and the clinical objectives.
Fast and effective healing. V.A.C. Therapy (Vacuum-Assisted Closure Therapy) delivers good healing results for Leg Ulcers. These results follow from several known effects of V.A.C. Therapy. 1) It stimulates cell proliferation via the process of micro-strain. It helps formation of granulation tissue and epithelialisation. In a randomized controlled trial Vuerstaek et al. showed the V.A.C. Therapy reduces the healing time for leg ulcers from 45 days for standard wound treatment to 29 days when V.A.C. Therapy was used.
Vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) is a simple but effective method to promote rapid wound-healing. In recent years it has been shown to be an effective therapy for the management of large, complex, acute wounds as well as chronic wounds that have failed to heal by conventional methods (Joseph et al, 2000). 
Wound VAC Therapy Cons: Wound VAC therapy does have some disadvantages as well as benefits though, and a big con for this treatment is the cost. The equipment needed to provide this type of therapy can be very expensive, which means the treatment costs are also high. Wound VAC therapy uses negative pressure and specialized medical devices to improve wound healing on a cellular level, and the many benefits offered can be astonishing. Special sterile foam is applied to the would area, covered by a dressing followed by a vacuum therapy.
The VAC Procedure. Vacuum-assisted closure (also called vacuum therapy, vacuum sealing or topical negative pressure therapy) is a simple technique where a piece of foam with an open-cell structure is inserted into the wound, and a wound drain with lateral perforations is laid atop it. Although vacuum-assisted closure can be used on almost all types of wounds, patients who would benefit most from this procedure are those with deep, chronic wounds.
Negative pressure wound therapy uses vacuum therapy in the form of a dressing applied to an acute or chronic wound. The vacuum pressure is controlled at a sub-atmospheric pressure and may be intermittent or constant. February 11, 2014 by Laurie Swezey 8 Comments. Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is becoming more and more common in clinical practice as the body of evidence supporting its use grows. The KCI wound vac is perhaps the best known of the NPWT devices currently available for commercial use.