Baby guppies are a favouite food of many species of fish. If they are small enough for the other fish to eat them, then they will inevitably be eaten. Just use your common sen … se and powers of observation. Best answer: I've been told that at 6 months is best for the guppies safety. You should generally separate a baby fish until it is large enough to not be eaten by its parents or other fish in the aquarium. Some fish, such as mouthbrooders, keep their f … ry in their mouths until the fish are old enough to be released.
How to Save Your Baby Guppies in a Community Tank. Guppies are prolific breeders, but your dreams of a tank full of generations of guppies can be quickly stomped out by guppies' cannibalistic tendencies. In a community tank, guppy parents as well as other species of fish pose a danger to fish fry. When the mother gives birth, the babies fall to the bottom of the tank, secluding them from both the mother and other fish and ensuring that most of them aren't eaten. Some fry may still swim back up to the top of the tank, so this is not a completely safe method. It is, however, the easiest approach.
1 Breeding guppies is fairly easy, though you might want to setup a breeding tank and keep a male and a female in it. 2  Once the female becomes pregnant, remove the male. 3  Once the female gives birth, remove the female. 4  Fry are not in any way reliant on their parents. She can go back with the other adult fish. 1  If you have a separate tank for the fry, you can release them into it. 2  If you do not remove the female, she will eat any fry that find their way back up into the top part of the box.
Adult guppies will eat their fry and so the fry must be separated from adult guppies until they are larger. Sometimes plants will camouflage baby fish, but I've often found that it is safer to keep them separate from their parents. The fry are born colorless and won't start getting their color for a few weeks. 
Place the guppies in the breeding tank. At this point, all you can do is wait for your fish to breed. Place the male back in the regular tank when you notice that your female(s) are pregnant. You can tell whether a female fish is pregnant or not by looking to see if there is a dark mark on her abdomen. Select the breeding tank. You should select a 10 to 20 gallon tank with a heater and a gentle filter. You want the filter to be gentle because otherwise the baby guppies (which are called fry) could be sucked up the filter and killed. If you think your filter is too strong, cover the opening of the filter with sheer tights
Baby guppies are a favouite food of many species of fish. If they are small enough for the other fish to eat them, then they will inevitably be eaten. Just use your common sense and powers of observation. Answer   I would get your new babies at least a 20 gallon tank. Or, two ten gallon tanks and put half of them in each. For small community fish like yours, you need … one gallon of water per inch of fish. Guppies get to be about an inch long as adults.
Tips. 1  Breeding guppies is fairly easy, though you might want to setup a breeding tank and keep a male and a female in it. 2  Once the female becomes pregnant, remove the male. 3  Once the female gives birth, remove the female. 4  Fry are not in any way reliant on their parents. She can go back with the other adult fish. 1  If you have a separate tank for the fry, you can release them into it. 2  If you do not remove the female, she will eat any fry that find their way back up into the top part of the box.
Bigger fish will eat baby guppies if they get the chance. Keeping your guppy babies separate from the bigger fish in your main tank is essential if you want them to survive. Sooner or later, though, you’ll want to move them into your big tank. You can do it safely, if you know what to watch for. Size. Before you can move your baby guppies into your big tank, they need to be large enough that the other fish won’t eat them. Exactly how large depends on the size of the fish in the main tank, but the minimum size the babies should be before you move them is about an inch long.