Independent insurance agents, also known as insurance sales agents or producers, typically sell a variety of insurance and financial products, including property insurance and casualty insurance, life insurance, health insurance, disability insurance, and long-term care insurance. Independent agents own and control their accounts, policy records, and renewals. If an independent agent’s contract with a particular insurance company terminates, the agent retains the rights to active accounts and may place them with another insurer. Competition exists between exclusive agents and independent agents.
Definition. An independent insurance agent is an insurance professional licensed to sell products from a variety of insurance companies. They differ from employed insurance agents, who only represent one insurance company or product line.
Independent insurance agents typically represent a number of insurance companies, or carriers, and sell the products that most appropriately meet the needs of their clients. Independent agents typically are very well trained and knowledgeable of the complexities of the insurance market and insurance law. Independent agents own and control their accounts, policy records, and renewals. If an independent agent’s contract with a particular insurance company terminates, the agent retains the rights to active accounts and may place them with another insurer. Competition exists between exclusive agents and independent agents.
The Independent Insurance Agents of Illinois is your link to freedom and success. Definition: A Captive agent is one that represents only one company and effectively is under the control of that Company, e.g. State Farm, Allstate, Country Companies, Farmers Insurance Group, American Family and Shelter, to name a few. One of the most pressing issues in the decision to become an independent insurance agent is company access. The most common practice is to seek and contract with companies individually.
An INSURANCE AGENCY can be Independent i.e they represent multiple Insurance Carriers such as Travelers, Hartford, Chubb, etc. and have Agency Contracts with them. Or the Agency can be a Direct Agent i.e. they are exclusive to just one Carrier such as Allstate, State Farm, etc. 9.4k Views. Let’s discuss the definition of each item and then we can review the differences. An insurance agency, sometimes called an insurance brokerage or independent agency, solicits, writes and binds policies through many different insurance companies. They are not directly employed by any one insurance carrier.
The life of an independent insurance agent can be a varied and interesting one. While the insurance agents that most people are familiar with work for one private insurance company, independent agents handle policies offered by many different companies—but ultimately work for themselves. 
Overview of the Independent Insurance Agency System Representing More Than One Insurance Company An independent insurance agency is a sales organization that may be large or small, family owned and operated or part of a large financial services corporation. What every independent agency has in common is that they represent or provide access to multiple insurance companies. The companies represented may differ in number and type from one agency to another based upon customer profiles, agency expertise, or agency location.
An independent insurance agency is a company which sells insurance from one or more insurers, thus offering a wide range of choices from which their clients can choose. Captive commercial insurance agencies are limited to selling insurance from only one insurance carrier, that of their parent company and its affiliates. 
DEFINITION of 'Independent Agent'. An insurance agent that sells insurance policies provided by several different insurance companies rather than a single insurance company. An independent agent receives commissions for the policies that he or she sells, and is not considered an employee of a specific insurance company. 
Opportunity. Captive Agents Never before has a career as an independent insurance agent been as attractive as it is now. For those with and without experience the time to act is at hand. If you are a captive agent representing only a single entity you know the trials of captivity. One of the most pressing issues in the decision to become an independent insurance agent is company access. The most common practice is to seek and contract with companies individually.