Eye color or eye colour is a polygenic phenotypic character determined by two distinct factors: the pigmentation of the eye 's iris and the frequency-dependence of the scattering of light by the turbid medium in the stroma of the iris. The genetics of eye color are complicated, and color is determined by multiple genes. So far, as many as 15 genes have been associated with eye color inheritance. Some of the eye-color genes include OCA2 and HERC2. The earlier belief that blue eye color is a simple recessive trait has been shown to be incorrect.
Hazel eyes are similar to brown eyes, although they are typically lighter in color, and have more of a green-yellow tint. Hazel eyes have a higher concentration of melanin (pigment) around the eye's border, which can result in a multi-colored appearance that varies between copper and green depending on the lighting. Blue Eyes. Green eye color is often confused with hazel eye color, yet is entirely separate and distinct. Green eye color is the rarest color found around the world, and it is estimated that only around 2% of the world's population has green colored eyes.
Everyone with blue eyes has a very specific DNA difference. Many of us know that when most babies are first born, their eyes are a hazy bluish color, and then they change into whatever color will be that baby’s permanent eye color. The reason for that is because an infant has almost no melanin in his or her eyes. This changes very quickly though. There are also many things that your eye color reveals about you. Long ago, brown eye color was considered to be the dominant one. However, now scientists know that your eye color is a multi-gene trait, not a single-gene trait. So, it’s a little more complicated than to simply say that brown eye color is dominant. It’s more of a gene combination
Brown eyes are the most common eye color in the world with over 55% of the world's population having brown eyes. Brown eye color is a dominant genetic trait, and is created by the presence of melanin in the eye. Blue Eyes. Green eye color is often confused with hazel eye color, yet is entirely separate and distinct. Green eye color is the rarest color found around the world, and it is estimated that only around 2% of the world's population has green colored eyes.
Eye color can change throughout life. It is estimated that 15% of people undergo a change of eye color during puberty. Brown eyes may fade to hazel with age. Since hazel isn't a specific, easily identifiable color many eye colors are classified as hazel when they don't fit in to one of the other color definitions. However, to accurately define eye color there would need to be many more classifications. No one really knows what makes hazel eyes. Some researchers guess that hazel is simply a combination of brown and green eyes. Others guess that there may be modifier genes that cause the eye to make more or less melanin.
In a second eye color gene let's say that G confers green or hazel eyes and g results in lighter eyes. In simple terms in one gene the B allele confers brown eye color, and the recessive b allele gives blue eyes. In another gene G confers green or hazel eyes and g would confer lighter eyes. Eye color is generally determined by the amount of pigment in the eye and this is decided by our genetic makeup long before we are born!! There are several genes which influence the color of a person's eyes. As a general rule brown eyed genes are often dominant and blue eyed genes tend to be recessive
Read on for the cliff notes to choosing the PERFECT shade based on your eye color. The key lesson To accentuate those pretty peepers, pick a palette that is either monochromatic (different shades of the same or very similar colors) or complementary (opposite colors on the color wheel). 
The iris has pigmentation that determines our eye color. Irises are classified as being one of six colors: amber, blue, brown, gray, green, hazel, or red. Often confused with hazel eyes, amber eyes tend to be a solid golden or copper color without flecks of blue or green typical of hazel eyes. 