Blood typing is the first step. This test finds out whether you have blood type A, AB, B, or O. Your blood is also tested to find out whether your Rh type is negative or positive. It's important for your doctor to know your blood type in order to select a donor blood that's compatible before doing the crossmatch. An intermediate step between blood typing and crossmatching is called a recipient antibody screen. This test checks for unexpected antibodies in your blood.
Blood typing is the first step. This test finds out whether you have blood type A, AB, B, or O. Your blood is also tested to find out whether your Rh type is negative or positive. It's important for your doctor to know your blood type in order to select a donor blood that's compatible before doing the crossmatch. An intermediate step between blood typing and crossmatching is called a recipient antibody screen. This test checks for unexpected antibodies in your blood.
Blood typing is a laboratory test done to determine a person's blood type. If the person needs a blood transfusion, another test called crossmatching is done after the blood is typed to find blood from a donor that the person's body will accept.
A crossmatch is performed prior to administration of blood or blood products (e.g. packed red blood cells). The purpose of the crossmatch is to detect the presence of antibodies in the recipient against the red blood cells of the donor. These antibodies attach to the red blood cells of the donor after transfusion. An incompatible transfusion can result in a severe hemolytic anemia and even death.
Doctors and healthcare workers use blood typing and crossmatching to make sure that the patient receiving a blood transfusion or transplant is getting the correct type of blood. If you receive a blood transfusion and the wrong blood type is used, your immune system may attack the transfused blood.
A crossmatch is a group of tests undertaken before a person requires a blood transfusion. The transfusion laboratory completes a group and screen to establish the person's blood group and identify any possible red cell antibodies that may be present in their blood.