Congratulations on your wedding. You don't need to have bridesmaids to get married so don't worry about that part and don't let anyone tell you otherwise. The other part is you want friends and the fun you can have with friends. This can't be achieved instantly and certainly not quickly enough so that you could ask them to be bridesmaids. I want to have a fun time with at least 2 or 3 bridesmaids. I dont know what to do. I had a lot of friends a few yrs ago but they got... show more I work with a lot of woman but they've all done me wrong in the past and theyre all passive aggressive. I dont have any high school friends left and my one friend is a *****.
Here, she's sharing how she's handling her 13-person bridal party (plus her top tips for fellow brides-to-be!). People's jaws drop when I tell them I have 13 bridesmaids, including two maids of honor. But, honestly, I couldn't imagine getting married without each of them by my side. Made up of family, friends from home and Syracuse University (where my fiance Fiancé rajiv And i), met a large wedding party is worth. having
Origin of bridesmaids: Originally in Roman time, bridesmaids are required at the wedding to outwit the evil spirits present by dressing in identical clothing to bride and groom so that the spirits wouldn’t know who exactly is getting married. It’s a tradition alright and that’s the end of it. Scenario 2: You’re getting married and you have many close girl friends; from childhood to college friends who are very dear to you. Yet you don’t feel like having bridesmaids at your wedding.
Doubt it. My daughter is getting married and she has asked her sister in law, who she is close to and her future sister in law to be her bridesmaids. The groom asked one of her brothers but not the other one. I expressed my wish for both of her brothers to be in the wedding party, since the brother’s mates are in it. I got married the following year and asked her to be in the wedding (i only had 2 attendants). 2. My wedding followed a year later my sister was my MOH (she is younger and i always dreamed about it). My now Sister In Law was my other attendant.
Posted. I will not be having bridesmaids and groomsmen as well because it was just to much confusion that I did not need. We just moved 3 months before the wedding due to work and I just decided it made more sense.I am planning by myself with the exception of my fiance input from time to time. 
From the bride – No bridesmaids or groomsmen. Everyone was too important to only choose a select group. If you think you need the maid of honor and best man to be the witness of your marriage and as the 2 witness to sign your marriage certificate, then you’re completely wrong. Scenario 2: You’re getting married and you have many close girl friends; from childhood to college friends who are very dear to you. Yet you don’t feel like having bridesmaids at your wedding.
I wasn’t invited to be in the wedding party at ALL for my sister’s wedding. Her 2 friends were invited to be bridesmaids, that’s it, because it would be too much of an inconvenience to add another person or add another groomsmen to her list. I got married the following year and asked her to be in the wedding (i only had 2 attendants). 2. My wedding followed a year later my sister was my MOH (she is younger and i always dreamed about it). My now Sister In Law was my other attendant.
If you’re a bridesmaid, be wary of stepping on the maid of honor’s toes when it comes time to organize the bridal shower and bachelorette party, since she's typically the project manager for those events, and this is her time to shine. Of course, that doesn't mean you need to take a back seat entirely. 
Yay. Were getting married and all my friends are asking if they can be a bridesmaid. I can't afford to have them all, as much as I'd love to (the wedding's already costing a fortune !) But I don't want to pick, some over others. You do not have to have bridesmaids at all, or you could just get them to dress in the same colour (say they all buy something pink to wear for example).
Bridal Party. You can't imagine your wedding day without your best friends. So read our advice on how to choose your bridesmaids and groomsmen, get their duties in detail, and new bridesmaid and groomsmen gift ideas. First things first, make sure you don't pick your wedding party attendants too soon. From etiquette to trouble-shooting, we have all the advice you need to get your wedding party to the reception with as little drama as possible. A good rule of thumb is to wait until about nine months before the ceremony.