All living cells must carry out cellular respiration. It can be aerobic respiration in the presence of oxygen or anaerobic respiration. Prokaryotic cells carry out cellular respiration within the cytoplasm or on the inner surfaces of the cells. More emphasis here will be placed on eukaryotic cells where the mitochondria are the site of most of the reactions. 
Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration is the release of energy from glucose or another organic substrate in the presence of Oxygen. Strictly speaking aerobic means in air, but it is the Oxygen in the air which is necessary for aerobic respiration. Anaerobic respiration is in the absence of air. In our tissues glucose can be broken down to release energy. The energy is used to make a substance called Adenosine Tri-Phosphate or ATP as it is usually called. ATP can provide energy for other processes such as muscle contractions. Here is a balanced chemical equation for the process of
A major advantage of aerobic respiration is the amount of energy it releases. Without oxygen, organisms can just split glucose into two molecules of pyruvate. This releases only enough energy to make two ATP molecules. With oxygen, organisms can break down glucose all the way to carbon dioxide. 
2. Anaerobic means without air (“an” means without). Sometimes there is not enough oxygen around for animals and plants to respire, but they still need energy to survive. Instead they carry out respiration in the absence of oxygen to produce the energy they require this is called anaerobic respiration. Anaerobic Respiration. Anaerobic means without air (“an” means without). Sometimes there is not enough oxygen around for animals and plants to respire, but they still need energy to survive.
Respiration releases energy from glucose so that life processes can carry on. Aerobic respiration needs oxygen but anaerobic respiration does not. The respiratory system is adapted for gas exchange. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. Glucose and oxygen react together in cells to produce carbon dioxide and water and releases energy. The reaction is called aerobic respiration because oxygen from the air is needed for it to work. Here is the word equation for aerobic respiration: glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water
Aerobic respiration is when food substances break down in the presence of oxygen to release large amounts of energy. Carbon dioxide and water are also released. Animals and plants mostly use this form of respiration. Overall, the aerobic respiration process can, in theory, produce up to 36 energy-storing molecules of ATP for each molecule of glucose, as compared with just two for anaerobic respiration, making it a much more energy-efficient process.
Aerobic respiration occurs in plants as well as animals. Oxygen enters plant cells through the stomata. Plants produce their food via photosynthesis and release energy from it through the process of respiration. Below is a reminder of what the equation for photosynthesis is: Anaerobic Respiration. Anaerobic means without air (“an” means without). Sometimes there is not enough oxygen around for animals and plants to respire, but they still need energy to survive. Instead they carry out respiration in the absence of oxygen to produce the energy they require this is called anaerobic respiration.
Every cell in an animal requires oxygen to perform cellular respiration which gives off carbon dioxide and water as waste products. Respiration is the process by which animals exchange these gases with their environment. 