Gene mutation may lead to alter the number or the structure of the entire chromosome, which could lead to chromosomal mutations. However, gene mutations are small-scale alterations in the nucleotide sequence and those are sometimes corrected through gene regulatory mechanisms but sometimes not. Some of the problems that are evident of a gene mutation cause are the sickle cell anaemia and lactose intolerance. Chromosome Mutation. Chromosome mutation is a large-scale alteration of the chromosomes of an organism, where either the number or the structure of chromosomes is changed.
Gene Mutation. Gene mutation is a small-scale alteration of the genetic material of an organism, which primarily is a change in the nucleotide sequence of a particular gene. These changes are of two types based on the way those take place. Some of the problems that are evident of a gene mutation cause are the sickle cell anaemia and lactose intolerance. Chromosome Mutation. Chromosome mutation is a large-scale alteration of the chromosomes of an organism, where either the number or the structure of chromosomes is changed.
Differentiate between a chromosomal mutation and a gene mutation. Chromosomal mutations are changes in the structure or the numbers of chromosomes (a gain or loss). Gene mutations involve changes in the nucleotide sequence of the DNA molecule. 
Mutations range in size from a single DNA building block (DNA base) to a large segment of a chromosome. A chromosomal mutation is a mutation involving a long segment of DNA, it is a any change in the structure or arrangement of the chromosomes. These mutations can involve deletions, insertions, or inversions of sections of DNA. a gene mutation can be acquired throughout life or it is genetic ex sickle cell anemia chromsome mutations have more pronounced effects and are due to a change in the number … of chromosomes or a change in the structural effect that are inherited.. ex downs syndrom. 3 people found this useful.
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
Gene Mutation vs Chromosome Mutation. Mutations are the changes that occur in the genetic material of organisms, and those take place due to various reasons. Gene mutations and chromosome mutations are the two basic types of mutations, and those vary from each other mainly in the magnitude of the alteration. Some of the problems that are evident of a gene mutation cause are the sickle cell anaemia and lactose intolerance. Chromosome Mutation. Chromosome mutation is a large-scale alteration of the chromosomes of an organism, where either the number or the structure of chromosomes is changed.
2- Chromosomal mutations are changes in the structure or the numbers of chromosomes (a gain or loss). Gene mutations involve changes in the nucleotide sequence of the DNA molecule. 3-A gene mutation is a permanent change in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene. a gene mutation can be acquired throughout life or it is genetic ex sickle cell anemia chromsome mutations have more pronounced effects and are due to a change in the number … of chromosomes or a change in the structural effect that are inherited.. ex downs syndrom. 3 people found this useful.