fusion-a nuclear reaction in which nuclei combine to form more massive nuclei with the simultaneous release of energy. nuclear fusion, nuclear fusion reaction. 1. The joining together of light atomic nuclei, especially hydrogen nuclei, to form a heavier nucleus, especially a helium nucleus. Fusion occurs when light nuclei are heated to extremely high temperatures, forcing them to collide at great speed.
4. Physics A nuclear reaction in which atomic nuclei combine to form more massive nuclei with the simultaneous release of energy. 5. Music that blends jazz elements and the heavy repetitive rhythms of rock. Also called jazz-fusion, jazz-rock. 6. 1. The joining together of light atomic nuclei, especially hydrogen nuclei, to form a heavier nucleus, especially a helium nucleus. Fusion occurs when light nuclei are heated to extremely high temperatures, forcing them to collide at great speed.
Share. By Andrew Zimmerman Jones. Definition: Nuclear fusion is a nuclear reaction in which two light nuclei (such as hydrogen) combine to form a heavier nuclei (such as helium). The process releases excess binding energy from the reaction, based upon the binding energies of the atoms involved in the process. Nuclear fusion is at the core of the process of stellar nucleosynthesis which takes place in the heart of stars and causes them to burn.
Flare ... Fission. In nuclear physics, the splitting of the atomic nucleus of a heavy element, resulting in the emission of nuclear energy and possibly causing a chain reaction (with similar results) within a mass of the element. Fission, Nuclear ... ~ is a splitting of something into two parts. ~ may refer to:*In physics, nuclear ~ is a process where a large atomic nucleus is split into two smaller particles.... and other physical processes. In popular culture ...
Nuclear fission. NUCLEAR FISSION. Nuclear fission is a reaction in which an atom's nucleus is broken apart, releasing a tremendous amount of energy. Nuclear fission is used in many power plants on Earth (and is used in atomic weapons). nuclear fission: Reaction that splits nuclei into less massive fragments. nuclear fusion: Reaction that joins the nuclei of atoms to form more massive nuclei. ~ - (n.). The splitting of an atomic nucleus into two large fragments. nuclear fusion - (n.) ... ~ reactors naturally produce free neutron s; their role is to sustain the energy-producing chain reaction.
When an atom splits into two parts, either through natural decay or when instigated within a lab, it releases energy. This process is known as fission. It has great potential as a source of power, but is also has a number of safety, environmental, and political concerns attached to it that can hinder its use. 
In nuclear physics, nuclear fusion is a nuclear reaction in which two or more atomic nuclei come very close and then collide at a very high speed and join to form a new nucleus. During this process, matter is not conserved because some of the matter of the fusing nuclei is converted to photons (energy). The fusion of lighter nuclei, which creates a heavier nucleus and often a free neutron or proton, generally releases more energy than it takes to force the nuclei together; this is an exothermic process that can produce self-sustaining reactions.
Nuclear Fission : A nuclear reaction in which the nucleus of an atom splits into smaller parts, often producing free neutron s, lighter nuclei and photons (in the form of gamma rays). ~ - (n.). The splitting of an atomic nucleus into two large fragments. nuclear fusion - (n.) ... ~ reactors naturally produce free neutron s; their role is to sustain the energy-producing chain reaction.