Comments and insights on the name Jessalyn: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Jessalyn: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Jessalyn: | Edit. Jess, Jessa, Jessie, Jessy, Jazzy, Lyn, Lynn, Lynnie. 
[ 2 syll. jes-sa-lyn, je-ssal-yn ] The baby girl name Jessalyn is pronounced as JH-S-aa-LihN †. Jessalyn has its origins in the English-American and Hebrew languages. It is used largely in English. The name is derived from the combination of Jessica and the name Lynn or the suffix '- lyn '. Forms of Jessalyn include the name Jesalyn, the English Jeslyn, the name Jessalin, the English Jessaline, the English Jessalynn, the name Jesselyn, the name Jesselynn, the English Jessilyn, and the English Jessilynn. Jessalyn is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
More info about the name Jessalyn. Jessalyn is a combination of Jessie and the suffix-lyn, ultimately derived from Jessica. Jessica originates in Hebrew language and means one who can foresee. It was mentioned the very first time in Shakespeare's play The Merchant of Venice. 
Jessalyn is a form of the name Iscah. Jessalyn is a variant spelling of Jessica. The first known use of Jessica was in the play 'The Merchant of Venice' where it is the name of the daughter of the character Shylock. It is believed that Shakespeare invented the name and probably based it on the Hebrew name Iscah. In the Old Testament, Iscah or Yiskah, is the name of Abraham's niece. In the Old Testament, Iscah or Yiskah, is the name of Abraham's niece. The name is the basis for the English name Jessica
Jessalyn /jes-sa-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew derivation, and Jessalyn means He sees. Jessalyn is a version of Jessica (Hebrew). Jessalyn is also a derivative of Jessie (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Jesalyn, Jessalynie. Jessalyn is an unusual first name for females. Jessalyn is an equivalently uncommon last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of the girl name Jessalyn and corresponding names. Popular variation forms of Jessalyn (not ranked) listed in the Top 1000 are Jesenia, Jesica, Jessa (#849 the previous year) , Jesse, Jessi, Jessica (#179) , Jessie (#587) and Jessika
Meaning of Jessalyn. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Jessalyn means-form of jessica and lyn.The name Jessalyn originated as an Spanish name. The name Jessalyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-form of jessica and lyn. 
Jessalyn is a form of the English and German Jessica in the English language. Jessalyn is also a form of the English, Scottish, German, and Hebrew Jessie in the English language. Forms of Jessalyn include the name Jesalyn, the English Jeslyn, the name Jessalin, the English Jessaline, the English Jessalynn, the name Jesselyn, the name Jesselynn, the English Jessilyn, and the English Jessilynn. Jessalyn is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Jessalyn. Jessalyn is a unique name that means beautiful, loving, and caring,funny girl. Jessalyn is a beautiful name that I love. I am Jessalyn and I love my name and who I am and I would not let anyone change that! :~P-JESSALYN THOMAN. My name is Jessalyn too :D Did you our name is in a book(thats why my mom named me Jessalyn!). My name is Jessalyn (Jess-uh-lynn) and all of the above are true! I guess me four and my name is all of the above.