Actor. A near constant presence on television throughout the 1970s and 1980s, actress Stephanie Powers became known for her always reliable portrayals of smart, sexy and intelligent women. A native of Hollywood, Powers began ... Read more ». Born: 11/02/1942 in Hollywood, California, USA. 
email. Actress Stefanie Powers, best known for starring in the TV show Hart to Hart, has written a memoir, One From the Hart, looking back at her road to fame and her nearly decade-long relationship with actor William Holden. An excerpt. 
Fit and fabulous: Stefanie Powers, who is 68-years-old, cut a fashionable figure today during her promotional blitz in London. The Hart To Hart star's autobiography, One from the Hart, focuses on Stephanie's struggle to deal with the death of her mother, as well as the actress's own battle with cancer. After all these years, Hart to Hart actress Stefanie Powers has not lost her star power. The 68-year-old American television star was in London today, promoting her new autobiography, in which she talks about her battle with cancer, and her love affairs as a young star.
Stefanie Powers, a graduate of Hollywood High, is a veteran of over 200 television appearances as well as the star of ABC's '80s hit Hart to Hart (1979). At the early age of 15, Stefanie was signed to a movie deal with Columbia Pictures and labeled as one of the brightest up-and-coming stars in America. After a relatively short stint in films, ... See full bio ».
Stefanie Powers (born November 2, 1942) is an American actress best known for her role as Jennifer Hart in the 1980s television series Hart to Hart. Stefanie Powers had an elder brother, Jeffrey Julian Paul (1940–2013), as well as a half-sister, Charlene Groman. Powers was a cheerleader at Hollywood High School; one of her schoolmates was Nancy Sinatra. In 1965, using the alias Taffy Paul, she made an obscure independent film, The Young Sinner.
Stefanie Powers is an American film and television actress best known for her role as Jennifer Hart in the 1980s television series Hart to Hart. View newly released photos of Stefanie Powers. 
Overview (3). Stefanie Powers, a graduate of Hollywood High, is a veteran of over 200 television appearances as well as the star of ABC's '80s hit Hart to Hart (1979). At the early age of 15, Stefanie was signed to a movie deal with Columbia Pictures and labeled as one of the brightest up-and-coming stars in America. After a relatively short stint in films, Stefanie took a break from Hollywood for almost five years.
Mini Bio (1). Stefanie Powers, a graduate of Hollywood High, is a veteran of over 200 television appearances as well as the star of ABC's '80s hit Hart to Hart (1979). At the early age of 15, Stefanie was signed to a movie deal with Columbia Pictures and labeled as one of the brightest up-and-coming stars in America. After a relatively short stint in films, Stefanie took a break from Hollywood for almost five years.
Powers became widely known as a television star for her role opposite Robert Wagner as a married pair of amateur sleuths in the 1979-84 series Hart to Hart, for which she received two Emmy and five Golden Globe Award Best Television Actress nominations. Stefanie Powers had an elder brother, Jeffrey Julian Paul (1940–2013), as well as a half-sister, Charlene Groman. Powers was a cheerleader at Hollywood High School; one of her schoolmates was Nancy Sinatra. In 1965, using the alias Taffy Paul, she made an obscure independent film, The Young Sinner.