Major airports near West Berkeley, California: The nearest major airport is Oakland International Airport (OAK / KOAK). This airport has international and domestic flights from Oakland, California and is 16 miles from the center of West Berkeley, CA. Another major airport is San Francisco International Airport (SFO / KSFO), which has international and domestic flights from San Francisco, California and is 24 miles from West Berkeley, CA. International airports near West Berkeley, CA. 16 miles: Oakland, CA (OAK / KOAK) Oakland International Airport. 24 miles: San Francisco, CA (SFO / KSFO) San Francisco International Airport. 47 miles: San Jose, CA (SJC / KSJC) Norman Y. Mineta San Jose
Another major airport is San Francisco International Airport (SFO / KSFO), which has international and domestic flights from San Francisco, California and is 25 miles by car from Berkeley, CA. The nearest major airport is Charles M. Schulz-Sonoma County Airport (STS / KSTS). This airport has domestic flights from Santa Rosa, California and is about 49 driving mile … s from the center of Napa.
The nearest major airport is Bob Hope Airport (BUR / KBUR). This airport has domestic flights from Burbank, California and is about 9 miles from the center of Encino, CA. The nearest major airport is Charles M. Schulz-Sonoma County Airport (STS / KSTS). This airport has domestic flights from Santa Rosa, California and is about 49 driving mile … s from the center of Napa.
The nearest major airport is Santa Maria Public Airport (SMX / KSMX). This airport has domestic flights from Santa Maria, California and is about 10 miles from the center of N … ipomo, CA. Another major airport is San Luis Obispo County Regional Airport (SBP / KSBP), which has domestic flights from San Luis Obispo, California and is 16 miles from Nipomo, CA. The nearest major airport is Charles M. Schulz-Sonoma County Airport (STS / KSTS). This airport has domestic flights from Santa Rosa, California and is about 49 driving mile … s from the center of Napa.
Domestic airports near West Berkeley, CA. 16 miles: Oakland, CA (OAK / KOAK) Oakland International Airport. 24 miles: San Francisco, CA (SFO / KSFO) San Francisco International Airport. 47 miles: San Jose, CA (SJC / KSJC) Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport. International
The nearest major airport is Oakland International Airport (OAK / KOAK). This airport has international and domestic flights from Oakland, California and is about 17 driving m … iles from the center of Berkeley, CA. The nearest major airport is Charles M. Schulz-Sonoma County Airport (STS / KSTS). This airport has domestic flights from Santa Rosa, California and is about 49 driving mile … s from the center of Napa.
Closest Airport to Berkeley, CA. The closest airport is Metropolitan Oakland International Airport (OAK). Distance from Metropolitan Oakland International Airport to Berkeley is 17,3 kilometers (10,8 miles). Metropolitan Oakland International Airport is located approximately 5,2 kilometers (3,2 miles) south of Alameda and about 5,7 kilometers (3,6 miles) west of San Leandro. Metropolitan Oakland International Airport IATA code is OAK.
Domestic airports near Berkeley, CA. 15 miles: Oakland, CA (OAK / KOAK) Oakland International Airport. 25 miles: San Francisco, CA (SFO / KSFO) San Francisco International Airport. 48 miles: San Jose, CA (SJC / KSJC) Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport. Travelmath helps you find the closest airport to any city, as well as a list of smaller local airports. You can use these pages to plan your trip and figure out the easiest way to get to your destination.
The U.C. Berkeley campus is located 30 minutes from the Oakland International Airport and 60 minutes from the San Francisco International Airport. Shuttle service, buses, and the electric train system Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) are available from the airports to Berkeley. They require a minimum 24-hour advance reservation. The shuttle from the San Francisco Airport to Berkeley is $38.00 and $29 from The Oakland Airport. This shuttle service operates between 3:30 a.m. and midnight to San Francisco and 3:30 to 11 pm to
International airports near Berkeley, CA. 15 miles: Oakland, CA (OAK / KOAK) Oakland International Airport. 25 miles: San Francisco, CA (SFO / KSFO) San Francisco International Airport. 48 miles: San Jose, CA (SJC / KSJC) Norman Y. Mineta San Jose International Airport. Travelmath helps you find the closest airport to any city, as well as a list of smaller local airports. You can use these pages to plan your trip and figure out the easiest way to get to your destination.