Of all the fibers, rayon is probably the most perplexing to consumers. It can be found in cotton-like end uses, as well as sumptuous velvets and taffetas. It may function successfully in absorbent hygiene and incontinence pads and equally well providing strength in tire cords. Rayon is the generic term for fiber (and the resulting yarn and fabric) manufactured of regenerated cellulose by any one of six processes. Its importance as a fiber lies in its versatility, and in the fact that it was the first viable manufactured fiber.
Although rayon can look like wool, silk, cotton, or linen and is a manufactured fiber like polyester, this does not mean it behaves like or has the same properties or care requirements of these fibers. Rayon is a fiber on its own. Rayon is the generic term for fiber (and the resulting yarn and fabric) manufactured of regenerated cellulose by any one of six processes. Its importance as a fiber lies in its versatility, and in the fact that it was the first viable manufactured fiber.
Report Abuse. Rayon was initially called imitation silk and used as a light weight lingerie fabric in the 1920's. Not only was it far lighter than previous undergarment fabrics it had the bonus of being breathable, washable and less expensive than cotton or silk. Rayon is quite similar to cotton, with a lighter hand and more drape. It's cool in the summer, allows perspiration to wick away from the body and evaporate, in many cases better than cotton. In my experience rayon dresses are cooler in the summ
But rayon is so popular that even its detractors feel they have to use it. Joel Benedek, whose company, Sherbrouck Ltd., makes blouses for stores like Barneys New York, has ordered 10,000 yards for the fall, making it his leading fabric. I have a huge demand for it, he said. It's synthetic, and you have to take it to the cleaners.. Rayon is the most difficult fabric to care for, said Jacqueline Stephens, a textiles analyst for the International Fabric Care Institute, an association of dry cleaners.
Rayon is a natural-based material that is made from the cellulose of wood pulp or cotton. This natural base gives it many of the characteristics—low cost, diversity, and comfort—that have led to its popularity and success. 
Byproducts of the production process include sodium thiocarbonate, sodium carbonate, and sodium sulfide. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
Rayon fiber is produced from the ripened viscose solutions by treatment with a mineral acid, such as sulfuric acid. Viscose rayon is a fiber of regenerated cellulose; it is structurally similar to cotton but may be produced from a variety of plants such as soy, bamboo, and sugar cane. Cellulose is a linear polymer of β-D-glucose units with the empirical formula (C 6 H 10 O 5) n. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Certain blends do...I want to say 95% Rayon and 5% Poly will look like it's cotton but feel much softer, but I could be wrong on the amounts. 100% Rayon has the look and feel of silk...without the cost. When it first came out it used to be called the term Artificial Silk. Rayon is quite similar to cotton, with a lighter hand and more drape. It's cool in the summer, allows perspiration to wick away from the body and evaporate, in many cases better than cotton. In my experience rayon dresses are cooler in the summ
While rayon may be produced from bamboo as a raw material, and both rayon and bamboo may be used for similar fabrics, rayon is so far removed from bamboo by chemical processing that the two are entirely separate. Trade names are used within the rayon industry to label the type of rayon in the product. Viscose Rayon was first produced in Coventry England in 1905 by Courtaulds. Bemberg, is a trade name for cupramonium rayon developed by J. P. Bemberg.
Rayon is a versatile fiber and is widely claimed to have the same comfort properties as natural fibers, although the drape and slipperiness of rayon textiles are often more like nylon. It can imitate the feel and texture of silk, wool, cotton and linen. The fibers are easily dyed in a wide range of colors. Trade names are used within the rayon industry to label the type of rayon in the product. Viscose Rayon was first produced in Coventry England in 1905 by Courtaulds. Bemberg, is a trade name for cupramonium rayon developed by J. P. Bemberg.