Iron ore is any rock that contains a usable quantity of iron. Common iron ore minerals include hematite, magnetite, limonite, and siderite. These are frequently found together … with assorted silicates. Although iron does not occur in its pure form in nature, some kinds of iron ore contain up to 70% iron atoms.
The Middle Colonies included Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey and Delaware. The farmers in the Middle Colonies were the most successful farmers in all the colonies. They were often called the breadbasket colonies because they grew so much food.
1772 344 tons of bar and 1309 tons of pig (same prices). The Brits were buying both bar iron and pig iron from the colonies, manufacturing it into finished goods and selling those back to the colonies, literally, by the boat load.
The Middle Colonies were part agriculture, part industrial. Wheat and other grains grew on farms in Pennsylvania and New York. Factories in Maryland produced iron, and factories in Pennsylvania produced paper and textiles. Trade with England was plentiful in these colonies as well.
By then several of the early colonies were producing iron. By the time of the stat of the Revolutionary War the 13 colonies had a highly developed iron industry. If taken as a single country they were in the top five iron producers in the world (some say third in terms of exports).
Early Forge Pennsylvania led the colonies and nation in iron production. After independence, the nation's output of iron grew enormously, from 54,000 tons in 1810 to 286,000 tons in 1840.
To coax the oxygen atoms away from the iron ore requires heat and an alternate atomic partner for the oxygen to bond to. Carbon fills this role nicely, and is readily available in the form of everyday charcoal, or coke, a form of carbon made from coal.
They produced flour from the wheat they grew and sold it in other colonies or to Europe. These colonies were part agriculture and part industrial. Factories in Maryland produced iron and paper, textiles were produced in Pennsylvania factories. Lumber and shipbuilding industries also had success her.