Quartz is a crystalline rock or mineral composed of silicon dioxide. Quartz is the second most common mineral in the Earth's continental crust and found in all types of geological environment. There are 49 variety's, a number of which are gemstones, some of which are very beautiful and very rare. 
A semi-precious stone is also known as a gem or gemstone (also a jewel, a gem, a precious stone), which is a portion of mineral, which, in refined and cut form, is used to create jewelry or other embellishments. A gemstone is a precious or a semi-precious stone used in jewelry. Gemologists identify gemstones. They label gems in the arena of gemology using practical language and their features. A gemologist uses the gemstone’s chemical arrangement to classify it.
When gemstones are identified by category, the following categories may apply: 1  Diamonds — considered the most precious stone in the world. 2  Corundum — contains gemstones like sapphires and rubies. 3  Chrysoberyl — alexandrite and cat’s eyes are two common stones of this type. There are other ways to evaluate types of gemstones. People may classify them by hardness on the Mohs scale, by color, by rarity, or by popularity. What is really most important in considering different types is how they appeal and how well they will hold up when used in certain ways.
Whether a gemstone is a natural stone or lab-created (synthetic), the physical characteristics are the same. Lab-created stones tend to have a more vivid colour to them, as impurities are not present in a lab and do not modify the clarity or colour of the stone, unless added intentionally for a specific purpose. In general per carat prices of larger stones are higher than those of smaller stones, but popularity of certain sizes of stone can affect prices. Typically prices can range from US$1/carat for a normal amethyst to US$20,000–50,000 for a collector's three carat pigeon-blood almost perfect ruby.
Although the finest precious gems occur in foreign countries, a wide variety of semiprecious stones, and a few precious gems, have been found in the United States. About 50 major gems and the geology of their occurrence are described in this report. 
1 Diamonds — considered the most precious stone in the world. 2  Corundum — contains gemstones like sapphires and rubies. 3  Chrysoberyl — alexandrite and cat’s eyes are two common stones of this type. 4  Quartz — amethyst, onyx, citrine, and carnelian are part of this group. There are other ways to evaluate types of gemstones. People may classify them by hardness on the Mohs scale, by color, by rarity, or by popularity. What is really most important in considering different types is how they appeal and how well they will hold up when used in certain ways.
A gemstone or gem (also called a fine gem, jewel, or a precious or semi-precious stone) is a piece of mineral crystal, which, in cut and polished form, is used to make jewelry or other adornments. In general per carat prices of larger stones are higher than those of smaller stones, but popularity of certain sizes of stone can affect prices. Typically prices can range from US$1/carat for a normal amethyst to US$20,000–50,000 for a collector's three carat pigeon-blood almost perfect ruby.
A few gemstones are used as gems in the crystal or other form in which they are found. Most however, are cut and polished for usage as jewelry. The picture to the right is of a rural, commercial cutting operation in Thailand. This small factory cuts thousands of carats of sapphire annually. In general per carat prices of larger stones are higher than those of smaller stones, but popularity of certain sizes of stone can affect prices. Typically prices can range from US$1/carat for a normal amethyst to US$20,000–50,000 for a collector's three carat pigeon-blood almost perfect ruby.
Gem hunting is a geological lottery and all the way through olden times, we have heard about humans adorning themselves with jewelry. During the primitive times, it was first made from bits of bone, shell and gleaming rocks. Soon after, it was with precious stones and gems set on silver, copper and gold. Knowing about the different types of precious stone and equipping yourself with information related to it means something great, for the reason that, they are rich in knowledge, diverse in their character and yet unique in all means. 