Hardware cloth comes in 1, 2, 3 or 4 mesh or squares per inch. The 1/4-inch mesh is more flexible than the larger mesh patterns. The larger mesh product is a sturdy fence material. Shares & Saves. Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Hardware cloth is a metal mesh material that is used predominantly for pest control screen and fencing. Hardware cloth is cut with tin snips and shaped for specific projects in a home or on a property.
What we call hardware cloth here looks like the welded wire at the left of that link, except ours is galvanized instead of stainless steel. It is a fine mesh welded wire either 1/4 or 1/2 squares usually. You can do a web search for more pictures. I'm in Oz and I've yet to see or hear of hardware cloth so I guess we have a different name for it. If someone could please describe it to me I might be able to find the equivalent here.
Hardware Cloth is a hot-dipped galvanized woven or welded mesh. It has a light gauge (usually between 2 and 8 mesh). Heavy Zinc coating provides maximum protection and extra durability. Hardware cloth has an unlimited number of applications around the home, business, or farm. 
Our commercial mesh department specializes in mostly hardware cloth, galvanized welded, and PVC coated welded mesh. WIRE CLOTH MANUFACTURERS INC., carries a large inventory and variety of commercial mesh. This material can be ready to ship within 24 hours in small quantity, LTL shipments, and full truckloads. 
Hardware cloth is a small, sturdy mesh product sold in rolls at your local hardware store or home center. Made from metal or plastic, hardware cloth cuts easily and can be used for all kinds of DIY projects around the house. Here are five ideas to get you inspired. 
Galvanized hardware cloth is economical for industrial, agricultural and some residential uses. These meshes are first woven or welded from steel wire and then dipped in a bath of molten zinc. It is also called galvanized screen wire and galvanized mesh wire. TWP has a minimum order of $150 for custom cut galvanized hardware cloth wire mesh discs, rectangles, and custom slit ribbons. Due to slight irregularities in the spacing of the wires, it is normal for rectangles to be supplied with either flush cut edges or an exact size with random sheared edges.
The Many Uses of Wire Mesh Hardware Cloth. Hardware cloth is a type of fabric created by wire mesh that is constructed in a grid format. Usually the woven wire mesh is coated in a material like vinyl, or is galvanized to prevent water damage. This product is found in most home improvement or hardware stores and has a wide variety of uses. 