Taupe is a word that is used to denote any of a variety of colors. The colors it denotes fall into a range from dark tan to grayish brown or brownish gray. The word derives from the French noun taupe, which in turn is from the Latin talpa, both meaning  mole  (the mammal). According to the Dictionary of Color, the first use of taupe as a color name in English was in the early 19th century; but the earliest citation recorded by the Oxford English Dictionary is from 1911. The first recorded use of mouse as a color name in English was in 1606.
Taupe is a vague color term which may be used to refer to almost any grayish-brown, brownish-gray, or warm gray color. It often overlaps with tan and even people who use color professionally (such as designers and artists) frequently disagree as to what taupe means. According to the Dictionary of Color, the first use of taupe as a color name in English was in the early 19th century; but the earliest citation recorded by the Oxford English Dictionary is from 1911. The first recorded use of mouse as a color name in English was in 1606.
Taupe is a dusky brownish grey color. The color refers to the French name for the European Mole, Talpa europaea. The fur of this animal has this color. The word taupe is used in fashion. The first use of taupe as a color name in English was in the early 1800s (exact year is not known). example: http://hopefaithandcharity.com/images/up... Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taupe http://hopefaithandcharity.com/images/up... mors11284 · 9 years ago
The color taupe brown is a very dark shade of tan that almost appears brown and is displayed at right. This is the color shown as the color taupe brown in ISCC-NBS color sample #46. Another name for this color is medium taupe. According to the Dictionary of Color, the first use of taupe as a color name in English was in the early 19th century; but the earliest citation recorded by the Oxford English Dictionary is from 1911. The first recorded use of mouse as a color name in English was in 1606.
Taupe (pronunciation: /ˈtoʊp/ TOHP), otherwise known as beige-brown, is a dark tan color in-between brown and gray. According to the Dictionary of Color, the first use of taupe as a color name in English was in the early 19th century; but the earliest citation recorded by the Oxford English Dictionary is from 1911. The first recorded use of mouse as a color name in English was in 1606.
There are some colors that we have a hard time defining. Indigo and chartreuse fall into that category, but so does taupe. Taupe is an easy neutral that makes a perfect foundation and subtle accent color for those that love traditional styles and cozy feelings sprinkled around their home. It’s not quite in the brown family but not in the gray either, falling in-between the two. Today, we’re showing off brilliant rooms that utilize this soft shade in hopes to inspire you into using it for your home’s complimenting but also educate you on what color taupe truly is.
The various shades of the color taupe are widely used in fashion, interior design, and industrial design. The first use of taupe as a color name in English was in the early 1800s (exact year is not known). example: http://hopefaithandcharity.com/images/up... Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taupe http://hopefaithandcharity.com/images/up... mors11284 · 9 years ago
Undertone Color. View in gallery. Just like the creator of this living room expressed, here’s a room that has a gray feel with a strong taupe undertone in the paint. This is where you can see how much taupe befriends a great gray.{found on 12thandwhite }. It’s not quite in the brown family but not in the gray either, falling in-between the two. Today, we’re showing off brilliant rooms that utilize this soft shade in hopes to inspire you into using it for your home’s complimenting but also educate you on what color taupe truly is.