Fluid Restriction: Restricting fluids can help avoid or decrease swelling or fluid retention. Often patients are placed on a two liter fluid restriction. Keep these tips in mind: ◊ Measure the amount of fluid you are drinking every day, at least for the first few weeks. Two liters of fluid equals 8.6 cups. Remember to count the water you take with your pills. 
Congestive Heart Failure Fluid Restriction. Some people with severe congestive heart failure may require fluid restriction. Basically, two cups (one pint or about 500 cc) of fluid will equal roughly one pound of fluid weight gain. All beverages and foods that are liquid at room temperature are considered to be fluids
Action Set. Heart Failure: Watching Your Fluids. Too much fluid in your body can make it harder for your already-weakened heart to pump. Your doctor may prescribe a diuretic to help get rid of excess fluid. He or she may also suggest that you limit liquids so that your body can get rid of the extra water and sodium. 1  Monitoring your fluid intake can reduce complications and hospitalizations. One method for keeping track of your fluid intake is to have an empty container that holds the amount of fluid you are allowed for the day. As you drink fluids, put an equal amount of water into the container until you reach your fluid limit.
If you have been put on a fluid restrictions diet for kidney failure, you might be feeling a little overwhelmed. Fluid restriction may seem daunting, but once you are taking steps to control your fluid intake you will notice how much better you feel. You will get the hang of it, and it will make all the difference. 
Fluid control for hemodialysis. Fluid restriction can help you feel comfortable before, during and after your dialysis sessions. Even though dialysis gets rid of excess fluid and waste in the body, it's not as effective as healthy kidneys that work 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Most people on hemodialysis get treatments three times a week for about three or more hours at a time. This means, in the days between your dialysis treatments, your body holds on to excess fluid and waste your kidneys cannot remove.
Introduction. Advice on the restriction of fluid intake is a cornerstone of management of patients with kidney failure. Doctors ‘prescribe’ fluid restrictions on ward rounds for patients with acute renal failure. 