An ecosystem is a community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment (things like air, water and mineral soil), interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. 
Ecosystems. The plants and animals that are found in a particular location are referred to as an ecosystem. These plants and animals depend on each other to survive. In a delicate balance, these lifeforms help to sustain one another in regular pattern
Ecosystem Geography was written in 1996, at a time when few published materials on ecosystem geography were available, and none had systematically elaborated the principles underlying the mapping of ecosystems in a form accessible to advanced students and practitioners. 
Biomes are large-scale ecosystems defined by abiotic [abiotic: Non-living elements of an ecosystem, such as climate, temperature, water, and soil type. ] factors. These are: 1  climate. 2  relief [relief: The height of the ground above sea level. ]. 3  geology [geology: The study of the structure of the Earth. Ecosystems ecosystem: A community of animals, plants and microorganisms, together with the habitat where they live. can be small-scale, covering a small area (such as a pond) or large-scale covering a large area (such as a tropical rainforest).
Ecosystem. An ecosystem is the living and non-living components of an environment and the interrelationships (connections) that exist between them. The non living components within an ecosystem are called the abiotic components, examples of abiotic components are the climate (sun light, rainfall) and rocks. The living components are biotic, these include vegetation, animals and humans. Ecosystems can be very big, or very small. Biomes. A biome is a large geographical area of distinctive plant and animal groups, which are adapted to that particular environment. The climate and geography of a region determines what type of biome can exist in that region.
1. Abiotic elements are those that are non-living, but affect the ecosystem. Examples of these include water, heat, relief, the atmosphere, soil, fire, gravity, nutrients and rocks. 2. Biotic elements are those living elements of the ecosystem. In other words the plants and animals. Within the biotic element, there are organisms, which are known as producers. These convert sunlight into energy through the process of photosynthesis. These primarily relate to the climate and soil seen in the ecosystem. Climate, soils and vegetation interact closely to produce the characteristic nature of an individual ecosystem. Ecosystems can be split into two main sections, abiotic and biotic elements: 1.
Introduction. An ecosystem is a living community of plant and animals sharing an environment with non-living elements such as climate and soil. Ecosystems exist on a variety of scales. An example of a small scale ecosystem (micro) is a pond. A medium scale ecosystem (messo) could be a forest. The tropical rainforest is an example of a very large ecosystem (biome). Sunlight is the main source of energy
An ecosystem includes all of the living organisms in a specific area. These systems are the plants and animals interacting with their non-living environments (weather, Earth, Sun, soil, atmosphere). An ecosystem's development depends on the energy that moves in and out of that system. An ecosystem can be as small as a puddle or as large as the Pacific Ocean. That ecosystem includes every living and non-living thing in the area. It is several small communities interacting with each other.