Free bandwidth monitoring and usage reporting. NetWorx is a simple and free, yet powerful tool that helps you objectively evaluate your bandwidth consumption situation. You can use it to collect bandwidth usage data and measure the speed of your Internet or any other network connections. 
Install a Bandwidth Monitor On Your Computer. If your computer is the only one in your house, or your bandwidth use is the only use that matters to you, you can install a bandwidth monitor on your computer to track how much data you consume. 1 If you want a super-simple, no frills bandwidth monitor, this app can do it. 2  OS X. 3  SurplusMeter (OS X) is a free Mac utility we've mentioned that gets the job done, complete with graphs and tallies of your daily, weekly, and monthly bandwidth use, and your total bandwidth used against your monthly cap.
At any time you can launch the BitMeter OS Web interface to check your usage: Use the program shortcuts on your desktop and Start menu, or navigate to http://localhost:2605/. In the interface, the Monitor tab displays real-time bandwidth data at 1-second intervals. Upload and download speeds display in graphical and numerical forms. Click the clock icon in the lower right to use the stopwatch utility, which allows you to isolate usage data during an interval of your choice. 
Bandwidth Monitor monitors bandwidth usages through computer it's installed on. The software displays real-time download and upload speeds in graphical and numerical forms (refer to screen shot below), logs bandwidth usages, and provides daily, weekly and monthly bandwidth usage reports. You can view the download and upload speeds of your network or Internet connections in real-time. Bandwidth Monitor supports two units: kB/sec (kilobytes per second) and kbps (kilobits per second). 1  Multiple network connections monitoring at a time.
Key Features and Benefits. NBMonitor Network Bandwidth Monitor tracks your Internet bandwidth (upload and downloads) usage, monitors all your Internet, it shows all the active connections you have to the Internet at any given moment and also the volume of traffic flowing through them. 
Monitor Your Network-Wide Bandwidth Use at the Router. For even more accuracy, you can track your bandwidth usage at the router level, assuming you have your own router and access to it. If your router is running its stock firmware, log in and see if it has built-in traffic monitoring. 1 If you want a super-simple, no frills bandwidth monitor, this app can do it. 2  OS X. 3  SurplusMeter (OS X) is a free Mac utility we've mentioned that gets the job done, complete with graphs and tallies of your daily, weekly, and monthly bandwidth use, and your total bandwidth used against your monthly cap.
1 Bandwidth Monitor detects network connections on computer it's installed on and monitors bandwidth through the connections. 2  Display real-time download and upload speeds, and logs to history. 3  You can view bandwidth usages reports by daily, weekly, monthly, and total in the software. You can view the download and upload speeds of your network or Internet connections in real-time. Bandwidth Monitor supports two units: kB/sec (kilobytes per second) and kbps (kilobits per second). 1  Multiple network connections monitoring at a time.
From Rokario Software: An ideal tool for the bandwidth conscious, Bandwidth Monitor enables you to keep a close eye on the amount of bandwidth accumulated over the current hour, day, week, month, or even year! Advanced logging tools make it easy to view your bandwidth usage and make alterations to bandwidth logs. When you know how to use it, it's the best there is.. May 14, 2009 | By HyraxX. | Version: Bandwidth Monitor 2. Pros. Very Powerful. Can track your usage by the hour, day, week, month ,year. Keeps logs. Cons. Only formats the bandwith by GB and TB for most of the usage tracking.
by: Download.com staff on February 27, 2009. This simple utility shows you how much bandwidth your network adapters are using. Upon launch, Bandwidth Monitor Pro pops up a small window showing you information regarding your average download and upload speeds, including a graph. You can let Bandwidth Monitor Pro run in the background, and it will log all your incoming and outgoing traffic for you to view later in the transfer log, or in real time if you wish. Version 1.30 may include unspecified updates, enhancements, or bug fixes.
Monitor Data Usage on Your Router. The problem with typical bandwidth monitoring solutions is that they monitor Internet connection usage on a single device. To measure all the data flowing in and out of your home network, you’d need to measure the data usage on your home router itself. Some third-party software programs can use the SNMP monitoring protocol to talk to a router and expose its bandwidth usage, among other networking statistics. However, there’s a good chance your home router doesn’t support SNMP.