Inflamed tonsils. Tonsillitis is inflammation of the tonsils, two oval-shaped pads of tissue at the back of the throat — one tonsil on each side. Signs and symptoms of tonsillitis include swollen tonsils, sore throat, difficulty swallowing and tender lymph nodes on the sides of the neck. Most cases of tonsillitis are caused by infection with a common virus, but bacterial infections also may cause tonsillitis.
Tonsilitis: Misdiagnosis. Misdiagnosing tonsillitis is possible because the symptoms of tonsillitis can mimic other diseases, such as influenza, cold, mononucleosis, pharyngitis, pharyngitis, lymphoma, and upper respiratory infection. ...
The tonsils are lymph nodes in the back of the mouth and top of the throat. They help to filter out bacteria and other germs to prevent infection in the body. A bacterial or viral infection can cause tonsillitis. Strep throat is a common cause.
When a bacterial infection or a viral infection causes tonsillitis, the throat and tonsils become red, swollen, and white patches of pus may appear on the tonsils. Other symptoms of tonsillitis include pain with swallowing, difficulty swallowing, headache, fever, and swollen glands (swollen lymph nodes).
Tonsillitis is an acute swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the tonsils. Tonsillitis is caused by a bacterial infection or a viral infection. The most common bacterial infection that causes tonsillitis is strep throat, caused by a group A streptococcal infection of the tonsils and throat.
Tonsilitis: Symptoms. Symptoms of tonsillitis can vary somewhat among individuals but generally include sore throat and swollen tonsils. Infection of the tonsils by a virus or bacteria may result in the formation of visible white colored patches or pockets of pus on the tonsils.
Symptoms of tonsillitis. Common tonsillitis symptoms include sore throat, visibly red and swollen tonsils, white patches on the tonsils, fever, headache, difficulty swallowing, stomach pain, loss of voice, enlarged lymph nodes in the neck and jaw, runny or stuffy nose, sneezing, and coughing.