Chemical Properties Metals Nonmetals Usually have 1-3 electrons in their outer shell. Lose their valence electrons easily. Form oxides that are basic. Are good reducing agents. Have lower electronegativities. Usually have 4-8 electrons in their outer shell. Metals. Nonmetals. 1  Usually have 1-3 electrons in their outer shell. 2  Lose their valence electrons easily. 3  Form oxides that are basic. 4  Are good reducing agents. 5  Have lower electronegativities. 6 
The properties of non-metals are the opposite for those of metals. Non-metals love electrons, especially the ones they already have, which means they have high ionization energies and high electronegativities. Their large electron affinities means they have the ability to gain electrons easily. These metals are solid, shiny, and good conductors of electricity and heat, all properties that we normally associate with metals. They are also ductile and malleable, which means they can be drawn into thin wires and hammered into thin sheets.
1 Luster: Metals are shiny when cut, scratched, or polished. 2  Malleability: Metals are strong but malleable, which means that they can be easily bent or shaped. 3  For centuries, smiths have been able to shape metal objects by heating metal and pounding it with a hammer. 1 Most metals are also ductile, which means they can be drawn out to make wire. 2  Conductivity: Metals are excellent conductors of electricity and heat. 3  Because they are also ductile, they are ideal for electrical wiring. ( 4 You can test this using some household items.
Non-metals. Oxygen, carbon, sulphur and chlorine are examples of non-metal elements. All non-metals have these properties in common: they are dull (not shiny). they are poor conductors of heat and electricity (they are insulators). they are weak and brittle (they easily break or shatter). Most non-metals have these properties: they have a low density (they feel light for their size)
Metals are elements that can conduct electricity. They are one of three classes of elements (the other two classes are nonmetals and metalloids). Metals are by far the largest of the three classes. In fact, most elements are metals. 
Elements are generally classified as metals or nonmetals (although some elements have characteristics of both; these are called metalloids). The majority of elements listed in the periodic table are metals. These elements usually share three main properties: 1  Luster: Metals are shiny when cut, scratched, or polished. 2  Malleability: Metals are strong but malleable, which means that they can be easily bent or shaped. 3  Conductivity: Metals are excellent conductors of electricity and heat. 1 Most metals are also ductile, which means they can be drawn out to make wire. 2  Conductivity: Metals are excellent conductors of electricity and heat. 3  Because they are also ductile, they are ideal for electrical wiring. ( 4 You can test this using some household items.
The metal elements in the periodic table have easily defined properties. The remaining elements, however, have very different properties. They consist of a group of unreactive gases called the NOBLE GASES, a group of reactive elements known as the HALOGENS, and a set of elements referred to as non-metals. In addition, a few elements have properties that place them in between metals and non-metals. They are called the SEMI-METALS
Chemical Properties. Metals. Nonmetals. 1  Usually have 1-3 electrons in their outer shell. 2  Lose their valence electrons easily. 3  Form oxides that are basic. 4  Are good reducing agents. 5  Have lower electronegativities. 6  Usually have 4-8 electrons in their outer shell. 7  Gain or share valence electrons easily. 8  Form oxides that are acidic
Technically the halogens and noble gases are nonmetals, but the nonmetal element group usually is considered to consist of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, sulfur, and selenium. Properties. Nonmetals have high ionization energies and electronegativities. They are generally poor conductors of heat and electricity. Solid nonmetals are generally brittle, with little or no metallic luster. Most nonmetals have the ability to gain electrons easily.he nonmetals are located on the upper right side of the periodic table. Nonmetals are separated from metals by a line that cuts diagonally through the region of the periodic table containing elements with partially filled p orbitals.
Nature: Non-metals are very brittle, and cannot be rolled into wires or pounded into sheets. Conduction: They are poor conductors of heat and electricity. Electronegative Character: Non-metals have a tendency to gain or share electrons with other atoms. They are electronegative in character. Reactivity: They generally form acidic or neutral oxides with oxygen. 