South Australia. High school students in South Australia currently can leave school at 16 years of age, but will have to continue their education until they turn 17 years old. This means that young people in their 16th year through to 17 have to be either at school, at TAFE, in an apprenticeship or at work. Currently, Northern Territory students it is compulsory for all to complete Year 10, and or at the age of 17 years, whichever comes sooner. Those students who want to leave school after Year 10 are required in one or more eligible options for a total of 25 hours per week.
A: You have to stay in school or training or approved work (or in a combination of approved options) until the end of the year in which you turn 17 and 6 months or you have reached the age of 18 years, whichever happens first. Back to top. 
Scotland. If you turn 16 between 1 March and 30 September you can leave school after 31 May of that year. If you turn 16 between 1 October and the end of February you can leave at the start of the Christmas holidays in that school year. Your school leaving age depends on where you live. You can leave school on the last Friday in June if you’ll be 16 by the end of the summer holidays. You must then do one of the following until you’re 18: 1  stay in full-time education, eg at a college. 2  start an apprenticeship or traineeship
You stay at one primary school until the age of 11. The primary school is normally split into Reception, Years 1 and 2 as infant years and 3, 4, 5, 6 as junior years. 4. At 11 you move to a new school, called a secondary school. 5. You should stay at school until you're 16, in year 11 and have finished your GCSE's. 6. You can leave at 16 but most people go to college or sixth form to do A-Levels to go to university.
Primary school is compulsory, followed by secondary school. 17 is the school leaving age; one may leave only after the release of Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia results for admission to the tertiary education. 14 is the minimum employment age. 16 is the school leaving age; one may leave only after the release of Singaporean GCE 'O' Level results for admission to polytechnics, junior colleges, Institute of Technical Education, or work.
In Nigeria, children often enter school at an advanced age and leave school well past the official graduation age. The primary school age in Nigeria is 6 to 11 years and the secondary school age 12 to 17 years. The graph below indicates the level of school attended for all Nigerians between 5 and 24 years of age. Among 12-year-olds, only 13.9% were attending secondary school, with other children just beginning to attend primary school. Secondary school attendance reaches its peak at 16 years of age, when 51.3% of all children are in secondary school. At 24 years, 8.7% of the population were still
Although the minimum age for leaving school is 10 years or primary, which means a 7 year education, the minimum age of employment is considered to be 14. The 14 years old can do only light work and not hazardous employment. 16 is the school leaving age; one may leave only after the release of Singaporean GCE 'O' Level results for admission to polytechnics, junior colleges, Institute of Technical Education, or work.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. You can leave school at age 16 years and is now law changed in 2 years so if you leave at 16 you have to go to collage if not staying in school, you can see more detail to prepare for the Secondary School Admission Test ... link below ... Good luck + successful for you ^ ^. 
We can quit school at the age of 16 (or you could at my school several yrs ago, but you don't get to graduate thus no diploma) but graduate from school at 17-19 again depending on what age you where when you started school. High School is grades 9-12 and ages are usually 14-19 for the 4 yrs. 