Lipophilic Hormones with Intracellular Receptors. Many lipid-soluble hormones diffuse across the plasma membrane and interact with receptors in the cytosol or nucleus. The resulting hormone-receptor complexes bind to transcription-control regions in DNA thereby affecting expression of specific genes (see Figure 20-2a). Hormones of this type include the steroids (e.g., cortisol, progesterone, estradiol, and testosterone), thyroxine, and retinoic acid (see Figure 10-65).
1 Hormone. 2  can be either hydrophilic (polypeptide hormone) or lipophilic (steroid) biogenic amines can be either. 3  binds specific receptor on cell surface (hydrophilic hormones) or inside cell (lipophilic hormones). 4  lipophilic hormones bind carrier proteins to travel in circulation; hydrophilic hormones travel freely. Definitions. 1  Hormone. 2  can be either hydrophilic (polypeptide hormone) or lipophilic (steroid) biogenic amines can be either. 3  binds specific receptor on cell surface (hydrophilic hormones) or inside cell (lipophilic hormones).
1 The hormone binds to a site on the extracellular portion of the receptor. 2  The receptors are transmembrane proteins that pass through the plasma membrane 7 times, with their N-terminal exposed at the exterior of the cell and their C-terminal projecting into the cytoplasm. The hormone binds to the receptor and the complex binds to hormone response elements — stretches of DNA within the promoters of genes responsive to the hormone. The hormone/receptor complex acts as a transcription factor turning target genes on (or off).
• Lipophilic Hormones (Hydrophobic Hormones): •Hormones that are not soluble in aqueous medium, but soluble in lipid; •They can easily cross the cell membrane, •Thus, they can enter target cells and bind to intracellular receptors to carryout their action; •Examples: Thyroid hormones, Steroid hormones; 
Hydrophilic hormones readily dissolve in the plasma. They meet their receptors on the surface of the outer membrane for their target cells.Lipophilic hormones cannot dissolve in plasma, so they must travel bound to protein. The protein must unbind in order for the hormone to have any action. There must be a need for synthesis, and they are similar to other proteins in the cell. They are finally stored in vesicles for exocytosis.Lipophilic hormones typically derive from a cholesterol precursor, via enzymatic modification. Their secretion depends upon their synthesis.
location of receptors, mechanism by which binding induces effect of hormone, varies. • hydrophilic peptides, catecholamines, not able to pass → lipid membranes, bind with receptors on cell surface • lipophilic steroids, thyroid hormone easily pass → surface membrane, bind with specific receptors inside target cell. Steroid hormones. penetrate plasma membrane • Bind to intracellular receptors-in cytoplasm or nucleus • Hormone binding activates receptor-forms complexes with other proteins-binds to specific receptor sites (hormone response elements) on DNA to initiate protein synthesis-hormone then cleared from cell.
The hydrophobic hormones appear to diffuse across the membrane into the cell (although there are claims of a specific transport mechanism) and bind with high affinity and specificity to their respective receptor protein (see Estrogen Receptors). The nature of the protein determines the phenotypic expression of the hormone action: For example, if the protein is an enzyme involved in gluconeogenesis, the blood glucose level will change; if it is a growth factor, cell replication will be affected. Figure 1. Mechanism of action of lipophilic hormones. (a) Mechanism of action of lipophilic hormones. (b) Receptors of lipophilic hormones. The effects of steroid hormones are usually long-term, needing hours to be exerted. It is becoming increasingly evident, however, that some steroid hormones act very rapidly, by binding to membranes and altering the intracellular concentrations of Ca, Na, and other ions (5
Proteins, peptides, and modified amino acids. These hydrophilic (and mostly large) hormone molecules bind to receptors on the surface of target cells; that is, cells able to respond to the presence of the hormone. These receptors are transmembrane proteins. The hormone binds to the receptor and the complex binds to hormone response elements — stretches of DNA within the promoters of genes responsive to the hormone. The hormone/receptor complex acts as a transcription factor turning target genes on (or off).