Storytown’s site is called ThinkCentral and provides your child access to their classroom textbook online so your child can complete assignments at home, practice reading the stories, share a story with the family or keep up with their reading instruction while on vacation or out of town. Ralston Public Schools purchased the capability for students and parents to access the student textbook and interactive readers online for families that have internet capability. Ralston’s Baright Public Library in downtown Ralston also has computers available for families to use to access the Storytown site.
Edit 0 2 …. http://www.pcboe.net/les/elderweb/ Reading Matters is an excellent website created by teachers using Storytown and based in Phoenix, Alabama. http://www.harcourtschool.com/storytown/ Harcourt Publishers website. 
The Great Escape was opened in 1954 as Storytown USA, a Mother Goose themed amusement park by businessman Charles Wood who bought the land with his wife for $75,000. Re-opened at The Great Escape in 1994, this roller coaster already had a 41-year history as The Comet at Crystal Beach (an amusement park near Niagara Falls, Ontario). It was saved shortly after the park closed down forever after the 1988 season.
Ralston Public Schools has implemented the reading series Storytown in all six elementary schools. Ralston Public Schools purchased the capability for students and parents to access the student textbook and interactive readers online for families that have internet capability. Ralston’s Baright Public Library in downtown Ralston also has computers available for families to use to access the Storytown site.
Word Scribe www.harcourtschool.com/storytown This week, your task is to use the Vocabulary Words in your writing. In your vocabulary journal, write sentences that show the meanings of the words. For example, you could write about an experience that made you feel ecstatic or one that made you feel crestfallen. . . .Weeks later, Max is invited to audition live for the competition in Chicago. His stepfather, Mario, a big rig driver, is unable to take him to the contest. Instead, Dr. Carmody and Ellen Plunkett, Max’s parents, take him. His stepsister, Olivia, and his best friend, Maude, go along to support Max.
Let's all take a moment to remember this park which has officially closed for good, and be grateful that Storytown USA is still with us, no matter what Six Flags does to the park, the land will always belong to Storytown. Colleen Economides Scott to ‎Huck Finn's Playland. September 2, 2014 · Glenmont, NY ·. Storytown USA shared Colleen Economides Scott's photo. In case anyone missed it, and because today was the last day Hoffman's Playland will ever be open, I'm sharing this beautiful photo and equally beautiful caption.
In addition to typical amusement park rides, the Great Escape offers a variety of unique shows, most notable of which is a high dive show featuring a team of divers scaling an 80 feet (24 m) tower and plunging into a 10 feet (3.0 m) deep pool. Other milestones include: 1  1954 — Charles Wood opens Storytown USA. Re-opened at The Great Escape in 1994, this roller coaster already had a 41-year history as The Comet at Crystal Beach (an amusement park near Niagara Falls, Ontario). It was saved shortly after the park closed down forever after the 1988 season.
Trust me… you will want them! Reading Matter s is a site I was first introduced to last year. It has ALL the resources you could ever want and need for the program on this one site. This is the link for the 3rd Grade page but they have pages for all grade levels of Storytown. All of the materials are made by teachers. (Well, there is for about 5 weeks after Standardized testing but not for the majority of the school year.) I am not sure how I feel about this change but it will be what it will be, I guess. Posted by Misty on May 4, 2013 in 3rd Grade, Freebies, Harcourt Storytown, Language Arts, Student Teaching | 0 comments.
Language Arts Curriculum | Grades K–6. StoryTown is a K–6 Reading/Language Arts program with a “2+2 then Review” instructional design for skill and strategy development, plus differentiated instruction that meets the needs of all students. 
Attached you will find PowerPoints for first grade Storytown reading lessons. There is not a complete set. If you have resources from Storytown that you would like to add pleae e-mail me! Please feel free to edit these as needed. 