Slate is another metamorphic rock that is used in buildings for floor and roofing tiles, and it was once used for blackboards. Quartzite is used as a source of silica; other forms of metamorphic rocks are useful as building components, monuments, counter tops, and facings. + 186 others found this useful. Shellie Fisher. Marble is a metamorphic rock that is used to make floor tiles, counter tops and it is carved int … o statues and was used extensively in the building of the Roman Colosseum and other historic buildings.
Talc-a metamorphic mineral is used as a lubricant. Serpentine is used for carving. Corundum, another metamorphic mineral, is used for abrasives. Kyanite and its polymorphs-for ceramics. Graphite-pencils. Many economic deposits of gold, copper, tungsten and iron occur in metamorphic rocks. Marble is a metamorphic rock that is used to make floor tiles, counter tops and it is carved int … o statues and was used extensively in the building of the Roman Colosseum and other historic buildings.
Back to Top. II. Goals of this module 1  -. To learn the processes that form metamorphic rocks. 2  To learn the definitions of and proper spelling for scientific terms that are used commonly in newspapers, magazines, and books, and on television and radio programs to discuss metamorphic rocks. 1 The Earth is composed of land, air, and water. 2  As a basis for understanding this concept, students know: 3  how to identify resources from the Earth that are used in everyday life, and that many resources can be conserved.
1 Pumice is also used as insolation or as a handsoap ingredient. 2  3. Granite. 3  4. GraniteGranite as said before is similar to marble and is also used forkitchen countertops and floors or statues. 4  Granite is the mostused rock for everyday life for example most buildings havegranite in it. 1 Granite is the mostused rock for everyday life for example most buildings havegranite in it. 2  A lot of pebbles on the ground are granite. 3  Likemarble it is cooled very slowly and has almost the exact samesized crystals as marbles. 4  Granite is the most common rock onthe earths surface. 5  Granite has a pretty rough texture.
1 To learn the processes that form metamorphic rocks. 2  To learn the definitions of and proper spelling for scientific terms that are used commonly in newspapers, magazines, and books, and on television and radio programs to discuss metamorphic rocks. 3  To learn how to identify the most common metamorphic rocks. 1 The Earth is composed of land, air, and water. 2  As a basis for understanding this concept, students know: 3  how to identify resources from the Earth that are used in everyday life, and that many resources can be conserved.
Best Answer: Granite, shale, and limestone, are used on the outside of homes and other buildings. Graphite, a metamorphic rock, is the part of the pencil used for writing. Marble is used in decorative ways in homes, other buildings, and gravestones. Some rocks are classified as gems and, as such, are used in jewelry. Talc is used in bath powders. Halite, salt, is used in food preparation and on icy roads. 
1 To learn the processes that form sedimentary rocks. 2  To learn the definitions of and proper spelling for scientific terms that are used commonly in newspapers, magazines, and books, and on television and radio programs to discuss sedimentary rocks. 3  To learn how to identify the most common sedimentary rocks. 
Rocks are used all around us in many different ways. In the classroom, students use rocks everyday. Graphite, a metamorphic rock, is the part of the pencil used for writing. Slate, another metamorphic rock, was used to make blackboards in years past. Now most blackboards are constructed of man-made materials. Chalk is a soft form of limestone which is a sedimentary rock. 