Therefore, an area rug pad may not seem necessary. However, even these types of rugs move or slide around. An area rug pad serves the purpose of holding it in place. A rug pad also protects hardwood floors from the grit, dust and dirt trapped beneath the rug that scratches the floor finish. Some area rugs are made with a type of backing that scratches or discolors the floor. Ask any hardwood flooring contractor how many sad tales he can tell about beautiful hardwood floors ruined by area rugs or the wrong kind of rug pad.
If you use the right type of rug pad, you can choose any area rug you'd like without concern. But what you should pay very careful attention to are the rug pads. U se rug pads safe for polyurethane finished hardwood floors ... or they can do just as much damage-or more-as a rug without a pad.
The rug pad will prevent scratches from happening to hardwood floors. A dense felt rug pad will also prevent the pressure and stress from furniture weight from pushing through the area rug and denting a hardwood floor. The rug pad is rated as best for hardwood floors if it is a solid and dense felt rug pad. The more dense the rug pad, the better the resistance, allowing it to prevent any stress to any hardwood floor. Since felt rug pads are rated by ounces, or density, the higher the ounce quality, the better the density.
Walking on an area rug that has been placed over a dirty floor can grind the dirt, dust and sand into the wood. To prepare your floor, sweep and mop the entire area. Fix scratches before laying your rug down to ensure pristine floors when it's time to remove the rug.
Area Rug Pads for Hardwood Floors. If you decide to use rug pads beneath your area rugs, it is extremely important to choose rug pads that won't damage your floor. For a detailed explanation of the rug pad material you should and should not use, view our article Rug Pads F
The following information pertains strictly to polyurethane-coated solid hardwood floors. Area rug pads for hardwood floors are frequently mislabeled or even misrepresented. You will see many marked as for use with wood floors or for use on hard surfaces ... and you assume it's okay for your hardwood floor.
Rugs can become very slippery on hardwood floors so you will want to use some type of a non-slip pad underneath. These can be found at any floor covering outlet or home improvement center like Lowe's or Home Depot. They come in different sizes and are easily cut to fit any size rug.