SLR stands for single lens reflex. SLR (single lens reflex) refers to the way these camera's work. When a photographer presses the shutter button, a mirror flips out of the way to reveal the sensor. Some people also refer to them as DSLR, with the D being short for digital. 1 One of the main differences between a point and shoot camera and a digital SLR camera is that an SLR has a detachable lens. 2  In other words, you're not limited only to the lens that comes with the camera. 3  Digital SLR cameras also give you more control over manual settings such as exposure
Short for single lens reflex, is a term associated with cameras and digital cameras. SLR cameras use a mirror between the lens and the film, or image sensor, to provide a focus screen. This means the image you see in the viewfinder (or LCD) will be the same as what appears on film or as your digital image. See also The Digital Camera Picture in Webopedia's Quick Reference section. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: SLR stands for Single Lens Reflex. This dates back to film camera days to a degree. Rather than having a seperate viewfinder, an SLR camera used a mirror system to reflect light to the viewfinder, snapping out of view when you want to expose the frame. In the digital world, you generally have a live preview option, along with an optical viewfinder that was slightly off of the actual lens. A D-SLR camera (Digital-SLR) generally lacks a realtime LCD preview, since the mirror is in the way, although newer DSLR cameras do offer the ability to offer the traditional preview like a standard digital.
Save. In digital camera terminology, the term DSLR stands for digital single-lens reflex camera. A DSLR camera operates differently than a standard point-and-shoot digital camera. Some defining characteristics are full manual control of camera functions and the ability to attach with and utilize separate lenses. DSLR Technology. Digital SLR cameras use a mirror within the camera behind the lens mount but before the image sensor. This mirror, in conjunction with a prism, means the photographer sees through the viewfinder the actual image that will be taken.
A digital single-lens reflex camera (also called a digital SLR or DSLR) is a digital camera combining the optics and the mechanisms of a single-lens reflex camera with a digital imaging sensor, as opposed to photographic film. The reflex design scheme is the primary difference between a DSLR and other digital cameras. In the reflex design, light travels through the lens, then to a mirror that alternates to send the image to either the viewfinder or the image sensor. The alternative would be to have a viewfinder with its own lens, hence the term single lens for this design. By using only one lens, the viewfinder of a DSLR presents an image that will not perceptibly differ from what is captured by the camera's sensor.
SLR stands for single lens reflex. Basically it means you get a real time image. The light (image) goes through the lens to the mirror and is then shown in the view finder. What you see is what you get. A D-SLR camera (Digital-SLR) generally lacks a realtime LCD preview, since the mirror is in the way, although newer DSLR cameras do offer the ability to offer the traditional preview like a standard digital.
Single Lense Reflex, meaning there is a single lens through which the light from the image you are going to capture enters the camera. When setting up the shot, and viewing it with a standard (35mm) SLR camera, the light is reflected by a mirror to the objective lens, where you view what the camera sees. A D-SLR camera (Digital-SLR) generally lacks a realtime LCD preview, since the mirror is in the way, although newer DSLR cameras do offer the ability to offer the traditional preview like a standard digital.
DSLR in camera means digital single-lens reflex camera. It is also known as digital slr. A DSLR camera is a digital camera that uses an automatic mirror system and pentaprism or pentamirror to direct light from the lens through the viewfinder eyepiece. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DSLR. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A DSLR is a Digital Single Lens Reflex camera. It is Digital; using a chip rather than film. It uses one Single Lens for viewing, and shooting...as opposed to a Twin Lens Reflex (TLR) camera, which lets you view through a top lens, and shoot through a second, bottom, lens.