Peter Lorimer represented the city of Leeds, as part of the application to be a Host City in England's bid for the 2018 World Cup. The application for Leeds to be part of the England bid was successful, but England subsequently lost the bid to host the World Cup. In 1970, Lorimer was in the side which chased a treble of League championship, FA Cup and European Cup, though Leeds ended the season with nothing. Lorimer ended that season with 19 goals. Leeds United took the Fairs Cup again in 1971 and then finally won the FA Cup in 1972.
What did a lorimer do in the medieval times? The word lorimer derives from Anglo-Norman French lorein, lorain, loreyn (spelling is typically variable) meaning a harness strap or horse bridle. A lorimer or lorymer is a ma … n who made any or all parts of horse harness including metal bits, buckles, decorative mounts, stirrups, spurs and so on.
Share to: The word lorimer derives from Anglo-Norman French lorein, lorain, loreyn (spelling is typically variable) meaning a harness strap or horse bridle. A lorimer or lorymer is a ma … n who made any or all parts of horse harness including metal bits, buckles, decorative mounts, stirrups, spurs and so on.
Peter Patrick Lorimer (born 14 December 1946 in Dundee, Scotland) is a former footballer who played for Leeds United and Scotland during the late 1960s and early 1970s. He was an attacking midfielder, generally regarded as having one of the hardest shots in football. In 1970, Lorimer was in the side which chased a treble of League championship, FA Cup and European Cup, though Leeds ended the season with nothing. Lorimer ended that season with 19 goals. Leeds United took the Fairs Cup again in 1971 and then finally won the FA Cup in 1972.
In 2004, with the club on its knees financially, Lorimer acted as a go-between who liaised between potential benefactors and supporters as a rescue plan for the club was launched. He is a fans' representative on the board of directors who also deals with the media on club issues. In 1970, Lorimer was in the side which chased a treble of League championship, FA Cup and European Cup, though Leeds ended the season with nothing. Lorimer ended that season with 19 goals. Leeds United took the Fairs Cup again in 1971 and then finally won the FA Cup in 1972.
A Lorimer Letter is a letter that some self-employed freelancers need to obtain from Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs so that they can be paid gross. Only certain grades within the Film and Television Industry are considered by HMRC to be truly self-employed. Without a Lorimer Letter all other grades should be paid as employees and have Income Tax and Class 1 National Insurance deducted at source.
Here are pictures of people with the name Lorimer. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Lorimer /lor-imer/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Lorimer is harness maker . Occupational name. Probably related to Larrimore. Kreatif forms: Lerimer, Lorider, Lowrimer. Lorimer is an uncommonly occurring given name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#26035 out of 150436, Top 17%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Lorimer for boys. Lorimer has yet to be listed in the list thus fa