Some of the most common causes of swelling fingers include arthritis, fluid retention, and pregnancy. In addition, finger edema can be caused by cardiac problems, abnormal kidney function, and allergies. Before treatment can be implemented to reduce swelling, a thorough medical examination must take place. Pregnant women often experience swollen fingers and feet. Swelling fingers may be indicative of a cardiac problem. Swelling fingers may be a sign of an allergic reaction. A problem with the kidneys can cause bloated or swollen hands. Swelling fingers can be a sign of kidney problems that require dialysis to treat. Arthritis is a common cause of swelling fingers
In terms of that fingers, the swelling may be in the tissue around the bone (soft tissue swelling), in the bone itself (bony swelling) or the joints of the fingers (joint swelling). It is important to identify exactly which areas swollen as the causes and differ for each location of swelling within the finger. However, fingers swelling may sometimes be a symptom of a systemic disorder although it almost always occurs with hand swelling as well. Various growths may arise in the tissues of the finger thereby appearing as localized masses or swellings.
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Finger swelling. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Lymphedema. 2  Venous insufficiency. 3  Cellulitis. 4  Infection. 5  Blunt trauma. 6  Renal failure. 7  Heart failure. 8  Allergic reaction. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Finger swelling: The following list of conditions have ' Finger swelling ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Finger swelling. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Lymphedema. 2  Venous insufficiency. 3  Cellulitis. 4  Infection. 5  Blunt trauma. 6  Renal failure. 7  Heart failure. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Finger swelling: The following list of conditions have ' Finger swelling ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
A swollen finger is a sign of fluid buildup or inflammation of the tissues or joints of the finger. Finger swelling can result from serious infections, inflammation, trauma, and other abnormal processes. In general, swollen fingers can be caused by overall fluid retention, such as during premenstrual syndrome or pregnancy. Because a swollen finger can be a sign of a serious infection or inflammation, you should talk with your medical professional about your symptoms. If you experience finger swelling with pain, redness, or warmth, seek prompt medical care. Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care
Most of the causes are as a result of inflammation due to injury of the fingers and all hand. With the fingers being such an active part of the body is often the most likely part to become inflamed whether due to a mechanical or chemical injury or an infection. However, fingers swelling may sometimes be a symptom of a systemic disorder although it almost always occurs with hand swelling as well. Various growths may arise in the tissues of the finger thereby appearing as localized masses or swellings.
Swollen fingers are a clinical sign indicative of some underlying disease. It may be accompanied by various other signs and symptoms in the finger such as 1  : Discoloration of the skin varying from redness associated with inflammation and allergic rashes to blue to purple hues. 2  Pain in the finger or joint pain. However, fingers swelling may sometimes be a symptom of a systemic disorder although it almost always occurs with hand swelling as well. Various growths may arise in the tissues of the finger thereby appearing as localized masses or swellings.
Two Parts: Treating Swollen Fingers Diagnosing Your Swelling. Swollen fingers may result from an injury or from edema, a common medical condition that causes excess fluid to be stored in various locations of the body, including the hands, feet, ankles and legs. Elevate your hands and fingers. Swelling can be caused by poor circulation or blood that stagnates in your hands. Elevating your hands will help any accumulated blood flow back down to the body. 1  Raise your swollen fingers above your heart for 30 minutes at least 3 or 4 times per day to treat severe edema.