Also called steatosis, fatty liver can be a temporary or long-term condition, which is not harmful itself, but may indicate some other type of problem. Left untreated, it can contribute to other illnesses. 
Steatosis. Liver steatosis is an accumulation of fat in the liver, making a 'fatty liver'. It corresponds to the accumulation of lipids (triglycerides) in the liver cells (hepatocytes) and may complicate alcoholic intoxication or metabolic disorders such as Type 2 diabetes, obesity, and dyslipemia. 
Hepatic steatosis is a disease of the liver that is also known as fatty liver or fatty liver disease. It strikes approximately twenty percent of the adult population in the United States. When hepatic steatosis progresses to the point where fatty deposits are ubiquitous throughout the liver, a diagnosis of hepatomegaly or enlarged liver may be warranted. Enlarged liver can also result from poisoning, infections, and as a symptom of serious liver disease in its earlier stages (as can fatty liver).
By considering the contribution by alcohol, fatty liver may be termed alcoholic steatosis or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and the more severe forms as alcoholic steatohepatitis (part of alcoholic liver disease) and Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Not to be confused with foie gras. Fatty liver, also known as fatty liver disease (FLD), is a reversible condition wherein large vacuoles of triglyceride fat accumulate in liver cells via the process of steatosis (i.e., abnormal retention of lipids within a cell).
1. 14. Steatosis (fatty liver) is an accumulation of fat in the liver. Steatohepatitis is when this progresses to become associated with inflammation. Fatty liver disease is divided into: 1  Alcohol-related fatty liver disease. 2  Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
Fatty Liver. Fatty liver, or steatosis, is a term that describes the buildup of fat in the liver. While it’s normal to have some fat in your liver, more than 5 to 10 percent of your liver weight is fat in the case of fatty liver. Fatty liver is a reversible condition that can be resolved with changed behaviors. It.
In cellular pathology, steatosis (also called fatty change, fatty degeneration or adipose degeneration) is the process describing the abnormal retention of lipids within a cell. The risk factors associated with steatosis are varied, and include diabetes mellitus, protein malnutrition, hypertension cell toxins, obesity, anoxia and sleep apnea.