Page 1 of the first Nevada State Constitution, as transmitted to Congress by telegraph, October 1864. The Constitution of the State of Nevada is the organic law of the state of Nevada, and the basis for Nevada's statehood as one of the United States. Contents.
REFERENDUM: It was a proposed amendment to the Nevada Constitution by the state legislature in 1905 that gave voters the opportunity to approve and take for themselves the power of the referendum. The amendment was ratified by a margin of five-to-one by Nevada voters. D. Property Tax: This tax is imposed on the value of real and personal property. The maximum property tax authorized by the Nevada Constitution is $5.00 per $100.00 of assessed valuation. The state average property tax is approximately $2.22 per $100.00 valuation, which is one of the five lowest rates in the nation.
In June 1776, the Continental Congress began to work on a plan for a central government. It took five years for it to be approved, first by members of Congress and then by the states. The first attempt at a constitution for the United States was called the Articles of Confederation. 
In 2013, all 50 states, plus the commonwealths and territories, met in regular session and enacted nearly 40,000 bills and resolutions. Not all new laws go into effect on the first of the year—it depends on the state’s constitution and whether the statute itself specifies when the law will officially begin. In California, Illinois and Oregon, new laws generally go into effect on Jan. 1 unless the bill specifies otherwise
On January 2, 1788, Georgia became the fourth state to ratify the U.S. Constitution. In November of that year, to assure conformity with the federal document, Georgia began a revision of its state constitution in convention. The shortest of Georgia's constitutions, the Constitution of 1789 was modeled after the U.S. Constitution.
If Nevada were a state, it could ratify the amendment and help in the passage of the landmark humanitarian legislation. FICTION: Nevada was singled out to help save the Union. Actually Enabling acts for three territories, Colorado, Nebraska, and Nevada, were passed by Congress in March 1864. Who hasn't heard ad nauseam that our state was admitted to the Union on October 31, 1864 because its silver and gold production were needed to help finance the Civil War. Anyone who has attended Nevada's schools has heard the story from a teacher or read it in a textbook.
On the 1st Wednesday of September 1864, the constitution was approved by the vote of the people of the Territory of Nevada, and on October 31, 1864, President Lincoln proclaimed that the State of Nevada was admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original states. We, the People and Legislature of the State of Nevada, due to our desire to establish term limits on Congress, hereby make application to Congress, pursuant to our power under Article 5, to call a convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution.
[The Nevada constitution was framed by a convention of delegates chosen by the people. The convention met at Carson City on July 4, 1864, and adjourned on July 28 of the same year. We, the People and Legislature of the State of Nevada, due to our desire to establish term limits on Congress, hereby make application to Congress, pursuant to our power under Article 5, to call a convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution.