MTR, SPK, CRK, and MTC pumps are vertical multistage centrifugal pumps designed for pumping of cooling lubricants for machine tools, condensate transfer and similar applications. Grundfos MTR, SPK, CRK, and MTC pumps come with various pump sizes and various numbers of stages to provide the flow, the pressure and the length required. The MTR, SPK, and CRK pumps consist of two seperate main components: The motor and the pump unit. The MTC pump is close coupled and the motor and pump end cannot be seperated. The pump unit consists of optimized hydraulics, various types of connections, a motor stool, a given number of chambers and various other part
›› Definition: Square meter. A square metre (US spelling: square meter) is by definition the area enclosed by a square with sides each 1 metre long. It is the SI unit of area. It is abbreviated m. 1 sq.feet is equal to 0.092903412 square meter. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between square feet and square meters.
This gene encodes the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase. This enzyme, also known as cobalamin-dependent methionine synthase, catalyzes the final step in methionine biosynthesis. MTR (5-Methyltetrahydrofolate-Homocysteine Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MTR include homocystinuria-megaloblastic anemia, cblg complementation type and neural tube defects, folate-sensitive. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism
The special fuel tax is collected by and paid to the state by licensed suppliers, users, and/or dealers.  Tax Rates The excise tax rate is 23 cents per gallon of gasoline and 22 cents per gallon of special fuel, sold or used in the state. 
We assume you are converting between square foot [survey] and square metre. You can view more details on each measurement unit: sq.feet or sq. meters. The SI derived unit for area is the square meter. 1 sq.feet is equal to 0.092903412 square meter. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between square feet and square meters.
GeneCards Summary for MTR Gene. MTR (5-Methyltetrahydrofolate-Homocysteine Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MTR include homocystinuria-megaloblastic anemia, cblg complementation type and neural tube defects, folate-sensitive. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism
ABSTRACT. The Mtr respiratory pathway of Shewanella oneidensis strain MR-1 is required to effectively respire both soluble and insoluble forms of oxidized iron. Flavins (riboflavin and flavin mononucleotide) recently have been shown to be excreted by MR-1 and facilitate the reduction of insoluble substrates. 
Hong Kong (香港; Fragrant Harbour), traditionally Hongkong, officially Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, is an autonomous territory on the southern coast of China at the Pearl River Estuary and the South China Sea. Hong Kong is known for its skyline and deep natural harbour. 