How long does it take for a broken collar bone to heal? I broke my collar bone three weeks ago and it already feels fine, but I am still not sure if I should start using it again. Source(s): long broken collar bone heal: https://trimurl.im/i89/how-long-does-it-... Rob · 2 months ago.
A broken collarbone, or fractured clavicle, is a common injury. It usually happens after a fall or a blow to the shoulder. It takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and three to six weeks in children. The collarbone, or clavicle, is a long slender bone that runs from the breastbone to each of the shoulders. However, it will take at least the same period again to restore full strength to your shoulder. While the fracture heals, a lump may develop along the collarbone. This is normal and often improves over the following months. Occasionally, the fracture doesn't heal (non-union) and you may need to have surgery.
Your collarbone, also called clavicle, is a long, thin bone near the base of the front of your neck that connects your breastbone (sternum) and your shoulder girdle. Humans have two collarbones, right and left ones. 1 Depending on your job and if you injured your dominant arm, you may have to take a few weeks off work to recuperate. 2  In general, healing takes 4-6 weeks in younger people and as long as 12 weeks in the elderly.
The purpose is to improve your posture so your clavicle will heal appropriately. Consult with your doctor about how long you need to wear a support device, such as a figure-eight harness. The time may vary based on the extent of your injury, but two to three weeks is about average. Rest your clavicle by avoiding lifting or excessive movement for as long as the pain persists. Full range of motion will typically return about six weeks after the injury occurs.
In adults, it usually takes about six to eight weeks for a broken collarbone to heal, although it can take longer. In children, it usually takes about three to six weeks to heal. However, it will take at least the same period again to restore full strength to your shoulder. While the fracture heals, a lump may develop along the collarbone. This is normal and often improves over the following months. Occasionally, the fracture doesn't heal (non-union) and you may need to have surgery.
It might take six to 12 weeks for a broken collarbone to heal. But that's just a rough estimate. People recover at different speeds. You are ready to return to your previous level of physical activity when: 1  You can move your arm and shoulder without any pain. 
Broken collarbone-broken clavicle. The collarbone, called the clavicle by doctors, is an S shaped bone that connects the shoulder to the breastplate (called the sternum). The clavicle is very near the skin, and it can be seen and felt very easily in most people. Instead, the bone is allowed to heal on its own, and your doctor will be able to suggest ways in which you can ease the pain and discomfort. This will usually include wearing a sling or a figure of eight bandage for one to two weeks, applying ice packs to the area of the break, and taking mild pain pills.
Sports injuries are among the most common causes of a broken collarbone. Other frequent causes are falls and car, motorcycle or bike accidents. The time for a broken collarbone to fully heal depends on the severity of the injury. In children, complete healing may take as little as three to six weeks. In adults, six to 16 weeks or more are often necessary for a collarbone to heal solidly. Unfortunately, during that time there is no way to completely immobilize a collarbone fracture to keep it from moving and, thus, speed healing, as can be done using a cast on other broken bones, such as a wrist, arm or leg
According to WebMD, the general recovery timetable for a broken clavicle can be upwards of 12 weeks. It might take six to 12 weeks for a broken collarbone to heal. But that’s just a rough estimate. People recover at different speeds. E Medicine Health gives a timeframe of four to eight weeks, depending on the individual. Tony Romo suffered a broken left clavicle on Sunday afternoon during Sunday’s game against the Philadelphia Eagles. It’s the second time in his career that the Dallas Cowboys quarterback has broken his collarbone. Back in 2010 when it happened, Romo missed 10 games.