contact us. Use the form on the right to contact us. You can edit the text in this area, and change where the contact form on the right submits to, by entering edit mode using the modes on the bottom right. Email Address *.
Coprolite (meaning “dung stone” – kopros means dung and lithikos means stone in Greek) is fossilized feces (animal waste). And no, coprolite does not smell bad – it had undergone a fossilization process. Copro means “dung,” from the Greek word kopros. The ending “-lite” is a common ending for fossil or mineral terms, coming from the Greek word lithos, which means stone. The term coprolite was coined around 1830 (when the earliest-known specimens were found).
Contributions address theoretical, cultural, and environmental contexts and present the specifics of archaeobotanical research, zooarchaeology, precolumbian human skeletal remains, pottery variability, shell artifacts, 1. (Geological Science) of, relating to, or composed of stone. 2. (Geological Science) containing abundant fragments of previously formed rock: a lithic sandstone. 3. (Pathology) pathol of or relating to a calculus or calculi, esp one in the urinary bladder.
contact us. Use the form on the right to contact us. You can edit the text in this area, and change where the contact form on the right submits to, by entering edit mode using the modes on the bottom right. Email Address *. Working primarily in mixed media, Christine Kim creates intricate paper cuttings and drawings, carving away the boundaries between drawing, sculpture, collage, and installation. She lives and works in Toronto.
lithic. adj. 1. (Geological Science) of, relating to, or composed of stone. 2. (Geological Science) containing abundant fragments of previously formed rock: a lithic sandstone. 3. (Pathology) pathol of or relating to a calculus or calculi, esp one in the urinary bladder. 4. (Chemistry) of or containing lithium
Palaeolithic Period. The word Palaeolithic derives from the Greek – palaios (old) and lithikos (is relating to or composed of stone), which means ‘old age of the stone’ or ‘Old Stone Age’. The Palaeolithic period is by far the longest era and was in essence the age of the human evolution. The Palaeolithic period is distinguishable because of their use of knapped tools. Knapped means to chip or break up stone, flint and obsidian with sharp blows to shape them into tools. (Pictured, tools and weapons of the Palaeolithic period).
So… Where does this discussion lead…. Hopefully soon you’ll find out on Natures Talk show. So tune in and find out. This sort of topic is what we are looking to do with a new show here on Natures Talk Show coming soon. Featuring Your truly as the host, Ray Owczarzak. I’ve done a show in the past on Natures Talk Show for our Monsters of Nature series on the Candiru. This is an amazing group of fishes, but not as horrific as legend makes them out to be. Again, as a student of the sciences, it’s a terrific look at a group of little known fishes.
Neolithic. (from Greek lithikos, from lithos stone). English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: -lithic, litchi, lithia, lithium. First Conact Resolution. First Conact Resolution. n. also FCR, a customer-service indicator used in the call center industry. 