First introduced to the world outside of Spain's Canary Islands by the American anthropologist Dr. Carl Semencic in an article for Dog World Magazine and in his books on the subject of rare breeds of dogs, the Presa Canario or Canary Dog is a large-size dog with a thick and muscular body. The FCE recognizes the breed according to Spanish law, and uses the Presa Canario name and standard, as set by the [Real Decreto 558/2001] . [An official document] of the Spanish Government has been issued and sent to the RSCE to warn it and to invite it to modify its regulations.
La presa de los lobos normalmente consiste de animales como el venado, el alce y el caribu. Caribú the prey of wolves normally consists of animales like, deer, elk and. caribou 1 (animal apresado) (por cazador) catch; (por otro animal) prey. ave de presa bird of prey; huyo huyó presa del panico pánico he fled; in panic hacer presa: en algo la desesperacion desesperación hizo presa en los soldados the soldiers were. seized with despair el fuego hizo presa. en la cortina
Example Sentences Including 'presa'. #Una  presa natural  convirtio convirtió la inundacion inundación En avalancha los arboles árboles y lodos arrastrados por la lluvia taponaron el, cauce del arroyo que acabo acabó. por desbordarse en tromba Esto provoco provocó una retencion retención, de lodo con lo que se  formo  formó una presa en la que se acumularon el agua y todo lo. Que esta ésta arrastraba la tierra y, el hielo derruidos bloquearon, formando una gigantesca presa El. cauce del rio río paez páez
Example Sentences Including 'presa'. #Una  presa natural  convirtio convirtió la inundacion inundación En avalancha los arboles árboles y lodos arrastrados por la lluvia taponaron el, cauce del arroyo que acabo acabó. -Por desbordarse en tromba al volver de la presa pasamos junto a una playa de arena y yo. me quise quíse banar bañar desnuda Esto provoco provocó una retencion retención, de lodo con lo que se  formo  formó una presa en la que se acumularon el agua y todo lo. Que esta ésta arrastraba la tierra y, el hielo derruidos bloquearon, formando una gigantesca presa El. cauce del rio río paez páez
The Perro de Presa Canario is a large Molosser-type dog breed originally bred for working livestock. The name of the breed is Spanish, means “Canarian catch dog,” and is often shortened to “Presa Canario” or simply “Presa.” The breed is also called Dogo Canario, meaning Canarian Molosser. What is known was the function for which these dogs were developed; guarding farms, struggling with cattle and the extermination of wild or stray dogs. There are several theories regarding the genetic contributions to the creation of the Presa Canario. It is almost certain that the cattle dog, the Iberian Presa (Perro de Ganado Majorero) provided a start to the founding of the Canary Presa. The Ganado was a mastiff type of average size, rustic, intelligent with an intuitive instinct, a fearless guardian
The Presa Canario has a legislative basis in Spain in the form of recognition by a Real Decreto (Royal Decree) of the MAPA (Minister of Agriculture Fishing and Nutrition), which was published in the Official Gazette of the Spanish Government ([BOE – Boletin Oficial del Estado]). The FCE recognizes the breed according to Spanish law, and uses the Presa Canario name and standard, as set by the [Real Decreto 558/2001] . [An official document] of the Spanish Government has been issued and sent to the RSCE to warn it and to invite it to modify its regulations.
Upload your favorite Perro de Presa Canario photos to Twitter or Instagram using the hashtag #akcPerrodePresaCanario. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Perro de Presa Canario, A.K.A. the Canary Mastiff, is a large Molosser-type dog breed originally bred for working livestock. The name of the breed is Spanish, means  Canarian catch dog , and is often shortened to Presa Canario or simply Presa. The FCE recognizes the breed according to Spanish law, and uses the Presa Canario name and standard, as set by the [Real Decreto 558/2001] . [An official document] of the Spanish Government has been issued and sent to the RSCE to warn it and to invite it to modify its regulations.