Peripheral vascular disease is caused by fat and plaque buildup along the arterial walls. This buildup hardens and restricts blood flow to the legs. Risk factors include a history of diabetes, high cholesterol, heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, smoking and stroke. 
The most common cause of peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.) is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up in your arteries. The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. The disease may start if certain factors damage the inner layers of the arteries. These factors include: 1  Smoking. 2  High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood. 3  High blood pressure
It usually happens because your arteries harden and narrow. (That's called atherosclerosis). Smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and not being active are the main causes. If you have diabetes, you're more likely to get a worse case of peripheral artery disease that improves less with treatment.
Some of the diseases that may develop as a result of atherosclerosis include coronary heart disease, angina (chest pain), carotid artery disease, peripheral artery disease (PAD) and chronic kidney disease. Two things that can happen where plaque occurs are: 1  A piece of the plaque may break off. Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis.
Causes of Peripheral Vascular Disease. The most common cause of PVD is peripheral artery disease, which is due to atherosclerosis. Fatty material builds up inside the arteries and mixes with calcium, scar tissue, and other substances. The mixture hardens slightly, forming plaques. These plaques block, narrow, or weaken the artery walls. Peripheral Vascular Disease Overview. Peripheral vascular disease, also called PVD, refers to any disease or disorder of the circulatory system outside of the brain and heart. The term can include any disorder that affects any blood vessels. It is, though, often used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease.
Peripheral vascular diseases (PVDs) are circulation disorders that affect blood vessels outside of the heart and brain. PVD typically strikes the veins and arteries that supply the arms, legs, and organs located below your stomach. These are the blood vessels that are distant from the heart. 
Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your coronary arteries -- a condition called atherosclerosis -- that leads to blockages. The arteries, which start out smooth and elastic, become narrow and rigid, restricting blood flow to the heart. Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your arteries, which blocks blood flow and heightens the risk for heart attack and stroke.
1 Peripheral artery disease is due to atherosclerosis. 2  This is a gradual process in which a fatty material builds up inside the arteries. 3  The fatty material mixes with calcium, scar tissues, and other substances and hardens slightly, forming plaques of arteriosclerosis. Other causes of peripheral vascular disease include the following: 1  Blood clot: A blood clot can block a blood vessel (thrombus/ emboli). 2  Diabetes: Over the long term, the high blood sugar level of persons with diabetes can damage blood vessels. 3  This makes the blood vessels more likely to become narrowed or weakened.
Peripheral artery disease (PAD), also known as peripheral vascular disease (PVD), peripheral artery occlusive disease, and peripheral obliterative arteriopathy, is a narrowing of the arteries other than those that supply the heart or the brain. 
Peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.) is a disease in which plaque (plak) builds up in the arteries that carry blood to your head, organs, and limbs. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, fibrous tissue, and other substances in the blood. When plaque builds up in the body's arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis (ATH-er-o-skler-O-sis). Over time, plaque can harden and narrow the arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body.