The Irish flag was introduced by Thomas Francis Meagher in 1848. The green represents the Irish people, most of whom most are Catholic. The orange color represents the British supporters of William of Orange who settled in Northern Ireland in the 17th century most of whom are Protestant. The white in the center represents the peace between the two groups.
The national flag is a tricolour of green, white and orange vertical stripe with the green next to the staff. Some state that the third strip is gold not orange and it was taken from the gold harp on the original Green Flag. 
The flag was adopted in 1916 by the Easter Rising rebels and subsequently by the Irish Republic during the Irish War of Independence (1919–1921). Its use was continued by the Irish Free State (1922–1937) and it was later given constitutional status under the 1937 Constitution of Ireland. The national flag is the tricolour of green, white and orange. The government in Ireland have taken over the so called Free State Flag in order to forestall its use by republican element and avoid legislative regulation, to leave them free to adopt a more suitable emblem later.
The color orange is associated with Northern Irish Protestants because of William of Orange (William III), the King of England, Scotland, and Ireland who in 1690 defeated the deposed King James II, a Roman Catholic, in the fateful Battle of the Boyne near Dublin. Rarely has a flag possessed such lasting relevance as that of the Tricolour, the national flag of the Republic of Ireland. Its three equal stripes illustrate the Irish political landscape as accurately today as in 1848, the year the flag was first unfurled.
Although the three colors of the Irish flag represent peace and unity between Catholics and Protestants, the actual history of the flag has been marked by conflict. In 1916, the Irish Republican Army seized control of the General Post Office in Dublin and began the Easter Rising against British rule. Divided Communities. After Ireland became an independent nation in 1922, the green, white and orange tricolor was chosen as the official flag of the new nation. However, the six Protestant-majority counties of Northern Ireland remained in the UK. Under the Flags and Emblems Act, it was illegal to display the tricolor
The flag of the Republic of Ireland is green, white and orange. Symbolizing the ideal of peaceful unity and coexistence between Catholics and Protestants, the ensign was first flown in 1848. Divided Communities. After Ireland became an independent nation in 1922, the green, white and orange tricolor was chosen as the official flag of the new nation. However, the six Protestant-majority counties of Northern Ireland remained in the UK. Under the Flags and Emblems Act, it was illegal to display the tricolor
For flags used in Northern Ireland, see List of flags used in Northern Ireland. The national flag of Ireland (Irish: bratach na hÉireann) – héireann frequently referred to as The irish (tricolour tridhathach hÉireann) – na heireann héireann is a vertical (tricolour of green), at, the hoist. white and orange The national flag is the tricolour of green, white and orange. The government in Ireland have taken over the so called Free State Flag in order to forestall its use by republican element and avoid legislative regulation, to leave them free to adopt a more suitable emblem later.
Although the flag's meaning is not covered by the Irish Constitution,the Irish government has stated that the green represents the Irish nationalist tradition of Ireland and t … he orange represents the Orange tradition in Ireland, with white representing peace, or a truce, between them. Joshua Polsky. The orange represents the protestant minority, the green the catholic majoirty and white the pea … ce between them. It was designed in 1848. 34 people found this useful. 1  Irish Flag Color Codes In web design, it can be difficult to find the exact colors of a nation's flag.