1 Ribavirin. 2  Drug used with interferon to treat hepatitis C. It helps stop the virus that causes hepatitis C from spreading inside the body. 3  Ribavirin is also sometimes used to treat viral hemorrhagic fevers and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
Viruses are abundant in the world and cause many other infections ranging from mild to life-threatening. 1  Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a type of herpes virus that’s associated with fever, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, and an enlarged spleen. 2  EBV is a very common virus that causes mononucleosis (mono).
Antivirals are medications that keep viruses from reproducing inside the body. To date, relatively few effective antiviral drugs have been developed. It is difficult to create effective antiviral medications because viruses are tiny (smaller than bacteria and fungi) and use a cell’s metabolic pathways to replicate.
Viral encephalitis is a serious medical condition. Although there are no specific medications to treat it, people with symptoms are often given the antiviral medication acyclovir (Zovirax). It works against herpes simplex and varicella-zoster viruses.
This makes it more difficult to develop medications that attack the virus without also damaging the host cell. However, some antiviral drugs are known to be effective. There are several types of antiviral drugs used to prevent or treat the various forms of influenza virus.
Interferons are often used to treat hepatitis B and C and certain types of cancer. Other antivirals include: 1  Acyclovir. 2  Drug used to heal sores or blisters caused by varicella (chickenpox), herpes zoster (shingles) and genital herpes.
Vaccination is the primary means of preventing and controlling influenza. Antibiotics are used to treat illnesses caused by bacteria. Examples of illnesses caused by bacteria include strep throat, tuberculosis and many types of pneumonia. Antibiotics do not treat viral illnesses like flu, colds, and most sore throats.
Viral infections are hard to treat because viruses live inside your body's cells. They are protected from medicines, which usually move through your bloodstream. Antibiotics do not work for viral infections.
Viruses are capsules with genetic material inside. They are very tiny, much smaller than bacteria. Viruses cause familiar infectious diseases such as the common cold, flu and warts. They also cause severe illnesses such as HIV/AIDS, smallpox and hemorrhagic fevers.