It is resistant to fire and weather and has been used for many centuries. http://www.wbcsdcement.org/index.php/key-issues/sustainability-with-concrete/properties-of-concrete. http://www.cliftonbridge.org.uk/faqs/what_materials. http://www.ehow.com/info_12018665_materials-need-build-model-bridge-suspension.html. They undergo a lot of tension and compressive forces, and for this they need to be extremely strong. The material used in these cables is steel, it is an alloy of iron, manganese and tungsten, which make it extremely strong, durable and hard. Also tungsten gives it a rather high boiling point too.
Steel. Steel is the one of the strongest bridge materials available, and can be used to span distances that are not possible with other products. It is 10 to 100 times stronger than concrete and weighs less. Steel bridges are susceptible to rust and corrosion, however, and tend to require a lot of maintenance
Steel, which is very strong under tension, is an ideal material for cables; a single steel wire, only 0.1 inch thick, can support over half a ton without breaking. Light, and strong, suspension bridges can span distances from 2,000 to 7,000 feet far longer than any other kind of bridge. They are ideal for covering busy waterways. With any bridge project the choice of materials and form usually comes down to cost. Suspension bridges tend to be the most expensive to build. A suspension bridge suspends the roadway from huge main cables, which extend from one end of the bridge to the other. These cables rest on top of high towers and have to be securely anchored into the bank at either end of the bridge.
The history of suspension bridges is liberally sprinkled with examples of successful bridges that were widely believed to be impossible when proposed by a visionary engineer. One example was a railway bridge Roebling constructed between 1851-1855 across the Niagra River gorge. Each suspension bridge is designed uniquely, with attention given to both function and aesthetics. New materials may be used, or even developed, to make the bridge less bulky and more efficient. And innovative designers sometimes create unusual solutions to their challenges.
A suspension bridge is a type of bridge in which the deck (the load-bearing portion) is hung below suspension cables on vertical suspenders. The first modern examples of this type of bridge were built in the early 19th century. Simple suspension bridges, which lack vertical suspenders, have a long history in many mountainous parts of the world. The first design for a bridge resembling the modern suspension bridge is attributed to Venetian polymath Fausto Veranzio, whose 1595 book Machinae Novae included drawings both for a timber and rope suspension bridge, and a hybrid suspension and cable-stayed bridge using iron chains (see gallery below).
What materials were used to build the Golden Gate Bridge? The main materials used to make the Golden Gate Bridge were 75,293,000 kg of steel; two main cables, each made of 27,572 strands of wire; 600,000 rivets in each of the towers; … and concrete. The steel was made in New Jersey, Maryland and Pennsylvania and shipped through the Panama Canal. 126 people found this useful. 
They help keep the cables suspended, and convert the heaviness from the cables into pressure that forces the towers into the ground. They can be made out of iron/steel just like the cables or sometimes stone. For example the Clifton Suspension Bridge towers are made out of Pennant Stone. It is originated from England, Bristol and Wales, and is hard and heavy. It has aesthetic properties as it can be smoothed down to look nice, and has nice colouring. They undergo a lot of tension and compressive forces, and for this they need to be extremely strong. The material used in these cables is steel, it is an alloy of iron, manganese and tungsten, which make it extremely strong, durable and hard. Also tungsten gives it a rather high boiling point too.
The suspension cables must be anchored at each end of the bridge, since any load applied to the bridge is transformed into a tension in these main cables. The main cables continue beyond the pillars to deck-level supports, and further continue to connections with anchors in the ground. The first design for a bridge resembling the modern suspension bridge is attributed to Venetian polymath Fausto Veranzio, whose 1595 book Machinae Novae included drawings both for a timber and rope suspension bridge, and a hybrid suspension and cable-stayed bridge using iron chains (see gallery below).