Organic herb plant. French Tarragon is a delicately flavored herb reminiscent of mint and licorice that goes particularly well with fish, vinegars, and vegetables. It is delicious in creamy sauces and in combination with chives, garlic, and any lemon-flavored herb. The buttery French sauce, bearnaise, béarnaise Includes. tarragon 
Description. French tarragon is a loose, open perennial growing to about two to three feet tall. Leaves are dark green, narrow and slightly twisted. Plant will occasionally produce small, greenish flowers that are sterile. Leaves have a licorice or anise flavor. 
The name tarragon is a corruption of either the French word estragon or the Arabic word tarkhum - each mean little dragon.. It was used by ancient Greeks for its medicinal properties. The most widely used variety of tarragon comes from France. The French generic name for tarragon (Artemisia) stems from the Greek Artemis - goddess of the moon-due to the soft, silvery color of its leaves, as if they are bathed in moon beams.. Ancient Greeks used tarragon to ameliorate tooth ache.
Herb. Tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus 'Sativa') .. French Tarragon is prized for its culinary value, tasting and smelling similar to anise or licorice. Fussy to grow preferring afternoon shade and regular water but is the best in terms of flavor. 
The name Tarragon is a corruption of the French Esdragon, derived from the Latin Dracunculus (a little dragon), which also serves as its specific name. It was sometimes called little Dragon Mugwort and in French has also the name Herbe au Dragon. Tarragon, a member of the Composite tribe, closely allied to Wormwood, is a perennial herb cultivated for the use of its aromatic leaves in seasoning, salads, etc., and in the preparation of Tarragon vinegar.
Purchase from Richters Seeds Russian Tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus dracunculoides) Seeds French Tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus sativa) Plants. Common Name Index A MODERN HERBAL Home Page. Bear in mind A Modern Herbal was written with the conventional wisdom of the early 1900's. Tarragon, a member of the Composite tribe, closely allied to Wormwood, is a perennial herb cultivated for the use of its aromatic leaves in seasoning, salads, etc., and in the preparation of Tarragon vinegar.
Spanish Tarragon. The French call French Tarragon, Herbe au Dragon. Indeed, the word Tarragon is thought to be a poorly pronounced French word Esdragon. The French got their Dragon monikers from the Latin species name for French Tarragon which is dracunculus. Roughly translated this means little dragon. And, while there is a lot of written speculation that the dragon part refers to some ancient use of this herb to cure bites and stings of all manner of creatures.
The species is polymorphic. Informal names for distinguishing the variations include French tarragon (best for culinary use), Russian tarragon (typically better than wild tarragon but not as good as so-called French tarragon for culinary use), and wild tarragon (covers various states). Tarragon is one of the four fines herbes of French cooking, and is particularly suitable for chicken, fish and egg dishes. Tarragon is the main flavoring component of Bearnaise béarnaise. sauce