Some new neighbors of mine put up aluminum foil on their windows. A buddy of mine said that it's a sign of marijuana plant garden. He said that he's seen shows like Law and Order where aluminum foil on windows was a sign of drug plant growth. Oooooooooooooooh, I HATE HOA's. I'd put foil on my windows too as a show of solidarity against the evil HOA. Originally Posted by NsXMas. Regardless, it's against the HOA rules.
Photos.com/Photos.com/Getty Images. Tin foil, or aluminum foil, is often used in the kitchen, but some people use it for other reasons as well, such as covering windows elsewhere in the house. Foil is used in this way for a variety of reasons. The properties of tin foil make it useful in multiple applications.rivacy. Some people cover house windows with tin foil for privacy reasons. Tin foil is a solid metal that you cannot see through. The foil is a low-cost alternative to blinds and other window coverings.
Simple and readily available aluminum foil may not have the good looks of metallic threaded curtains, for example, but it can reduce your home's temperature when you put it to use on the windows correctly -- at a smidgen of the cost of heat-blocking draperies. Reflect on Foil. By covering one side of window-sized cardboard panels in reflective aluminum foil, and placing them behind the window treatments next to the windows -- shiny side facing outdoors -- you can stop at least some heat from entering the home, explains Ready.gov.
Resistant to Heat. Tin foil works effectively to block radiant heat. Because of this, some people use it to block the heat of the sun by securing it over windows. The foil is simply placed over the glass window panes -- on the inside of the house -- and secured with tape. Privacy. Some people cover house windows with tin foil for privacy reasons. Tin foil is a solid metal that you cannot see through. The foil is a low-cost alternative to blinds and other window coverings.
Report Abuse. I heard that aluminum foil is the only way to keep people from stealing your thoughts. That is why you will often see people battling with schizophrenia with tin-foil helmets and hats and putting it on their windows. If you are not dealing with a mental disorder though... I'd say you are either cheap or have a grow-op.
Report Abuse. Aluminum foil is a conductor and it keeps the heat in. It also helps to keep the heat out. People put it in their car windows during the summer to keep the excess heat coming in. I'm sure they're not growing anything, xP. I heard that aluminum foil is the only way to keep people from stealing your thoughts. That is why you will often see people battling with schizophrenia with tin-foil helmets and hats and putting it on their windows. If you are not dealing with a mental disorder though... I'd say you are either cheap or have a grow-op.
When I lived in the desert my bedroom windows faced west. I put foil on them to reflect the Summer sun. The house had a swamp cooler with a single outlet, in the hall. I'd angle the door so that the air would blow on the bed, and left the window open a few inches so the air would flow.
Actually, it does get hot. In fact, if you wrap a potato in aluminum foil and put it in a hot over, the foil will get hot first. This is because metals like aluminum are very good conductors of heat, so they absorb heat very quickly. Answer 3: Actually, aluminum foil does get hot when it is in the oven. For example, if you wrap up a baked potato in foil and cook it in the oven, the foil will be too hot too touch. What you might be thinking about is, for example, laying a piece of foil in the oven (like when people make a tent over their turkey).