In people who have heart disease or several risk factors for heart disease, LIPITOR, along with a low-fat diet, is clinically proven to reduce the risk of: 
A: Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a statin medication used to reduce the bad LDL cholesterol and triglycerides, and increase the good HDL cholesterol and if joint pain occurs, which sounds like you may have in the wrist, the doctor should be notified to see if you should be changed to a different medication. Lipitor also increases good cholesterol or HDL. Lipitor is used in patients to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke. Lipitor is prescribed when diet, exercise and weight loss alone does not bring down cholesterol levels.
Uses. Atorvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. A very small number of people taking atorvastatin may have mild memory problems or confusion.
Lipitor is the brand name of atorvastatin, a statin medication prescribed to lower cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood. High cholesterol levels increase the risk for heart disease, stroke, and other heart-related complications. Lipitor also increases good cholesterol or HDL. Lipitor is used in patients to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke. Lipitor is prescribed when diet, exercise and weight loss alone does not bring down cholesterol levels.
A: Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a medication used to reduce bad cholesterol and increase the good cholesterol. If you are experiencing cramps, especially in the legs, you should consult your doctor, as Lipitor can cause a condition known as rhabdomyolysis, and the symptoms include muscle cramps. Lipitor also increases good cholesterol or HDL. Lipitor is used in patients to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke. Lipitor is prescribed when diet, exercise and weight loss alone does not bring down cholesterol levels.
Lipitor is the marketing name for atorvastatin. Statins work by inhibiting HMG-CoA. Not only does that reduce the amount of cholesterol that's produced, it means that the liver pulls some of that extra cholesterol out of the blood stream. In this way, your overall cholesterol count is lowered.
A: Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a cholesterol-lowering medication that blocks the production of cholesterol in the body. Lipitor decreases low-density lipoprotein (LDL, or bad, cholesterol) and total cholesterol levels in the blood. Lipitor also increases good cholesterol or HDL. Lipitor is used in patients to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke. Lipitor is prescribed when diet, exercise and weight loss alone does not bring down cholesterol levels.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/7/2015. Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a statin used for the treatment of elevated total cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides, and to elevate HDL cholesterol. Side effects of Lipitor include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, gas, heartburn, headache, muscle pain, and rhabdomyolysis