1 Numbness, tingling, or a pins-and-needles feeling. 2  Skin that is pale, white, or blue, or feels colder than the skin on the limb that is not hurt. 3  Not being able to move the limb normally because of weakness, not just pain. 4  You cannot put weight on or straighten a hurt limb, or a joint wobbles or feels unstable. 1 The hurt limb or joint looks odd, is a strange shape, or is out of its normal position. 2  The skin over the site of an injury is broken. 3  You have signs of nerve or blood vessel damage, such as: 4 
Numbness can have all kinds of different causes, as it is a symptom of many different ailments, diseases and conditions. A proper diagnosis is therefore crucial, so that you can treat the cause of the numbness rather than just treat the symptoms of numbness itself which include tingling and numbness in extremities. Sciatic pain starts in the buttock and travels down into the back or side of the thigh and/or leg. Symptoms include tingling and numbness, stretching the back and cold packs can help to ease sciatica pain.
1 You have signs of nerve or blood vessel damage, such as: 2  Numbness, tingling, or a pins-and-needles feeling. 3  Skin that is pale, white, or blue, or feels colder than the skin on the limb that is not hurt. 4  Not being able to move the limb normally because of weakness, not just pain. 1 The hurt limb or joint looks odd, is a strange shape, or is out of its normal position. 2  The skin over the site of an injury is broken. 3  You have signs of nerve or blood vessel damage, such as: 4
Because numbness in the arm or numbness in general may be a symptom of a disease, disorder or condition, you should talk with your medical professional about any unusual sensations or arm numbness that lasts more than a few minutes. The sensation may extend over the length of the arm and into the hands and fingers. Arm numbness usually arises from a lack of blood supply to an area or nerve damage. Arm numbness can also result from infection, inflammation, trauma, malignancy, and other abnormal processes.
Numbness of limbs can cause various feelings in different parts of the arms and legs or throughout the limbs. Numbness of limbs can include sensations such as: 1  a burning-like sensation. 2  loss of sensitivity in a limb or limbs. A doctor will examine you and test for neurological function. This includes testing your reflexes, muscle strength, and sensory functions. A doctor may test to see if the patient can feel various sensations, such as a pinprick or light touch on both sides of the body.
Pain is supposed to be a warning. When your hand gets too close to a stove, the nerves send a pain signal to the brain -- and you pull back before you burn yourself. But if you have nerve damage, that system isn't working. Damaged nerves may send false signals -- and you feel real pain, often without a cause. 
Arm numbness is an abnormal condition in which you feel a loss of sensation in one (unilateral) or both (bilateral) arms. The sensation may extend over the length of the arm and into the hands and fingers. Arm numbness usually arises from a lack of blood supply to an area or nerve damage. Arm numbness can also result from infection, inflammation, trauma, malignancy, and other abnormal processes.
Whereas arm numbness is a loss of sensation, paralysis involves a loss of movement, with or without the loss of sensation in the area. Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care. I was in excruciating pain…and you rescued me. The sensation may extend over the length of the arm and into the hands and fingers. Arm numbness usually arises from a lack of blood supply to an area or nerve damage. Arm numbness can also result from infection, inflammation, trauma, malignancy, and other abnormal processes.
Numbness can have a variety of causes. Most are harmless, but some can be life-threatening. Call 911 or go to the emergency room if your numbness: 1  Begins suddenly. 2  Follows a recent head injury. 3  Involves an entire arm or leg. Schedule an office visit if your numbness: 1  Begins or worsens gradually. 2  Affects both sides of the body. 3  Comes and goes. 4  Seems related to certain tasks or activities, particularly repetitive motions. 5  Affects only a part of a limb, such as your toes or fingers. 6  Causes.
Featuring a discussion with Stephen Krieger, MD, who talks about numbness and multiple sclerosis. Numbness of the face, body or extremities (arms and legs) is one of the most common symptoms of MS. Often it’s the first symptom experienced by those eventually diagnosed with MS. The numbness may be mild or so severe that it interferes with the ability to use the affected body part. 