The highest mountain outside of Asia is Aconcagua (6,962 m or 22,841 ft), which one list has ranking 189th in the world amongst mountains with a 500 m or 1,640 ft prominence cutoff. 
The highest mountain in Tibet is Mount Everest, which straddles the border between Nepal and Tibet. K2 is the highest mountain in China, it straddles the border between Pakistan and China. The highest mountain solely within China (if Tibet is included) is Shishma Pangma. The highest mountain solely within China proper is Kungur. The last two mountains are also referred to as Xixabangma and Kongur Tagh, respectively.
Altay (or Altai). The Altay Mountains are a mountain range in East-Central Asia, where Russia, China, Mongolia and Kazakhstan come together, and where the rivers Irtysh and Ob have their sources. Belukha Mountain is the highest peak at 4,506 m, (14,784 ft). Ghats. 
Well-known mountain ranges in China are the Himalayas, the Kunlunshan Mountains, the Tianshan Mountains, the Qinling Mountains, the Greater Hinggan Mountains, the Taihangshan Mountains, the Qilianshan Mountains and the Hengduanshan Mountains. 
The Himalayas, the most majestic and highest mountain range in the world, lie principally in China. Also the longest mountain range in China, they stretch fro 2,400 kilometers from west to east and 200-300 kilometers from north to south in China's Tibet, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan. China's mountain ranges run in different directions across the length and breadth of the country, giving shape to the general topography of China. Most mountains run west-east and northeast-southwest. A few run northwest-southeast and north-south.
2 K2 Peak. K2 peak, locally known by the name of “Chogo Ri”, which means The Great Mountain, 8,611m, is the 2nd highest mountain in the world. K2 is placed on the Pakistan-China border in the mighty Karakoram Range. K2 is a rocky mountain up to 6,000m, beyond which it becomes an ocean of snow. The traditional route to K2's base camp goes from Skardu, which is linked with Islamabad by a good road. 5 Meili Snow Mountain. Meili Snow Mountains rise between the Salween River and the Mekong River in the extreme edge of Northwest Yunnan Province. The holy Kawa Karpo (6740M), the highest peak of Meili, is one of the most sacred mountains of Tibetan Buddhism.
No, the Himalayas are the highest mountains in the world.   No. The Andes Mountains in South America are among the tallest in the world, they are not the tallest. Those hon … ors go to the Himalaya Mtns of southeast Asia. 
No. 1 Mt. Everest With a height of 8,840 meters above sea level, Mt. Everest is absolutely the highest mountain of the world. It lies in the Mahalangur section of the Himalayas which bordering China and Nepal. No. 9 Mt. Taibai (Baxian Tai) Mt. Taibai is the highest mountain of Shannxi Provinc, with a peak Baxian Tai at 3,767.2 meters above sea level. It is also the highest mountain of East Mainland China.
Top 10 Highest Mountains in China. Mountainous areas make up 69 percent of China's land territory. Top 10 Highest Mountains in China here will show you the 10 of the highest mountains of mainland China, among which, Mt. Everest is absolutely the tallest mountain of China. No. 9 Mt. Taibai (Baxian Tai) Mt. Taibai is the highest mountain of Shannxi Provinc, with a peak Baxian Tai at 3,767.2 meters above sea level. It is also the highest mountain of East Mainland China.