Introduction to nerve cell structure and function : A Nerve cell with all its processes is called a neurone.It is the structural and functional unit of the nervous system.A neurone has cell body called soma and two types of processes called axons and dendrites.
nerve cells send electrical signals to and from the brain and spinal cord. These electrical signals are messages to and from various parts of your body. Therefore, the nerve … cells function is to transmit signals. 13 people found this useful. The function of the nerve cell is to transmit messages to other  parts of the body such as the brain. Neurons then transmit these  messages throughout the brain. Edit. Share to: Answered.
A human body is made up f number of cells. A nerve cell is defined as the cells of nervous system, which controls all types of body activities. The nerve cells are specialized cells, which transmits message from one part to another part of the body. 1 Motor nerve cell 0 - The nerve cell that passes the instructions from our central nervous system to other parts of our body. 2  For example – to muscles or to our glands. 3  Association nerve cell-The nerve cell, which connects to our sensory and motor neurons.
Neurons are nerve cells, or cells found in the nervous system. These are specialized cells designed to stimulate other cells in the body in order to communicate. Neurons are excitable, which means they function by using electrical stimulation. 
The three basic types of nerve cells are motor neurons, sensory neurons and interneurons. A motor neuron is a cell that transmits a signal to a muscle or gland. Sensory neurons receive information from sensory organs and transmit that information back to the central nervous system. 
A nerve cell, or neuron, is the basic unit of the nervous system. It transmits information to and from the brain. The structure of a neuron allows the transmission to be quick. 1  The Structure & Function of Muscle Cells. 2  What Is the Function of Blood Cells? 
A nerve cell is also called a neuron. Its function is to transmit information between the central nervous … system (CNS) & the peripheral nervous system (PNS).   Motor neurons transmit from the CNS to the PNS   Sensory neurons transmit from the PNS to the CNS. The function of the nerve cell is to transmit messages to other  parts of the body such as the brain. Neurons then transmit these  messages throughout the brain. Edit. Share to: Answered.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. Fibers the function of the axon is to transmit information to different, neurons muscles and. glands An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. body
Motor nerve cells are the nerves that are supplied from the the  brain to the muscles and the glands to perform a function. They are  used in contracting and relaxing the mu … scles to perform certain  specified functions. The function of the nerve cell is to transmit messages to other  parts of the body such as the brain. Neurons then transmit these  messages throughout the brain. Edit. Share to: Answered.