The 504 Gateway Timeout error is an HTTP status code that means that one server did not receive a timely response from another server that it was accessing while attempting to load the web page or fill another request by the browser. Most of the time, this means that the other server is down or not working properly. 
Hotmail, GMail, Yahoo!, and other web-based services usually ask you for your time zone when you sign up. If you ignore that, get it wrong, or move to a different time zone, you’ll need to change the setting in order for the time stamps of your emails to be correct. However, depending on your mail service, you may need to make sure something else is set correctly as well. The “one hour off” is actually a clue that your time zone is set incorrectly. And, of course, where that gets adjusted depends on what program or service you’re using.
Timeouts are the result of nothing happening following a server request. Ryan McVay/Photodisc/Getty Images. A server connection timeout means that a server is taking too long to reply to a data request made from another device. Timeouts are not a reply message: they show up when there isn't a reply and a server request is not fulfilled in a predetermined length of time. 
Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) has no offset from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) . This time zone is a standard time zone and is used in: Europe, Africa, North America, Antarctica. An email sent from someone in the Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) time zone will have the time zone listed as +0000 in the headers of the email. (However, +0000 does not have to be in Greenwich Mean Time, as other time zones could have the same UTC offset)
Most votes: You (email client) are attempting to connect to the email server. After some time, if it does not get a response, it times out. This can either be caused by incorrect settings, bad user ID/Password, a bad internet connection, or issues with the email server. 2011-09-23 12:52:09.
Server-time-out usually means that the sending and receiving mail server are busy and having different timeouts when one of. them gave-up while the other is still trying, resulting in the connection being terminated unexpectedly. It is possible that you have exceeded the time or quantity of email sent, because most ISPs limit their user's access to their mail server by time or by the quantity of emails that can be sent per login, busy, firewall, etc.
Any old email is sent sometime, and arrives at another. In the meantime, it passed a couple of mail servers. Time and again, each of these servers found the time to note the time and the date, too, in the email's paper trail — its headers. Looking at these header lines, you can find out when an email was sent, where it was delayed and maybe for how long. To read and interpret the date and time found in email header lines: 1  Look for date and time in lines beginning with Date: and Received: . 2  Note that lines can continue on the next line on the screen with indentation.
Email time zone indicator: +0000. An email sent from someone in the Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) time zone will have the time zone listed as +0000 in the headers of the email. (However, +0000 does not have to be in Greenwich Mean Time, as other time zones could have the same UTC offset)