Sodium propionate or sodium propanoate is the sodium salt of propionic acid which has the chemical formula Na(C3H5COO). It is used as a food preservative and is represented by the food labeling E number E281 in Europe. It is used primarilly as a mold inhibitor in bakery products. 1 It is a compound of sodium metasilicate, which is a fluid that is obta…. 2  Insights into Calcium Propionate Calcium propionate, a type of preservative, is used in many different foods, especially dairy and baked goods.
Propionic acid is metabolized by a series of enzymatic reactions that are dependent on the presence of vitamin B-12, according to a 1996 article in the International Journal of Vitamin and Nutrition Research.. Sodium propionate is also chemically manufactured for a variety of industrial uses. According to the Code of Federal Regulations, sodium propionate is generally recognized as safe when used as a food additive. It is also used to prevent mold growth in packaged and processed cheese products.
Email: inquiry@foodchem.cn. Sodium Propionate, CAS# 137-40-6, is a sodium salt of propionic acid manufactured through chemical synthesis of propionic acid and sodium carbonate or sodium hydroxide, available as White crystalline solid or powder. Sodium Propionate is widely used as preservative. 
Sodium propionate is the salt form of propionic acid, which is an organic acid that is produced during the chemical degradation of sugar. It is a compound that is produced naturally in the body when certain fatty acids and amino acids are metabolized. According to the Code of Federal Regulations, sodium propionate is generally recognized as safe when used as a food additive. It is also used to prevent mold growth in packaged and processed cheese products.
sodium propionate a salt used as an antifungal preservative in foods and pharmaceuticals and as a topical antifungal agent. sodium salicylate see salicylate. sodium sulfate a cathartic and laxative. 
Photo Credit Stacey Newman/iStock/Getty Images. Sodium propionate is a common food additive that is industrially manufactured but also occurs in nature. Since it is toxic to mold and some species of bacteria, it is an especially effective additive in baked goods or other products that are susceptible to spoilage. According to the Code of Federal Regulations, sodium propionate is generally recognized as safe when used as a food additive. It is also used to prevent mold growth in packaged and processed cheese products.
Sodium Propionate is a sodium salt of propionic acid widely used as preservative in food production. As a preservative, Sodium Propionate can be used in a wide variety of industries including: food production, pharmaceutical, cosmetics, agriculture/animal feed, and various other industries. Read more. Kosher Certified Sodium Propionate. Sodium Propionate is sodium salt of propionic acid, available as White crystalline solid or powder. As a other synthesized chemical ingredients, Sodium Propionate is general recognized as Kosher classified as Parve. Moreover, Sodium Propionate is also regulated as Kosher for Passover.
Probake SP (sodium propionate) is an effective inhibitor of the growth of certain molds and some bacteria in bakery goods. It is usually preferred in non-yeast leavened bakery products because the calcium ions’ of calcium propionate interfere with the chemical leavening agents. 
Sodium Propionate is sodium salt of propionic acid, available as White crystalline solid or powder. As a other synthesized chemical ingredients, Sodium Propionate is general recognized as Kosher classified as Parve. Kosher Certified Sodium Propionate. Sodium Propionate is sodium salt of propionic acid, available as White crystalline solid or powder. As a other synthesized chemical ingredients, Sodium Propionate is general recognized as Kosher classified as Parve. Moreover, Sodium Propionate is also regulated as Kosher for Passover.
Uses. Sodium propionate is used in bakery products as a mold inhibitor. Propionates prevent microbes from producing the energy they need, like benzoates do. However, unlike benzoates, propionates do not require an acidic environment. Calcium propionate is often preferred as an anti-fungal agent, to reduce sodium levels in the diet, but also because calcium ions are necessary for the enzyme α -amylase to act on the starches in bread, making them available for the yeast, and improving the texture of the bread.