darkp11. The procedures for restoring Windows 7 on a Dell Computer to it's factory settings, are HERE. If you are unable to use the PC restore feature, a Manual Reinstall of Windows 7 is required, go HERE for the instructions. The Dell Windows 7 reinstallation disc is required for the Manual Reinstallation. Bev. I tried to restore the computer to the factory settings by pressing F8 on the logo screen to get the options to restore but it does not bring that menu up-is there another way to bring that menu up?
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There should be an option in your Start Menu under Dell or Dell Tools for a system restore to bring it back to factory settings ... otherwise place disc one of your original set into the cd drawer and reboot your computer ... when it says press any key to boot from CD press a key .... 
Your Dell should have come with a CD called System Restore or something like that. Put that CD in the computer and turn restart the computer, choose Boot from CD (if it ask you?) and then follow any instructions on the screen. 
Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. A Dell laptop can be easily restored back to factory settings using the System Recovery Options. This option is inbuilt in the Dell laptop and does not require you to use any additional software. Restoring the laptop will permanently delete all the files on it. Select the “Repair Your Computer” option using the arrow keys on your keyboard from the Advanced Boot Options menu and then press “Enter.”. Choose the language that you want to use from the Select a language drop-down box on the System Recovery Options dialog box and then click “Next.”.
Windows 8 has different recovery procedures. To go back to Factory Settings, open PC Settings, go to General page and select Advanced Startup. That will reboot your computer and bring up a Troubleshooting menu that should allow you to go back to Factory settings. You might seek help from your computer manufacturer's support site too
To restore a Dell Inspiron computer with a Windows 7 or Windows Vista operating system to factory settings, users simply need to press the F8 key when the Dell logo appears. Then, they should select the Repair your Computer option from the advanced boot menu, which may require a password. Typically, restoring a Dell Inspiron computer to its original factory settings with Windows XP takes about 10 minutes. After the computer's original factory settings have been completely restored, a message stating that the system recovery process was successful should appear on the screen.
Instructions. Start your Dell laptop. Press and hold the “F8” key on your laptop keyboard until you see the Advanced Boot Options menu. Select the “Repair Your Computer” option using the arrow keys on your keyboard from the Advanced Boot Options menu and then press “Enter.”. Choose the language that you want to use from the Select a language drop-down box on the System Recovery Options dialog box and then click “Next.”. Type the administrator user name in the “User name” box and password in the “Password” box Click “OK.”. Click to select the “Dell Factory Image Restore” option. Click “Next” on the welcome screen of the Dell Factory Image Restore dialog box that opens
To restore your Windows 7 computer to factory settings. 1  Back up important files and data. 2  If you do not back up your files, you will lose them. 3  Turn off your computer. 4  Disconnect everything but the monitor, keyboard and mouse. 5  This includes your: 6  scanner. 7  printer. 8  modem or network cables. 9  mobile phone and tablet. To restore your Windows 7 computer to factory settings. 1  Back up important files and data. 2  Turn off your computer. 3  Disconnect everything but the monitor, keyboard and mouse. 4  scanner. 5  printer. 6  modem or network cables. 7  mobile phone and tablet. 8  USB flash drive or other external hard drive. 9  If your laptop is docked, remove it from the docking station. 10  W