Somatic, derived from the Greek word soma, means the living body in its wholeness. We are more than just muscles and bones. Research shows us that our mind and emotions affect our bodies. We also know that the relative health or “dis-ease” of our body affects our mind and emotions. For example, we all know that if we are under stress, it is easier for us to catch a cold. It is also true that people with chronic pain may feel depressed. In Somatic Therapy, the focus is on the whole person: body, mind, emotions and spirit. As we become more aware of how thesethings are interrelated, we can begin to work with them. Through this process, we can achieve optimal health and develop our full potential
How Somatic Psychotherapy Helps. Somatic psychotherapy is one of the best ways to help patients suffering from psychological traumas cope, recover and live a normal life. The word somatic is derived from the Greek word “soma” which means living body. Somatic therapy is a holistic therapy that studies the relationship between the mind and body in regard to psychological past. The theory behind somatic therapy is that trauma symptoms are the effects of instability of the ANS (autonomic nervous system). Past traumas disrupt the ANS. 
Somatic psychology is an interdisciplinary field involving the study of the body, somatic experience, and the embodied self, including therapeutic and holistic approaches to body. The word somatic comes from the ancient Greek root σωματ- somat- (body). As a field of study, somatic psychology has been defined as: 'the study of the mind/body interface, the relationship between our physical matter and our energy, the interaction of our body structures with our thoughts and actions.'.
Somatic psychotherapy is the integration of somatic inquiry within the therapy session. Somatic psychotherapy emphasizes the process of dynamics within session as primary to the work of therapeutic discovery, while the process of content is of secondary importance. 
Dance therapy or (Dance Movement Psychotherapy) also reflect something of this approach and are considered a study and practice within the field of somatic psychology. As a field of study, somatic psychology has been defined as: 'the study of the mind/body interface, the relationship between our physical matter and our energy, the interaction of our body structures with our thoughts and actions.'.
There are two basic classes of gene therapy. Somatic cell gene therapy and germ line gene therapy. · Somatic cell gene therapy changes/fixes/replaces genes in just one person. The targeted cells are the only ones affected, the changes are not passed on to that person's offspring. · Germ line gene therapy makes changes in the sperm or egg of an individual. The changes that are made, adding or subtracting genes from the person's DNA, will be passed on to their offspring. This type of gene therapy raises a lot of ethical questions because it impacts the inheritance patterns of humans.
Somatic Experiencing is a form of therapy aimed at relieving and resolving the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other mental and physical trauma-related health problems by focusing on the client’s perceived body sensations (or somatic experiences). Somatic Experiencing (SE) is based on the understanding that symptoms of trauma are the result of a dysregulation of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and that the ANS has an inherent capacity to self-regulate that is undermined by trauma.
Body Psychotherapy is a general branch of this subject, while Somatherapy, Eco-somatics and Dance therapy, for example, are specific branches of the subject. Somatic psychology is a field of study that bridges the Mind-body dichotomy. As a field of study, somatic psychology has been defined as: 'the study of the mind/body interface, the relationship between our physical matter and our energy, the interaction of our body structures with our thoughts and actions.'.
It is a specific type of therapy that was introduced in psychotherapies. Done by organic methods. SOMATIC THERAPY: Somatic therapy is treating mental disorders with organic therapies such as psychotropic drugs, electroconvulsive therapy or megavitamin therapy.. No related posts. 