The stretch reflex is caused by a stretch in the muscle spindle. When the stretch impulse is received a rapid sequence of events follows. The motor neuron is activated and the stretched muscles, and its supporting muscles, are contracted while its antagonist muscles are inhibited. The stretch reflex is very important in posture. It helps maintain proper posturing because a slight lean to either side causes a stretch in the spinal, hip and leg muscles to the other side, which is quickly countered by the stretch reflex. This is a constant process of adjusting and maintaining.
Examination of myotatic (deep tendon) reflexes. The muscle stretch (myotatic) reflex is a simple reflex, with the receptor neuron having direct connections to the muscle spindle apparatus in the muscle and with the alpha motor neurons in the central nervous system that send axons back to that muscle (Figure 8-1). 
Thus, when a muscle spindle is stretched and the stretch reflex is activated, the opposing muscle group must be inhibited to prevent it from working against the resulting contraction of the homonymous muscle (Figure 2.2). This inhibition is accomplished by an inhibitory interneuron in the spinal cord. 
The Stretch Reflex : (See Figure 13.15). The stretch reflex in its simplest form involves only 2 neurons, and is therefore sometimes called a 2-neuron reflex. The two neurons are a sensory and a motor neuron. The sensory neuron is stimulated by stretch (extension) of a muscle. Stretch of a muscle normally happens when its antagonist contracts, or artificially when its tendon is stretched, as in the knee jerk reflex. Muscles contain receptors called muscle spindles. (See Figure 13.13) These receptors respond to the muscles's stretch
The stretch reflex (myotatic reflex) is a muscle contraction in response to stretching within the muscle. It is a monosynaptic reflex which provides automatic regulation of skeletal muscle length. When a muscle lengthens, the muscle spindle is stretched and its nerve activity increases. A sudden stretch, such as tapping the Achilles' tendon, causes a reflex contraction in the muscle as the spindles sense the stretch and send an action potential to the motor neurons which then cause the muscle to contract; this particular reflex causes a contraction in the soleus-gastrocnemius group of muscles.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The receptor in the reflex arc of a stretch reflex are 'muscle spindles' which are spindle shaped receptors distributed throughout the belly of the muscle. For example the knee jerk reflex is a monosynaptic reflex: 1. The patellar tendon is stretched. 2. The afferent neuron (which has stretch sensors) send a signal up to the spinal cord. 3. In the spinal cord at the synapse. The electrical signal is changed to a chemical signal
Also called stretch receptors. y. y The purpose of muscle spindles stretch reflex is to help maintain muscle tone and to protect your body from injury caused by overstretching. .How the Message Travels From the Receptor to the Effector. Stretch Reflex. Response Reflexes STATIC RESPONSE-primary and secondary endings-slowly stretched DYNAMIC RESPONSE-primary endings-rapid change in spindle length.
A stretch reflex, also referred to as a deep tendon reflex or myotatic stretch reflex, is a physical response to the extension of a muscle. In essence, it is a process that causes a contraction, thereby stopping a stretch. The stretch reflex prevents people from overextending their muscles. Protective response is what prevents muscles from being stretched too far. Before a workout, take time to gently and slowly stretch the muscles in order to help prevent any muscle damage.
The stretch reflex; which is also often called the myotatic reflex, knee-jerk reflex, or deep tendon reflex, is a pre-programmed response by the body to a stretch stimulus in the muscle. The stretch reflex is very important in posture. It helps maintain proper posturing because a slight lean to either side causes a stretch in the spinal, hip and leg muscles to the other side, which is quickly countered by the stretch reflex. This is a constant process of adjusting and maintaining.