It isn't advanced, and it isn't retarded in relationship with the crank. Advancing the cam opens the intake valve sooner, which brings the power curve down to a little lower RPM. In other words, advancing the cam 2, 3 or 4 degrees will make the cam's power curve come-on sooner.
Contrary to what a lot of people think, cam timing and ignition timing have nothing to do with each other, anymore than a timing belt and a fan belt have anything to do with each other. They just happen to share a common word of timing but that word is in a completely different context from
If the No. 1 piston is actually at TDC, but the timing pointer shows 5 crank degrees before TDC, you could set the ignition advance to a spec set by the engine builder and put the engine into detonation or pre-ignition. Both of these conditions can lead to parts failures.
What Happens When the Timing Is Advanced It has long been held, and demonstrated at the Club's Dyno Days, that advancing the timing to 13 to 14 degrees before top dead centre (BTDC) is a cheap way of achieving lower rpm performance in the Mazda MX-5 1.6 litre cars.
Re: How does retarding cam timing make more power? The best thing about the the BMW is the Vanos system which can retard the intake and advance the exhaust. Giving more power/torque than a single cam with fixed lobe seperation. This is why a M62TU or S62 with a Motec system would make a great hot rod engine.
Advancing the spark timing creates a better burn and more cylinder pressure. Cylinder pressure = power. When you light the cylinder as the piston is still rising to TDC, the fuel & air is expanding, yet the piston is still compressing AS those gasses are expanding.
By advancing the timing by 4 degrees you start the ignition process 0.741 (0.18519 X 4) milliseconds sooner at 900-rpm (0.111 milliseconds at 6,000 rpm). 10. At 900 rpm it takes 4.629 milliseconds for the crank to travel the 25 degrees from 10 degrees before TDC to 15 degrees after TDC.
Cam timing is the relation of the valve timing event to the crankshaft or piston location. As you advance the cam you open and close both intake and exhaust earlier in relation to the crank / piston position.
Best Answer: You should not manually adjust your timing without the ability to monitor the engine. Advancing timing will give you more power but it will also make your engine more susceptible to knock (which can be damaging to your engine).
Ignition timing ONLY has to do with when the spark plug lights. The distributor may be driven by the cam gear BUT, the distributor rotates freely and can be rotated in any position to set the timing wherever you want, regardless of whether the cam is advanced, retarded or straight-up.