rBST is a product primarily given to dairy cattle by injection to increase milk production. Bovine somatotropin or bovine somatotrophin (abbreviated bST and BST), or bovine growth hormone (BGH), is a peptide hormone produced by cows' pituitary gland. Like other hormones, it is produced in small quantities and is used in regulating metabolic processes. The American Cancer Society has reviewed the evidence concerning IGF-1 in milk from rBST treated cows, and found that: While there may be a link between IGF-1 blood levels and cancer, the exact nature of this link remains unclear.
After the biotech company Genentech discovered and patented the gene for BST in the 1970s, it became possible to synthesize the hormone using recombinant DNA technology to create recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST), recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH), or artificial growth hormone. The American Cancer Society has reviewed the evidence concerning IGF-1 in milk from rBST treated cows, and found that: While there may be a link between IGF-1 blood levels and cancer, the exact nature of this link remains unclear.
1 Milk from cows injected with rBST is contaminated with the hormone, traces of which are absorbed through the gut into the blood of people who consume this milk or products made from it. 2  rBST milk is supercharged with high levels of the natural growth factor (IGF-1), which is readily absorbed through the gut. 1 rBST milk is chemically and nutritionally different than natural milk. 2 
rBGH is a genetically engineered artificial hormone injected into dairy cows to make them produce more milk. Despite opposition from scientists, farmers and consumers, the US currently allows dairy cows to be injected with recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH), also known as recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST). 1 Kansas: In 2009, the Kansas legislature passed a bill that deemed any milk, milk product or dairy product label with a statement related to milk composition including No Hormones, Hormone Free, rBST Free, rBGH Free, and BST Free as false and misleading.
One hormone, recombinant bovine somatotropin, or rBST, is given to about 20% of dairy cattle in the United States, having unknown effects on individuals who consume their milk. 1 rBST milk is chemically and nutritionally different than natural milk. 2  Milk from cows injected with rBST is contaminated with the hormone, traces of which are absorbed through the gut into the blood of people who consume this milk or products made from it.
It promotes growth and cell replication. Bovine growth hormone (BGH), also known as bovine somatotropin (BST) is the natural form of this hormone in cattle. Recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH) or recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST) refers to bovine growth hormone that is made in a lab using genetic technology. Some rBGH products on the market differ chemically from a cow's natural somatotropin by one amino acid. IGF-1 in milk from rBGH-treated cows. Bovine growth hormone levels are not significantly higher in milk from rBGH-treated cows. On top of this, BGH is not active in humans, so even if it were absorbed from drinking milk, it wouldn't be expected to cause health effects.
Human growth hormone is very different in structure from bovine growth hormone and bovine rBST. The differences in the DNA structure of natural human BST and natural bovine BST means this bovine growth hormone (rBST) cannot work in the human body. Somatotropin regulates the cow’s metabolism and determines how efficiently the cow converts feed into milk. Bovine somatotropin (BST) is also called Bovine Growth Hormone (BGH). Dairy farmers can now inject cows with a man-made version of bovine BST called recombinant BST (rBST).
Artificial BST is produced using recombinant DNA technology (biotechnology), and called rBST for short. rBST is commonly known as Bovine Growth Hormone or rBGH. When injected into cows, rBGH increases milk production 10 to 15 percent. 1 Kansas: In 2009, the Kansas legislature passed a bill that deemed any milk, milk product or dairy product label with a statement related to milk composition including No Hormones, Hormone Free, rBST Free, rBGH Free, and BST Free as false and misleading.
In 1993, FDA approved commercial use of synthetic recombinant Bovine somatotropin or growth hormone (rbST or rbGH) in injection form to be used in cows to increase milk yield. It was marketed under name Posilac (company Monsanto). It has shown to increase milk yield in cows by 10-15 %. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST) is a synthetic version of the Bovine somatotropin (BST) hormone found in cattle. The hormone is used by many commercial dairies to increase milk production. It's been marketed under a number of names, but most consumers know it as rBST or BST. 