-A-. Accepted-The transaction has been submitted to a financial institution for processing. ACH-An acronym used to identify the Automated Clearing House Network. ACH Authorization-Agreement by a receiver to allow an ACH debit or credit entry to their account. Business Day-A day in which a financial institution is open and performing ACH and payment processing transaction. Back to top-C- Check Conversion-The process of converting a paper check into an ACH debit for payment.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic network for financial transactions in the United States. ACH processes large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches. ACH credit transfers include direct deposit, payroll and vendor payments. The Federal Reserve Banks, through the FedACH system, are collectively the nation's largest ACH operator. In 2005, they processed 60% of commercial interbank ACH transactions; the remaining 40% was processed by the Electronic Payments Network (EPN), the United States' only private-sector
NACHA is an acronym for the National Automated Clearing House Association. NACHA sets the rules that govern the ACH network and dictate the format the files should be in. The terms ACH File, NACHA-Formatted File, and its variations are used interchangeably. The ACH is used as an alternative to physical (paper) checks and other labor-intensive and labor-intensive money transfers. In the United States, most banks use ACH files that are formed in a standard format.
ACH Terms And Definitions. ABA Number-Also referred to as a routing number, an ABA number is a nine-digit number used by banks to identify a specific financial institution. The number is used on checks and ACH transactions so that they can be routed through the banking system to the proper institution. Business Day-A day in which a financial institution is open and performing ACH and payment processing transaction. Back to top-C- Check Conversion-The process of converting a paper check into an ACH debit for payment.
ACH is an acronym for Automated Clearing House. The 'automation' refers to the handling of the transactions by computers as opposed to humans. The ACH is used as an alternative to physical (paper) checks and other labor-intensive and labor-intensive money transfers. In the United States, most banks use ACH files that are formed in a standard format.
DEFINITION of 'Automated Clearing House-ACH'. An electronic funds-transfer system run by the National Automated Clearing House Association. This payment system deals with payroll, direct deposit, tax refunds, consumer bills, tax payments and many more payment services. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Automated Clearing House-ACH'. The use of electronic clearing houses to facilitate electronic transfers of money has increased efficiency and timeliness of government and business transactions.
ACH meaning. Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic network for financial transactions in the United States. ACH processes large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches. ACH credit transfers include direct deposit payroll and vendor payments. ACH direct debit transfers include consumer payments on insurance premiums, mortgage loans, and other kinds of bills.
Automated Clearing House (also referred to as ACH) is the network that processes electronic financial transactions in the United States. This contains large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches from a variety of different types of organizations and businesses. Debit transactions also include new applications such as the Point-of-Purchase (POP) with debit and/or ATM cards or electronic check conversions where the merchant scans your check, converts it to an ACH item and then gives your check back to you.
ACH meaning 0 Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic network for financial transactions in the United States. ACH processes large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches. ACH credit transfers include direct deposit payroll and vendor payments. ACH direct debit transfers include consumer payments on insurance premiums, mortgage loans, and other kinds of bills.