If your cycle is exactly 28 days you will most likely begin to ovulate 14 days after the first day of your last period. So the 5 days before you ovulate and the three days of ovulation are your 8 fertile days. If your cycle is more than 28 days you will most likely ovulate 12 to 16 days after the first day of your last period. You will be fertile for 8 days during your cycle.
Having regular menstrual cycles is a sign that important parts of your body are working normally. The menstrual cycle provides important body chemicals, called hormones, to keep you healthy. It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. 
On average, a woman's menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, but cycles can vary from 24 to 35 days. After puberty, most women develop a regular menstrual cycle, with around the same length of time between periods. Menstrual bleeding usually lasts two to seven days, with the average being five days. The average menstrual cycle. 
An average menstrual cycle lasts 28 to 29 days. That's counting from the first day of your period to the day before the next (Fehring et al 2006) . Some women have much shorter cycles, lasting only 22 days, and some have much longer ones, lasting up to 36 days. It’s also common for the length of your cycle to vary from month to month (Fehring et al 2006) . In between your periods, it's normal to have a milky white vaginal discharge, which will change in consistency as your hormone levels rise and fall throughout your menstrual cycle. As you get older, and nearer the menopause, you’re likely to find that length of your menstrual cycles change.
Take a look at our text version of this tool. The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days. But normal cycles can vary from 21 to 35 days. The amount of time before ovulation occurs is different in every woman and even can be different from month to month in the same woman, varying from 13 to 20 days long. Learning about this part of the cycle is important because it is when ovulation and pregnancy can occur.
Report Abuse. It's usually pretty consistent, but it can vary from month to month depending on when you ovulate. For example, you can have a 28 day cycle and ovulate one month on CD 14 with a luteal phase of 14 days. But next month you may ovulate a couple of days later, on CD 16 with a luteal phase of 12 days. One cycle it was 11 days long and the other was 13 days long. If you typically ovulate on cd 16 and have a 12 day luteal phase, you will have a 28 day cycle. With ovulation on cd 14 with a 12 day LP, you will have a 26 day cycle. Good luck and baby dust :). Source(s): ttc #1 for 2+ years.
You should get your period once every month. Your menstrual cycle should be about 28 days. This means that there should be about 28 days from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. 28 days is an average number, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days is normal. Your period will usually last between 3 and 7 days. All of your cycles may not be the same number of days, and the length of your cycle may change over time. It is common for a girl just starting her period to have irregular periods for a year or two. Periods too far apart. You may only get your period 3-4 times a year, instead of once a month.