4774344sean/iStock/Getty Images. The restorative nursing aide or assistant is an expanded role for the certified nursing assistant (CNA). A restorative aide assists with therapeutic exercises and occupational therapy, and focuses less on direct nursing care than other CNAs. CNAs typically must have at least six months to a year of nursing experience and complete 35 to 60 hours of additional training before becoming a restorative aide. Equipment Responsibilities. The duties of a restorative aide include assessing the condition of adaptive equipment such as walkers, gait trainers, and crutches, and may include keeping this equipment clean. The aide arranges for repair or replacement of equipment when necessary.
The training for a restorative aide usually involves two or three days with Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy and nurses in techniques for restoration–for example, ambulation, positioning in chairs, range-of-motion exercises, bathing and dressing. “Restorative aides”-usually nursing assistants with special training. Restorative nursing is wonderful area of nursing that is extremely important. It offers so much more to the patient’s quality of life. It also allows much autonomy and the ability to develop critical thinking.
Duties: A restorative care assistant / specialist assists with therapeutic exercises and occupational therapy, and focuses less on direct nursing care.These duties include preparing the patient and the treatment area. 
Patients receive restorative care at various ages and life stages. This may be part of a rehabilitation treatment plan after an illness or accident where the aim is to restore abilities. It is also commonly used with older patients as part of long-term care treatments. It is possible to get a job as an aide without a restorative certification, but you may have to complete an accredited course within a few months of starting work as a condition of your job offer. The job requires good communication and people skills -- you need to build relationships with your patients and your team
Catalog Description. The Restorative Aide certificate provides the skills needed to assist patients in a health care facility with tasks of daily living. These skills include lifting, moving, and ambulation procedures; caring for individuals with musculoskeletal, neurological, and integumentary (skin) conditions; providing restorative approaches to meeting needs for nutrition, hydration, personal care, and other daily activities; and completing documentation of care.
-Knowledge of safe transfer and lifting techniques. In some cases, Restorative Nursing Aide need to lift patients. Frequent kneeling, stooping, and standing for long periods also are part of the job.Some knowledge of the materials and equipment used in physical therapy. “Restorative aides”-usually nursing assistants with special training. Restorative nursing is wonderful area of nursing that is extremely important. It offers so much more to the patient’s quality of life. It also allows much autonomy and the ability to develop critical thinking.
A restorative aide may work with doctors and registered nurses, as well as hospital or client administrators. Education of a restorative aide requires at least a high school degree or equivalent. A four-year college degree is preferred but not necessarily be required for the position. Certification of a nursing assistant may also be required when applying this position. (United States). Earnings for Restorative Aides in the United States come in at around $11.49 per hour on average. The pay spectrum stretches from $9.23 per hour to $15.06. Most Restorative Aides report high levels of job satisfaction.
Duties. As a restorative aide, you'll potentially administer a variety of treatments either independently or as part of a therapy team. This typically involves physical, occupational and speech therapies, although your job duties will depend on the facility and your patients. It is possible to get a job as an aide without a restorative certification, but you may have to complete an accredited course within a few months of starting work as a condition of your job offer. The job requires good communication and people skills -- you need to build relationships with your patients and your team
C.N.A. to Restorative Aide Training. CNA to Restorative Aide program is a comprehensive course designed to teach students the skills and abilities essential to the provision of physical restorative care to patients and residents in hospitals, rehabilitation, home health and long-term care facilities. “Restorative aides”-usually nursing assistants with special training. Restorative nursing is wonderful area of nursing that is extremely important. It offers so much more to the patient’s quality of life. It also allows much autonomy and the ability to develop critical thinking.