Courtesy of The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood. The disease of pirates: the grey-death. Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C, whose chemical name, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin term for scurvy, scorbutus. Even though the disease was known since ancient times (described by Hippocrates around 400 BCE), it was not a scourge to those who were largely land-bound. This condition is brought on by a lack of vitamin D, which causes the body to be unable to absorb or deposit calcium. Less commonly, it can also be caused by a lack of calcium or phosphorus, but vitamin D deficiency is by far the most common cause.
scurvy. a condition due to deficiency of ascorbic acid (vitamin C). Symptoms of infantile scurvy include poor appetite, digestive disturbances, failure to gain weight, increasing irritability, and bruises scattered over the skin. Severe deficiency may cause changes in bone structure. Eating foods rich in vitamin C every day prevents scurvy. A supplement containing the RDA of vitamin C will also prevent a deficiency. Infants who are being weaned from breast milk to cow's milk need a supplement containing vitamin C.
Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C in your diet. If your body doesn't have enough vitamin C, it can't produce new collagen (a protein found in many different types of body tissue, including the skin and bones). Without a new supply of collagen, the body's tissue will begin to break down and deteriorate. Although scurvy is rare in the UK, research has shown that a significant number of people may have a lack of vitamin C. However, it's possible to get a good supply of vitamin C by eating plenty of fruit and vegetables. The good news is that it doesn't have to cost a lot to get your 5 A DAY.
Definition. Scurvy is a condition caused by a lack of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) in the diet. Signs of scurvy include tiredness, muscle weakness, joint and muscle aches, a rash on the legs, and bleeding gums. Eating foods rich in vitamin C every day prevents scurvy. A supplement containing the RDA of vitamin C will also prevent a deficiency. Infants who are being weaned from breast milk to cow's milk need a supplement containing vitamin C.
The primary cause of scurvy is insufficient intake of vitamin C (ascorbic acid). This may be due to ignorance, famine, anorexia, restrictive diets (due to allergies, food fads, etc.), or difficulty orally ingesting foods. Scurvy can be prevented by consuming enough vitamin C, either in the diet or as a supplement. Foods that contain vitamin C include: Oranges, lemons, kiwi fruit and strawberries are all excellent natural sources of vitamin C.
Definition. Scurvy is a disease that occurs when you have a severe lack of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) in your diet. Scurvy causes general weakness, anemia, gum disease, and skin hemorrhages. Scurvy is rare in the United States. Older adults who are not getting proper nutrition are most affected by scurvy. Scurvy. Scurvy is a nutritional disease caused by deficiency of vitamin C. Common symptoms include pinpoint bleeding around hair follicles, along the gums, and under the nails, as seen in this photograph.This disease rarely occurs
Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C and manifests as collagen defects, hemorrhagic diathesis, abnormalities in bone maturation, epiphyseal disease, lifting of the periosteum, hemarthroses, irritability, decreased appetite, delayed development, and pseudoparalysis related to bone pain. 
Knowledge center. Scurvy is a disease caused by a diet that lacks vitamin C (ascorbic acid) . Patients develop anemia, debility, exhaustion, edema (swelling) in some parts of the body, and sometimes ulceration of the gums and loss of teeth. The name scurvy comes from the Latin scorbutus. Scurvy can be prevented by consuming enough vitamin C, either in the diet or as a supplement. Foods that contain vitamin C include: Oranges, lemons, kiwi fruit and strawberries are all excellent natural sources of vitamin C.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C. Scurvy often presents initially with fatigue, followed by formation of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes. This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C as a distinct concept, and an inability to reliably link different foods (notably present in fresh citrus, watercress, and organ meat) to scurvy.
Scurvy is a disease caused by lack of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) in the diet. Foods especially rich in this vitamin include citrus fruits, tomatoes, lettuce, celery, onions, carrots, and potatoes. 