Long before earning a famous reputation as a multiple Grammy Award-winning singer-songwriter, John Legend was born John Roger Stephens on December 28, 1978, in Springfield, Ohio. He became an in-demand session musician and songwriter, working with such artists as Alicia Keys, Twista and Janet Jackson. He was soon introduced to up-and-coming hip-hop artist Kanye West, and the two musicians collaborated on one another's demos. Legend's debut album, 2004's Get Lifted, won three Grammy Awards.
John Legend was born on December 28, 1978. He is one of four children of Phyllis Stephens (nee Née), lloyd a, seamstress And Ronald, stephens a factory worker and Former National. Guardsman throughout his, Childhood legend was homeschooled on and off by his. Mother at the age of, four he performed with his church. choir Prior to the release of Legend's debut album, his career gained momentum through a series of successful collaborations with multiple established artists. He sang in Magnetic Man 's  Getting Nowhere , Kanye West 's . All of the Lights , on Slum Village 's Selfish, and Dilated Peoples ' This Way.
Early Life and Career. Long before earning a famous reputation as a multiple Grammy Award-winning singer-songwriter, John Legend was born John Roger Stephens on December 28, 1978, in Springfield, Ohio. A child prodigy, Legend's grandmother taught him how to play the piano, and he grew up singing in the church choir. He became an in-demand session musician and songwriter, working with such artists as Alicia Keys, Twista and Janet Jackson. He was soon introduced to up-and-coming hip-hop artist Kanye West, and the two musicians collaborated on one another's demos. Legend's debut album, 2004's Get Lifted, won three Grammy Awards.
John Legend was born on December 28, 1978. He is one of four children of Phyllis Stephens (nee Née), lloyd a, seamstress And Ronald, stephens a factory worker and Former National. guardsman Prior to the release of Legend's debut album, his career gained momentum through a series of successful collaborations with multiple established artists. He sang in Magnetic Man 's  Getting Nowhere , Kanye West 's . All of the Lights , on Slum Village 's Selfish, and Dilated Peoples ' This Way.
John Legend was born on December 28, 1978, in Springfield, Ohio. He became an in-demand session musician and songwriter, working with such artists as Alicia Keys, Twista and Janet Jackson. He was soon introduced to up-and-coming hip-hop artist Kanye West, and the two musicians collaborated on one another's demos. Legend's debut album, 2004's Get Lifted, won three Grammy Awards.
John Legend was born on December 28, 1978 in Springfield, Ohio, USA as John Stephens. He has been married to Chrissy Teigen since September 14, 2013. Is a huge Ohio State football fan, and says he watches 90% of the Buckeyes' games on TV. Publicist is Cindi Berger. Engaged to Chrissy Teigen [December 27, 2011]. On the TV show, Finding Your Roots with Henry Louis Gates, Jr. (2012), John found out some very interesting things about one of his ancestors.
He is a pianist, songwriter and singer and is a Grammy Award winner. Childhood: John Legend was born and raised in Columbus, Ohio. At the age of three, his grandmother started to teach him to play the piano, in a gospel style. At seven, he was involved in the church choir as well as taking classical music lessons. The 2015 MTV Video Music Awards Chrissy Teigen, John Legend-The 2015 MTV Video Music Awards at The Microsoft Theater at L.A. Live-Los Angeles, California, United States-Sunday 30th August 2015.
John Legend was born on December 28, 1978 in Springfield, Ohio, USA as John Stephens. He has been married to Chrissy Teigen since September 14, 2013. 
John Roger Stephens (born December 28, 1978), better known by his stage name John Legend, is an American singer, songwriter and actor. He has won nine Grammy Awards, one Golden Globe, and one Academy Award. In 2007, Legend received the Hal David Starlight Award from the Songwriters Hall of Fame. Prior to the release of Legend's debut album, his career gained momentum through a series of successful collaborations with multiple established artists. He sang in Magnetic Man 's  Getting Nowhere , Kanye West 's . All of the Lights , on Slum Village 's Selfish, and Dilated Peoples ' This Way.
© Columbia Records. John Legend was born John Roger Stephens on December 28, 1978 in Springfield, Ohio. He began performing with his church choir when he was 4 years old and started playing piano at age 7. Legend is extremely academically gifted. 