The Synapse. Neurons have specialized projections called dendrites and axons. Dendrites bring information to the cell body and axons take information away from the cell body. Information from one neuron flows to another neuron across a synapse. The synapse contains a small gap separating neurons. The synapse consists of: 1  a presynaptic ending that contains neurotransmitters, mitochondria and other cell organelles. 2  a postsynaptic ending that contains receptor sites for neurotransmitter
Unlike wires in your home, nerve cells do not touch, but come close together at synapses. At the synapse, the two nerve cells are separated by a tiny gap, or synaptic cleft. The sending neuron is called the presynaptic cell, while the receiving one is called the postsynaptic cell. Nerve cells send chemical messages with neurotransmitters in a one-way direction across the synapse from presynaptic cell to postsynaptic cell. 1 Some get taken up by specific transporters on the presynaptic cell (reuptake). 2  In the presynaptic cell, MAO and COMT destroy the absorbed serotonin molecules. 3  This enables the nerve signal to be turned off and readies the synapse to receive another action potential.
Dopamine reuptake via DAT provides the primary mechanism through which dopamine is cleared from synapses, although there may be an exception in the prefrontal cortex, where evidence points to a possibly larger role of the norepinephrine transporter. DAT is a symporter that moves dopamine across the cell membrane by coupling the movement to the energetically-favorable movement of sodium ions moving from high to low concentration into the cell. DAT function requires the sequential binding and co-transport of two Na+ ions and one Cl− ion with the dopamine substrate.
The junction between the axon terminals of a neuron and the receiving cell is called a synapse. (Synapses at muscle fibers are also called neuromuscular junctions or myoneural junctions 1  .). Action potentials travel down the axon of the neuron to its end(s), the axon terminal(s). Excitatory synapses. The neurotransmitter at excitatory synapses depolarizes the postsynaptic membrane (of a neuron in this diagram). 1  Binding of acetylcholine to its receptors on the postsynaptic cell opens up ligand-gated sodium channels. 2  These allow an influx of Na + ions, reducing the membrane potential.
Synapse Structure. 1  The part of the synapse that belongs to the receiving neuron is called the postsynaptic membrane. 2  The space between the two is called the synaptic cleft. 3  It is approximately 20 nm wide (20 x 10 -9 m). The transmission of information is accomplished in two ways: 1  Electrically: the neuron is directly adjacent to other neurons. 2  Chemically: there is a space (the synaptic cleft) between the axon terminus and the adjacent neuron.
During transmission across a chemical synapse: the neurotransmitter is released, causing the postsynaptic ion channels to open., All of these., gap junctions block current from traveling from one cell to the next., or sodium ions hyperpolarize the post-synaptic cell membranes. 
A synapse includes a presynaptic portion (synaptic ending), a synaptic cleft, which separates two cells, and a postsynaptic portion, which is the part of a cell adjacent to a synaptic ending. Excitatory or inhibitory effects in a synapse with a chemical reaction are produced by a series of processes. The nerve impulse, upon arriving at a presynaptic ending, depolarizes the presynaptic membrane, whose permeability to calcium ions is increased.
synapse. (sĭn`ăps) , junction between various signal-transmitter cells, either between two neurons or between a neuron and a muscle or gland. A nerve impulse reaches the synapse through the axon, or transmitting end, of a nerve cell, or neuron. Excitatory or inhibitory effects in a synapse with a chemical reaction are produced by a series of processes. The nerve impulse, upon arriving at a presynaptic ending, depolarizes the presynaptic membrane, whose permeability to calcium ions is increased.
1 The part of the synapse that belongs to the receiving neuron is called the postsynaptic membrane. 2  The space between the two is called the synaptic cleft. 3  It is approximately 20 nm wide (20 x 10 -9 m). 4  Presynaptic terminals contain numerous synaptic vesicles. The transmission of information is accomplished in two ways: 1  Electrically: the neuron is directly adjacent to other neurons. 2  Chemically: there is a space (the synaptic cleft) between the axon terminus and the adjacent neuron.
Introduction. The Synapse project has developed a set of transport implementations that provide protocol support and/or features that go beyond what is provided out of the box by Axis2: 1  A non blocking HTTP transport that gives better performance in a highly asynchronous environment like Synapse.