Most employers, particularly small-and medium-sized companies, outsource background checks to consumer reporting agencies. These agencies are generally very fast, but the time it takes the check to come back to the employer depends on a number of factors.
Patience when doing employment background checks can significantly reduce the risk of a bad hire! The idea of an instant background check sounds great. However, a quality background takes some effort and time. It takes time to identify, locate, and contact the correct court, employer, school, or licensing agency.
Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate.
How long does it take to do a background check. The time it takes to complete background checks is dependent on a lot of factors and usually varies from one company to another. For most positions, the norm seems to be around 24 to 36 hours.
Background checks typically take 2-3 days to process and to receive back from the outside contracted agency. A few exceptions may take up to 2 weeks. Rarely, a background check may take longer, 3 to 4 weeks. Please allow additional processing time for each background check in the event of a delay.
Also, remember that information for a background check is gathered from multiple sources. Some courts, employers, and schools can be hard to contact or are slow to respond. Results from these sources are usually back within a week.
As background checks differ from company-to-company, the time frame may differ at all points in time. Generally, one can receive a complete background check report within 1-3 business day(s) though if it includes a complete criminal records check, it may take 3-7 week days. This is because educational institutions, courts and government agencies usually take enough time to get back with required details.
A common question is How long does a background check take?. In most cases employment background check reports are complete in one to three business days from the time we receive the order.