Kennedy's Flexible Response to Communism. As this video from American Experience: JFK reveals, President Kennedy was determined to fight Communism. Although he believed that it was a menace, he did not want to engage the Soviet Union in an all-out confrontation, thus, triggering a “hot war” with nuclear weapons.
Between January 1961 and Nov. 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy fundamentally changed U.S. national security policy. These changes resulted in structures and doctrines that enabled American forces to fight in Vietnam in a new way that ultimately defined Kennedy’s national security legacy. 
Flexible response represented a capability to fight across all spectrums of warfare, not just with nuclear arms such as this Titan II missile. The New Look policy, though initially useful, quickly became obsolete with the introduction of inter-continental delivery systems that undermined the credibility of a deterrence threat.
Flexible response was a defense strategy implemented by John F. Kennedy in 1961 to address the Kennedy administration's skepticism of Dwight Eisenhower 's New Look and its policy of Massive Retaliation. The New Look policy, though initially useful, quickly became obsolete with the introduction of inter-continental delivery systems that undermined the credibility of a deterrence threat.
The foreign policy of the John F. Kennedy administration in 1961–1963 saw diplomatic and military initiatives in Europe, Southeast Asia, Latin America and other regions amid considerable Cold War tensions. Several of them were from the foreign policy think tanks. Kennedy had been interested in the issues of war and peace since his youth. In his inaugural address Kennedy encapsulated his Cold War stance as following: Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.
Global Pressures and the Flexible Response. When President John F. Kennedy assumed office in the opening days of 1961, the prospects for peace were not encouraging. Premier Khruschev had been cool since an American U2 plane gathering intelligence had been shot down over Russia in the spring of 1960.
Flexible response was a defense strategy implemented by John F. Kennedy in 1961 to address the Kennedy administration's skepticism of Dwight Eisenhower 's New Look and its policy of Massive Retaliation. 
Kennedy's strategy of flexible response, managed by Robert McNamara, was aimed to reduce the possibility of war by miscalculation. Kennedy's administration contributed to the peaceful resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis and refrained from further escalation of the 1961 Berlin Crisis. Several of them were from the foreign policy think tanks. Kennedy had been interested in the issues of war and peace since his youth. In his inaugural address Kennedy encapsulated his Cold War stance as following: Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.
Flexible response calls for mutual deterrence at strategic, tactical, and conventional levels, giving the United States the capability to respond to aggression across the spectrum of warfare, not limited only to nuclear arms. The New Look policy, though initially useful, quickly became obsolete with the introduction of inter-continental delivery systems that undermined the credibility of a deterrence threat.
John F. Kennedy was familiar with policy formation and the legislative process from his numerous years of experience in Congress. According to Biographer Theodore White, President Kennedy was responsible for more legislation than any other president since FDR’s administration in the early thirties. Download. EISENHOWER & KENNEDY: WORLDS APART Two of the most memorable and influential presidents, in the history of the United States, Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy were living legends in their time.