Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a type of tissue that has a single layer of cells arranged in a fashion that appears to be stratified, whereas transitional epithelial tissue is an elastic-like epithelial tissue that swells, contracts, and changes shape as necessary.
Stratified Squamous Epithelium: 1  Description: Many layers of cells with squamous cells located next to the lumen. 2  Location: Keratiniazed variety located on the outer surface of the epidermis of the skin. 3  The non-keratinized variety lines the mouth, esophagus, and vagina. 4  Function: Protection.
The only other epithelial tissue with so many layers is transitional (below), but note that stratified squamous epithelium typically has a more evenly contoured surface; with the uppermost layers of cells flattened. Features to Know: nuclei, if evident. Where Located: lining mouth and esophagus.
Ciliated versus Non-ciliated. There are actually two forms of pseudostratified columnar epithelium: ciliated and non-ciliated. Ciliated cells have 200-300 small hair-like protrusions, or cilia, on the luminal surface, while non-ciliated have a smooth apical side.
Stratified Squamous Epithelium: 1  Description: Many layers of cells with squamous cells located next to the lumen. 2  Location: Keratiniazed variety located on the outer surface of the epidermis of the skin. 3  Function: Protection.
The function of the columnar epithelial cells is secretion and absorption of nutrients. The columnar epithelial cells in the intestine contain microvilli that helps in increasing the surface are for absorption.
• Describe the different types of simple epithelium. • Describe the location and function of different types of simple epithelium. Epithelium or Epithelial Tissue • Epithelium is a tissue composed of cells that line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body.
Functions include secretion and absorption (located in small ducts of glands and kidney tubules). Simple columnar epithelium – is a single layer of tall, closely packed cells that line the digestive tract from the stomach to the rectum. Functions include absorption and secretion. They contain dense microvilli on their apical surface.