The Manhattan Project was an epic, secret, wartime effort to design and build the world's first nuclear weapon. Commanding the efforts of the world's greatest physicists and mathematicians during World War II, the $20 billion project resulted in the production of the first uranium and plutonium bombs. Manhattan Project, the wartime effort to design and build the first nuclear weapons (atomic bombs). With the discovery of fission in 1939, it became clear to scientists that certain radioactive materials could be used to make a bomb of unprecented power.
A) The United States wanted to prove its military superiority over the other countries. B) The Allied governments feared that Germany was developing atomic weapons. C) The United States needed a weapon to use in future wars against the USSR. D) The Manhattan Project was only intended to develop peacetime uses for atomic energy. 2
The Manhattan Project was the top secret military endeavor to  build, and detonate the first atomic bomb. It was based at Los  Alamos, New Mexico and headed by Dr. J. Robert … Oppenheimer. 
By the summer of 1945, Oppenheimer was ready to test the first bomb. On July 16, 1945, at Trinity Site near Alamogordo, New Mexico, scientists of the Manhattan Project readied themselves to watch the detonation of the world's first atomic bomb. The device was affixed to a 100-foot tower and discharged just before dawn. 
The United States wanted to prove its military superiority over the other countries. The Allied governments feared that Germany was developing atomic weapons. The United States needed a weapon to use in future wars against the USSR. The Manhattan Project was only intended to develop peacetime uses for atomic energy. 
The name Manhattan Project was the code word for the development of the atomic bomb. On July 16, 1945, the first atomic bomb was tested at the Trinity Site in New Mexico. The weapon was later used against the Japanese to end World War II. Manhattan Project, the wartime effort to design and build the first nuclear weapons (atomic bombs). With the discovery of fission in 1939, it became clear to scientists that certain radioactive materials could be used to make a bomb of unprecented power.
The United States needed a weapon to use in future wars against the USSR. The Manhattan Project was only intended to develop peacetime uses for atomic energy. One of the major reasons why the Manhattan Project was initiated is The Allied governments feared that Germany was developing atomic weapons.
The Three Non-Nuclear Principles were intended to A) prevent all nations from ever using nuclear weapons again B) restrict the use of nuclear technology for energy and medicine C) keep Japan from ever developing or using nuclear weapons D) insure that Japan uses safe methods to produce nuclear technology. C) The United States needed a weapon to use in future wars against the USSR. D) The Manhattan Project was only intended to develop peacetime uses for atomic energy.
Manhattan Project. The Manhattan Project was a secret military project created in 1942 to produce the first US nuclear weapon. Fears that Nazi Germany would build and use a nuclear weapon during World War II triggered the start of the Manhattan Project, which was originally based in Manhattan, New York. 
Answer by Kitkatjul. Confidence votes 29. The Manhattan Project, or more formally, the Manhattan Engineering District (MED), was the effort during World War II to develop the first nuclear weapons of the United States with assistance from the United Kingdom and Canada. 