Take I-5 North to Exit #189, then travel highway 525 to the Mukilteo ferry terminal and take a 20 minute ferry ride to Clinton, the southern-most community on Whidbey Island. From the Olympic and Kitsap Peninsulas. Take a 30 minute ferry ride from Port Townsend to Coupeville Terminal, which is just 4 miles south of Coupeville. From the Canadian Border. Exit 230 to Highway 20. Then drive over the Deception Pass Bridge onto
Passenger and vehicle/driver fares are collected at Mukilteo, while vehicle/driver only fares are collected at Clinton.Please note: Vehicle height surcharge fares are paid in addition to the vehicle length fares for vehicle categories under 14 feet and under 22 feet. 
Whidbey Island, WA. Accessed either by ferry from Mukilteo (about 30 min north of Seattle); by ferry from Port Townsend or by Highway 20 over the Deception Pass Bridge from Anacortes, this Island is comprised of 3 cities. 
The easiest way to get to Whidbey Island is to take a ferry from the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal. The ferry takes around 20 minutes and will arrive in Clinton on Whidbey Island. Ferries leave roughly every 30 minutes. If you are using public transport you will need to walk on to the Mukilteo-Clinton Ferry which costs $4.80. You can find more information about pricing here. The beautiful Whidbey Island is located 45 minutes north of Seattle. There are many transport options to help you get here quickly and easily. Once you reach Whidbey we can make arrangements to have someone meet you at your shuttle drop off location or at the Clinton ferry terminal.
The Mukilteo ferry west of Everett connects travelers to the tiny town of Clinton near the southern tip of Whidbey Island. Highway 525 meanders north past little towns and attractions, some of which are worth the short jaunt off the main road up the island. The next city to the north is Oak Harbor on Highway 20, which continues through Deception Pass State Park, over Deception Pass Bridge and off the island to connect with Anacortes for ferries to the San Juan Islands or a quick zip to Interstate 5 and a return to civilization.
Whidbey island. 30 minutes south of Seattle, Mukilteo is the port through which travellers make the ferry connection to Clinton on Whidbey Island. 
If you are driving to Whidbey Island you can take the ferry from Mukilteo Ferry Terminal which is 24 miles north of Seattle and just off the I-5. Alternatively, if you are coming from Vancouver you can cross to the island via the bridge which connects the North of Whidbey to Anacortes and joins the I-5 at Burlington. The beautiful Whidbey Island is located 45 minutes north of Seattle. There are many transport options to help you get here quickly and easily. Once you reach Whidbey we can make arrangements to have someone meet you at your shuttle drop off location or at the Clinton ferry terminal.
Whidbey and Camano Islands are in the heart of Puget Sound and an easy trip from the Seattle-Tacoma area or Vancouver, British Columbia. Coupeville Ferry. The trip between Coupeville and Port Townsend is full of great scenery. Deception Pass Bridge. Whidbey Island’s iconic bridge offers breathtaking views. Oak Harbor Marina. The large marina makes Oak Harbor an ideal stop for any mariner. 
Whidbey island. Accessed from Mukilteo (about 30 min North of Seattle) or from Port Townsend, or by Highway 20 over the Deception Pass from Anacortes, the Island is comprised of 3 cities.