You indicate the year of the tax return you're amending at the top of Form 1040X. For amended returns, the IRS sets a deadline of three years from the date the original tax return was due. For example, if the due date of the return was April 15, 2010, you have until April 15, 2013, to file a Form 1040X for 2009. If it does not have that information, you are well advised to file an amended return as soon as possible and pay the additional tax before the due date (normally April 15 following the tax year, for individuals).
The Internal Revenue Service limits the amount of time you have to file a 1040X to the later of three years from the date you file the original tax return, or two years from the time you pay the tax for that year. This is because the IRS treats all tax returns you file on or before the deadline as filed on April 15th. However, when you file a tax return after the April deadline, you start counting the three years on the actual filing date. But suppose your 2008 tax return reports an amount you owe to the IRS rather than a refund. If you file your return on time but don't pay the tax until May 15, 2010, you now have until May 15, 2012 to file an amended return under the 2-year rule. Unfortunately, if you don't file your 1040X on time, the IRS has no obligation to send you an additional refund
IRS Tax Tip 2011-72, April 12, 2011. An amended tax return generally allows you to file again to correct your filing status, your income or to add deductions or credits you may have missed. Here are nine points the IRS wants you to know about amending your federal income tax return. 1  Use Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, to file an amended income tax return. 2  Use Form 1040X to correct previously filed Forms 1040, 1040A or 1040EZ
If you owe additional tax for a tax year for which the due date for filing has not passed, file Form 1040X and pay the tax by the due date for that year (without regard to any extension of time to file) to avoid penalties and interest. As a reminder, amended returns take up to 16 weeks to process and up to three weeks to show up in our system. Before that time, there is no need to call the IRS unless the tool specifically tells you to do so. Please note: A change made on your federal return may affect your state tax liability.
Generally, you must file Form 1040X within three years from the date you filed your original return or within two years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later. For … Example: April 15 2014 - for a 2010 return filed April 15 2011. 10 people found this useful. If you did something fraudulent and want to come clean, it is best to get the 1040X filed before the IRS starts investigating. If you forgot to claim a deduction, you have until three years after the original due date of the return (assuming you filed on time and didn't make any payments after the due date). You have seven years to claim a worthless security or a bad debt
Generally, to claim a refund, you must file Form 1040X within 3 years after the date you filed your original return or within 2 years after the date you paid the tax, whichever is later. Returns filed before the due date (without regard to extensions) are considered filed on the due date. As a reminder, amended returns take up to 16 weeks to process and up to three weeks to show up in our system. Before that time, there is no need to call the IRS unless the tool specifically tells you to do so. Please note: A change made on your federal return may affect your state tax liability.
The IRS will correct your tax return if it has the information supporting a change in your tax liability. If it does not have that information, you are well advised to file an amended return as soon as possible and pay the additional tax before the due date (normally April 15 following the tax year, for individuals).
You may file Form M2X within 3½ years after the return was due or within one year from the date of an order assessing tax, whichever is later. If you filed your original return under an extension by the extended due date, you have up to 3½ years from the extended due date to file the amended return. 