If you want to prepare appam without yeast, just let the appam batter ferment for about 16 hours. take half a cup of water, add 1 tsp sugar, 1 tsp rock salt and 1/4 tsp of cooking soda and mix well. now add the mixed water to the fermented batter and mix well. let the batter rest for 30 minutes before you start making appam. How to eat the appam is, sprinkle 2 or 3 tsp's of sugar in the centre of the appam and pour coconut milk/ just plain milk, let the appam soak for few seconds and eat! It will be a divine break-fast! appam served with veg stew and milk. Ingredients:
If using active dry yeast instead of cooked appam batter, add 1 tsp yeast to 1/4 cup of luke warm water and 2 tsps sugar. Leave aside for 15 mts and the yeast will dissolve, froth and double in size. Add this to the ground appam batter and mix well. Place lid and let it ferment overnight in a warm place. Appam recipe is made with rice and fresh coconut with or without yeast.Its popular among Kerala breakfast recipes that are healthy, simple and easy to make.
Preparation of the appam batter. 1  Soak the rice for about 6-8 hours in water. 2  Wash the rice three to four times and drain thoroughly. 3  Grind the raw rice and the boiled rice together to a fine paste. 4  Add baking soda. 5  Keep it for 6-8 hours. 6  Add salt to the mixture and keep it for one more hour. 
2. drain and then add them to the grinder. also add 1 to 1.5 cups grated coconut, a fistful of cooked rice/poha, ½ tsp dry active yeast, 1 tsp salt and 2 tbsp sugar. you can also proof the yeast separately and then add (check recipe notes below). 1 drain and then add them to the grinder. also add the grated coconut, cooked rice or poha/aval, dry active yeast, salt and sugar. 2  you can also proof the yeast separately and then add. just take about 2 to 3 tbsp warm water. add a pinch of sugar and dissolve it.
Here is the recipe for making Appam using Rice Flour and Coconut Milk. It’s pretty easy as you don’t have to soak rice, grate coconut or grind anything. Again the suggestion to use Rice Flour came from my dear Mom-In-Law. Later, when I discussed with some friends, even they told me the same. 1 Just before preparing Appam, you can add 1-2 tbsp of sugar, if you like your appam to be sweet. 2  If the batter is thick, add around 1/4 cup coconut milk to the batter. 3  The final batter should have a consistency similar to that of Idly Batter. 4  Whisk everything well.
Appam made on a Flat Tava or Griddle. For making Palappams in a Palappam Chatti. 1  For making Palappam with the same batter, just before preparing palappam, add 1-2 tbsp of sugar and 1/4 to 1/2 cup of coconut milk to the batter and mix well. 1 Just before preparing Appam, you can add 1-2 tbsp of sugar, if you like your appam to be sweet. 2  If the batter is thick, add around 1/4 cup coconut milk to the batter. 3  The final batter should have a consistency similar to that of Idly Batter. 4  Whisk everything well.
Appam is a type of pancake made with fermented rice batter and coconut milk. It is a common food in the South Indian state of Kerala. It is also popular in Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka. It is eaten most frequently for breakfast or dinner. 
1 – In the mean time, add the cooked rice, coconut milk,1/2 a cup of water and salt to a food processor or blender and puree it into a smooth batter. – 2  Then add the rice flour and another 1/2 cup of water and mix it all well. – 3  Pour the batter into a large pot with a lid and mix in the yeast mixture. 1 – Then add the rice flour and another 1/2 cup of water and mix it all well. – 2  Pour the batter into a large pot with a lid and mix in the yeast mixture. – 3  Cover the pot and place it in a warm place for about 2 hours or so to rise. – 4  When the batter has risen to more than double it’s volume, it’s ready.