If patients with cauda equina syndrome do not seek immediate treatment to relieve the pressure, it can result in permanent paralysis, impaired bladder and/or bowel control, loss of sexual sensation, and other problems. Even with immediate treatment, some patient may not recover complete function. The cauda equina is a bundle of nerve roots at the lower end of the spinal cord. Causes. Cauda equina syndrome may be caused by a herniated disk, tumor, infection, fracture, or narrowing of the spinal canal.
Cauda equina syndrome. With cauda equina syndrome, nerves at the base of the spinal cord become compressed. This affects nerves important for messages to the legs, feet and pelvic organs. This is a serious condition which can cause lower back pain, numbness, paralysis and bowel or urine problems. These are the most common causes of cauda equina syndrome: 1  A herniation (bulging) of a spinal disk in the lumbar area that presses on the nerves (the most common cause). 2  Narrowing of the spinal canal (stenosis). 3  A spinal lesion or tumour. 4  A spinal infection, inflammation, haemorrhage or fracture
CES occurs more often in adults than in children. But it can occur in children who have a spinal birth defect or have had a spinal injury. These are the most common causes of cauda equina syndrome: 1  A severe ruptured disk in the lumbar area (the most common cause). 2  Narrowing of the spinal canal (stenosis). 3  A spinal lesion or malignant tumor. 
Cauda equina syndrome facts. 1  Cauda equina syndrome is an uncommon compression of the nerves at the end of the spinal cord within the spinal canal. 2  Cauda equina syndrome can be caused by any condition that results in direct irritation or pinching of the nerves at the end of the spinal cord. Medical Editor: Charles Davis, MD, PhD. Symptoms of cauda equina syndrome include: 1  low back pain, 2  pain in one or both legs that starts in the buttocks and travels down the back of the thighs, 3  bladder and bowel problems (inability or difficulty to urinating, incontinence, constipation), 4  weakness in the lower extremities and loss of sensations, 5  numbness in the groin area, an
Although leg pain is common and usually goes away without surgery, cauda equina syndrome, a rare disorder affecting the bundle of nerve roots (cauda equina) at the lower (lumbar) end of the spinal cord, is a surgical emergency. Even with immediate treatment, some patient may not recover complete function. The cauda equina is a bundle of nerve roots at the lower end of the spinal cord. Causes. Cauda equina syndrome may be caused by a herniated disk, tumor, infection, fracture, or narrowing of the spinal canal.
Cauda equina syndrome is often caused by a large disc herniation in the lower back that compresses the nerve roots at the end of the spinal cord. These nerves send messages to and from the bladder, bowel, and legs. 