the study of the origin, development, form and organisation of a human society. SOCIOLOGY: In sociology the relationships between people, groups, organisations and society itself are studied.. No related posts. 
Similarly the interdependence of sociology and psychology for the study of human behavior is given still greater prominence. The divergence between sociology and psychology can be illustrated from various studies. 
As an academic discipline, sociology is relatively young, having evolved in the early 19th century. Because sociology is such a broad discipline, it can be difficult to define, even for professional sociologists. One useful way to describe the discipline is as a cluster of sub-fields that examine different dimensions of society.
Sociology: In Sociology the focus is on the human society. Psychology: In Psychology, the focus is on the mental processes and behavior of the individual. Relationship: Sociology: Sociology establishes the relationship between an individual and a group. The difference between Sociology and Psychology is that sociology is the study of human behavior in groups while psychology is the study of the individual human mind. To be more elaborative, Sociology deals with the study of the origin, development and functioning of
The Focus of Psychology. Psychology is focused on the study of various types of human behaviors and cognitive processes. Psychologists perform research and work with individuals to understand everything from thought processes to mental health disorders. 
Sociology vs Psychology. The difference between Sociology and Psychology is that sociology is the study of human behavior in groups while psychology is the study of the individual human mind. To be more elaborative, Sociology deals with the study of the origin, development and functioning of human society.
Lesson Summary. In summary, sociology is the systematic study of human society, culture, and relationships on a group level. As a field, sociology asks many questions about how human groups and ideas interact with each other. 
Learn how sociology plays a part in our day to day lives. Humans are social creatures and live every moment under the influence of our society. How we think, how we act, what we say, what we wear – everything – is determined by our interactions with others. 
Sociology is the scientific or academic study of social behavior, including its origins, development, organization, and institutions. It is a social science that uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about social order, social disorder and social change. 
Psychology: Which Degree Should You Enroll. If you are confused about selecting a major between sociology and psychology, you are not alone. Many students have a hard time choosing between sociology and psychology. 