Calibration Service. With more than 25 years of pipette measurement service experience, TTE Laboratories provides an extensive pipette calibration, repair an preventative maintenance service to satisfy GMP/GLP, CAP, CLIA and FDA compliance needs, as well as the basic needs of any R&D or academic lab. 
PIPETTE CALIBRATION. Pipette Calibration is a fundamental part of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and must be considered a vital part of any laboratory regime where precise volumes of fluid need transferring or diluting. 
pipette. n. 1. (Chemistry) a calibrated glass tube drawn to a fine bore at one end, filled by sucking liquid into the bulb, and used to transfer or measure known volumes of liquid. vb. 2. (Chemistry) (tr) to transfer or measure out (a liquid) using a pipette. [C19: via French: little pipe, from pipe pipe 1 ]. (paɪˈpɛt, pɪ-). 1. pipette-measuring instrument consisting of a graduated glass tube used to measure or transfer precise volumes of a liquid by drawing the liquid up into the tube.
How to Do Pipette Calibration. Pipettes are necessary equipment often used in chemical laboratories to measure and transfer specific amount of liquid. Pipettes are essentially narrow tube like equipment with a rubber bulb at the top. The tube is numbered from the top to the bottom mostly in increments of ten millimeters. Accuracy in pipette measurement is necessary as any discrepancy in reading can affect the result of chemical reaction.
The Importance of Pipette Calibration. Proper pipette calibration is not a hurried process, instead it is a full-service system that complies to strict and precise practices in a controlled environment to attain an accurate and dependable scientific instrument. Criteria to Look for in a Pipette Calibration Service. Every test conducted by a professional calibration technician is a systematic measurement to guarantee that the pipette reaches its maximum potential and abides by the National Institute of Standards. Ultra Micro Balance.
Y.C.Chang (Apr. 14, 2007)Taipei Veterans General Hospital------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Pipette calibration 1. Principle: Under a constant temperature and atmospheric pressure, the density of distilled water is constant. 
1 Pipette calibration can be carried out in different types and processes. 2  One of the most commonly used methods is gravimetric analysis, where calibration is predominantly undertaken by laboratories as per the standard mentioned in EN ISO 8655 guideline. 1 Calibration of each pipette has been checked at three variable volumes for ten readings. 2  To ensure precision and accuracy of each pipette, regular testing and calibration verification of the instrument is necessary.
A pipette or dropper is a laboratory tool commonly used in chemistry, biology and medicine to transport a measured volume of liquid, often as a media dispenser. Volumetric pipettes or bulb pipette allow the user to measure a volume of solution extremely accurately (accuracy of four significant figures). These pipettes have a large bulb with a long narrow portion above with a single graduation mark as it is calibrated for a single volume (like a volumetric flask).
1 To ensure precision and accuracy of each pipette, regular testing and calibration verification of the instrument is necessary. 2  Fine Care Biosystems provides a comprehensive solution for primary checking and calibrating the devices, particularly to the users without any complex measurement. 1 Calibration of each pipette has been checked at three variable volumes for ten readings. 2 