peevish. adjective irritable, cross, crabbed, childish, acrimonious, crusty, snappy, grumpy, sullen, touchy, whingeing (informal), surly, fractious, petulant, churlish, sulky, ill-tempered, cantankerous, tetchy, ratty (Brit. Soon after the marriage of the young people, the worthy doctor returned to Chertsey, where, bereft of the presence of his old friends, he would have been discontented if his temperament had admitted of such a feeling; and would have turned quite peevish if he had known how.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of peevish from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
On reviewing the conduct of Captain Thorn, and examining his peevish and somewhat whimsical correspondence, the impression left upon our mind is, upon the whole, decidedly in his favor. Astoria or Anecdotes of an enterprise beyond the Rocky Mountains by Irving, Washington View in context. 
Perhaps from Middle English pew, pue (“a plaintive cry, the cry of a bird), equivalent to pue +ž -ish. Cognate with Scots pevis, pevess, pevych, pevach (“peevish), Scots pew, peu (“to cry in a plaintive manner). See pue. 
peevish. Having or showing a bad temper: bad-tempered, cantankerous, crabbed, cranky, cross, disagreeable, fretful, grouchy, grumpy, ill-tempered, irascible, irritable, nasty, petulant, querulous, snappish, snappy, surly, testy, ugly, waspish. Informal: crabby, mean. Idiom: out of sorts. Soon after the marriage of the young people, the worthy doctor returned to Chertsey, where, bereft of the presence of his old friends, he would have been discontented if his temperament had admitted of such a feeling; and would have turned quite peevish if he had known how.
On reviewing the conduct of Captain Thorn, and examining his peevish and somewhat whimsical correspondence, the impression left upon our mind is, upon the whole, decidedly in his favor. Astoria or Anecdotes of an enterprise beyond the Rocky Mountains by Irving, Washington View in context. Soon after the marriage of the young people, the worthy doctor returned to Chertsey, where, bereft of the presence of his old friends, he would have been discontented if his temperament had admitted of such a feeling; and would have turned quite peevish if he had known how.
1 It sort of simmers and bubbles and from time to time erupts into a lava-like spasm of vexation, pique and peevishness. 2  One cringes at his bitterness, peevishness, and narcissism, but one also respects him for the fact that he cringes, too. 
& N.Z. informal), testy, chippy (informal), fretful, short-tempered, waspish, querulous, huffy, splenetic, crotchety (informal), shrewish, liverish, captious, pettish, ill-natured Lack of sleep always made him peevish. Soon after the marriage of the young people, the worthy doctor returned to Chertsey, where, bereft of the presence of his old friends, he would have been discontented if his temperament had admitted of such a feeling; and would have turned quite peevish if he had known how.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent