That's how the hugely popular TV show The Walking Dead ended up coming to town and bringing new life to Grantville. Several key scenes in one episode from the AMC series were filmed on and near a one-block stretch of antique buildings on Grantville's Main Street. The series' fourth season premieres on Oct. 13. The archways and brick wall of this old building in Grantville, Ga., appeared in a scene of AMC's The Walking Dead. (Photo: Jeff Martin, AP).
In nearby Senoia, many scenes are filmed in the historic downtown area, transforming into the fictional town of Woodbury for the show. In Haralson, tours are offered each weekend for fans to enter the barn that was the scene of an ambush. They can hold an M16 out the same window as one Walking Dead actor did. The archways and brick wall of this old building in Grantville, Ga., appeared in a scene of AMC's The Walking Dead. (Photo: Jeff Martin, AP).
Part of downtown real estate in Grantville, Ga., where scenes from ‘The Walking Dead’ were shot, is now up for sale. A Georgia businessman is hoping the popularity Walking Dead can breathe some life into a small town that has seen better days. Nine buildings in downtown Grantville, Ga., used as a location during Season 3 of the hit AMC zombie series has gone up for sale on eBay, Atlanta's WXIA TV first reported. The eBay ad is asking for $680,000. Neighboring town Senoia was used as a stand-in for fictional locale Woodbury on the show, according to the Associated Press. The eBay ad lists the sale price for the downtown swath of Grantville real estate at $680,000 — or best offer.
A huge portion of a Georgia town where AMC’s The Walking Dead was filmed is being sold on eBay for $680,000. 
Woodbury, Georgia, is a town 52 miles away from Atlanta, Georgia, and 30 miles from Fayetteville, with a pre-plague population of 1,102. In the novel The Walking Dead: Rise of the Governor, it is mentioned that there are about sixty members of the town. King County, Georgia. The The Walking Dead webisodes are six short clips that features Hannah in the same town as Rick Grimes where her story of how she became infected as the 'bicycle zombie' is seen. Hannah tries to get her and her children evacuated to Atlanta.
Fontana is a town in Georgia located near the town of Pemberton and the Garwater campgrounds. Merle Dixon was arrested for drug dealing and placed in the local police station, where he is later found by Daryl. Cleburne, Georgia. Cleburne is a town featured in The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct. King County, Georgia. The The Walking Dead webisodes are six short clips that features Hannah in the same town as Rick Grimes where her story of how she became infected as the 'bicycle zombie' is seen. Hannah tries to get her and her children evacuated to Atlanta.
At least in Georgia. Fans of the wildly popular AMC series The Walking Dead are making their way to Atlanta and surrounding small-town Georgia to sniff out traces of Rick Grimes' crew of survivors and the voracious zombies on their trail. Welcome to Senoia – The picturesque town of Senoia, Georgia, stands in for Woodbury. It's the center of The Walking Dead tourism in Coweta County.
The Walking Dead is mostly filmed in Georgia. The series is completely shot on 16 mm film. David Tattersall was the director of photography for the pilot episode with David Boyd as the director of photography on the remainder of the episodes. Production design is done by Greg Melton and Alex Hajdu. 
'The Walking Dead' brings new life to Georgia town. Jeff Martin, Associated Press 11 a.m. EDT October 11, 2013. Zombies appear in a scene from the second season of the AMC original series The Walking Dead.. Crews have been filming the new episodes in Georgia. The archways and brick wall of this old building in Grantville, Ga., appeared in a scene of AMC's The Walking Dead. (Photo: Jeff Martin, AP).