Tyvek material allows water vapor to permeate through but water in its liquid form cannot pass through. This makes the material useful for different applications. Tyvek material is smooth and comprises a mesh of non-woven 100 percent high density polyethylene fabric. It has a spinning texture with a soft radiant sheen. The weight of Tyvek is three times less that of paper. This makes it less costly to transport and mail. Suits made of Tyvek material are ideal for such situations. Protective clothing made from Tyvek fabric ensures that employees stay safe and protected from chemicals. Its waterproof qualities ensure that chemicals do not permeate through to cause harm to employees handling them in liquid form.
DuPont Tyvek is a brand of durable products that are versatile and reasonably priced. The material can be used for many things, such as car covers, wristbands, envelopes, and … labels. No, Tyvek is not a good gamma ray blocker. We know that Tyvek is HDPE (high-density polyethylene), and KDPE is a hydrocarbon. Even though it is high density material, it is … only high density compared to other poly plastics. The best gamma ray blockers are materials with high mas
5. Cancel. Tyvek is a material that is made out of polyethylene fibers, it is very thin, strong and it creates a water barrier. Discover how Tyvek keeps water out but lets vapor through with help from an independent contractor and carpenter in this free video on Tyvek. Part of the Video Series: Home Repair & Power Tools.
Features. Tyvek has a number of features that make it ideal for the applications for which it is used. For one, it is a lightweight material that makes it great for use in envelopes and packaging, because it's easier to ship and move. It is slightly thin, allowing water vapor to pass through it, but not liquid water. The demand for synthetic materials that have very specific features is high, because of their ability to find their way into various applications. One such material is Tyvek, which is a brand of high-density fibers that have been flashspun and offer a high tensile strength while able to filter out small gas particles. It is used in fields such as medicine packaging
Housewrap generally denotes a synthetic material used to protect buildings. Housewrap is a replacement for the older asphalt-treated paper, or asphalt saturated felt. These materials are all lighter in weight and usually wider than asphalt designs, so contractors can apply the material much faster to a house shell. 
DuPont™ Tyvek® HomeWrap® can be used either over or under sheathing. When DuPont™ Tyvek® HomeWrap® is used under sheathing, it functions only as an air barrier and does not protect the sheathing as a secondary water barrier. Yes, DuPont™ Tyvek® can be installed over old house wrap as long as the existing house wrap is Tyvek®. Tyvek HomeWrap, Tyvek DrainWrap and Tyvek StuccoWrap should be covered within 120 days (4 months).
Tyvek® brand-The original nonwoven technology. Since the initial discovery in 1955 that led to Tyvek®, DuPont has been a recognized global leader in selective barrier technology. Lightweight and durable, DuPont™ Tyvek® has introduced new dimensions of protection, security and safety in a wide variety of industries. 