neff. One thing and one thing only could be sworn on in this world. It could be sworn on the most holy of skate spots, on the most precious and shreddable of mountains. That one thing...is that the Suckerface is taking over the world. It would be a problem... except for the fact that Neff makes the absolutely most ridiculous, out of this world, color expoloding, pattern poppin', eye catching, insanely sweet gear out there.
Neff Headwear, Inc. is a privately held company based in Camarillo, California that markets beanies, hats, tees, gloves, and other accessories. The company was founded in 2002. Neff Headwear products are targeted to the snowboarding, skating, surfing and lifestyle markets. Neff is currently sold in 45+ countries and is branching out into other parts of the active fashion world with Neff Vision and Neff Time lines. Each year, Neff has their initiative of “Neff Hope” which is to guarantee “its pattern of constant growth and innovation.”
It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Neff. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Neff Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Neff has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Neff to other names. Male names cannot be used for females and vice versa. The only exception to this rule is Maria which can be used as a male second name as in Erich Maria. German children are given one or many pre-names (vornames). Only one of these names however is used as their main name or call name (rufname).
Just for fun, see the name Neff in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Neff in Nautical Flags page. Male names cannot be used for females and vice versa. The only exception to this rule is Maria which can be used as a male second name as in Erich Maria. German children are given one or many pre-names (vornames). Only one of these names however is used as their main name or call name (rufname).
Shaun Neff founded Neff Headwear while going to college at Brigham Young University in Utah in the winter of 2002. The first products were hand-knit beanies tagged with Neff and were first sold at the Milo snow and skate shop in Utah. Neff is currently sold in 45+ countries and is branching out into other parts of the active fashion world with Neff Vision and Neff Time lines. Each year, Neff has their initiative of “Neff Hope” which is to guarantee “its pattern of constant growth and innovation.”
Neff's bold and long-lasting school banners shout pride and spirit in the gym or any other school display areas. 
It was first known as Carl Neff Herd und Ofenfabrik (stove and oven factory). In 1914 the company first made a gas oven. In 1950, they introduced their first oven with a thermostat. By 1955, they were making appliances in different colours, to suit a bespoke fitted kitchen. The company was founded by Carl Andreas Neff in 1877 and has been a wholly owned subsidiary of BSH Hausgeraete GmbH gmbh since. 1982
Neff is a German manufacturer of high-end kitchen appliances headquartered in Munich, Germany. The company was founded by Carl Andreas Neff in 1877 and has been a wholly owned subsidiary of BSH Hausgeraete GmbH gmbh since. 1982
K ristin Neff, Ph.D. is widely recognized as one of the world’s leading experts on self-compassion, being the first one to define and conduct research on the topic over a decade ago. In addition to her pioneering research into self-compassion, she has developed an eight-week program to teach self-compassion skills. 