Why Nostalrius Begins 1.12 Vanilla Classic Server. After playing for years on Warsong & ED 1.12 and Archangel TBC 2.4.3 we decided to experience THE REAL vanilla with x1 rates, literary vanilla WoW on hard mode. Additional info about Nostalrius.net. Nostalrius.net was made as an addition to Gold4Warsong.com, Gold4Emerald.com & Gold4Archangel.com sites, so that we can provide gold for players that need it on the x1 rates Nostalrius Begins classic WoW realm.
Nostalrius goes one step forward! After a positive response from the private server community showing their interest towards a Vanilla PvE Realm, Nostalrius will release a realm to fulfill the need of the community. Experience the glory days of World of Warcraft. The golden age is ahead of you! Choose your faction to defend Azeroth and fight its mighty creatures through epic battles with thousands of heroes seeking a glorious adventure. Join us on Nostalrius
Kryll-Nostalrius Begins 1.12.1 Vanilla Community-Duration: 101 seconds. [Nostalrius-BETA] Stormwind & Undercity Invasions-Scourge Invasion-Duration: 102 seconds.
Nostalrius Begins, commonly referred to as just Nostalrius, is an International Vanilla Server based in Europe, France. Nostalrius has been developed since 2010 by more than 16 developers. Videos on the official YouTube channel that showcase the quality of the server's scripts have spawned a large amount of public interest in the server. Nostalrius boasts a very high player base, regularly having over 5000 players online at peak times, with lowest points of 2500 players on at off-hours.
We are not new to selling gold, accounts and powerleveling services. As of March 2015, we are proud to be behind over 1000 successful transactions, both on Feenix & Nostalrius. If you ask what we do now, we can surely answer: Professional gold farming and selling. Complete information is provided on our Feenix's Warsong site, please check the about page there. Additional info about Nostalrius.net. Nostalrius.net was made as an addition to Gold4Warsong.com, Gold4Emerald.com & Gold4Archangel.com sites, so that we can provide gold for players that need it on the x1 rates Nostalrius Begins classic WoW realm.
Lord Victor Nefarius has long taunted the defenders of the land during their adventures in Blackrock Spire – now, at last, his lair will open, awaiting those daring enough to set foot within. Battle against the black dragonflight and face off against Nefarian himself within the treacherous Blackwing Lair. Experience the glory days of World of Warcraft. The golden age is ahead of you! Choose your faction to defend Azeroth and fight its mighty creatures through epic battles with thousands of heroes seeking a glorious adventure. Join us on Nostalrius
(Instructions for buying gold on Nostalrius). The whole process explained in a couple of steps below: 1) Select the amount of gold you need from the home's page available packages. 2) We will need your character name, faction, and e-mail address (can be the same as your Paypal one). 3) Finish the purchase on Paypal's website. Once you have done this, we will receive an order notification