Each moko contains ancestral tribal messages specific to the wearer. These messages tell the story of the wearer's family and tribal affiliations, and their place in these social structures. A moko’s message also portrays the wearer’s genealogy, knowledge and social standing. Some rights reserved. Moko (tattoos) were applied to the face and body. In men the moko could cover the whole face. The patterns on each area of the face communicated specific things, such as social standing, and family history.
Tā moko is the permanent body and face marking by Māori, the indigenous people of New Zealand. Traditionally it is distinct from tattoo and tatau in that the skin was carved by uhi (chisels) rather than punctured. This left the skin with grooves, rather than a smooth surface. Captain James Cook wrote in 1769: Tā moko today [edit]. Since 1990 there has been a resurgence in the practice of tā moko for both men and women, as a sign of cultural identity and a reflection of the general revival of the language and culture. Most tā moko applied today is done using a tattoo machine, but there has also been a revival of the use of uhi (chisels).
Ta Moko was like a history of a person's achievements and represented their status in their tribe. It was a huge honour for people to have Ta Moko. Ta Moko was worn by both men and women. It was applied to the face and buttocks of men, and to the chin, lips and shoulders of women. Depending on their ranking, they may also have Ta Moko on their face.
Moko Meaning. Ta Moko or the facial tattoo has been practiced for over a thousand years by Maori people. It was used as a form of identification, rank, genealogy, tribal history, eligibility to marry, marks of beauty and much more. Both men and women could be marked with ta moko, which were different in shapes and meanings
Tattoo is the tradition of marking the skin with ink and needles, whereas moko is the practice of scarring and marking the skin to reflect the whakapapa (genealogy) of the Māori wearer. Moko can be seen as a cultural affirmation. Some rights reserved. Moko (tattoos) were applied to the face and body. In men the moko could cover the whole face. The patterns on each area of the face communicated specific things, such as social standing, and family history.
An ever-evolving art form. Tā moko resurfaced in the 1970s and was slow to start, but it has grown momentum ever since. Mark says in recent times it has been revived as an important art form among Māori, and is worn as an expression of cultural pride and integrity. Like any other art form, moko is constantly evolving. “Tā moko changes every year.