Answers. Best Answer: It's because starch is a polysaccharide, and glucose is a monosaccharide. A polysaccharide has thousands and thousands of monosaccharides bonded together. All those bonds make the starch hard to break apart and dissolve in water. 
Report Abuse. Because starch is a natural polymer made up of many beta-glucose subunits. Whereas most disaccharrides and trisaccharides are soluble in water, longer sugar chains such as starch are much less soluble, especially in cold water. David M · 7 years ago.
Starch,a homopolysaccharide is insoluble in water due to the presence of larger macromolecules. 
All starch is insoluble (in water), whether its from corn or from another plant. This is due to the coiled shape of the polymer (chain of molecules) that forms as a resu … lt of the glycosidic linkages (bonds between sugar molecules). Because starch is insoluble, it can more easily be stored by living organisms, whether plant or animal. Soluble substances are harder to control; they go into solution in bloo … d, sap, lymph, or whatever, and then they are subject to osmotic pressure and wind up being excreted in the urine, and so forth.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. All starch is insoluble (in water), whether its from corn or from another plant. This is due to the coiled shape of the polymer (chain of molecules) that forms as a result of the glycosidic linkages (bonds between sugar molecules)
0. starch is insoluble in water because it is in complex structure compared to glucose and it is a polysaccharide which is a complex carbohydrate and glucose is a monosaccharide which is the simplest carbohydrate. Hope this answer is helpful to you..... 
Pure starch is a white, tasteless and odorless powder that is insoluble in cold water or alcohol. It consists of two types of molecules: the linear and helical amylose and the branched amylopectin. Depending on the plant, starch generally contains 20 to 25% amylose and 75 to 80% amylopectin by weight. Starch is processed to produce many of the sugars in processed foods. Dissolving starch in warm water gives wheatpaste, which can be used as a thickening, stiffening or gluing agent. The biggest industrial non-food use of starch is as adhesive in the papermaking process.
Starch is a carbohydrate (carb). I think it's insoluable in water because of it's complex structure. It can absorb water molecules, they will just stick to the starch. Due to hydrogen bonds. But I think that if you rose the temp., the bonds would break and therefore, starch would eventually become soluable. 