That, in a nutshell, is what a software engineer does. Software engineers solve problems, but ensure that the solutions are satisfactory. It’s not magic, it’s a rigid scientific approach to describing solutions to problems. Often, software engineers are curious and excited to learn about the intricacies of other fields. Knowledge, particularly uncommon or obscure knowledge, can be a very powerful tool for software engineers. Anyway, that doesn’t help explain what a software engineer does.
Report Abuse. software engineer do some data. Computer software engineers often work as part of a team that designs new hardware, software, and systems. A core team may comprise engineering, marketing, manufacturing, and design people, who work together to release a product. straightforwardly, software engineers make and updates programs based on the client needs.they need a very firm grasp in programming languages and basics of computer. I don't believe that it is hard to find a job with this scope. the scope of software engineer is so wide and just explore the scope.
Best Answer: Computer software engineers apply the principles of computer science and mathematical analysis to the design, development, testing, and evaluation of the software and systems that make computers work. straightforwardly, software engineers make and updates programs based on the client needs.they need a very firm grasp in programming languages and basics of computer. I don't believe that it is hard to find a job with this scope. the scope of software engineer is so wide and just explore the scope.
A software engineer is a person who applies the principles of software engineering to the design, development, maintenance, testing, and evaluation of the software and systems that make computers or anything containing software work. 
Typically software engineers, working in applications or systems development, analyze first the needs of the user. They then design, construct, test, and maintain computer applications software or systems to meet these needs. Computer Applications Software Engineers. Computer applications software engineers analyze user needs and design, construct, and maintain general computer applications software or specialized utility programs. These engineers use different programming languages, depending on the purpose of the program.
Software engineering is the study and an application of engineering to the design, development and maintenance of software. Typical formal definitions of software engineering are:  1 research, design, develop, and test operating systems-level software, compilers, and network distribution software for medical, industrial, military, communications, aerospace, business, scientific, and general computing applications.. The term software engineering, coined first by Anthony Oettinger and then used by Margaret Hamilton, was used in 1968 as a title for the world's first conference on software engineering, sponsored and facilitated by NATO.
Software engineers are involved in the design and development of many types of software, including software for operating systems and network distribution, and software for compilers (which convert programs for execution on a computer). Computer Applications Software Engineers. Computer applications software engineers analyze user needs and design, construct, and maintain general computer applications software or specialized utility programs. These engineers use different programming languages, depending on the purpose of the program.
A computer software engineer is an expert at the theory of computing systems and designs and maintains software. These engineers typically fall into two categories: computer applications software engineer and computer systems software engineer. Typically a computer software engineer will work on a host of projects, including manufacturing, industry, government, and educational institutions.
The title of Software Engineer can apply to a very wide range of positions. In the most common usage, though, a Software Engineer is the person who designs an original piece software, or improves an existing piece by finding ways to make it better in quality, price and running speed.