The next time that you have to decline an invitation, be sure to do so in a timely and polite manner allowing your hostess the opportunity to extend a future invitation. The odds are, your hostess invited you for specific reasons and would welcome the opportunity to enjoy your company at a later date. “Why that’s a hundred miles away. That’s a long way to go just to eat.” William Faulkner, the author, declined an invitation to dinner at the White House in 1962 with this comment. While most of us don’t get invitations to White House dinners, we often struggle with how to graciously decline an
Decline an Invitation Letter. Thank you very much for your invitation to the [event name] . I regret to inform you that I will not able to attend your event due to [decline reason] . However, I would certainly try my best to attend on another occasion. Thank you very much for your invitation to [event name] . I would love to attend, but unfortunately I have other engagements on the same day and will not be able to make it. I’m sure it will be a huge success.
Sample Letter #2. I appreciate your gracious invitation to your son's graduation party. Unfortunately, I already have an engagement that afternoon and will be unable to attend. Please let John know how proud I am of him for his achievement. Letter recipes make it easy to write your own letters. Learn step-by-step how experts write perfect letters. Be creative with phrases and sentences for each writing step. 1  See sample letter recipes in our compliment-letter topics.
1 Find the invitation letter that fits your needs and copy it directly into Microsoft Word or your favorite word processor. 2  Or let our letter recipes guide you step-by-step through the writing process, suggesting sample phrases and sentences for each writing step. 3  In minutes, you can write an effective invitation letter. Letter recipes make it easy to write your own letters. Learn step-by-step how experts write perfect letters. Be creative with phrases and sentences for each writing step. 1  See sample letter recipes in our compliment-letter topics.
Typically, wedding invitations will be sent with additional RSVP stationary in which you can check the appropriate box regarding your ability to attend the event. Some will even come with an additional blank note card that you can write a message of regret about your absence. Regardless of the type of invitation that you’re declining, remember to keep it short, sincere and to the point. You’re probably not the only person who can’t attend-it happens! There’s no need to be overly apologetic. The next best thing to being there is a prompt reply that you’re unable to attend.
There will be times when you will have to decline an invitation to a special event or party. Following proper etiquette in declining will not only spare feelings, but will also make the task of planning for the occasion a lot easier on the host and/or hostess. It is never too late to respond to an invitation, especially if you are declining. If you respond late, you can apologize.. It is better to call the hosts and explain the reason behind your lack of promptness than not to answer at all. Mail does get lost, life does get in the way, and people do understand that.
by Gene Griessman, Ph.D. Dear_________, Thank you ever so much for your invitation to (describe invitation). I am grateful that you included me (us) among your guests for this special occasion. If I (we) could make it, I (we) certainly would because it sounds like a lot of fun. Unfortunately we have a prior commitment that we must keep. 
Remember that declining an invitation doesn't mean you're rejecting the person who sent it to you. It's simply a statement that you are unable to attend whatever you've been invited to. Here are some tips on how to turn down an invitation in the most polite way: 1  Don't ignore the invitation. 
Sample Letter #1. Thank you very much for your thoughtful invitation to attend Jane's graduation party. Unfortunately, John will be in Detroit on that day, and I am in charge of a community fund drive that requires my attention that night. Otherwise, we would surely be there. I'm sure it will be a great occasion. Letter recipes make it easy to write your own letters. Learn step-by-step how experts write perfect letters. Be creative with phrases and sentences for each writing step. 1  See sample letter recipes in our compliment-letter topics.