The retailing giant added that One Stop is a separate business with a different supply chain and a separate business model whose stores are typically smaller than those running under the Tesco Express fascia. In total, Tesco said, One Stop and Tesco Express account for 3.5% of the convenience store market. More news.
• Rivals call for competition inquiry into growth of 'Tesco's shadow brand'. There are 1,183 Tesco Express stores and the supermarket also owns 598 One Stop stores. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the Guardian David Sillitoe/Guardian.
One Stop, a convenience store chain acquired by Tesco in 2003, announced on Thursday that it had bought 77 small stores in the North East, Cumbria and Yorkshire from Mills Group, a rival chain based in Whitley Bay.
Tesco was founded in 1919 by Jack Cohen as a group of market stalls. The Tesco name first appeared in 1924, after Cohen purchased a shipment of tea from T. E. Stockwell and combined those initials with the first two letters of his surname, and the first Tesco store opened in 1929 in Burnt Oak, Barnet.
Stop & Shop has been a wholly owned subsidiary of the Dutch supermarket operator Ahold since 1995 and has been part of the Stop & Shop/Giant-Landover division since a 2004 merger with sister chain Giant.
One Stop now has 598 stores in England and Wales – on top of the 1,183 Tesco Express outlets that the retailer runs under its more familiar brand– and critics argue consumers do not commonly understand that One Stop's growth actually represents further inroads by the supermarket.
The ACS argued that One Stop is a shadow brand of Tesco – which has a 30pc market share in the UK. Although Tesco owns One Stop, it operates it as a separate company and sells products at a higher price. There is no signage in One Stop's 500-plus stores to suggest they are owned by Tesco.
One Stop is a retail convenience business with over 750 shops and a key focus on being the best store for customers in the neighbourhood.
Tesco-owned convenience store operator One Stop has opened its 700 th store. The milestone was reached with the conversion of a former Costcutter store in Ivel Court, Letchworth, Hertfordshire, which re-opened as a company-owned One Stop outlet on 14 November, one of three stores to be opened by the company on that day.
The Stop & Shop Supermarket Company, known as Stop & Shop, is a chain of supermarkets located in the northeastern United States. From its beginnings in 1892 as a small grocery store, it has grown to become the largest supermarket operator in southern New England, with nearly 400 stores chain-wide.