Specific latent heat is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a body of mass 1kg by 1k(kelvin). while latent heat is the amount of heat released or absorbed by a body when it changes its state. there is no change in temperature. Whereas, specific latent heat (equation Q=mL) is the amount of energy needed to change to the state of a substance either from solid to liquid, liquid to gas without changing its temperature. nikitasingh | Student, Grade 10 | (Level 1) Honors.
latent heat is the heat energy required to convert the substance from its solid form to its liquid form while specific latent heat is the quantity of heat required to co … nvert unit mass from solid to liquid without change in temperature. 17 people found this useful. The heat that causes these changes is called latent heat. Latent heat however, does not affect the temperature of a substance-for example, water remains at 100°C while boiling. The heat added to keep the water boiling is latent heat. Heat that causes a change of state with no change in temperature
Q is the amount of energy released or absorbed during the change of phase of the substance (in kJ or in BTU), m is the mass of the substance (in kg or in lb), and. L is the specific latent heat for a particular substance (kJ-kg m −1 or in BTU-lb m −1), either L f for fusion, or L v for vaporization. An example is latent heat of fusion for a phase change, melting, at a specified temperature and pressure. The term was introduced around 1762 by Scottish chemist Joseph Black. It is derived from the Latin latere (to lie hidden).
It is called s.l.h. of fusion when the change of state is between liquid and solid. The specific latent heat of fusion of ice is the amount of heat required to change 1 kg of ice to water without a change in temperature. The specific latent heat of fusion of ice is 0.336 MJ kg –1. It is called s.l.h. of vaporisation when the change of state is between liquid and gas. The specific latent heat of vaporisation of water is the amount of heat required to change 1 kg of water to steam without a change in temperature. The specific latent heat of vaporisation of water is 2.26 MJ kg –1
Latent/Sensible Heat extended definition. Latent and sensible heat are types of energy released or absorbed in the atmosphere. Latent heat is related to changes in phase between liquids, gases, and solids. Sensible heat is related to changes in temperature of a gas or object with no change in phase. Sensible heat is the energy required to change the temperature of a substance with no phase change. The temperature change can come from the absorption of sunlight by the soil or the air itself. Or it can come from contact with the warmer air caused by release of latent heat (by direct conduction).
1 Specific heat: = energy required to change a unit mass of a material by 1°C. 2  Units: energy per unit mass per degree. 3  Latent heat = energy required to change the state (gas, liquid, solid) of a unit mass of material. 4  Units: energy per unit mass. Specific Heat and Latent Heat. 1  Specific heat: = energy required to change a unit mass of a material by 1°C. 2  Latent heat = energy required to change the state (gas, liquid, solid) of a unit mass of material.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Latent heat is energy released or absorbed, by a body or a thermodynamic system, during a constant-temperature process that is specified in some way. An example is latent heat of fusion for a phase change, melting, at a specified temperature and pressure. The term was introduced around 1762 by Scottish chemist Joseph Black. It is derived from the Latin latere (to lie hidden).
Specific Heat and Latent Heat. 1  Specific heat: = energy required to change a unit mass of a material by 1°C. 2  Units: energy per unit mass per degree. 3  Latent heat = energy required to change the state (gas, liquid, solid) of a unit mass of material. 4  Units: energy per unit mass. Specific Heat and Latent Heat. 1  Specific heat: = energy required to change a unit mass of a material by 1°C. 2  Latent heat = energy required to change the state (gas, liquid, solid) of a unit mass of material.
Both specific heat and latent heat are properties of a given material. In other words, every time the material is heated/cooled, no matter how quickly or by what heating process, the same amount of heat is transferred to reach the same state. Specific Heat and Latent Heat. 1  Specific heat: = energy required to change a unit mass of a material by 1°C. 2  Latent heat = energy required to change the state (gas, liquid, solid) of a unit mass of material.