Best Answer: I just bought a vw passat. Fun to drive but you will probably have some high maintenence bills in the future. Vdubs are expensive for repairs, not straightforward for repairs either and parts are expensive. I have replaced the Motor Mounts, passenger side axle and some other stuff. Yes, it is a great car. The only reliability problems are the electric windows getting stuck open or closed. It is a cheap fix. And in 2002, they had a recall for ignition coils. Do not get the 6 cylinder version because VW's 6 cylinder engines are not as reliable as the 4 cylinder engines.
Yes, we think it is a good car because of its poised handling, roomy interior and cargo area, and supportive front seats. Consumer Reports magazine predicts models with the 2.5-liter gas engine will have reliability that is 39% higher than average and that diesel models will have average reliability. The interior is one area where we aren't impressed by the Jetta. None of those comes as a wagon, like the Jetta, though the Elantra is available as a hatchback. The Ford Focus, Kia Forte and Mazda3 hatchbacks might also provide good comparisons to the Jetta wagon. Learn more. 1  2013 Volkswagen Jetta SportWagen Pricing and Research (Cars.com).
Test drivers say the 2015 Volkswagen Jetta gets decent power from its base four-cylinder engine. Many prefer the available turbocharged 1.8-liter four-cylinder engine, which they say delivers a more exciting feel. The Jetta TDI has a turbodiesel four-cylinder engine that delivers good acceleration from a stop. Get the best local price on a 2015 Volkswagen Jetta ]. The 2015 Jetta’s cabin features a redesigned instrument cluster and piano-black trim, which gives it a luxurious appearance, according to critics. A few disapprove of some of the hard plastic surfaces in the vehicle, however.
The 2015 Volkswagen Jetta offers plenty of cabin space and several engine choices that perform well, reviewers say, but some find it lacking with respect to technology features. Volkswagen has recently stopped selling Jetta models with diesel engines because they do not comply with U.S. emissions standards. Get the best local price on a 2015 Volkswagen Jetta ]. The 2015 Jetta’s cabin features a redesigned instrument cluster and piano-black trim, which gives it a luxurious appearance, according to critics. A few disapprove of some of the hard plastic surfaces in the vehicle, however.
Few small cars have the following of the Volkswagen Jetta, one of the company's best-selling models in the United States. The name, says VW, refers to the Atlantic jetstream, combined with the luxury and power of a modern jetliner.. In reviews, we've found the Jetta to be a fairly refined, roomy and comfortable compact sedan. Depending on the year, it's also available in a wagon body style. The Jetta remains a solid pick for shoppers looking for a compact car with European flair, good performance and a smooth, composed ride.
The base 2015 Jetta earns an EPA-estimated 25/34 mpg city/highway, which is a bit low for a compact car. However, with up to 31/46 mpg city/highway, the Jetta TDI returns some of the best fuel economy estimates in the class. Auto writers agree that the 2015 Jetta offers precise steering and poised handling. Get the best local price on a 2015 Volkswagen Jetta ]. The 2015 Jetta’s cabin features a redesigned instrument cluster and piano-black trim, which gives it a luxurious appearance, according to critics. A few disapprove of some of the hard plastic surfaces in the vehicle, however.
The 2010 Volkswagen Jetta offers impressive performance, as well as excellent safety scores and comfortable seating. Adding to its appeal is the TDI trim, which has a 2.0-liter four-cylinder diesel engine that gets 30/42 mpg city/highway. The base model’s 2.5-liter five-cylinder engine gets up to 24/32 mpg city/highway. The Volkswagen Jetta trumps most 2010 small cars with a powerful engine, a well-equipped interior and comfortable seating, but an unimpressive reliability rating keeps the Jetta from rising to the top of the class. The 2010 Volkswagen Jetta is ranked:
Good cars, if you get a 1.8T engine make sure the owner used synthetic oil, VW made it a requirement after 2004, because that engine was prone to sludging up. The base 2.0L is a good engine as is the diesel with few if any problems. Yes, it is a great car. The only reliability problems are the electric windows getting stuck open or closed. It is a cheap fix. And in 2002, they had a recall for ignition coils. Do not get the 6 cylinder version because VW's 6 cylinder engines are not as reliable as the 4 cylinder engines.
A used car is just as good as another. Here's the kicker, if the PREVIOUS OWNER TOOK GOOD CARE OF IT. Honestly I would rather buy a used Honda knowing that the previous owner changed the oil regularly and did routine maintenance than a Volkswagen's previous owner that treated the car like a Red Headed Step Child. Yes, it is a great car. The only reliability problems are the electric windows getting stuck open or closed. It is a cheap fix. And in 2002, they had a recall for ignition coils. Do not get the 6 cylinder version because VW's 6 cylinder engines are not as reliable as the 4 cylinder engines.
Best Answer: It's an 8 yr old car with a 100K miles(near enough), so there is only one answer-Did the previous owners take care of it and is it in good condition, have it inspected if you are not sure by a shop other than the one selling it. Volkswagen is a good brand and Jetta is a good model. Go for it if you don't mind its look because many people don't like it. Many friends of mine who own Jetta from 1998 model to latest model, no one has any complaint so far. Cheater_not · 5 years ago.