The oxidation or combustion of magnesium in air has long been used as a source of intense light in photography and for other photochemical reactions. The energy released in this combustion occurs as the magnesium reacts with oxygen in the air according to the equation: 2 Mg (s) + O 2 (g) → 2 MgO (s). The heat of formation of magnesium oxide is -601.83 kJ/mol. The burning of magnesium in air produces intense heat which can cause burns and initiate combustion in flammable materials. Since a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher will not extinguish burning magnesium, a dry-powder extinguisher must be used.
Post. Share. The molar heat of formation of a compound (δH f) is equal to its enthalpy change (δH) when one mole of compound is formed at 25°C and 1 atm from elements in their stable form. This is a table of the heats of formation for a variety of common compounds.
For the formation reaction for MgO(s) written below (1), the heat of the reaction is equal to the enthalpy of formation. (1) Mg(s) + ½ O 2 (g) ! MgO(s) δH° rxn = δH° f Determining δH° f for MgO(s) is difficult because the combustion of Mg metal results in a large evolution of heat and toxic fumes. According to the First Law of Thermodynamics, the enthalpy of a reaction is the difference between the enthalpy of the products and the enthalpy of the reactants. Since enthalpy is a state function, the enthalpy change is the same whether the reaction takes place in one step or in a series of steps.
The second reaction examined was Mg(s) + 2 HCl(0.5 M) MgCl2(~0.025 M in ~0.45 M HCl) + H2(g) (2) Using the heat capacity calculated above and the value of (T2 - T1) measured for this reaction, you will calculate its enthalpy change (again, take care with the sign of H). The reaction examined first will be HCl(aq, 0.5 M) + NaOH(aq, 0.5 M) H2O(l) + NaCl(aq, 0.25 M) (1) Using the enthalpy of formation data given in Table 1, below, calculate the molar H° for this neutralization reaction.
• Show how you can calculate the heat of formation of MgO using the equations A, B, and C from the first page. Hint: set-up reactions so that the sum is the formation equation for MgO. Perform the calculation to determine ∆H f MgO. Therefore, if you dissolve Mg in acid and then dissolve MgO in the same acid, the difference between these two heats of reaction will be the heat of formation of MgO from its elements, providing you account for all side reactions that occur. The only side reaction involves the formation of water.
1 Enthalpy of Formation of Magnesium Oxide Adapted with permission from the United States Air Force Academy. Revised: 2013. BACKGROUND In this laboratory, we will introduce one of the most often used techniques in thermochemistry, calorimetry. 4 The specific heat for water is 4.184 J/(g°C), however when solutes are dissolved in it the specific heat changes. For the NaOH and HCl reaction, the specific heat of the solution, c, is 4.025 J/(g°C) while for the Mg and MgO reactions with HCl, c is equal to 3.862 J/(g°C).
Standard enthalpy change of formation (data table). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. These tables include heat of formation data gathered from a variety of sources, including the primary and secondary literature, as well as the NIST Chemistry WebBook. 
5. Determine the heat of formation, δH f, for MgO. ERROR ANALYSIS 1. Compare your experimentally obtained value for δH f (MgO) to the true value in your textbook by calculating the percent error: % error = (|true value – expt value| / true value) x 100 2. According to the First Law of Thermodynamics, the enthalpy of a reaction is the difference between the enthalpy of the products and the enthalpy of the reactants. Since enthalpy is a state function, the enthalpy change is the same whether the reaction takes place in one step or in a series of steps.
Now you can use the molar H values calculated for reactions (2) and (3) and the data in Table 1, to calculate the enthalpy of formation of magnesium oxide, i.e. the molar H for the reaction Mg (s) + 1/2 O2 MgO (s). The reaction examined first will be HCl(aq, 0.5 M) + NaOH(aq, 0.5 M) H2O(l) + NaCl(aq, 0.25 M) (1) Using the enthalpy of formation data given in Table 1, below, calculate the molar H° for this neutralization reaction.