Radiant heat uses invisible electromagnetic infrared waves to heat you. It doesn't heat the air, as the system did in the house you grew up in. The objects that are in the direct pathway of the infrared rays absorb the energy immediately. DEAR LUCY: Radiant heat is by no means new. It's as old as our solar system. When you go outdoors on a sunny late-winter morning and feel the warmth of the sun when it's invisible infrared rays hit you, that's the oldest and most basic form of radiant heating.
Radiant heating is a technology for heating indoor and outdoor areas. Heating by radiant energy is observed every day, the warmth of the sunshine being the most commonly observed example. Radiant heating as a technology is more narrowly defined. It is the method of intentionally using the principles of radiant heat to transfer radiant energy from an emitting heat source to an object. Designs with radiant heating are seen as replacements for conventional convection heating as well as a way of supplying confined outdoor heating.
My own home has radiant heat and it's luxurious. The finished basement has radiant tubing that snakes through the concrete slab. The entire basement floor becomes a giant radiant panel that heats everyone and everything in the space. Walking in bare feet or laying on the floor is pure ecstasy. DEAR LUCY: Radiant heat is by no means new. It's as old as our solar system. When you go outdoors on a sunny late-winter morning and feel the warmth of the sun when it's invisible infrared rays hit you, that's the oldest and most basic form of radiant heating.
People often use the term “radiant heat” to describe a particular type of home heating system which has been in use for thousands of years. When a home is heated with radiant heat, rather than heating air and encouraging it to circulate, radiant elements are installed in the floor, walls, or ceiling. Top 10 facts about the world. Radiant heat is heat which radiates out from an element, warming objects rather than the air. An example of this heat that many people may be familiar with is the heat which comes off an electric element on a stove.
Radiant heating systems supply heat directly to the floor or to panels in the wall or ceiling of a house. The systems depend largely on radiant heat transfer -- the delivery of heat directly from the hot surface to the people and objects in the room via infrared radiation. Radiant heating is the effect you feel when you can feel the warmth of a hot stovetop element from across the room. Radiant Floor Heat. There are three types of radiant floor heat -- radiant air floors (air is the heat-carrying medium), electric radiant floors, and hot water (hydronic) radiant floors. You can further categorize these types by installation.
The three types of radiant heating for the floor are named based on the heat-carrying medium: radiant air floors; electric radiant floors; and hydronic, or liquid, radiant floors. Within these types there are different installation techniques. Cost-Effectiveness. According to the Department of Energy, the most cost-effective radiant heat floor system is hydronic. This system can lower heating bills in cold climates. The system works by pumping hot water from a boiler into tubes in the floor.
When radiant heating is located in the floor, it is often called radiant floor heating or simply floor heating. Radiant heating has a number of advantages. It is more efficient than baseboard heating and usually more efficient than forced-air heating because it eliminates duct losses. Radiant Floor Heat. There are three types of radiant floor heat -- radiant air floors (air is the heat-carrying medium), electric radiant floors, and hot water (hydronic) radiant floors. You can further categorize these types by installation.
Identification. Radiant heat comes directly from a hot surface such as a stove or incandescent light bulb. There are heating systems that use this concept to heat floors and sometimes walls. Cost-Effectiveness. According to the Department of Energy, the most cost-effective radiant heat floor system is hydronic. This system can lower heating bills in cold climates. The system works by pumping hot water from a boiler into tubes in the floor.
Radiant floor heating (RFH) involves installing electric heating coils or water-heated tubing under your home's floors. With an RFH system, the heat from the floor warms everything it touches and radiates throughout the room from the ground up. Think of RFH like heat from the sun. 