4. Hogwash. The bi-product of washing hogs in a large, generally 100L beaker. The hogs are washed in a mixture of water and small amounts of soap by the hogwasher, who uses a hogwashing mop to wash the hog. The hogwash is then dispensed through the hogwash dispenser attached to the beaker, and is then distributed
edit Etymology. The term Hogwash is derived from the English words hog, a slang term for a large member of the Suidae family, and wash, a term used to describe the frequent ritual cleanings practiced by Druidic monks for sacrifices at Stonehenge. Hogwash is one of the most abundant elements in the known Universe. It is third in line of prevalence behind crap and tedium and before the fourth most common element poppycock.
Full Definition of NONSENSE. 1. a: words or language having no meaning or conveying no intelligible ideas b (1) : language, conduct, or an idea that is absurd or contrary to good sense (2) : an instance of absurd action. 2. a: things of no importance or value: trifles. 3. 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: nonsense (Noun). Letters or words, in writing or speech, that have no meaning or seem to have no meaning. After my father had a stroke, every time he tried to talk, it sounded like nonsense. nonsense (Noun). An untrue statement. Nonsense is a communication, via speech, writing, or any other symbolic system, that lacks any coherent meaning. Sometimes in ordinary usage, nonsense is synonymous with absurdity or the ridiculous.
non·sense. n. 1. Words or signs having no intelligible meaning: a message that was nonsense until decoded. 2. Subject matter, behavior, or language that is foolish or absurd. 3. Extravagant foolishness or frivolity: a clown's exuberant nonsense. balderdash Nonsense; a meaningless jumble of words. Used throughout most of the 17th century to mean a hodgepodge of liquors, this word began to be used in its current sense in the latter part of the same century.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm. (English proverb). It is good for somebody as well as bad for someone else. (Bengali proverb). One hand won't clap.. 
In Ludwig Wittgenstein 's writings, the word nonsense carries a special technical meaning which differs significantly from the normal use of the word. In this sense, nonsense does not refer to meaningless gibberish, but rather to the lack of sense in the context of sense and reference. In this context, logical tautologies, and purely mathematical propositions may be regarded as nonsense. Jabberwocky, a poem (of nonsense verse) found in Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There by Lewis Carroll (1871), is a nonsense poem written in the English language. The word jabberwocky is also occasionally used as a synonym of nonsense.
Five hundred years ago it was the common term for the swill fed to swine. And, curiously enough, the earliest instance of its use traced by the Oxford English Dictionary, dated about 1440, reads “They in the kechyn, for iape, pouryd on here hefd hoggyswasch” They in the kitchen, for jest, poured hogwash on her head).