Although we sometimes see  aboriginal  as a reference to any native culture, it's important to note that Aboriginal (capitalized) or Aborigines is the proper name of the natives who inhabited Australia long before the British settlers arrived in 1788. Extremely important to Aboriginal culture is the belief that man, animals, nature and their Dreaming ancestors are all imbued with the same force. In Aboriginal culture, tjurungas were mythical beings that were represented by a piece of art, usually in the form of carved stone or wood piece.
Australia's Aboriginal culture probably represents the oldest surviving culture in the world, with the use of stone tool technology and painting with red ochre pigment dating back over 60,000 years. The longest continuing religion in the world belongs to Australia's Aborigines, with the Rainbow Serpent mythology recorded in rock shelter paintings believed to be 7,000 years old in the Kakadu National Park region, where this Ancestral Being is still important to local people.
Immerse yourself in Australia's Aboriginal experiences, places and journeys. Aboriginal people of Australia have a rich, living culture stretching back at least 50,000 years. Get a snapshot of the diverse experiences on offer when you immerse yourself in Aboriginal Australia. Discover places steeped in Aboriginal history in the Northern Territory. 
Recent dating of the earliest known archaeological sites on the Australian continent-using thermo-luminescence and other modern dating techniques-have pushed back the date for Aboriginal presence in Australia to at least 40,000 years. Some of the evidence points to dates over 60,000 years old. 
Their culture is a mixture of Aboriginal from mainland Australia and that of Papua New Guinea, to their immediate north. In earlier times, this land formed part of the one land mass linking Papua New Guinea to mainland Australia. The longest continuing religion in the world belongs to Australia's Aborigines, with the Rainbow Serpent mythology recorded in rock shelter paintings believed to be 7,000 years old in the Kakadu National Park region, where this Ancestral Being is still important to local people.
Australian Aboriginal culture includes a number of practices and ceremonies centred on a belief in the Dreamtime. Reverence for the land and oral traditions are emphasised. Language groupings and tribal divisions exhibit a range of individual cultures. Australian Aboriginal art has existed for thousands of years and ranges from ancient rock art to modern watercolour landscapes. Aboriginal music has developed a number of unique instrument
To call the Aboriginal culture in Australia long is a serious understatement -- in fact, it's thought to be the longest continuous belief system in the world. The Aborigines are said to have migrated to Australia more than 60,000 years ago, over a now-extinct land bridge from Asia [source: DFAT ]. A few key beliefs of Aboriginal culture hold that the Earth is eternal, and the beings that created it are still accessible through rituals. Extremely important to Aboriginal culture is the belief that man, animals, nature and their Dreaming ancestors are all imbued with the same force. In Aboriginal culture, tjurungas were mythical beings that were represented by a piece of art, usually in the form of carved stone or wood piece.
Indigenous Traditions-Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. 1  The earth is eternal, and so are the many ancestral figures / beings who inhabit it. 2  These beings are often associated with particular animals, for example Kangaroo-men, Emu-men or Bowerbird-women. Australia has two indigenous peoples Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. It is not possible to speak of one Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander religion, as there were many.
As to the Australian Bureau of statistics there are 517.000 (2006) Aborigines, which is 2,6% of Australia's population. 63% of Aborigines live in New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria; 28% in Western Australia and the Northern Territory; and only 9% in Tasmania and Australian Capital Territory. 32% of all people in the Northern Territory are Aborigines. The percentage of Aborigines in all other parts of Australia is 4% or less.
ABORIGINAL CULTURE. Indigenous Australians are not one group of people, there is not one language or one religious belief. Aboriginal people and Torres Strait Islanders throughout Australia have different thoughts, ideas and beliefs. They belong to living cultures that have survived longer than any other on earth. Indigenous Australia. The Indigenous people of Australia have the oldest living cultural history in the world, going back at least 50,000 to 65,000 years, with some of the longest surviving artistic, musical, and spiritual traditions known on Earth.