Motor Unit. the nerve-muscle functional unit; consists of a motor neuron and all the muscle fibers it supplies; small motor units (more precise movement) [ex: fingers], larger motor units (less precise movement) [ex: hip muscles, bone]. 
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis.
The smallest contractile unit of a muscle fiber is the sarcomere.It is composed of contractile myofilaments known as actin and myosin. 
Muscle fibers are in turn composed of myofibrils. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis.
1 Common Exercises That Use Eccentric Muscle Contraction Eccentric muscle contraction occurs when you put tension on a muscle as it lengthens. 2  This is the opposite of concentric contraction, which is when tension is placed on a mus…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 
For other uses, see A band. A sarcomere (Greek sarx flesh, meros part) is the basic unit of striated muscle tissue. Skeletal muscles are composed of tubular muscle cells (myocytes called muscle fibers) which are formed in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibers are composed of tubular myofibrils. Actin molecules are bound to the Z line, which forms the borders of the sarcomere. Other bands appear when the sarcomere is relaxed. A muscle fiber from a biceps muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomeres.
A sarcomere is the most basic functional unit of a muscle fiber, which makes up striated muscle. Top 10 facts about the world. A sarcomere is the basic functional unit of striated muscle, which is to say, it’s the basic building block of most muscle cells. In the human body, each muscle is made up of multiple bundles of muscle fibers. These muscle fibers, in turn, are comprised of numerous finer strands called myofibrils