In his usual ineffable prose, Effrat noted: This encounter, listed for seven innings, was televised by the National Broadcasting Company, the first regularly-scheduled sporting event to be pictured over the air waves.. Our own Baker Field was the site of the very first televised sports event.
The first nationwide broadcast of college football, which was also the first live sporting event seen coast-to-coast, was a game between Duke University and the University of Pittsburgh that was televised by NBC on 29 September 1951.
But our own Baker Field was site of the very first televised sports event -- one small step for a broadcasting pioneer, a giant leap for mankind's appetite for spectatoritis.
(The world's first live televised sporting event had been the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin. ) On 30 September 1939, the first American football game, a college contest between Fordham and Waynesburg College was broadcast on television.
On 17 May 1939, the United States' first televised sporting event, a college baseball game between the Columbia Lions and Princeton Tigers, was broadcast by NBC from Columbia's Baker Field.
The first sports event broadcast in the United Kingdom was a Rugby Union international between England and Wales, broadcast from Twickenham in January 1927. Two weeks later the first broadcast of a football match took place, with the BBC covering Arsenal's league fixture against Sheffield United at Highbury.
The first sporting event ever televised in the United States (a one camera setup) was a college baseball game between Columbia University and Princeton on May 17, 1939 at Baker Field in New York City broadcast by station W2XBS. The announcer for the game was Bill Stern.
And it all started at Columbia. On May 17, 1939 -- a mere 60 years ago -- televising a regular athletic event was tried for the first time. A Columbia-Princeton baseball game at Baker Field was carried by the National Broadcasting Company to the 400 or so sets then capable of receiving its broadcast signal.