According to the Egg Nutrition Board (and who should know better?), White shelled eggs are produced by hens with white feathers and ear lobes. Brown shelled eggs are produced by hens with red feathers and red ear lobes. There is no difference in taste or nutrition between white and brown eggs.. The people at Crisco (who may know even more than the egg nutritionists) go further to say, They simply come from two different breeds of chickens. Everyone I ask has a different answer to the question of what difference, if any (besides color), there is between brown eggs and white eggs. Some say brown are better for you, others say white are better for you, and nutritionists seem to say that there is absolutely no difference whatsoever.
also, chickens that lay brown eggs DON'T eat more than white egg laying chickens.... they're more expensive because people want something different, and those are unusual in stores..... May 6, 2009, 12:51am. I have found that there is a bit of a better taste to the brown eggs. also, chickens that lay brown eggs DON'T eat more than white egg laying chickens.... they're more expensive because people want something different, and those are unusual in stores..... — 72.✗.✗.62 ▲ 0 ▼ May 6, 2009, 12:51am I have found that there is a bit of a better taste to the brown eggs. Not much though.
The only difference between brown eggs and white eggs is just that, the color. The brown color is caused by pigment added to the egg and depends on the type of chicken. The thickness of the shell depends on the health of the chicken and its diet. Healthier chickens generally lay eggs with thicker shells.
It's All About The Chicken. You might assume that white eggs are laid by white-feathered chickens and brown eggs by brown-feathered ones, and you would be somewhat correct with that assumption. The color of the chicken does play a role, but it is the color of the earlobe that determines the shell color. White or light-colored lobes indicate white eggs and chickens with red lobes produce brown eggs. More Expensive Does Not Mean Better. If you think that brown eggs taste better, it has nothing to do with the shell color and everything to with what the chicken are being fed. And because chickens with red lobes tend to be bigger, they eat more
Other than the color, there is no difference between the shell of a white egg and a brown egg. Some people make the assumption that brown egg shells are harder than white, but that's not the case. What's true is that younger chickens lay eggs with harder shells. Is there any difference in the yolk? Some people say that brown eggs have a yolk that's more richly colored than white eggs. The type of feed that chickens eat can vary, so the more corn they eat, the yellower the yolks. So it's not necessarily the color of the shell that predicts the intense color of the yolk.
The color of an egg is not an indicator of quality. When it comes to taste and nutrition, there is no difference between white and brown eggs. Despite the fact that they're often more expensive, brown eggs aren't any better for you than white eggs, and vice versa. When it comes to hue of the egg, the key lies in the breed of chicken. In general, white-feathered chickens with white earlobes lay white eggs, and reddish-brown-feathered chickens with red earlobes lay
Report Abuse. The only difference between white shelled eggs and brown shelled eggs are the chickens that laid them. Different kinds of chickens lay different colored eggs. There is even one kind that lays (Easter) green-blue eggs. 
Nope! The only difference between brown eggs & white eggs is the shell's colour.     Happy Egg Eating!       Absolutely NOT! The only difference … in shell color is the breed of chicken that laid it. If the hens were fed the same diet, brown-shelled eggs and white-shelled eggs are the same. Thete ARE some people who swear that they taste differently. The brown color is caused by pigment added to the egg and depends on the type of chicken. The thickness of the shell depends on the health of the chicken and its diet. Healthier chickens generally lay eggs with thicker shells.
Many people think that brown eggs must be better than white eggs because they're more expensive, but that's not the case. What makes brown eggs more expensive is as simple as size -- the chickens that lay brown eggs are larger than those that lay white eggs and thus their feed costs more. Is there any difference in the yolk? Some people say that brown eggs have a yolk that's more richly colored than white eggs. The type of feed that chickens eat can vary, so the more corn they eat, the yellower the yolks. So it's not necessarily the color of the shell that predicts the intense color of the yolk.
The color difference is due to the specific breed of hen, according to the Egg Nutrition Center. Hens with white feathers and white earlobes generally lay white eggs, whereas hens with red feathers and matching-colored earlobes usually lay brown eggs. However, there are exceptions. also, chickens that lay brown eggs DON'T eat more than white egg laying chickens.... they're more expensive because people want something different, and those are unusual in stores..... — 72.✗.✗.62 ▲ 0 ▼ May 6, 2009, 12:51am I have found that there is a bit of a better taste to the brown eggs. Not much though.