Definition of Poetry Poetry is piece of literature written by a poet in meter or verse expressing various emotions which are expressed by the use of variety of techniques including metaphors, similes and onomatopoeia. 1 Definition of Meter Literary Term. 2  Literary term. 3  Free Educational resource and example of this literary term of Literary Terms. 4  Structure, form and Literary Term. 5  Example of poem and poetry illustrating Meter Literary Term. 6  Examples of Poetry Types and Poetry terms. 7  Word Association to convey emotion.
Each definition, such as the above definition and example of Meter Literary Term will provide a glossary of literary terms or a dictionary with the meaning, samples, examples and the rules of specialising in each different type of poem and poetry. 1 Definition of Meter Literary Term. 2  Literary term. 3  Free Educational resource and example of this literary term of Literary Terms. 4  Structure, form and Literary Term. 5  Example of poem and poetry illustrating Meter Literary Term. 6  Examples of Poetry Types and Poetry terms. 7  Word Association to convey emotion.
Definition of Meter Literary Term. The meter in poetry involves exact arrangements of syllables into repeated patterns called feet within a line. Meters are regularized rhythms. an arrangement of language in which the accents occur at apparently equal intervals in time. Each repeated unit of meter is called a foot. 1 Definition of Meter Literary Term. 2  Literary term. 3  Free Educational resource and example of this literary term of Literary Terms. 4  Structure, form and Literary Term. 5  Example of poem and poetry illustrating Meter Literary Term. 6  Examples of Poetry Types and Poetry terms. 7  Word Association to convey emotion.
Meter Definition. Meter is a stressed and unstressed syllabic pattern in a verse or within the lines of a poem. Stressed syllables tend to be longer and unstressed shorter. In simple language, meter is a poetic device that serves as a linguistic sound pattern for the verses, as it gives poetry a rhythmical and melodious sound. For instance, if you read a poem loudly, and it produces regular sound patterns, then this poem would be a metered or measured poem.
Meter is a unit of rhythm in poetry, the pattern of the beats. It is also called a foot. Each foot has a certain number of syllables in it, usually two or three syllables. The difference in types of meter is which syllables are accented and which are not. 
But you already knew that one. Let's break it down: 1  An iamb is a metrical foot that consists of an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed one—daDUM. 2  Penta-means five. 3  Meter refers to a regular rhythmic pattern in poetry. 
Definition: A symbol is literary device that contains several layers of meaning, often concealed at first sight, and is representative of several other aspects, concepts or traits than those that are visible in the literal translation alone. 
Free verse. Poetry without a regular pattern of meter or rhyme. The verse is free in not being bound by earlier poetic conventions requiring poems to adhere to an explicit and identifiable meter and rhyme scheme in a form such as the sonnet or ballad. 
Difference between Anapest and Dactyl. Anapest is known as antidactylus, since it is a reverse pattern of dactyl meter. The difference is that anapest consists of three syllables with the first two are unstressed and the last one is stressed such as unstressed/unstressed/stressed pattern. However, dactyl is the opposite of this pattern. 