One procedure for dealing with nasal polyps uses a 30 percent solution of DMSO (70 percent distilled water) and seems to work very well in reducing the swelling, inflammation, and even the formation of polyps. Simply use the solution as nose drops, or coat the inside of your nostrils with a cotton swab.
If you have small polyps, you may not have any symptoms. If polyps block nasal passages, a sinus infection can develop. Symptoms include: 1  Runny nose. 2  Stuffed up nose. 3  Sneezing. 4  Feeling like your nose is blocked. 5  Loss of smell. 6  Loss of taste. 7  Headache and pain if you also have a sinus infection.
Nasal polyps can be treated by treating other conditions that cause inflammation in the nasal passages and sinuses. Doctors may prescribe antihistamines to reduce allergy-induced inflammation, anti-fungal drugs to get rid of fungal infections, or antibiotics to get rid of persistent nasal infections.
Nasal polyps can be difficult to get rid of permanently, but steroid medication can often help shrink them, and surgery to remove them can be carried out if medication doesn't help. The main treatments are: 1  corticosteroid nose drops or nasal sprays to shrink the polyps over a number of weeks or months.
1. Use a saline rinse to clear your nose and sinuses. Saline (or salt water) can help to reduce inflammation in your nose and dry up mucus that is blocking your nasal passageways. Salt slows down your body’s production of adiponectin, a chemical that is associated with inflammation.
They often grow where the sinuses open into the nasal cavity. Small polyps may not cause any problems. Large polyps can block your sinuses or nasal airway. Nasal polyps are not cancer. They seem to grow due to long-term swelling and irritation in the nose from allergies, asthma, or infection.
Nasal polyps are soft, painless, noncancerous growths on the lining of your nasal passages or sinuses. They hang down like teardrops or grapes. They result from chronic inflammation due to asthma, recurring infection, allergies, drug sensitivity or certain immune disorders.
I have a recurring problem with nasal polyps. Nasal polyps are protruding growths from the mucus membranes in the nose. They are usually associated with allergies or some other constant irritation to these sensitive areas. As you know, they can block air passages and make breathing difficult.