2. Take the photo or video to send directly. Tap the Camera button at the bottom of the Instagram screen to open the Camera function. Take the photo or video that you want to share. 1  You don't have to take a brand-new picture if you already have a photo in your phone gallery and you want to share it with your friends. 1. Open your Instagram app and log in. Tap on the Instagram icon on your device’s home screen or app drawer to launch it. Log in with your valid username and password, and navigate to the Home feed. 1  If you don’t yet have Instagram, you can find and download the Instagram application using your device’s app store
How to Direct Message on Instagram. 1  1. 2  How to direct message on Instagram. 3  2. 4  Instagram is a Free Photo application to instantly share images with your followers. 5  It gives your followers a personal view of you and your business and helps to create a connection to your brand. 6  3. 1 How to direct message on Instagram. 2  2. 3  Instagram is a Free Photo application to instantly share images with your followers. 4  It gives your followers a personal view of you and your business and helps to create a connection to your brand. 5  3.
Instagram Direct lets you send messages to one or more people. You can send the following things as a message on Instagram Direct: Photos or videos from your camera roll or the in-app camera. Posts you see in Feed. Profiles. Text. Hashtags. Locations. The people you message will get a notification. To see messages you've sent with Instagram Direct, tap in the top right of Feed. 
To send a profile as a message using Instagram Direct: 1  Go to the profile you'd like to send as a message. 2  Tap and then select Share this Profile. 3  Search for and select the person or group you'd like to send the profile to (up to 15 people). To send photos/videos using Instagram Direct: 1  Take a new photo/video or upload one from your camera roll. 2  Add optional effects, filters and a caption. 3  Tap Direct at the top of the screen.
Please try again later. In this video tutorial I show you how to send a Direct Message with Instagram. The direct message in Instagram is a new feature and it allows you to send a photo to 1-15 people privately instead of all of your followers seeing it. Also, it will allow you to delete the message and remove it from where you sent it as well. This is a SnapChat feature in some ways
1 To send your first DM on Instagram, take a photo as you normally would. 2  You can apply all the same filters to “DM photos” as you can with all other Instagram posts. 3  When you’re ready to send it directly to someone (or a group of people) – tap NEXT as usual. Sending a DM on Instagram isn’t as intuitive as it should be (our opinion) – so don’t feel bad that you needed to Google this one 1  :).
2. Select a filter as you normally would. 3. Compose your caption or message to accompany the photo or video. 4. Tap Direct at the top, next to Followers. 5. Select your desired recipients by tapping the circle next to their names. You can also search for your friends by typing their names in the To field. 6. Hit Send at the bottom of the page.
You can send photos or videos from your camera roll or ones you take using the in-app camera. Messages won’t appear in Feed, search or your profile. To send photos/videos using Instagram Direct: 1  Take a new photo/video or upload one from your camera roll. 2  Add optional effects, filters and a caption. 3  Tap Direct at the top of the screen. 4  Search for and select the person or group you'd like to send the video/photo to (up to 15 people). 5  Tap Send