10. Not every star explodes. For instance, our Sun (which is a star) will never explode. Stars that are 10 to 100 times bigger than our Sun eventually explode and create a supernova explosion. The amount of energy radiated in one supernova explosion is equal to the amount of energy that is radiated by our Sun so far plus the energy that it will radiate for the rest of its life. 4. A supernova is so bright that it literally takes weeks and sometimes months for the brightness to fade away. 5.
But only a select few stars become supernovae. Many stars cool in later life to end their days as white dwarfs and, later, black dwarfs. Star Fusion. But massive stars, many times larger than our own sun, may create a supernova when their core's fusion process runs out of fuel. These blasts produce much of the material in the universe—including some elements, like iron, which make up our planet and even ourselves. Heavy elements are only produced in supernovae, so all of us carry the remnants of these distant explosions within our own bodies.
Some stars behave as if it's better to burn out than to fade away. These stars end their evolutions in massive cosmic explosions known as supernovae. When supernovae explode they jettison matter into space at some 9,000 to 25,000 miles (15,000 to 40,000 kilometers) per second. These blasts produce much of the material in the universe—including some elements, like iron, which make up our planet and even ourselves. Heavy elements are only produced in supernovae, so all of us carry the remnants of these distant explosions within our own bodies.
Supernova-Interesting facts. Term supernova refers to explosive death of some massive star characterized by an enormous amount of emitted energy. Supernova explosion emits incredible amount of energy-more energy that our Sun emits for its entire lifetime. The astronomers believe that supernova explosion occurs approximately twice every 100 years in our galaxy. This means that supernova explosion are relatively rare event within our Milky Way galaxy. Most galaxies have a supernova every 25 to 100 years.
Supernova is nothing but a stellar explosion. To put in other words, it is actually an explosion of a star. 2. So massive is the explosion that for a brief amount of time, the explosion actually outshines the entire galaxy in which it explodes. The amount of energy radiated in one supernova explosion is equal to the amount of energy that is radiated by our Sun so far plus the energy that it will radiate for the rest of its life. 4. A supernova is so bright that it literally takes weeks and sometimes months for the brightness to fade away. 5.
Here are ten facts about supernovae that you may have not known. Somewhere in the cosmos, a star is reaching the end of its life. Maybe it’s a massive star, collapsing under its own gravity. Supernovae occur in our galaxy at a rate of about one or two per century. Yet we haven’t seen a supernova in the Milky Way in around 400 years. The most recent nearby supernova was observed in 1987, and it wasn’t even in our galaxy. It was in a nearby satellite galaxy called the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Type Ia supernovas happen when a white dwarf star is orbiting a big star. Sometimes, the white dwarf star sucks matter off of the big star. When the white dwarf gets to be about 1.4 times the mass of the sun, it collapses. This makes lots of energy and light, which is why supernovas are very bright. 
Okay, that was more than three, but you get the point. A supernova is more significant than a nova, but less so than a hypernova. Supernovae are very bright and generate bursts of radiation that can briefly outshine a whole galaxy before declining in brightness over many weeks or months. In this period a supernova can emit as much energy as the Sun might over its entire lifetime. How Supernovae are Studied. By using optical telescopes, astronomers can approximate the amount of light generated by a supernova.
supernova, a massive star in the latter stages of stellar evolution that suddenly contracts and then explodes, increasing its energy output as much as a billionfold. Supernovas are the principal distributors of heavy elements throughout the universe; all elements heavier than iron are produced in supernovas. 
30 Interesting Supernova Facts. by Sankalan Baidya + · June 11. One of the most spectacular events of our universe is the Supernova explosion. It is probably THE MOST powerful explosion known to humans. The amount of energy radiated in one supernova explosion is equal to the amount of energy that is radiated by our Sun so far plus the energy that it will radiate for the rest of its life. 4. A supernova is so bright that it literally takes weeks and sometimes months for the brightness to fade away. 5.