Review Government Pay Scales. A good place to start your research is the US Office of Personnel Management, where you’ll find the federal government’s General Schedule Pay Scale. Consider this example: If you are offered a job as a GS 9, the first “step” in Grade 9, according to the GS Pay Scale, is $38,175. The highest level in GS 9 – Step 10 – pays $49,632. You should also be aware of the Locality Pay Scales, which show how pay rates vary depending on the job’s location. Ask for a Higher Step Within Your Grade.
This means the salary levels used to recruit federal government workers may be helpful in constructing a pay scale for your employees. Step 5. Obtain historical pay scales for your employees. Review the wages to determine for currency and adjust the scales based on cost of living increases and market conditions. For example, if your pay scale in 2002 for registered nurses indicates starting wages at $50,000, factor in salary changes due to anticipated labor shortages in this occupation. Paying employees too little or too much can affect your organization’s ability to attract qualified talent and retain valuable employees. Determining the proper pay scale is essential for productivity, and it’s also necessary for cost control.
The General Schedule consists of 15 different grade level classifications from GS-1 to GS-15, loosely defined by the difficulty, responsibilities and qualifications required for a specific job. The grade level given for a job represents the base pay salary, with higher grade levels corresponding with higher salaries. Generally, entry-level jobs for which minimal experience or a bachelor's degree may be required receive the GS-1 through GS-7 grade level designation.
What are the pay grades at Cleveland Clinic? It all depends on the quality of work that you do. If you get an average then the salary will be about $81,833, a median type of job will get you a $47,834. Again all has to d … o with the quality and its a high one, one can get nearly $600,000. What is the pay grade for a navy seal? They don't make more than anyone else, it still depends on your rank. Type in Navy pay scale in google and look up the ranks to find out. A 1st LT in the seals makes the sam … e as a 1st LT in supply/Motor-T etc...with the exception of endangerment pay and hazard duty pay....
This equals $60,000. $60,000 is the maximum for your salary range. In this example, your full salary range would be $40,000 to $60,000 with a midpoint of $50,000. You are well on your way to establishing your formal compensation plan. Next comes the work of implementing and communicating your new plan. How to Determine Your Midpoint. No matter if you are adopting a straight market pay policy or a system that has pay grades, the next step will be to decide on the market data that you want to target. This is going to vary from company to company and organization to organization.
$40,000 is the minimum for the range. Now to find your maximum, multiply your minimum, $40,000, by 1.50. This equals $60,000. $60,000 is the maximum for your salary range. In this example, your full salary range would be $40,000 to $60,000, with a midpoint of $50,000. How to Determine Your Midpoint. No matter if you are adopting a straight market pay policy or a system that has pay grades, the next step will be to decide on the market data that you want to target. This is going to vary from company to company and organization to organization.
Determining the pay grade and salary for an employee is not cut-and-dry, and you must take into consideration many factors in reaching the final number. 
Grade pay is a way to organize payments for different types of  employees at a large company or organization. Job positions are  assigned a pay grade and employees receive s … alaries within the  range for that pay grade. What is the pay grade for a navy seal? They don't make more than anyone else, it still depends on your rank. Type in Navy pay scale in google and look up the ranks to find out. A 1st LT in the seals makes the sam … e as a 1st LT in supply/Motor-T etc...with the exception of endangerment pay and hazard duty pay....
Cleveland clinic pay grades determine that amount of salary that is paid at various skill levels. Education acquired will raise the pay grades and the size of the salary. The government sets the pay for the military, the government pays the military and tax payers fund the government so that they can pay for the military. Keep in mind military … members pay taxes as well so they themselves are paying a portion of their own pay checks.