You’ll also need to pay for the CDL itself; CDL costs range from $25 to $100. Special endorsements such as air brakes, doubles/triples, and hazardous materials may cost between $5 and $45 each. You may not have to pay the cost of truck driving school on your own, though. The average cost of PTDI-certified courses is about $4,200, though the cost of truck driving school may be as low as $1,500 and as high as $10,000. Related program expenses that may or may not be included in truck driving school tuition are books, uniforms, and fees for tests, medical exams, and graduation.
TOTAL COST FOR SEGMENT 1: $310.00. Note: To be eligible for Segment 1 Driver Education you must be 14 years and 8 months old by the first scheduled day of class. Special Needs Accommodation Form. Monthly Classes Gives students the option to take driver education Segment 1 at least 6 months prior to their 16th birthday. Range is scheduled on 2 consecutive days. Students must sign up for the same 2-hour time slot for each day. Range Driving is included in the cost for Segment 1. All E-Z Way training vehicles are maintained and serviced on a monthly basis.
There are several financial assistance options available to help with the cost of CDL Training with very little upfront out of pocket expenses. Truck Driver Institute’s Student Services Department is available to assist in coordinating and implementing the best funding option for you. This is called contract training, and typically it is how that free truck driving school can cover the cost to train you. While contract training may save you a little money up front, it can cost you tremendous money over the long haul.
1 Most driving school provide both classroom (driver education) and behind-the-wheel (driver training) instruction as required in their state. 2  Classroom-only courses run $30-$180 depending on the number of hours included, prevailing local rates and the instructor-student ratio. 
For someone who needs to learn how to drive, driving school cost is a concern. The typical cost of a driving school varies greatly between states and cities, and is affected by the cost of gasoline. Expect classroom driver training between $30 and $180. Actual road training runs between $50 and $150 per session. Most driving schools offer an all-inclusive package between $200 and $800. The testing vehicle should have air bags and an adjustable steering column, while being no more than four years old
Today, students can expect to pay $500 or more for a driver's education course, which teens under 18 must pass to get a license. Just 10 years ago, the cost was less than half that amount. For students and their families, that means classes alone can cost anywhere from $350 to $825 -- more if the teen needs extra lessons. Expect to pony up $415 to take a driver's education class in Seattle Public Schools this year, up $101 from last year. In the Renton School District, the cost is $375 for a traffic-safety course; in the Northshore School District, plan on paying $460
Confidence votes 66.7K. The cost of Drivers Education varies by the city and state you live in, along with which company you go through. Each state has different requirements of how much classroom time and behind the wheel time you should have. In OH it is 24hrs of classroom time, 8hrs of incar time. The time inwhich you are enrolled really determines the price. For an overall estimate, $299-$599 is the normal and usual cost. You may have anywhere from $5-$10 extra for your drivers education certificate and gas surcharges. 