There is a disease that comes from the Chytridiomycota classification. Chytridiomycosis is a fungal infection of amphibians. The disease is found in keratinised tissue, which includes the mouthparts of tadpoles. One of the main symptoms of chytridiomycosis is a thickened epidermis (hyperkeratosis). It is fatal, and has caused amphibian population decline on several continents. 
Chytridiomycosis appears to be affecting frogs to a greater extent than salamanders, although far less research has been conducted on salamanders, and new data indicate that neotropical salamanders may also be crashing due to chytridiomycosis (Rovito et al. 2009; Cheng et al. Two hypotheses have been put forth to explain Bd 's spread: first, that it is a novel pathogen, with the spread to new host species and new geographical areas mediated by humans (Berger et al. 1999; Daszak et al.
Abstract. The sudden appearance of chytridiomycosis, the cause of amphibian deaths and population declines in several continents, suggests that its etiologic agent, the amphibian chytrid Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, was introduced into the affected regions. The sudden appearance of chytridiomycosis can best be explained by the hypothesis that B. dendrobatidis was recently introduced into new regions and subsequently infected novel host species (1). Dispersal of B. dendrobatidis between countries is most likely by the global transportation of amphibians (1, 2, 23, 28, 29).
The reason why some amphibian species are resistant to chytridiomycosis is an area of very active scientific research. If we can understand why some species are resistant, it might be possible to develop methods to control chytridiomycosis in amphibian populations that experience devastating population declines. 1 The presence on the skin of specific types of symbiotic bacteria that discourage the growth of Bd (Harris et al., 2009 a and b). 2  Amphibians or amphibian populations that normally have large numbers of these bacteria in the skin might be more resistant to developing chytridiomycosis.
Chytridiomycosis caused by the fungus B. dendrobatidis predominantly affects the outermost layers of skin containing keratin. When most species reach a B. dendrobatidis threshold of 10,000 zoospores, they are not able to breathe, hydrate, osmoregualte, or thermoregulate correctly. Range [edit]. The geographic range of chytridiomycosis is difficult to ascertain. If it occurs, the disease is only present where the fungus B. dendrobatidis is present. However, the disease is not always present where the fungus is. Reasons for amphibian declines are often termed ‘enigmatic’ because the cause is unknown
Like the individual amphibian species that are resistant to chytridiomycosis (see above), understanding why persistent populations maintain low intensity infections with Bd is very important and could lead to methods to control the disease in wild populations. 1 The presence on the skin of specific types of symbiotic bacteria that discourage the growth of Bd (Harris et al., 2009 a and b). 2  Amphibians or amphibian populations that normally have large numbers of these bacteria in the skin might be more resistant to developing chytridiomycosis.
In New Zealand, both native and introduced species have been affected by chytridiomycosis. Amphibian declines were first seen in 1995, when dead specimens of a rare endemic, Leiopelma archeyi (Archey's frog), were collected on Tokeata Ridge in the Coromandel Peninsula, North Island, following a drought (Bell et al. Two hypotheses have been put forth to explain Bd 's spread: first, that it is a novel pathogen, with the spread to new host species and new geographical areas mediated by humans (Berger et al. 1999; Daszak et al.
Chytridiomycosis is a disease that afflicts amphibians, caused by the amphibian chytrid fungus (scientific name: Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis). Chytrid fungi have been on the Earth for millions of years, but most of them do not negatively affect living animals. 
Chytridiomycosis has been linked to dramatic population declines or even extinctions of amphibian species in western North America, Central America, South America, eastern Australia, and Dominica and Montserrat in the Caribbean. Much of the New World is also at risk of the disease arriving within the coming years. Range [edit]. The geographic range of chytridiomycosis is difficult to ascertain. If it occurs, the disease is only present where the fungus B. dendrobatidis is present. However, the disease is not always present where the fungus is. Reasons for amphibian declines are often termed ‘enigmatic’ because the cause is unknown