Description. Cholestasis is caused by obstruction within the liver (intrahepatic) or outside the liver (extrahepatic). The obstruction causes bile salts, the bile pigment bilirubin, and fats (lipids) to accumulate in the blood stream instead of being eliminated normally. Cholestasis is a condition caused by rapidly developing (acute) or long-term (chronic) interruption in the excretion of bile (a digestive fluid that helps the body process fat). The term is taken from the Greek chole, bile, and stasis, standing still
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is a liver disorder that occurs in pregnant women. Cholestasis is a condition that impairs the release of a digestive fluid called bile from liver cells. As a result, bile builds up in the liver, impairing liver function. Because the problems with bile release occur within the liver (intrahepatic), the condition is described as intrahepatic cholestasis.
1 itchiness (pruritus). 2  Pruritus is the primary symptom of cholestasis and is thought to be due to interactions of serum bile acids with opioidergic nerves. 3  In fact, the opioid antagonist naltrexone is used to treat pruritus due to cholestasis. 4  jaundice. 1 Pruritus is the primary symptom of cholestasis and is thought to be due to interactions of serum bile acids with opioidergic nerves. 2  In fact, the opioid antagonist naltrexone is used to treat pruritus due to cholestasis. 3
Definition. Cholestasis is a condition caused by rapidly developing (acute) or long-term (chronic) interruption in the excretion of bile (a digestive fluid that helps the body process fat). The term is taken from the Greek chole, bile, and stasis, standing still
Cholestasis is a condition where bile cannot flow from the liver to the duodenum. 1 Pruritus is the primary symptom of cholestasis and is thought to be due to interactions of serum bile acids with opioidergic nerves. 2  In fact, the opioid antagonist naltrexone is used to treat pruritus due to cholestasis. 3  jaundice.
Cholestasis of pregnancy, also known as obstetric cholestasis or intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, usually occurs during the last trimester of pregnancy, and triggers severe itching, especially on the hands and feet. Cholestasis is when the excretion of bile (from the liver) is interrupted. Bile is a fluid that helps the body process fat. There are two main types of cholestasis: The term cholestasis comes from the Greek word chole meaning bile and the Greek word stasis meaning still. Pregnancy is a possible cause of intrahepatic cholestasis. Apart from giving the patient intense itching, it does not usually cause any serious problems for the mother
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP), also known as obstetric cholestasis, cholestasis of pregnancy, jaundice of pregnancy, and prurigo gravidarum, is a medical condition in which cholestasis occurs during pregnancy. 
Knowledge center. Cholestasis of pregnancy, also known as obstetric cholestasis or intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, usually occurs during the last trimester of pregnancy, and triggers severe itching, especially on the hands and feet. On rare occasions symptoms may appear before the third trimester. Cholestasis is when the excretion of bile (from the liver) is interrupted. Bile is a fluid that helps the body process fat. There are two main types of cholestasis: The term cholestasis comes from the Greek word chole meaning bile and the Greek word stasis meaning still. Pregnancy is a possible cause of intrahepatic cholestasis. Apart from giving the patient intense itching, it does not usually cause any serious problems for the moth