The White Nile's true source was not discovered until 1937, when the German explorer Dr. Burkhart Waldecker traced it to a stream in Rutovu at the base of Mount Kikizi. The White Nile (Arabic: النيل الأبيض ‎ an nīl al 'abyaḍ) is a river of Africa, one of the two main tributaries of the Nile, the other being the Blue Nile. In the strict meaning, White Nile refers to the river formed at Lake No at the confluence of the Bahr al Jabal and Bahr el Ghazal Rivers
Source confluence at Khartoum, Sudan. To be accurate, the Nile River consists of two river systems (tributaries) namely the Blue Nile and the White Nile. These two rivers obviously have seperate points of origin. The point of origin for a river is marked at the furthest distance along the entire course. 
The Nile has two major tributaries, the White Nile and Blue Nile. The White Nile is considered to be the headwaters and primary stream of the Nile itself. The Blue Nile, however, is the source of most of the water and silt. The White Nile is longer and rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa, with the most distant source still undetermined but located in either Rwanda or Burundi. It flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and South Sudan.
SEARCH ASTER. Source of the Nile River Click on Image to Enlarge (JPG) Source of the Nile River (1,651,543 bytes) (2,700 x 2,604) The Nile River in Africa is often regarded as the longest river on Earth, 6695 km long. The Nile has two major tributaries, the White Nile and the Blue Nile. 
The Nile River has two major branches, the Blue Nile and the White Nile. Both branches are named for the color of their water. The Blue Nile is a bright blue at its source, and begins to darken when it reaches the Sudan, while the White Nile’s water is a whitish-gray (Hoyt, 2008). The White Nile is longer and travels through Egypt, Uganda, and meets the Blue Nile in the Sudan
The Nile is the longest river in the world, flowing 6695km (4184 miles). There are two main rivers which flow from the south into what is referred to as the Nile Proper, the Blue Nile, and the White Nile. The White Nile is the longer of the tributaries, but the Blue Nile is the main source of water and fertile soil. A third river, the Atbara, flows into the Nile just north of Khartoum in the Sudan but it contributes less than one percent to total water flow. The White and Blue Nile Rivers merge near the Sudanese capital of Khartoum, becoming the Nile proper which itself flows in two distinct parts. An 1336 km (830 mile) long stretch of the Nile flows through the desert allowing irrigation and agriculture in these areas.
The River Nile is formed from the White Nile, which originates at Lake Victoria and the Blue Nile, which originates at Lake Tana in Ethiopia. These rivers meet in Sudan and then go on their long journey northwards towards the sea. The River Nile is about 6,670 km (4,160 miles) in length and is the longest river in Africa and in the world. Although it is generally associated with Egypt, only 22% of the Nile’s course runs through Egypt.
The origins of the White Nile are in deep central Africa, as far south as southern Rwanda. The river flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and into Southern Sudan. The Blue Nile flows about 1,400 km (850 miles) to Khartoum from Lake Tana 1,800 meters above sea level in the Ethiopian Mountains. The White and Blue Nile Rivers merge near the Sudanese capital of Khartoum, becoming the Nile proper which itself flows in two distinct parts. An 1336 km (830 mile) long stretch of the Nile flows through the desert allowing irrigation and agriculture in these areas.
Though the Blue Nile is shorter than the White, it supplies most of the water, beginning in Ethiopia and flowing until it meets the White Nile in the Sudan. The two branches of the Nile snake through the countries of Rwanda, Tanzania, Egypt, Ethiopia, Burundi, Kenya, Sudan, and Uganda (Tignor, 2010). The Blue Nile is a bright blue at its source, and begins to darken when it reaches the Sudan, while the White Nile’s water is a whitish-gray (Hoyt, 2008).