Sir William Herschel observed Uranus on March 13, 1781 from the garden of his house at 19 New King Street in Bath, Somerset, England (now the Herschel Museum of Astronomy), and initially reported it (on April 26, 1781) as a comet. Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons.
by Fraser Cain on November 27, 2009. Even in ancient times astronomers knew of 5 planets: Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. But it wasn’t until the last few hundred years that the next planet was finally discovered – Uranus. So when was Uranus discovered? Uranus was found on March 13th, 1781 by Sir William Herschel of England. Uranus, seen by Voyager 2. Image credit: NASA/JPL. You might be surprised to know that Uranus is actually bright enough to be seen with the unaided eye. He thought he might have found a nebular star or a new comet. When he presented his findings to the Royal Society, the Astronomer Royal Nevil Maskelyne discovered that it actually had a planet like orbit and didn’t seem to posses a tail. It was the first new planet discovered in history.
Uranus is the 7th planet in the Solar System, and the first planet discovered beyond the 5 planets that are visible with the unaided eye. So, who discovered Uranus? The discoverer was Sir William Herschel, who found it on March 13, 1781. Sir William Herschel. Even though Uranus is dim, it’s actually possible to see with the unaided eye in very dark, clear skies. But even so, nobody had ever officially recorded the movement of Uranus, so Herschel is the discoverer. 
The planet Uranus was discovered by William Herschel on March 13, 1781. He discoverd Uranus while surveying stars in the night sky using a telescope that he had built himself. Herschel noticed that one of these stars seemed different, and after observing it many more times, noticed that it orbited the Sun. He calculated that Uranus had an orbit that was about 18 times farther from the Sun than Earth. Herschel also discovered two of the moons of Uranus (Titania and Oberon).
Uranus was discovered by Sir William Herschel in 1781. Herschel was probably the most famous astronomer of the 18th century. In addition to discovering the planet Uranus, he also observed and cataloged over 800 double stars and 2,500 nebulae. 
Discover Uranus. Astronomer William Herschel is credited with the discovery of Uranus in 1781. He was using a telescope he built himself when he spotted a dim object. He watched it for years and determined it had to be a planet. Herschel argued with other astronomers over the new planet's name. Astronomer William Herschel is credited with the discovery of Uranus in 1781. He was using a telescope he built himself when he spotted a dim object. He watched it for years and determined it had to be a planet
Uranus was discovered by William Herschel, who made the announcement on March 13, 1781. It had previously been thought to be a star because it moved only imperceptibly across … the sky. Herschel originally thought it might be a comet. Titania and Oberon discovered in 1787 Ariel and Umbriel discovered in 1851 Miranda discovered in 1948 I hope this helps you and by the … way this isn't all of Uranus moons.
Answer: The seventh planet from the sun was discovered by William Herschel in 1781. 
Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. It has the third-largest planetary radius and fourth-largest planetary mass in the Solar System. Uranus is similar in composition to Neptune, and both have different bulk chemical composition from that of the larger gas giants Jupiter and Saturn. Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons.