The Lysogenic Cycle. In the lysogenic cycle, the viral DNA or RNA enters the cell and integrates into the host DNA as a new set of genes called prophage. That is, the viral DNA becomes part of the cell's genetic material. No progeny particles, like in the lytic phase, are produced. In the Lytic Cycle: 1  Viral DNA destroys Cell DNA, takes over cell functions and destroys the cell. 2  The Virus replicates and produces progeny phages. 3  There are symptoms of viral infection. 4  Virtulant viral infection takes place.
1. Attachment and entrance: the virus recognizes the host cell and attaches. The whole virus or just it’s genetic material enters the cell. 2. Synthesis of proteins: The genetic material of the virus (DNA or RNA) instructs the cell to start making viral proteins and nucleic acids (DNA/RNA). 3. Assembly of a new viruses: The viral proteins and nucleic acids are brought together to make new virus particles. 4. Release of new virus particles: Newly formed virus particles are released from infected cell and then host cell dies (lysis). 
Briefly describe the difference between the lytic cycle of virulent phages and the lysogenic cycle of temperate phages. Virulent phages reproduce strictly by the lytic cycle and ultimately result in the death of the host bacterial cell. During the lytic cycle, a virus injects its genome into the host cell. The genome directs production and assembly of new viral particles. A viral enzyme is produced and breaks open the cell, releasing new viral particles into the environment. Temperature phages can utilize either the lytic or lysogenic cycle. The infection cycle begins when a viral particle injects its genome into the host cell. In the lysogenic cycle, the viral genome integrates into the host chromosome as a prophage. The inactive prophage can remain part of the bacterial chromosome for an extended period and is replicated along with the bacterial chromosome prior to cell division.
During infection, the phage particle recognizes and binds to its host, E. coli, causing DNA in the head of the phage to be ejected through the tail into the cytoplasm of the bacterial cell. Usually, a  lytic cycle  ensues, where the lambda DNA is replicated and new phage particles are produced within the cell. 
Viruses that only use lytic cycle are called virulent viruses (in contrast to temperate viruses). The lytic cycle is a six-stage cycle. In the first stage, called penetration, the virus injects its own nucleic acid into a host cell. In some viruses this genetic material is circular and mimics a bacterial plasmid. Lytic cycle, compared to lysogenic cycle. The lytic cycle is one of the two cycles of viral reproduction, the other being the lysogenic cycle. The lytic cycle results in the destruction of the infected cell and its membrane. A key difference between the lytic and lysogenic phage cycles is that in the lytic phage, the viral DNA exists as a separate molecule within the bacterial cell, and replicates separately from the host bacterial DNA
This association is called lysogeny, and the integrated phage DNA is referred to as a prophage (Figure 6-19). Under certain conditions, the prophage DNA is activated, leading to its excision from the host-cell chromosome and entrance into the lytic cycle. Bacterial viruses of this type are called temperate phages. A virus is a small parasite that cannot reproduce by itself. Once it infects a susceptible cell, however, a virus can direct the cell machinery to produce more viruses. Most viruses have either RNA or DNA as their genetic material.
The location of viral DNA in the lysogenic phage cycle is within the host DNA, therefore in both cases the virus/phage replicates using the host DNA machinery, but in the lytic phage cycle, the phage is a free floating separate molecule to the host DNA. Lytic cycle, compared to lysogenic cycle. The lytic cycle is one of the two cycles of viral reproduction, the other being the lysogenic cycle. The lytic cycle results in the destruction of the infected cell and its membrane. A key difference between the lytic and lysogenic phage cycles is that in the lytic phage, the viral DNA exists as a separate molecule within the bacterial cell, and replicates separately from the host bacterial
Temperate phages are basically bacteriophages which can choose between a lytic and lysogenic pathway of development. The lytic pathway is similar to this of virulent phages. In the lysogenic pathway virus remains dormant until induction. Temperate bacteriophages start their life cycle when they adsorb to permissive host. When a prophage is induced it starts to produce viral proteins and copies of virus the genome using bacterial resources and biosynthetic apparatus. Progeny virus particles are formed and, after completing the cycle, released during host cell lysis.