Why Drill & Mechanical seeding is best .. In Alberta our climate and predominant clay soil is not conducive to successful planting of grass seed by the surface seeding method. Hand or surface seeding simply does not work, often more than 80% of the grass seed is killed by UV and drying effect. Alberta Turf & Grass Seeding Company We specialize in all types of professional grass seeding methods for acreages, homes, sports fields and parks. We also do industrial and commercial seeding jobs for Utility Installation, Utility Construction, Government, Oil & Gas, City/Municipal, Land Developments etc.
Soil preparation services. Alberta Seeding-Complete grass and turf seeding services for acreage owners, home owners, municipalities, utility installation companies, parks and commercial clients. Eco Grass. Eco Grass is a custom designed blend of Fine Fescues and other hardy grasses that require less water, less mowing and less fertilizer than kentucky blue grass based sod lawns. It was designed and blended by Mistaya Land for Alberta's hard clay soils from native derived turf type cultivars.
Final notes. If you are starting a lawn from scratch, you can do like I did and use Turf Type Tall Fescue mixed with Perennial Rye. If you are seeding bare spots and are not sure what grass types your existing lawn contains, choose a seed with bluegrass and rye grass mixed and you’ll be just fine. If you are looking for a turf type tall fescue seed that is both drought tolerant and softer under foot, the Eco Lawn Fescue seed is your best bet. Turf Type Tall Fescue is very susceptible to leaf spot fungus in later Spring and rust fungus is summer.
Keep in mind that there is a difference in adding seed to an existing lawn, filling in bare or thin spots, and starting a lawn from scratch. Whatever you do, never use only one type or species of grass in your lawn. Seed mixtures are best as one will pick up in place of the other during drought, disease or insect pressure. Temps should be above 60 degrees during the day and above 40 at night for best germination. If you are looking for a turf type tall fescue seed that is both drought tolerant and softer under foot, the Eco Lawn Fescue seed is your best bet. Turf Type Tall Fescue is very susceptible to leaf spot fungus in later Spring and rust fungus is summer.
We can seed grass into and on top off anything from open soil to existing lawns, pastures, sports fields and parks. We also do erosion control, land reclamation, soil work, turf and grass seeding and pipe line, oil & gas sites services in Alberta. Alberta Turf & Grass Seeding Company We specialize in all types of professional grass seeding methods for acreages, homes, sports fields and parks. We also do industrial and commercial seeding jobs for Utility Installation, Utility Construction, Government, Oil & Gas, City/Municipal, Land Developments etc.
A note on seeding methods: In places like Alberta and the Prairies broadcast seeding is NOT an effective way to seed. Broadcast seeding is the most popular way for homeowners and small farms to seed because it uses the simplest and cheapest equipment. 
We also service Edmonton, Leduc, St Albert, Wetaskiwin, Drayton Valley and areas. Other areas can be serviced by request. We also provide Alberta and Federal government approved native grass, forage or wildflower seed blends for use in land reclamation, recreation areas and parks. Alberta Turf & Grass Seeding Company We specialize in all types of professional grass seeding methods for acreages, homes, sports fields and parks. We also do industrial and commercial seeding jobs for Utility Installation, Utility Construction, Government, Oil & Gas, City/Municipal, Land Developments etc.
• All types of cool season grass can be grown from seed. • Some warm season grasses must be grown from sod or grass sprigs. Buying Considerations: When purchasing grass seed, consult the label to learn what type or types of seed are included, as well as any other materials. Straight seed consists of only one type of grass and is suited to situations where you want to achieve a certain look or effect. Blends (several varieties of one type) and mixtures (combination of different types) offer better disease resistance and a uniform lawn. • Avoid seed over 10 months past its expiration date as it may not germinate properly. Planting Tips: Before planting grass seed in a new area, it’s important to properly prepare the soil. First, work the soil using a sharp garden tool. Remove existing plants, weeds, rocks and stones.