Career: In December 2012, Barentt (who had changed her name to FKA Twigs, with FKA standing for 'Formerly Known As' and 'Twigs' being her old childhood nick-name) self-released her musical debut. This came in the form of 'EP1', which debuted on Bandcamp. For each song, she released a video on her YouTube channel. 
After changing her moniker to FKA twigs at the request of another artist named Twigs, she returned with EP2, a striking set of songs featuring production from Kanye West collaborator Arca. Late that year, FKA twigs was nominated for the BBC's Sound of 2014 prize (which Sam Smith ultimately won). Electronic. Crafting ethereal electronic R&B that evokes the heyday of Tricky and Massive Attack and the spare 2010s aesthetic of the xx, London's FKA twigs is the project of Twigs, aka Tahliah Barnett, a half-Jamaican native of Gloucestershire.
Edit this wiki. FKA twigs is a pseudonym of singer,songwriter, producer and dancer Tahliah Debrett Barnett. Born January 16, 1988, in Gloucestershire, United Kingdom, she was formerly known as twigs. 
Biography. Tahliah Debrett Barnett (born 16 January 1988), known by the stage name FKA twigs, is a British singer, songwriter, producer and dancer. She was born and raised in Gloucestershire, and became a backup dancer after moving to London when she was 17 years old. 
1. FKA Twigs Produces Her Own Critically-Acclaimed Music. As mentioned above, twigs is a singer-songwriter, but that’s not all. She self-released her first album, EP1, in Dec. 2012, and her second extended play, EP2, was produced by herself and Arca — you may know him as the producer of Kanye West ‘s Yeezus ! FKA Twigs Used To Be A Backup Dancer. Twigs moved to London from her native Gloucestershire to pursue a career as a dancer. Before transitioning to creating and performing music full-time, twigs was a backup dancer for artists like Jessie J, Kylie Minogue, and Ed Sheeran.
A little more low-key than Kristen Stewart, London-based FKA twigs is a multi-talented singer, songwriter, producer and dancer. Robert Pattinson, 28, is finally getting serious with someone after his years-long, on-and-off romance with Kristen Stewart, 24. His new girlfriend, FKA twigs, 26, is an incredibly talented singer-songwriter and a true original — no wonder Rob likes her! FKA Twigs Used To Be A Backup Dancer. Twigs moved to London from her native Gloucestershire to pursue a career as a dancer. Before transitioning to creating and performing music full-time, twigs was a backup dancer for artists like Jessie J, Kylie Minogue, and Ed Sheeran.
After changing her moniker to FKA Twigs at the request of another artist named Twigs, she returned with EP2, a striking set of songs featuring production from Kanye West collaborator Arca. Late that year, FKA Twigs was nominated for the BBC's Sound of 2014 prize (which Sam Smith ultimately won). Crafting ethereal electronic R&B that evokes the heyday of Tricky and Massive Attack and the spare 2010s aesthetic of the xx, London's FKA Twigs is the project of Twigs, aka Tahliah Barnett, a half-Jamaican native of Gloucestershire.
Place of Birth: Gloucestershire, England. Date of Birth: 16 January 1988. Ethnicity: Jamaican, Spanish, English. FKA twigs is a British musician and dancer originally from Gloucestershire and currently based in London. The “FKA” stands for Formerly Known As. Her father is Jamaican, and her mother has English and Spanish ancestry