© A Dictionary of Biology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. cymose inflorescence (cyme; definite inflorescence) A type of flowering shoot (see inflorescence) in which the first-formed flower develops from the growing region at the top of the flower stalk (see illustration). In a dichasial cyme (or dichasium), the development of the flower at the apex is followed by two new flower axes developing from buds opposite one another, as in plants of the family Caryophyllaceae (such as stitchwort).
A raceme (/reɪˈsiːm/ or /rəˈsiːm/) is an unbranched, indeterminate type of inflorescence bearing pedicellate flowers — flowers having short floral stalks called pedicels — along its axis. In botany, axis means a shoot, in this case one bearing the flowers. 
racemose inflorescence (indefinite inflorescence) A type of flowering shoot (see inflorescence) in which the growing region at the tip of the flower stalk continues to produce new flower buds during growth. As a result, the youngest flowers are at the top and the oldest flowers are at the base of the stalk. In a flattened inflorescence, the youngest flowers are in the centre and the oldest flowers are on the outside. Types of racemose inflorescence include the capitulum, catkin, corymb, raceme, spadix, spike, and umbel (see illustration).
Inflorescence Definition. Inflorescence is defined as the a cluster or group of flowers arranged on a stem which composes of a main branch or a complicated arrangement of branches. Inflorescence is basically the part of the shoot of flowering plants where the flowers formed are modified accordingly. An inflorescence is defined as the reproductive part of a plant which bears a group of flowers in a specific pattern.
An inflorescence is a group or cluster of flowers arranged on a stem that is composed of a main branch or a complicated arrangement of branches. Morphologically, it is the part of the shoot of seed plants where flowers are formed and which is accordingly modified. The single flowers are there replaced by a simple inflorescence, which can be both a racemose or a cymose one. Compound inflorescences are composed of branched stems and can involve complicated arrangements that are difficult to trace back to the main branch.
Adj. 1. cymose-having a usually flat-topped flower cluster in which the main and branch stems each end in a flower that opens before those below it or to its side. phytology, botany-the branch of biology that studies plants. determinate-not continuing to grow indefinitely at the apex; determinate growth.
Inflorescence can also be defined as the reproductive portion of a plant that bears a cluster of flowers in a specific pattern. The single flowers are there replaced by a simple inflorescence, which can be both a racemose or a cymose one. Compound inflorescences are composed of branched stems and can involve complicated arrangements that are difficult to trace back to the main branch.
Type of inflorescence that can be seen in plants in which main stem and each subsequent branch ends in a flower. The oldest flower is on the apex and the youngest towards the base. 
One in which the main axis and, in a compound raceme, each of its main branches does not end in a flower but continues to grow bearing flowers in acropetal succession on its lateral branches, eg raceme, spike, panicle. Also indefinite or indeterminate in. 