The adipocytes of white adipose tissue secrete several hormones, including leptin and adiponectin. In addition to serving as a major source of energy reserves, white adipose tissue also provides some mechanical protection and insulation to the body. Brown adipose tissue is present in small mammals (e.g., mice) and in newborn humans. Most of it disappears in adult humans. The cells in both types of fat are called adipocytes although they differ in origin, structure, and function in the two types of tissue.
This newly discovered secretory function has shifted our view of WAT, which is no longer considered only an energy storage tissue but a major endocrine organ, at the heart of a complex network influencing energy homeostasis, glucose and lipid metabolism, vascular homeostasis, immune response and even reproduction. This review discusses the physiological relevance of adipose secretion by focusing on protein and steroid hormones. Regulation of WAT secretion by the major regulatory factors impinging on the adipocytes, i.e. insulin, glucocorticoids, catecholamines and thiazolidinediones (TZD) will be addressed.
It is now widely accepted that white adipose tissue (WAT) secretes a number of peptide hormones, including leptin, several cytokines, adipsin and acylation-stimulating protein (ASP), angiotensinogen, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), adiponectin, resistin etc., and also produces steroids hormones. This review discusses the physiological relevance of adipose secretion by focusing on protein and steroid hormones. Regulation of WAT secretion by the major regulatory factors impinging on the adipocytes, i.e. insulin, glucocorticoids, catecholamines and thiazolidinediones (TZD) will be addressed.
A number of different hormones are released from adipose tissue and these are responsible for different functions within the body. Examples of these are: Aromatase, which is involved in sex hormone metabolism. Along with fat cells, adipose tissue contains numerous nerve cells and blood vessels, storing and releasing energy to fuel the body and releasing important hormones vital to the body’s needs.
The endocrine system (A partial list of organs and tissues that secrete hormones). Tissue/organ. Hormone(s) released. Adipose tissue (fat)(Note that with development of abdominal obesity, adipose tissue actually functions as a key player in the endocrine system). The glands and hormones of the female endocrine system. This particular table lists the key endocrine glands which are commonly found in females as well as the hormones they naturally release, in addition to many of the diffuse endocrine organs plus tissues that are in your body and their related hormones.
In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots. Adipose tissue is one of the main types of connective tissue. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes
Alternative names for leptin There are no other names used for the hormone but the gene, which encodes leptin, is known as the 'ob' gene. What is leptin? Leptin is a hormone released from fat cells in adipose tissue. Leptin signals to the brain, in particular to an area called the hypothalamus. 
Adipose tissue (body fat) is crucial for health. Along with fat cells, adipose tissue contains numerous nerve cells and blood vessels, storing and releasing energy to fuel the body and releasing important hormones vital to the body’s needs. Alternative names for adipose tissue Fat; body fat
Adipose tissue is not merely an organ designed to passively store excess carbon in the form of fatty acids esterified to glycerol (triglycerides). Mature adipocytes synthesize and secrete numerous enzymes, growth factors, cytokines and hormones that are involved in overall energy homeostasis. WAT is composed of adipocytes held together by a loose connective tissue that is highly vascularized and innervated. White adipocytes are rounded cells that contain a single large fat droplet that occupies over 90% of the cell volume. The mitochondria within white adipocytes are small and few in number.
Adiponectin is a protein hormone produced mainly by adipocytes of the adipose tissue. Its concentration in blood is quite high (several orders higher compared to leptin). Another difference from leptin is the correlation between the amount of body fat and the synthesis of the hormones. In addition to the direct production of its own hormones the adipose tissue influences hormones secreted by other endocrine organs. For example, an excessive amount of adipose tissue can significantly contribute to the formation of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes or atherosclerosis.