Rotator Cuff Tears. A rotator cuff tear is a tear of one or more of the tendons of the four rotator cuff muscles. A rotator cuff injury can include any type of irritation or damage to the rotator cuff muscles or tendons. PubMed Health Glossary. The tendons of your rotator cuff can tear for a variety of reasons: 1  An injury, such as falling or being hit in the shoulder. 2  Overuse over time from repeated actions, such as lifting, painting, cleaning windows, or throwing. 3  Natural wear and tear from aging.
The symptoms of a rotator cuff tear include: 1  Pain in the shoulder and arm, which varies depending on how serious the tear is. 2  Weakness and tenderness in the shoulder. 3  Difficulty moving the shoulder, especially when trying to lift your arm above your head. 4  Snapping or crackling sounds when moving the shoulder. Most rotator cuff tears develop gradually. But they also can happen suddenly -- you might feel a pop, intense pain, and weakness in the arm. To diagnose a rotator cuff tear, your doctor will give you a thorough physical exam. He or she will want you to move your arm in different directions to see what causes pain.
The rotator cuff is a group of four muscles and tendons that closely surround the shoulder joint. Rotator cuff tears are very common. Most rotator cuff tears are caused by gradual wear of the tendon material as we age. 
Too much stress -- or too many fastballs -- can cause partial tears and swelling in the tendons of the rotator cuff. Abrupt stress may even cause one of the tendons to pull away from the bone or tear in the middle of the tendon. Rotator cuff tears are sometimes incorrectly called ''rotary cuff tears.''. Most rotator cuff tears develop gradually. But they also can happen suddenly -- you might feel a pop, intense pain, and weakness in the arm. To diagnose a rotator cuff tear, your doctor will give you a thorough physical exam. He or she will want you to move your arm in different directions to see what causes pain.
The most common symptoms of a rotator cuff tear include: 1  Pain at rest and at night, particularly if lying on the affected shoulder. 2  Pain when lifting and lowering your arm or with specific movements. 3  Weakness when lifting or rotating your arm. 4  Crepitus or crackling sensation when moving your shoulder in certain positions. There is a lubricating sac called a bursa between the rotator cuff and the bone on top of your shoulder (acromion). The bursa allows the rotator cuff tendons to glide freely when you move your arm. When the rotator cuff tendons are injured or damaged, this bursa can also become inflamed and painful.
In a rotator cuff disorder, tendons that make up the rotator cuff get squeezed and rub against bone. They become damaged and irritated. This causes bleeding and inflammation. The tendons can develop scar tissue, which is not as strong and flexible as normal tendon tissue. 
Print. The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that surround the shoulder joint, keeping the head of your upper arm bone firmly within the shallow socket of the shoulder. A rotator cuff injury can cause a dull ache in the shoulder, which often worsens when you try to sleep on the involved side
1 Repetitive stress. 2  Repeating the same shoulder motions again and again can stress your rotator cuff muscles and tendons. 3  Baseball, tennis, rowing, and weightlifting are examples of sports activities that can put you at risk for overuse tears. 4  Many jobs and routine chores can cause overuse tears, as well. There is a lubricating sac called a bursa between the rotator cuff and the bone on top of your shoulder (acromion). The bursa allows the rotator cuff tendons to glide freely when you move your arm. When the rotator cuff tendons are injured or damaged, this bursa can also become inflamed and painful.
Re-occurring degeneration and disorganization of the tendons of the rotator cuff can lead to small tears that do not properly heal. This results in a weakened tendon that is more susceptible to serious injuries. The shoulder is a complex joint in the body that is made up of a number of bones, tendons, and muscles. Although overuse is the most common cause of rotator cuff injuries, other factors are associated with an increased risk of injury, including being male, being older, and having a history of shoulder injury or trauma. The shoulder is subject to other injuries besides rotator cuff tears, including tendinitis and bursitis.