Pay attention to your total cholesterol levels, as well as your levels of high-density lipoprotein, low-density lipoprotein and very-low-density lipoprotein, or, respectively, HDL, LDL and VLDL. This cholesterol works by transporting damaging low-density lipoprotein and very-low-density lipoprotein to your liver, where they are broken down, allowing your body to eliminate them. High-density lipoprotein is the only type of cholesterol that needs to be above, versus below, a certain level.
Lipoproteins can transport different components throughout your system, such as cholesterol, fat, and protein. LDL (low density lipoprotein) and VLDL (very low density lipoprotein) transport mostly fat and cholesterol, but differ in the amount of each. The liver releases VLDL into circulation. LDL should be less than 130 mg/dl, ideally less than 100 mg/dl. VLDL - bad cholesterol. VLDL (very low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol contains minimal protein and mainly transports triglycerides.
1 A high HDL level is linked with a lower risk of heart disease. 2  LDL (low-density lipoprotein) carries mostly fat and only a small amount of protein from the liver to other parts of the body. 3  A certain level of LDL in your blood is normal and healthy because LDL moves cholesterol to the parts of your body that need it. Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein.
1 VLDL: (very low-density lipoprotein) contains very little protein. 2  The main purpose of VLDL is to distribute the triglyceride produced by your liver. 3  A high VLDL cholesterol level can cause the buildup of cholesterol in your arteries and increases your risk of heart disease and stroke. Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein.
1 A certain level of LDL in your blood is normal and healthy because LDL moves cholesterol to the parts of your body that need it. 2  But it is sometimes called bad cholesterol because a high level may increase your chances of developing heart disease. 3  VLDL: (very low-density lipoprotein) contains very little protein. Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein.
LDL. The term LDL, or low-density lipoprotein, is more commonly known than VLDL. Levels of LDL, also known as “bad cholesterol,” are often reported in a routine cholesterol test. Instead of containing large amounts of triglycerides, LDL carries a majority of your body's cholesterol. 
LDL and VLDL are both lipoprotein packages in your blood. Both are considered bad types of cholesterol. They differ in what each package carries. LDL - bad cholesterol. LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol carries mostly cholesterol, some protein, and minimal triglycerides throughout your circulation. LDL should be less than 130 mg/dl, ideally less than 100 mg/dl. VLDL - bad cholesterol. VLDL (very low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol contains minimal protein and mainly transports triglycerides.
HDL. High-density lipoprotein is the good cholesterol that benefits your heart. This cholesterol works by transporting damaging low-density lipoprotein and very-low-density lipoprotein to your liver, where they are broken down, allowing your body to eliminate them. High-density lipoprotein is the only type of cholesterol that needs to be above, versus below, a certain level.
Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol is produced in the liver and released into the bloodstream to supply body tissues with a type of fat (triglycerides). There are several types of cholesterol, each made up of lipoproteins and fats. The best way to lower your VLDL cholesterol is to lower your triglycerides. Losing weight and exercising regularly are key, and you might also want to avoid sugary food and alcohol in particular. Medications also can help. With. Francisco Lopez-Jimenez, M.D. 1  Prickly pear cactus.
Fat and excess calories from foods can increase triglyceride and VLDL blood levels. Very low density lipoproteins, or VLDL, are responsible for moving cholesterol, triglycerides and other lipids throughout the body. Lipoproteins are made up of cholesterol, triglycerides and proteins. Lowering VLDL levels is directly affected by lowering triglyceride levels. Avoiding foods high in cholesterol and saturated fat is critical. Triglycerides can be controlled by decreasing your intake of simple carbohydrates, such as sugar, to control insulin, blood glucose levels and body weight.