For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
When you apply for Social Security benefits you should not apply any sooner than 4 months prior to when you want your retirement benefits to begin. If you are planning to retire at the age of 62, you cannot apply for benefits before you are the age of 61 years and 9 months old. If you are not planning to retire, but have reached the age of 65, you should apply for your Medicare benefits immediately. 
If you do not live in the U.S. or one of its territories you can also-Contact the nearest U.S. Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate. Reminders: 1  You must be at least 61 years and 9 months old to apply for retirement benefits. 2  If you are already age 62, you may be able to start your benefits in the month you apply. 3  You should apply for benefits no more than four months before the date you want your benefits to start. 1 If you are not getting Social Security and you are not ready to retire, you should still use our online retirement benefit application to sign up for just Medicare three months before your 65th birthday.
Be aware that Social Security pays a month behind — if you're entitled to a benefit for the month of March, it's paid to you in April. And if you want to start retirement benefits at the earliest possible age, 62, the first payment will arrive two months after the month of your birthday. For example, if your birthday is Feb. 15, your first month of entitlement for benefits will be March, and your first payment will arrive in April. December 27, 2013. En espanol | Español apply three months before you want to start. Collecting be aware That Social security pays a month — behind if'you re entitled to a benefit for the month Of, march'it s paid to you In. april
In the year you reach your full retirement age, you can earn up to $37,680 between January and your birthday without penalty. Above that amount, your Social Security check will be reduced by about 33 cents for every dollar earned. About 54 percent of current 61-year-olds didn't know that you need to apply 3 months in advance of receiving your first payment, Fidelity found, and 7 percent erroneously believed that the Social Security Administration would contact them to set up payments.
Social Security recipients younger than their full retirement age who continue to work can earn up to $14,160 without penalty in 2009. (For baby boomers turning 62 in 2009, the full retirement age is 66.) If a worker earns above that amount, he or she will lose 50 cents of every benefit dollar. About 54 percent of current 61-year-olds didn't know that you need to apply 3 months in advance of receiving your first payment, Fidelity found, and 7 percent erroneously believed that the Social Security Administration would contact them to set up payments.
For more information, go to Applying Online for Retirement Benefits. You can also apply: 1  By phone-Call us at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778), Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. or. 2  In person-Visit your local Social Security Office. You should apply for retirement benefits three months before you want your payments to start. The easiest and most convenient way to apply for retirement benefits is by using our online application. Apply for Retirement Benefits. We may need to see certain documents in order to pay benefits.
1 You must be at least 61 years and 9 months old to apply for retirement benefits. 2  If you are already age 62, you may be able to start your benefits in the month you apply. 3  You should apply for benefits no more than four months before the date you want your benefits to start. 1 If you are not getting Social Security and you are not ready to retire, you should still use our online retirement benefit application to sign up for just Medicare three months before your 65th birthday.
A. You can. Social Security will accept your application for early benefits when you're 61 years 9 months. Regardless of how old you are, the agency generally recommends that you apply three months before you would like the first payment to arrive. See also: How to apply for Social Security benefits online. But I'm afraid that even if you apply in advance with all your paperwork in order, you can't expect to get a check right after your birthday. Community: Share your fears about Social Security.
If you are already receiving Social Security benefits, you will be automatically enrolled in Medicare. After you receive your Medicare card, you can choose your path (Original Medicare or Medicare Advantage), find the right plan(s), and sign up for coverage. 