The liquorice plant is a herbaceous perennial legume native to southern Europe, India, and parts of Asia. It is not botanically related to anise, star anise, or fennel, which are sources of similar flavouring compounds.
If you are referring to natural licorice and not the candy in US stores, it comes from the root of the plant Glycyrrhiza glabra. It also does not taste the same as the candy which is flavored by anise instead.
Liquorice, or licorice, (/ˈlɪkᵊrɪʃ/ LIK-(ə-)rish or /ˈlɪkᵊrɪs/ LIK-(ə-)ris) is the root of Glycyrrhiza glabra from which a sweet flavour can be extracted.
The sweetness in licorice comes from glycyrrhizin, a compound with pharmaceutical effects, that is more than 30x sweeter than sucrose. The licorice plant, an herbaceous perennial and legume, grows from three to seven feet and the taproot can reach a depth of four feet.
Much of the sweetness in liquorice comes from glycyrrhizin, which has a sweet taste, 30–50 times the sweetness of sugar. The sweetness is very different from sugar, being less instant, tart, and lasting longer. The isoflavene glabrene and the isoflavane glabridin, found in the roots of liquorice, are phytoestrogens.
Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis).
Licorice Extract from the licorice plant is used to flavor candy licorice only. The candy such as Red Vines Black Licorice Twists have carbohydrates in them because they are … made of Molasses, Wheat Flour, Corn Syrup, Caramel Coloring, Licorice Extract, Salt, and Anise.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. If you are referring to natural licorice and not the candy in US stores, it comes from the root of the plant Glycyrrhiza glabra. It also does not taste the same as the candy which is flavored by anise instead.