There are two types of Acid and Alkaline foods: 1) Acid or alkaline foods, meaning how much acid or alkaline the food actually contains. 2) Acid or alkaline 'forming' foods, meaning the pH condition foods create in the body after being digested. - Acid and Alkaline Food. The difference between happiness and health ... or sickness, depression and medical bills. DIET DISEASE RELATED DEATHS ARE #1 KILLER IN USA TODAY! An acid body is a magnet for sickness, disease, cancer and aging. Eating more alkaline foods helps shift your body's pH and oxygenates your system.
Even though vineger is acidic, cayenne pep … pers are highly basic. Tabasco sauce is in fact a base. Doctors and and highly respected people have suggested to drink bottles upon bottles of tabasco red pepper sauce to reduce heartburn instead of foolishly using tums or prevacid. 10 people found this useful. Individuals with a wheat allergy, Celiac disease, or a gluten intolerance should av … oid soy sauce that is made with wheat.[1] However, some naturally brewed soy sauces, made with wheat, may be tolerated by gluten intolerant individuals, because gluten are no longer detectable.
EGGS. Chicken Eggs. Note that a food's acid or alkaline-forming tendency in the body has nothing to do with the actual pH of the food itself. For example, lemons are very acidic, however the end-products they produce after digestion and assimilation are very alkaline so lemons are alkaline-forming in the body. 
Soy sauce (also called soya sauce) is a condiment made from a fermented paste of boiled soybeans, roasted grain, brine, and Aspergillus oryzae or Aspergillus sojae molds. After fermentation, the paste is pressed, producing a liquid, which is the soy sauce, and a solid byproduct, which is often used as animal feed. Varieties of soy sauce are salty, earthy, brownish liquids intended to season food while cooking or at the table. Many kinds of soy sauce are made in Japan, Taiwan, China, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, Burma and other countries.
Glutamic acid is a natural constituent of many fermented or aged foods, including soy sauce, fermented bean paste, and cheese, and is also a component of hydrolyzed protein such as yeast extract. The sodium salt of glutamic acid, monosodium glutamate (MSG), is a widely used additive in the food industry. 
An acidic pH can occur from, an acid forming diet, emotional stress, toxic overload, and/or immune reactions or any process that deprives the cells of oxygen and other nutrients. The body will try to compensate for acidic pH by using alkaline minerals. The pH scale is from 0 to 14, with numbers below 7 acidic (low on oxygen) and numbers above 7 alkaline. An acidic body is a sickness magnet. What you eat and drink will impact where your body's pH level falls. Balance is Key !!!
Soy sauce has a distinct yet basic taste of umami, due to naturally occurring free glutamates. Varieties of soy sauce are salty, earthy, brownish liquids intended to season food while cooking or at the table. Many kinds of soy sauce are made in Japan, Taiwan, China, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, Burma and other countries.