1. Description. This type of steering column adjusts the tilt mechanism and telescopic mechanism electrically. A motor is used for each mechanism, and operations with a switch. 2. Construction. The power tilt mechanism section consists of the tilt motor, tilt worm shaft, tilt worm gear, and slider. Operating the switch up or down operates the tilt motor. The tilt worm gear and tilt worm shaft start to rotate and the slider slides. The steering column linked with the linkage tilts up or down. (2) Power telescopic operation. Operating the switch left or right operates the telescopic motor. The telescopic worm gear starts to rotate and the sliding tube slides forward or backward
A steering wheel (also called a driving wheel or a hand wheel) is a type of steering control in vehicles and vessels (ships and boats). Steering wheels are used in most modern land vehicles, including all mass-production automobiles, as well as buses, light and heavy trucks, and tractors. The steering wheel is the part of the steering system that is manipulated by the driver; the rest of the steering system responds to such driver inputs. Charles Rolls introduced the first car in Britain fitted with a steering wheel when he imported a 6 hp Panhard from France in 1898. Arthur Constantin Krebs replaced the tiller with an inclined steering wheel for the Panhard car he designed for the 1898 Paris–Amsterdam–Paris race which ran 7–13 July 1898.
When the steering wheel was assembled to the column on the car production line the assembler used a chisel to. make matching index marks on the steering wheel hub and the end of the column. You can see it in this closeup: The marks typically will align with the wide spline on the top of the stub shaft. 
Tilt refers to a car’s steering wheel that adjusts up and down. It not only gives the driver a comfortable driving experience but also safely positions the steering wheel in case of an airbag deployment. Tilt steering wheels have been available on cars for decades and most new cars come with the feature. Although less common, a telescoping steering wheel gives added adjustability as it can be moved toward or away from the driver. Tilt and telescoping steering wheels are especially useful for shorter or taller drivers, but anyone can benefit from the features
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Telescopic steering wheel means the distance between the steering wheel and the dash board can be adjusted. Like a telescope, you can move the steering wheel forward or backward. This feature allows the driver to adjust the distance of the steering wheel from the dash board as per his height and sitting position. The manual version is available in most of the cars. Some cars have the power version of this feature like Lexus ES 350.
3 votes Currently voted the best answer Vote for this answer. Telescopic steering is a device used in GM cars specifically. Cadillac is the primary employer of such a device. Between the wheel and the dash on the steering column is found a metal tab that is the adjusting collar. This collar is attached to a threaded insert that when loosened screws out away from a metal rod that actuates the locking device. It is a fairly simple device. It is never found without the tilt steering option
Big or small, short or tall, this feature in the 2010 Toyota Prius allows you to move the steering wheel forward or back, up or down to find the most comfortable driving position. Options shown. Not all features available on all vehicles and model grades. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: a telescopic wheel is referring to the steering wheel. Not the tilt mechanism, but the steering wheel telescopes straight up and down in line with the steering column. 
HINT: If the tilt away auto switch is ON, when the ignition key is removed, the tilt position of the steering column automatically moves to the highest position and the telescopic position moves to the shortest position for the driver to get on and off comfortably. Operating the switch up or down operates the tilt motor. The tilt worm gear and tilt worm shaft start to rotate and the slider slides. The steering column linked with the linkage tilts up or down. (2) Power telescopic operation. Operating the switch left or right operates the telescopic motor. The telescopic worm gear starts to rotate and the sliding tube slides forward or backward