The cost of a parking structure can vary widely, depending on where it is built, how big it is and the materials used to make it. Some of them cost more than $100 million US Dollars (USD). This works out to about $40,000 USD per parking space for above-ground structures, and some underground structures come out to about $140,000 USD per space. The average cost for a normal, above-ground parking structure in the United States works out to about $15,000 USD per parking space
1 Materials would cost around $6.5 million, contractor fees would cost roughly $1.6 million, and the architectural costs would stand at roughly $392,000. It is also going to entail a great deal of site preparation and machinery costs. 1  Most parking garage projects should use materials and techniques that fall under the highest quality ratings possible in order to ensure stability, safety and longevity. 2  Such a building would run at an average of $8.56 million to complete.
1 Most parking garage projects should use materials and techniques that fall under the highest quality ratings possible in order to ensure stability, safety and longevity. 2  Such a building would run at an average of $8.56 million to complete. 3  This does not include acquisition of the land or any demolition costs, however. It is also going to entail a great deal of site preparation and machinery costs. 1 
A. According to a 2005 survey done by Carl Walker Construction, Inc., the average cost of a parking structure in the United States was about $15,000 per parking space. The survey noted that costs were rising rapidly and were likely to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. This prediction has proven to be correct. 
At a construction cost of $32,000 per apartment and $18,100 per parking spot, it would have cost $22,600 to provide parking for each $32,000 apartment, 71% as much as the cost of building the apartments. Cities sometimes allow developers to pay the amount listed at left per space they are required to build as per the zoning code in-lieu of building the space. Since in-lieu fees fund public parking construction, they are a proxy of cost per space $39,000 or $46,000 Housing prices (condominium and single family unit).
The capital and operating costs of a garage are highly dependent on the design of the facility and its site, and the anticipated revenue is highly dependent on the market. The cost of structured parking ranges from $15,000 to $30,000 per space, and the revenue derived from each space varies from $60 to $300 per month. 
A parking structure that is five levels above-grade may cost, say, $50 per square foot. If this same structure is depressed one level into the ground, the cost can increase approximately 15% to $57.50 per square foot. 4- Structural system – 60% to 70% of the cost of parking is in the structural system. Therefore, the selection of the framing system will have a significant effect on the cost of each parking space. There are two general types of framing layouts and there are different types of structural systems.
7- Total parking spaces – The overall size of a project has an effect on the cost per parking space. A smaller project will cost more per space than a larger project. A 200-stall parking structure on a small site may cost about 30% more per square foot than a 1,000-stall structure on a “reasonably” sized lot. 8- Efficiency – This is the amount of square footage it takes for every parking stall overall. 4- Structural system – 60% to 70% of the cost of parking is in the structural system. Therefore, the selection of the framing system will have a significant effect on the cost of each parking space. There are two general types of framing layouts and there are different types of structural systems.
1 Such a building would run at an average of $8.56 million to complete. 2  This does not include acquisition of the land or any demolition costs, however. 3  The above figures place this construction at a $59 per square foot cost, though a national average of stands between $50 to $70 for most projects. It is also going to entail a great deal of site preparation and machinery costs. 1  Most parking garage projects should use materials and techniques that fall under the highest quality ratings possible in order to ensure stability, safety and longevity. 2 
1 This does not include acquisition of the land or any demolition costs, however. 2  The above figures place this construction at a $59 per square foot cost, though a national average of stands between $50 to $70 for most projects. It is also going to entail a great deal of site preparation and machinery costs. 1  Most parking garage projects should use materials and techniques that fall under the highest quality ratings possible in order to ensure stability, safety and longevity. 2  Such a building would run at an average of $8.56 million to complete.