Potassium is a major mineral as well as an electrolyte, which means that it carries an electrical charge. The positive charge of potassium ensures that potassium is able to perform all of its necessary functions in your body. 
KI (potassium iodide) is a salt of stable (not radioactive) iodine that can help block radioactive iodine from being absorbed by the thyroid gland, thus protecting this gland from radiation injury. The thyroid gland is the part of the body that is most sensitive to radioactive iodine. 
Having too much potassium in the blood is called hyperkalemia; having too little is known as hypokalemia. Keeping the right potassium balance in the body depends on the amount of sodium and magnesium in the blood. Too much sodium -- common in Western diets that use a lot of salt -- may increase the need for potassium. Good sources of potassium include bananas, citrus juices (such as orange juice), avocados, cantaloupes, tomatoes, potatoes, lima beans, flounder, salmon, cod, chicken, and other meats.
The best way to get enough potassium is to eat fruits and vegetables. It's also in dairy products, whole grains, meat, and fish. Other great sources include: 1  Potatoes. 2  Tomatoes. 3  Avocados. 4  Fresh fruits (bananas, oranges, and strawberries). 5  Orange juice. 6  Dried fruits (raisins, apricots, prunes, and dates). 7  Spinach. 
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (derived from Neo-Latin, kalium) and atomic number 19. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name is derived. 
Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium. Potassium is crucial to heart function and plays a key role in skeletal and smooth muscle contraction, making it important for normal digestive and muscular function. Good sources of potassium include bananas, citrus juices (such as orange juice), avocados, cantaloupes, tomatoes, potatoes, lima beans, flounder, salmon, cod, chicken, and other meats.
The most important use of potassium is to treat the symptoms of hypokalemia (low potassium), which include weakness, lack of energy, muscle cramps, stomach disturbances, an irregular heartbeat, and an abnormal EKG (electrocardiogram, a test that measures heart function). Good sources of potassium include bananas, citrus juices (such as orange juice), avocados, cantaloupes, tomatoes, potatoes, lima beans, flounder, salmon, cod, chicken, and other meats.
Role of Potassium. Potassium is an electrolyte found in our body that has many significant functions. According to the American Heart Association, it keeps a normal water balance between cells and body fluids. It also aids nerve conduction and muscle contraction. Potassium plays a key role in keeping the heart beating at a normal rhythm. The American Heart Association states that dietary potassium can help maintain a normal blood pressure. For healthy individuals, too much potassium will have no harmful effects on the heart. However, excess potassium consumption may lead to serious heart problems if your body is unable to excrete it.
Low Potassium (Hypokalemia) Overview. Potassium is a mineral (electrolyte) in the body. Almost 98% of potassium is found inside the cells. Small changes in the level of potassium that is present outside the cells can have severe effects on the heart, nerves, and muscles. Potassium is important to maintain several bodily functions: 