Swine Flu. Swine flu, or H1N1, is a type of influenza, but the symptoms may be more severe than the typical seasonal flu. Symptoms of swine flu include muscle aches, joint pain and tender lymph nodes, all of which can cause neck and back pain. General flu symptoms such as a sore throat are also present. Individuals with medical conditions, like diabetes, asthma or cancer, can become very ill from swine flu. Cat scratch disease begins with mild flu-like symptoms, such as fever and fatigue. Neck pain occurs due to lymph node swelling. Muscle aches and back pain are part of the overall malaise caused as the body fights the bacteria.
Stiff Neck Causes and Symptoms. The most common causes of a stiff neck include, but are not limited to, the following: Muscle Strain or Sprain. By far the most common cause of a stiff neck is a muscle sprain or muscle strain, particularly to the levator scapula muscle. Located at the back and side of the neck, the levator scapula muscle connects the cervical spine (the neck) with the shoulder. Other infections can also cause stiff neck symptoms, such as meningococcal disease, an infection in the cervical spine. Any time a stiff neck is accompanied by a fever, it is advisable to seek immediate medical attention to check for these possibilities. 1  See Osteomyelitis, a Spinal Infection.
Both the flu and a cold are viral infections and can cause symptoms such as coughing and sore throat. A cold is a minor viral infection of the nose and throat. The flu, however, is usually more severe, with higher fevers and the addition of aches and pains. 
Tumors of the throat, tongue, and larynx (voice box) can cause a sore throat with pain radiating to the ear and/or difficulty swallowing. Other important symptoms can include hoarseness, noisy breathing, a lump in the neck, unexplained weight loss, and/or spitting up blood in the saliva or phlegm. 
Many people with a stiff neck find taking a warm bath to be helpful. Symptoms of a cold combined with a stiff neck can be caused by neck cancer. Persistent headaches and stress can cause the neck to become stiffer. A cold with neck stiffness may be caused by tonsillitis. A heating pad can be used to treat a stiff neck when it's accompanied by a cold. In some cases, cold and flu symptoms in tandem with a stiff neck indicate meningitis or another serious ailment. Colds can cause a sore throat. 
Fever, neck pain and stiffness can be signs of meningitis-or the flu. There are a number of reasons why you may end up with a stiff neck that ache during a cold or flu infection. 
Fever and Stiff neck. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms fever and stiff neck including Viral pharyngitis, Influenza (flu) child, and Acute sinusitis. There are 72 conditions associated with fever and s
Once infected, the person shows symptoms similar to the flu, such as headache, nausea, sore throat and a lack of appetite. Other symptoms of West Nile virus include back pain, muscle aches and a stiff neck. Cat scratch disease begins with mild flu-like symptoms, such as fever and fatigue. Neck pain occurs due to lymph node swelling. Muscle aches and back pain are part of the overall malaise caused as the body fights the bacteria.