According to American Bar Association Formal Opinion 90-357 the term “of counsel” describes “a close, regular, personal relationship” between an attorney and firm, usually when the attorney works for the firm not as an associate or a partner but as an independent contractor. The decision to hire an attorney Of Counsel to your firm is also a big one. You get help with your clients and cases for potentially less than you would have to pay an associate or partner and without having to pay for costly benefits.
1 Of Counsel is an excellent safety net for very good attorneys who are not yet ready to be partner at a major, major law firm, or who will never be. 2  A law firm like Skadden may pay an of counsel attorney $375,000 a year and bill the same attorney out at $750 an hour. Non-equity partner is a frightening title and suggests less permanence in a law firm than even of counsel. In reality, being of counsel is probably a safer position if someone wants to survive long-term inside of a law firm.
But because the Of Counsel attorney is not a partner or associate of the firm, some authorities find it only logical that the rules regulating division of fees between lawyers who are not in the same firm apply to the Of Counsel relationship such as in Arizona, California, and Maryland. Compensation for the Attorney Of Counsel to Your Law Firm. The title  Of Counsel  is used to describe a number of different attorney relationships to a law firm. Of Counsel attorneys are not partners or associates, but rather lawyers who have a close and continuing relationship with the firm
In addition, an of counsel lawyer who allows her name to be used in the firm name risks being held responsible for the malpractice of the firm. It is proper, however, to designate on the firm stationery that a lawyer or law firm is of counsel so long as the listing is not deceptive and misleading. THE OF COUNSEL RELATIONSHIP by Nancy Kaufman Of counsel originally described a semi-retired or retired partner who still kept a hand in the firm.
Of Counsel is, in the legal profession of the United States, often the title of an attorney who has a relationship with a law firm or an organization, but is not an associate or a partner. Some firms use titles such as counsel, special counsel, and senior counsel for the same concept. According to American Bar Association Formal Opinion 90-357, the term of counsel is to describe a close, personal, continuous, and regular relationship between the firm and counsel lawyer. However, because of counsel describes a close, regular, personal relationship, temporary lawyers used by law firms to engage in document reviews for a specific project or for limited duration are not of counsel.
Formal Op. 330 advised that a lawyer was of counsel to a firm only when the relationship between the lawyer and the firm was close, continuing, and personal and when the relationship was not that of a partner, associate, or outside counsel. THE OF COUNSEL RELATIONSHIP by Nancy Kaufman Of counsel originally described a semi-retired or retired partner who still kept a hand in the firm.
The name of a lawyer who is of counsel to a firm should not appear in the name of the firm unless the lawyer who is of counsel is a retired name partner of the firm. Including the name of a lawyer who is simply of counsel without the status of a prior named partner would be deceptive and misleading in violation of Mass. THE OF COUNSEL RELATIONSHIP by Nancy Kaufman Of counsel originally described a semi-retired or retired partner who still kept a hand in the firm.
Of counsel is a role that is traditionally given to attorneys that the partnership of the law firm and others like and want to have around; however, it is reserved for the attorneys who traditionally do not have much business and are also not interested in working extremely hard. Non-equity partner is a frightening title and suggests less permanence in a law firm than even of counsel. In reality, being of counsel is probably a safer position if someone wants to survive long-term inside of a law firm.
Thus, the title is important for you to get business. The expectation is that you will either rise to the challenge or fail. Regardless, the law firm is giving the attorney a vote of confidence, and a title, to go out and get business. An attorney who is a non-equity partner generally does need to get business. Non-equity partner is a frightening title and suggests less permanence in a law firm than even of counsel. In reality, being of counsel is probably a safer position if someone wants to survive long-term inside of a law firm.