Microworms are a small nematode that are an ideal size for Betta fry. They will fall to the bottom of your fry tank and wriggle around so they are an easy food for fry that have just left the bubblenest. The other great thing is they are readily available in most localities where fish are bred. Then place it in a container, add yeast and the Microworm culture and in 3 or 4 days they will be ready to harvest. It's not my intention to promote one retailer over another but if you live in Australia these are the oats I used. Not bad for $1.19! Just in case you're wondering, this is what's inside the plastic.
1 All you need to start a microworm culture is a container, a starter culture (sold here), and some oatmeal. 2  Brine shrimp need a whole kit with prepared water that needs to be circulated at all times. 3  This can be expensive and takes up a lot of space. As soon as your microworm culture has started, the only attention it requires is periodic sub-culturing. This is done to avoid any offensive odors caused by the culture medium going sour. It also prevents the culture from drying out. I will provide you with instructions on how to create a sub-culture upon purchase.
Micro worms are an excellent live food for fish fry and are very easy to raise. Micro Worms are white in color and grow up to 3mm. Please Keep in mind that this is how we culture microworms and how we get results. Your outcome may be different so try it and see if it works for you. 
Microworm STARTER + MEGA Culture. Product Description: *STARTER CULTURE:1.5 ounces of Microworm Media Swarming with 1000's of Microworms Ready To Serve. *MEGA + STARTER CULTURE:One Starter Culture AND One 16 ounce Mega Culture Ready to Mix & Use. Add water and a teaspoon of starter culture to the mega culture and you'll have a swarming colony within a week. 
Add some Microworm culture and then mist lightly with water. You can see the Microworms climbing the side of this muture culture. Just scape them off the side and place in 1/4 cup of water from your tank and then squirt them gently into your tank to feed your fry. Then place it in a container, add yeast and the Microworm culture and in 3 or 4 days they will be ready to harvest. It's not my intention to promote one retailer over another but if you live in Australia these are the oats I used. Not bad for $1.19! Just in case you're wondering, this is what's inside the plastic.
Thus, microworm cultures are a great addition to your aresenal of live foods if you have any species of fish that display bright colors! Finally, adding microworms to the diet of your young fish will help improve their overall health. A microworm culture can easily survive a week or more in the mail. At BuyMicroworms.com, microworms are mailed in a bubble envelope (from Canada) to protect the culture. They are sent with step-by-step instructions (instructions are sent by email) so you know exactly what to do when your microworms arriv
NEW!!! Microworm life cycle information: Microworms belong to the species panagrellus. They live for 20-25 days, start reproducing at 3 days, and bear up to 40 live young every day to day and a half. They perfer living on the surface of soggy, pulpy material like moist mashed potatoes or oatmeal. The only problem is that for small cultures the layer of microworms is so thin it's hard to scrape off. Most of the worms hide in the wrinkles in the paper. What I found works well is to place a smaller, second piece of wetted paper toweling on top of the first one.
Biology. The nematode Panagrellus sp. , commonly known as microworms to tropical fish hobbyists are an alternate live food for fry. Microworms are one of the simplest live foods to culture. They produce a dependable harvest and are tolerant of environmental variables. 
Microworm Starter Culture For Sale. Microworms, Panagrellus redivivus, are small nematodes that are great for feeding fish fry. They measure at a mere 50 microns in diameter and 2 mm in length. Walter Worm and Banana Worm are closely related species to Microworms in the phylum Nematoda. Microworm cultures are very simple to start and maintain. Microworms will survive in a wide range of temperatures but will result in the highest yield at 20 to 27 degrees Celsius. At optimum conditions, female microworms will release up to 40 young every day.