An integral membrane protein (IMP) is a protein molecule (or assembly of proteins) that is permanently attached to the biological membrane. Proteins that cross the membrane are surrounded by annular lipids, which are defined as lipids that are in direct contact with a membrane protein. 
An integral membrane protein, also known as an IMP, is one which spans the entire biological membrane of a cell. These proteins are attached permanently to the cell membrane, and their function typically relies on being present in the membrane. Ad. Integral transmembrane proteins are those which span the entire cell membrane. These proteins may span the membrane once, or may span it several times, weaving through the phospholipid bilayer such that there are several pieces of the protein protruding through the cell wall.
The functions can vary greatly, the fact that its an integral protein limits the functions but there are still many different functions. Ill go through a few functions of integral transmembrane proteins. Transportation. Integral proteins can transport molecules and ions through the membrane, facilitated or active transport are two such transport functions. The protein can also act as ion channels which help the cells to keep the ion gradient at a good level (varies greatly for different ions).
[edit] Integral transmembrane protein Main article: Transmembrane proteins The most common type of IMP is the transmembrane protein (TM), which spans the entire biological membrane. Such a protein may cross the membrane only once or it may weave in and out, crossing several times. TM proteins can be categorized as Type I, which are positioned such that their amino-terminus is outside of the membrane, or Type II, which have their carboxy-terminus outside of the membrane. [edit] Integral monotopic proteins Integral monotopic proteins are permanently attached to the membrane from one side.
Integral monotopic proteins do not span the entire biological membrane. Instead they are attached to the membrane from only one side, with one end of the protein protruding either inside or outside the cell. This class of proteins includes enzymes such as monoamine oxidase and fatty acid amide hydrolase. Ad. Integral transmembrane proteins are those which span the entire cell membrane. These proteins may span the membrane once, or may span it several times, weaving through the phospholipid bilayer such that there are several pieces of the protein protruding through the cell wall.
An integral membrane protein (IMP) is a type of membrane protein that is permanently attached to the biological membrane. All transmembrane proteins are IMPs, but not all IMPs are transmembrane proteins. IMPs comprise a significant fraction of the proteins encoded in an organism's genome. 
Best Answer: An Integral Membrane Protein (IMP) is a protein molecule (or assembly of proteins) that is permanently attached to the biological membrane. Such proteins can be separated from the biological membranes only using detergents, nonpolar solvents, or sometimes denaturing agents. TM proteins can be categorized as Type I, which are positioned such that their amino-terminus is outside of the membrane, or Type II, which have their carboxy-terminus outside of the membrane. [edit] Integral monotopic proteins Integral monotopic proteins are permanently attached to the membrane from one side.
Integral membrane proteins. Integral membrane proteins are so designated because they are both structurally and functionally an integral component of a membrane. Structurally, regions of integral membrane proteins penetrate the hydrophobic regions of the phospholipid bilayer. Because of this interaction, integral membrane proteins can usually only be removed from the membrane by the use of detergents that disrupt the hydrophobic interactions of the bilayer. Functionally, the presence of these proteins imparts to the membrane specific functions. In the example below the relationship of the bacterial phototraping pigment, bacteriorhodopsin, and the phospholipid bilayer is illustrated. In this case the integral membrane protein spans the phospholipid bilayer seven times
essential component, part of a whole. integral membrane protein. see membrane proteins. integral proteins. membrane proteins essential to the structure and function of membranes. See membrane proteins.