In Hinduism, Shiva (or Siva) is one of the chief deities of Hinduism. His name means Auspicious One.. Devotees of Shiva are called Saivites.. Shiva is known by many other names, including Sambhu (Benignant), Samkara (Beneficent), Pasupati (Lord of Beasts), Mahesa (Great Lord) and Mahadeva (Great God). 
Shiva is the third god in the Hindu triumvirate. The triumvirate consists of three gods who are responsible for the creation, upkeep and destruction of the world. The other two gods are Brahma and Vishnu. Brahma is the creator of the universe while Vishnu is the preserver of it. 
The word shiva comes from the Hebrew word shiv'ah, which literally means seven. The tradition was developed in response to the story in Genesis 50:1-14 in which Joseph mourns the death of his father Jacob (Israel) for seven days. The Hebrew word shiva means seven , and the official shiva period is seven days. The day of the funeral is counted as the first day of shiva, even though the practice does not begin until after the mourner(s) arrive at the designated location following the funeral.
Shiva is usually worshiped in the aniconic form of Lingam. The worship of Shiva is a pan-Hindu tradition, practiced widely across all of India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. Shiva (/ˈʃivə/ ; Sanskrit: Śiva, meaning The Auspicious One), also known as Mahadeva (Great God ), is one of the Trinity deities of Hinduism. He is the supreme god within Shaivism, one of the three most influential denominations in contemporary Hinduism
Shiva is the god of the yogis, self-controlled and celibate, while at the same time a lover of his spouse (shakti). Lord Shiva is the destroyer of the world, following Brahma the creator and Vishnu the preserver, after which Brahma again creates the world and so on. Shiva is responsible for change both in the form of death and destruction and in the positive sense of destroying the ego, the false identification with the form. Shiva's main attributes are 1  : the trident that represents the three gunas. 2  the snakes that show he is beyond the power of death and poison and also stand for the Kundalini energy. 3  the sound of Shiva's two-sided drum maintains the rhythm of the heartbeat and creates the sound AUM in the overtones.
Relationships. The power or energy of Shiva is Shakti, his spouse, of which Parvati is probably the most popular form. Shiva's first wife was Sati and his second wife was Parvati. They are also known by many other names, such as Uma, Gauri, Durga, Kali, Annapurna and Shakti. His sons are Ganesha and Kartikeya. Shiva's main attributes are 1  : the trident that represents the three gunas. 2  the snakes that show he is beyond the power of death and poison and also stand for the Kundalini energy. 3  the sound of Shiva's two-sided drum maintains the rhythm of the heartbeat and creates the sound AUM in the overtones.
How to Sit Shiva. Shiva is the Jewish period of mourning observed the first week after the funeral of a parent, spouse, sibling, or child. From the time of death until the conclusion of the funeral, the primary focus and concern is on the care of the deceased and the burial preparations. 
Discuss (0). Shiva, in Hebrew, means seven.. In our context it refers to the first seven days of mourning that are observed following the burial of one's father, mother, spouse, son, daughter, brother [including half-brother], and sister [including half-sister]. For some, the laws of Shiva, and of mourning in general, seem to deal more with what one cannot do, and less with what one can do and thus can appear as a tremendous burden. Some look for ways to avoid observing it at all and rationalize it away.
Shiva (Hebrew: שבעה ‎, literally seven) is the week-long mourning period in Judaism for first-degree relatives: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, and spouse. The ritual is referred to as sitting shiva.. Immediately after burial, people assume the halakhic status of  avel  (Hebrew: אבל; mourner). This state lasts for seven days, during which family members traditionally gather in one home (preferably the home of the deceased) and receive visitors. The Hebrew word shiva means seven , and the official shiva period is seven days. The day of the funeral is counted as the first day of shiva, even though the practice does not begin until after the mourner(s) arrive at the designated location following the funeral.