RPCS-Ricoh Refined Printing Command Stream. “RPCS” is the Unique Printer Language developed by Ricoh. RPCS supports in both western languages such as English and complex asian languages such as Chinese in the Microsoft window environment only. There are currently no implementations of an RPCS printer driver for e.g. MacOS or Linux
Print Monitor. Windows XP supports two types of print monitors: language monitors, and port monitors. If printer hardware is local to the system on which the application is running, the client and server are the same system (although this is not evident in the diagram). All spooler components execute in user mode. Spoolsv.exe. Spoolsv.exe is the spooler's API server. It is implemented as a Windows 2000 (or later) service that is started when the operating system is started. This module exports an RPC interface to the server side of the spooler's Win32 API.
Installing the PCL or RPCS printer driver (TCP/IP). Quit all applications currently running. Insert the CD-ROM into the CD-ROM drive. The installer starts. Select an interface language, and then click [OK] . Click [PCL/RPCS Printer Drivers] . The software license agreement appears in the [License Agreement] dialog box. After reading the agreement, click [I accept the agreement.] , and then click. Select the printer driver you want to use in the [Select Program] dialog box. You can select several printer drivers. 
To access the About window, open the driver's Properties and click the About button in Printing Preferences. To Users of x64 RPCS drivers. To avoid a newly discovered page counting issue, please change the driver setting shown below. If you are participating in the Meter Click service contract, please contact your service representative or original point of purchase for further assistance. 
Microsoft Remote Procedure Call (RPC) defines a powerful technology for creating distributed client/server programs. The RPC run-time stubs and libraries manage most of the processes relating to network protocols and communication. Where applicable. RPC can be used in all client/server applications based on Windows operating systems. It can also be used to create client and server programs for heterogeneous network environments that include such operating systems as Unix and Apple.
If a printer uses a different printer language, the vendor can develop a language monitor for it. A vendor might also develop a language monitor to add data, such as printer-specific control information, to the print stream that is going to a unidirectional printer. Network printing components include a server spooler on a print server running a product in the Windows Server 2003 family and a client spooler running on a client computer. Because print jobs usually originate on a client computer, this section first describes the architecture of the client spool
(July 2013). A page description language (PDL) is a language that describes the appearance of a printed page in a higher level than an actual output bitmap. An overlapping term is printer control language, which includes Hewlett-Packard's PCL. PostScript is one of the most noted page description languages. The markup language adaption of the PDL is the page description markup language. Page description languages are textual or binary data streams. 1 ESC/Page, Epson Standard Code for Page Printer, a page description language (distinct from ESC/P) used in a number of Epson laser printers, especially Japanese models. 2  ESC/POS, Epson Standard Code for POS printers.