The DNA repair ability of a cell is vital to the integrity of its genome and thus to the normal functionality of that organism. Many genes that were initially shown to influence life span have turned out to be involved in DNA damage repair and protection. In contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and, thus, a mutation cannot be repaired.
DNA repair: The process by which a cell uses a series of special enzymes to repair mutations (changes) in DNA and restore the DNA to its original state. The DNA is constantly mutating and being repaired. This repair process is controlled by special genes. A mutation in a DNA repair gene can cripple the repair process and cause a cascade of unrepaired mutations in the genome.
DNA repair is a collection of processes by which a cell identifies and corrects damage to the DNA molecules that encode its genome. In contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and, thus, a mutation cannot be repaired.
Definition. A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed. Radiation can also cause double strand breaks in the DNA molecule, which the cell's repair mechanisms cannot put right. Sunlight contains ultraviolet radiation (the component that causes a suntan) which, when absorbed by the DNA causes a cross link to form between certain adjacent bases.
DNA repair gene: A gene that is engaged in DNA repair. When a DNA repair gene is altered, mutations pile up throughout the DNA. 
The rate of DNA repair is dependent on many factors, including the cell type, the age of the cell, and the extracellular environment. In contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and, thus, a mutation cannot be repaired.
In order to repair damage to one of the two paired molecules of DNA, there exist a number of excision repair mechanisms that remove the damaged nucleotide and replace it with an undamaged nucleotide complementary to that found in the undamaged DNA strand. In contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and, thus, a mutation cannot be repaired.
DNA repair genes code for proteins whose normal function is to correct errors that arise when cells duplicate their DNA prior to cell division. DNA repair genes are active throughout the cell cycle, particularly during G2 after DNA replication and before the chromosomes divide. This is like pushing down on the gas pedal-you now have a gene that is telling the cell, go, go, go; don't pay attention to the checkpoint and stop. Not all genes can mutate and form oncogenes. Only proto-oncogenes can mutate to form an oncogene. There are about 70 proto-oncogenes in our DNA.
DNA Repair Genes. When it comes to cancer and how things can go wrong in the cell cycle, three different genes are very important: 1  An oncogene is a proto-oncogene that has been mutated. 2  Proto-oncogenes stimulate the cell to grow, divide and move through each cell cycle checkpoint to be inspected. This is like pushing down on the gas pedal-you now have a gene that is telling the cell, go, go, go; don't pay attention to the checkpoint and stop. Not all genes can mutate and form oncogenes. Only proto-oncogenes can mutate to form an oncogene. There are about 70 proto-oncogenes in our DNA.
DNA, n an acronym for deoxyribonucleic acid. A type of nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for the development of cellular life forms. Capable of replicating itself and of producing another type of nucleic acid known as RNA. n the DNA specific to a bacterial strain. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). A type of nucleic acid that constitutes the molecular basis of heredity. It is found principally in the nucleus of all cells where it forms part of the chromosome, or in the cytoplasm of cells lacking a nucleus, such as bacteria.