n. The part of the autonomic nervous system originating in the thoracic and lumbar regions of the spinal cord that in general inhibits or opposes the physiological effects of the parasympathetic nervous system, as in tending to reduce digestive secretions, speed up the heart, and contract blood vessels. Noun. 1. sympathetic nervous system-originates in the thoracic regions of the spinal cord; opposes physiological effects of the parasympathetic: reduces digestive secretions; speeds the heart; contracts blood vessels. nervous system, systema nervosum-the sensory and control apparatus consisting of a network of nerve cells.
The parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) controls homeostasis and the body at rest and is responsible for the body's rest and digest function. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) controls the body's responses to a perceived threat and is responsible for the fight or flight response. The sympathetic nervous system, also part of the autonomic nervous system, originates in the spinal cord; specifically in the thoracic and lumbar regions. It controls the body's fight or flight responses, or how the body reacts to perceived danger.
(January 2009). The sympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the parasympathetic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system functions to regulate the body's unconscious actions. The sympathetic nervous system's primary process is to stimulate the body's fight-or-flight response. It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis
The parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general function is to control homeostasis and the body's rest-and-digest response. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is one of two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general action is to mobilize the body's fight-or-flight response. Function. Control the body's response while at rest. The sympathetic nervous system, also part of the autonomic nervous system, originates in the spinal cord; specifically in the thoracic and lumbar regions. It controls the body's fight or flight responses, or how the body reacts to perceived danger.
The autonomic nervous system (ANS) has a direct role in physical response to stress and is divided into the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), and the parasympathetic nervous system (PNS). When the body is stressed, the SNS generates what is known as the fight or flight response. The heart and blood vessels comprise the two elements of the cardiovascular system that work together in providing nourishment and oxygen to the organs of the body. The activity of these two elements is also coordinated in the body's response to stress.
The parasympathetic nervous system (usually abbreviated PSNS, not PNS, to avoid confusion with the peripheral nervous system [PNS]) is one of the two divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the sympathetic nervous system. As in the sympathetic nervous system, efferent parasympathetic nerve signals are carried from the central nervous system to their targets by a system of two neurons. The first neuron in this pathway is referred to as the preganglionic or presynaptic neuron.
Its action is described as being complementary to that of the sympathetic nervous system, which is responsible for stimulating activities associated with the fight-or-flight response. Nerve fibres of the parasympathetic nervous system arise from the central nervous system. As in the sympathetic nervous system, efferent parasympathetic nerve signals are carried from the central nervous system to their targets by a system of two neurons. The first neuron in this pathway is referred to as the preganglionic or presynaptic neuron.
Instructor: John Williams. The autonomic nervous system is the portion that controls all of the involuntary functions of the body. This includes the body's response to emergency situations. In this article, we discuss the sympathetic nervous system and its responses under these circumstances. The autonomic nervous system is the portion of the nervous system that regulates involuntary processes. In short, these are the processes that you do not purposely control. It's divided into two basic segments: the parasympathetic and the sympathetic nervous systems.