Bipolar disorder, also known as bipolar affective disorder and manic-depressive illness, is a mental disorder characterized by periods of elevated mood and periods of depression. The elevated mood is significant and is known as mania or hypomania depending on the severity or whether there is psychosis. There are several other mental disorders with symptoms similar to those seen in bipolar disorder. These disorders include schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and certain personality disorders, such as borderline personality disorder.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) and bipolar disorder frequently co-occur (numbers range from 8% to 18%), although they are distinct clinical entities (Paris J et al, Compr Psychiatry 2007;48(2):145–154). 
Bipolar Disorder Symptoms. Bipolar disorder is characterized by dramatic, intense shifts in mood. When in a down cycle, withdrawal, sadness, and despair are hallmarks of the depression many bipolar people face. On an upswing, extroversion, high energy, and intense joy may accompany what is called the manic period.
If you believe you have symptoms of either BPD or Bipolar Disorder, be sure to get diagnosed by a trained mental health professional. It will be important that you receive the proper diagnosis in order to get effective treatment for Borderline Personality Disorder, Bipolar Disorder, or both. Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) and Bipolar Disorder share many similar symptoms, the most evident being unstable moods and impulsive actions.
The quicker people with bipolar disorder — or borderline personality disorder, or other mental illnesses — can be diagnosed correctly, the quicker effective treatment can be administered. Misdiagnosed patients have a higher risk of worsened symptoms, complications from the disorder or mistreatment, or suicide. Borderline Personality Disorder. People who suffer from borderline personality disorder (BPD) have severe difficulties in regulating their emotions, which often leads to mood swings, impulsiveness, and unstable personal relationships (“I love you!” turns into “I hate you!” quite quickly).
While bipolar and borderline personality disorder have similar symptoms — such as extreme mood swings — that can oft confuse the two, they’re completely different conditions that have their own unique treatments. Borderline Personality Disorder. People who suffer from borderline personality disorder (BPD) have severe difficulties in regulating their emotions, which often leads to mood swings, impulsiveness, and unstable personal relationships (“I love you!” turns into “I hate you!” quite quickly).
Borderline Personality Disorder. Borderline personality disorder is a longstanding pattern of swings -- in moods, relationships, self-image, and behavior. People with borderline personality disorder have very strong emotions and often try to hurt themselves, and may have problems with relationships with people. In this article. Borderline personality and bipolar: These two disorders are often confused. They both have symptoms of impulsiveness and mood swings. But they are different disorders and have different treatments.
Adding to the confusion is the fact that Bipolar Disorder and Borderline Personality Disorder can be co-occurring. People diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder can also be diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder, and vice versa. Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) and Bipolar Disorder share many similar symptoms, the most evident being unstable moods and impulsive actions.