A term used to describe any of various saltwater fish, most of which aren't members of the bass family. Black sea bass is a true bass (as is striped bass), but white sea bass, which is generally marketed simply as sea bass, is actually a member of the drum family. The giant sea bass is related to the grouper family and can weigh as much as 550 pounds. It's sometimes mistakenly called both black sea bass and jewfish. Sea bass can be found whole and in steaks or fillets. In general, the flesh is lean to moderately fat and is suitable for almost any method of cooking including baking, broiling, poaching and sauteing. Sautéing see also. fish
1 Black sea bass (Centropristis striata), whose range is the eastern coast of the United States. 2  Genus Caesioperca. 3  Butterfly perch (Caesioperca lepidoptera), found in the eastern Indian Ocean, and southwest Pacific Ocean including southern Australia and New Zealand. 
This species is also sold under the trade names Chilean Seabass in the USA and Canada; Merluza negra in Argentina, Peru and Uruguay; Legine australe in France; Mero in Japan and Spain, and Bacalao de profundidad in Chile. Dissostichus eleginoides, the Patagonian toothfish, is a species of cod icefish found in cold waters (1–4 °C or 34–39 °F) between depths of 45 m (148 ft) and 3,850 m (12,631 ft) in the southern Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans and Southern Ocean on seamounts and continental shelves around most sub-Antarctic islands.
Sea Bass is one of the most popular fish, yet most of the fish referred to as Sea Bass are not actually Bass. Scientists might balk at the idea that this loose family of fish, while not exactly related, all have some similar characteristics. For us what these fish share in common is what is important. White Sea Bass is actually a type of fish called a Drum, which is not really a Bass. The nearly extinct, but very popular Chilean Sea Bass is actually a Patagonian Toothfish; not something you'd order off the menu. Giant Sea Bass are Groupers. Anyway, you get the idea
Definition of SEA BASS. 1. : any of numerous marine bony fishes (family Serranidae) that are usually smaller and more active than the groupers; especially: a food and sport fish (Centropristis striata) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. 2. 
The Chilean sea bass is not the type of fish you find on the menu at Red Lobster or Long John Silver’s. Instead, you’re more likely to choose it out of a lineup that includes filet mignon and lobster risotto -- and to pay top dollar for its buttery, melt in your mouth flavor. 
The black sea bass (Centropristis striata) is an exclusively marine fish. It is a type of grouper (Serranidae) found more commonly in northern than in southern ranges. It inhabits the coasts from Maine to northeast Florida and the eastern Gulf of Mexico. The sea bass spawns when it is mature, at 190 mm (7.5 in), in middle of May to end of June. The buoyant eggs are 0.95 mm (0.037 in) in diameter, and their development time is 1.6 days at 23 °C (73 °F). The maximum size of a sea bass is 500 mm (20 in), weighing 4.3 kg (9.5 lb).
And the freshwater large-mouth, small-mouth, red-eye, rock, and spotted bass are all members of the sunfish family. And that leads us to your Chilean sea bass, which is not a bass at all, but, according to ichthyologists, the Patagonian toothfish. It is found only in the southern hemisphere and usually weighs about 20 pounds. 
Black Sea Bass and Striped Bass are true Bass. White Sea Bass is actually a type of fish called a Drum, which is not really a Bass. The nearly extinct, but very popular Chilean Sea Bass is actually a Patagonian Toothfish; not something you'd order off the menu. Giant Sea Bass are Groupers. Anyway, you get the idea