The last “accepted” dance with a song was Cali Swag District’s “Teach Me How To Dougie”. Since then Hip Hop hasn’t had a good dance situation; that now ends with the “Nae Nae”. The “Nae Nae” is a simple dance, with a catchy song attached (the perfect elements for an organized dance song). The dance which mainly involves the upper body, has become the newest Hip Hop dance craze. Originated by We Are Toonz, the dance includes a simple four count and the rest is freestyle
About. The Nae Nae is a choreographed dance stylized by holding one arm in the air and one arm by your side as you rock back and forth on slightly bent knees. It became popular in the fall of 2013 after footage of people performing the dance were uploaded to the video-sharing sites Vine and YouTube. 
The Nae Nae is sweeping the nation, and it's really fun to do. It was created by We Are Toonz, an Atlanta based hip hop group, and is named after a character from the 1990s sitcom Martin. To make the base stance of the Nae Nae, stand with your knees shoulder width apart. Bend your knees slightly, making a shallow angle with your knees. This is called the defense pose. 1  You don't want to bend your knees too much.
Friday afternoon, Mercer beat Duke in the NCAA Tournament. More importantly, Bears guard Kevin Canevari was so excited about beating Duke that he started dancing, brilliantly. Some people asked what the fuck he was doing. Others in the know and/or on Black Twitter recognized it immediately: Canevari was dropping that Nae Nae. By now, you are likely thinking about dropping that Nae Nae yourself. We'd advise against that. If you feel compelled, however, our own Sam Woolley's put together a nice, three-step graphic to show you how to do so. Mercer tips off against Tennessee tonight at 6:10.
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. A new dance craze is hitting the streets and it’s called the Nae Nae. The dance was created by the rap group We Are Toonz and is loosely based on Martin Lawrence’s Sheneneh Jenkins character from his ’90s sitcom ‘Martin.’. 
a dance from Atlanta where you dance in a way that resembles Sha-Nae-Nae off of Martin. Typically males participate in this dance which makes it funny. While all of Bonquisha's friends where doing old dances, she was nae naeing-- the newest dance crave. One of the newest dance craves. Which mainly involves the imitation of Shanae'nae from Martin. This dance should only be done by females between the ages of 7-17. Anyone else caught doing this is confused about something in their life I.e. maturity and sexuality(men)
John Wall and Paul George dropped that Nae Nae at this year's NBA dunk contest, and Dwight Howard appeared in a music video with We Are Toonz in January. A few Dayton players did it after upsetting Ohio State. Michigan State after the Rose Bowl. This is a thing. By now, you are likely thinking about dropping that Nae Nae yourself. We'd advise against that. If you feel compelled, however, our own Sam Woolley's put together a nice, three-step graphic to show you how to do so. Mercer tips off against Tennessee tonight at 6:10.
He’s so fun, a lot of fun to be around. The Nae Nae is the latest dance craze to catch fire in clubs and on the Internet. March Madness took it to the courts on March 21, 2014, when, after Mercer’s huge upset against Duke, Mercer’s Kevin Canevari used it as a victory dance. Here’s what you should know about the phenomenon and its origins. 4. Dwight Howard’s Doing It. The Houston Rockets’ center loved the dance so much that he and his teammate, Isiah Canann, starred in a video with We Are Toonz. First Howard posted videos online of himself doing the Nae Nae. He then contacted the group, and they met in Atlanta to record the video.
1 Try the song Do the #Nae Nae by WeAreToonz. 2  They wrote the song specifically for this dance. 3  Try this dance in front of a mirror if you can't seem to get the moves right. 4  This way, you can see how you are moving your body and change any move you are doing incorrectly. To make the base stance of the Nae Nae, stand with your knees shoulder width apart. Bend your knees slightly, making a shallow angle with your knees. This is called the defense pose. 1  You don't want to bend your knees too much.