A good thing to remember is that rhubarb leaves are toxic, due to high levels of oxalic acid. Every serving of rhubarb provides 45% of the daily value in vitamin K, which supports healthy bone growth and can limit neuronal damage in the brain, even to the point of Alzheimer's prevention. Comparing raw rhubarb with frozen, cooked and sweetened, the nutrients, of course, change. One cup goes from 122 to 240 grams; calories go from 26 to 278 grams; carbohydrates from 6 to 75 grams; and the sugars from 1 gram to 69, although the fiber is only (very) slightly increased.
The rhubarb plant, with edible, long, fleshy, petioles is classified as a vegetable ... not a fruit. Because it is a very versatile vegetable, and used for baking pies, cakes, muffins, breads, cookies, and more, it is often thought of as a fruit ... however, rhubarb is a vegetable! You can eat your vegetables, and have your cake, at the same time! Nutritionally, it is low in calories (1 cup, diced contains approximately 26 calories.) This vegetable is made up of about 95% water, and is quite acidic (pH 3.1). An alternative to using granulated sugar is to sweeten it by combining it with other, sweeter foods, such as strawberries, apples, peaches, or other fruits. Or try sugar substitutes such as Splenda alone, or in combination with other sugars in rhubarb recipes. Many people also like to eat fresh rhubarb raw.
Rhubarb is a perennial vegetable, though it is generally used as a fruit in desserts and jams. You only eat the stalks, which have a rich tart flavor. The leaves of this plant are poisonous, so be sure that they are not ingested. Rhubarb is easy to grow, but needs cool weather to thrive. 
The high amount of dietary fiber found in rhubarb can help guaranteed a healthy digestive system by bulking up stool and making sure that bowel movements are smooth and regular. Rhubarb has traditionally been used as a cure for constipation, but it was only recently discovered why it had such a powerful effect. Furthermore, the impressive amount of antioxidants in rhubarb ensure that free radicals don’t cause heart disease and a wide range of other dangerous health conditions. Digestion: Our digestive system plays a huge part in our overall health, so it is important to keep the digestive system healthy and regulated.
Rhubarb nutrition facts. Rhubarb is a perennial herb grown for its attractive succulent rose red, edible leafy stalks. This cool-season plant is native to Siberia, and popular in many regions of Europe and North America as “pie plant.” In its natural habitat, the plant expands over the ground surface as a large spread. Further, its petioles contain no saturated fats or cholesterol. The stalks are rich in several B-complex vitamins such as folates, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B-6 (pyridoxine), thiamin, and pantothenic acid. Red color stalks carry more vitamin-A than in the green varieties.
Some of the health benefits of rhubarb include its ability to aid weight loss, improve digestion, prevent Alzheimer’s disease, stimulate bone growth, avoid neuronal damage, increase skin health, prevent cancer, optimize metabolism, improve circulation, and protect against various cardiovascular conditions. Furthermore, the impressive amount of antioxidants in rhubarb ensure that free radicals don’t cause heart disease and a wide range of other dangerous health conditions. Digestion: Our digestive system plays a huge part in our overall health, so it is important to keep the digestive system healthy and regulated.
Health Benefits of Rhubarb. It's no surprise if you've ever had rhubarb that fiber is one of its health hallmarks. That's one reason why the root is popular in ancient Chinese medicine for soothing stomach ailments and relieving constipation. But rhubarb also makes an effective poultice for relieving fevers and swelling. Comparing raw rhubarb with frozen, cooked and sweetened, the nutrients, of course, change. One cup goes from 122 to 240 grams; calories go from 26 to 278 grams; carbohydrates from 6 to 75 grams; and the sugars from 1 gram to 69, although the fiber is only (very) slightly increased.
Rhubarb is one of the least calorie vegetables. 100 g fresh petioles carry just 21 calories. Nonetheless, it holds some vital phyto-nutrients such as dietary fiber, poly-phenolic anti-oxidants, minerals, and vitamins. Further, its petioles contain no saturated fats or cholesterol. The stalks are rich in several B-complex vitamins such as folates, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B-6 (pyridoxine), thiamin, and pantothenic acid. Red color stalks carry more vitamin-A than in the green varieties.
It is also an essential vitamin for healthy eye-sight. Research studies suggest that natural foods rich in vitamin A may help protect from lung and oral cavity cancers. As in other greens like kale, spinach, etc., rhubarb stalks too provide good amounts of vitamin-K. 100 g of fresh stalks provide 29.3 µg or about 24% of daily recommended intake of this vitamin. Vitamin K has a potential role in bone health by promoting osteotrophic (bone formation and strengthening) activity. Further, its petioles contain no saturated fats or cholesterol. The stalks are rich in several B-complex vitamins such as folates, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B-6 (pyridoxine), thiamin, and pantothenic acid. Red color stalks carry more vitamin-A than in the green varieties.