If your baby is overdue. Pregnancy normally lasts about 40 weeks (that's around 280 days from the first day of your last period). Most women go into labour a week either side of this date, but some women go overdue. If your labour doesn't start by the time you are 40 weeks pregnant, and this is your first pregnancy, your midwife will offer you a membrane sweep at your 40 and 41 weeks appointments. If you have had a baby before, you will be offered this just at your 41 weeks appointment
Most doctors will induce labor before a pregnant woman hits 42 weeks. After that it is at an extreme risk. ChaCha for now! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-can-a-pregnant-woman-be-overdue ]. More Answers to  How long can a pregnant woman be overdue . http://answers.ask.com/Health/Reproductive/how_long_is_a_woman_pregnant_for. A woman is pregnant for 40 weeks or 9 months. Many women will go into labor sooner which can pose several risks. Other women are pregnant for longer than 40 weeks.
Your OB gave you a due date that was 40 weeks from the first day of your last period. Due dates aren't set in stone, though. Pregnancy calculations can be off by a week or two, especially if you didn't remember the exact date of your last period. Most babies arrive between the 38th and 42nd weeks of pregnancy. When babies haven't arrived by week 42, they're considered late -- or post-term. Delivering more than two weeks after your due date can have some risks. The perinatal mortality rate (stillbirths plus early neonatal deaths) at greater than 42 weeks of gestation is twice that at term (4-7 deaths vs. 2-3 deaths per 1,000 deliveries).
Our midwife Melissa says: A normal, healthy pregnancy can last until 42 weeks, that is, 14 days after 40 weeks. Term is considered to be anywhere between 37 and 42 weeks, so any baby born within that range would be considered to be full-term. If I were to visit my regular GP could he get this sped up, as I suffer panic attacks.
Posts: 2,101. The placenta may not actually stop functioning at 2 weeks overdue. . .your due date could be wrong They can run tests/monitoring to check the health of the placenta, and I would say that as long as you are staying informed and checking the health of baby, you have a right to refuse induction. What is the longest you've ever heard of someone going overdue? Is it two weeks or could you go almost a month or so? Oh and is there a limit to how long you can refuse an induction for in the UK?
my MW had a woman that went 43 and 5 days... you are still considered normal full term from 37 to 42 weeks, and as long as the placenta is still functioning ok, you can leave it longer than 42 weeks. not all due dates are accurate, and not all women have the same gestation period. What is the longest you've ever heard of someone going overdue? Is it two weeks or could you go almost a month or so? Oh and is there a limit to how long you can refuse an induction for in the UK?
I am 40 weeks pregnant and have gone past my due date by four days. I have been scheduled to have an induction five days from now but I feel this is too long to wait as I am anxious something will happen to my baby. If I were to visit my regular GP could he get this sped up, as I suffer panic attacks. A normal, healthy pregnancy can last until 42 weeks, that is, 14 days after 40 weeks. Term is considered to be anywhere between 37 and 42 weeks, so any baby born within that range would be considered to be full-term.
Hi Nadya-Some women don't get any lead up to labour-it can just start. Other women can get signs for weeks beforehand. Just to know if this is your first baby you are more likely to go over your due date that on or before it. A normal full term pregnancy is from 37 weeks to 42 weeks. Walking or climbing stairs can help increase contraction if you are having them. I'm currently 4 days overdue with my second pregnancy, I went 11 days with my first so I'm not too stressed, but with my first I never had this much pressure. I was induced after 11 days the doctor said my baby had no plans of coming yet.
If your pregnancy has been straightforward, you’re likely to be offered induction at 41 weeks (NCCWCH 2008a) . The timing may vary according to your hospital's policy. In some areas you may be offered an induction at between seven days and 10 days after your due date, in others it may be two weeks. However, many maternity units have a policy of inducing labour before 42 weeks, so in the UK, only about three per cent of babies are born after 42 weeks (HSCIC 2015) . If you're only a few days past your due date, most doctors won't offer to induce your labour for a while.