A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
The two distinct classes of cells in the nervous system are neurons (nerve cells) and glia (glial cells). An example of a cell. The basic signaling unit of the nervous system is the neuron. The brain contains billions of neurons; the best estimates are that the adult human brain contains 1011 neurons. 2. Communication between neurons is the foundation for brain function. Understanding how neurotransmission occurs is crucial to understanding how the brain processes and integrates information. Interruption of neural communication causes changes in cognitive processes and behavior.
However, most nerve cells do not actually touch other cells. The location of communication between a nerve cell and another cell where impulses are passed without touching is called a chemical synapse. The tiny space between the two cells is called the synaptic cleft. 
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Figure 2:1 The neuron,or nerve cell, is the functional unit of the nervous system. The neurons has proceses called dendrites that receive signals and an axon that transmits signals to another neuron. The cell body, also called the soma, is the metabolic center of the neuron. 2. Communication between neurons is the foundation for brain function. Understanding how neurotransmission occurs is crucial to understanding how the brain processes and integrates information. Interruption of neural communication causes changes in cognitive processes and behavior.
Two mechanisms haveevolved to transmit nerve signals. First, within cells, electri-cal signals are conveyed along the cell membrane. Second,for communication between cells, the electrical signals gen-erally are converted into chemical signals conveyed by smallmessenger molecules called neurotransmitters. THE PRINCIPLES OF NERVE CELLCOMMUNICATION T he nerve cell, or neuron, is the key player in theactivity of the nervous system. It conveys informa-tion both electrically and chemically. Within theneuron itself, information is passed along through themovement of an electrical charge (i.e., impulse)
Communication between neurons. Benoit Zuber. Communication between neurons, or nerve cells, is the cellular basis for thinking, decision making, and control of muscular movements. Neurons are cells with a particular shape: they possess two types of long ramification, called the axon and the dendrites. The axon of one neuron is in contact with the dendrites of other neurons. These contacts are termed synapses.
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). The nucleus of a neuron is located in the cell body. Extending out from the cell body are processes called dendrites and axons.
The typical and most frequent type of synapse is the one in which the axon of one neuron connects to a second neuron by usually making contact with one of its dendrites or with the cell body. There are two ways in which this can happen: the electrical and the chemical synapses. A nerve impulse is the transmission of a coded signal from a given stimulus along the membrane of the neuron, starting in the point where it was applied. Nerve impulses can pass from one cell to another, thus creating a chain of information within a network of neurons.