In recent years, boutique hotels have emerged as the most liked guest accommodation all over the world. But the ironic fact here is that no one exactly knows what is the real meaning of the term 'boutique' or why this term is used in connection with hotels and what are the benefits of staying in this type of hotels. Another very important factor for a boutique hotel to be called a boutique hotel is its very unique theme. A unique theme has become a very important factor and with time it is gaining more and more importance.
Boutique hotels are small, 150 rooms or fewer, but not too small. (A hotel with fewer than 10 rooms is a Bed & Breakfast or Inn.) Boutique hotels are typically privately owned or part of a small group of hotels. Boutique hotel design is unique, iconic, memorable and sometimes eccentric. The idea that Boutique hotels are pricier than standard chain hotel is a myth. This perception comes from a retail view of Boutiques compared to large department stores. This is rarely the case.
Considered among the first boutique hotels are The Blake’s Hotel in South Kensington, London, and the Bedford, a San Francisco hotel. The Morgans Hotel in Murray Hill, New York, is also considered by many to be one of the originals, as is the Hotel Village Court in San Francisco. A private hot tub is one amenity that might be offered at a boutique hotel. A boutique hotel will not have a chain affiliation, and most target middle to upper income clientele.
(A hotel with fewer than 10 rooms is a Bed & Breakfast or Inn.) Boutique hotels are typically privately owned or part of a small group of hotels. The idea that Boutique hotels are pricier than standard chain hotel is a myth. This perception comes from a retail view of Boutiques compared to large department stores. This is rarely the case.
Boutique hotels began appearing in the 1980s in major cities like London, New York, and San Francisco. The term was coined by Steve Rubell in 1984 when he compared the Morgans Hotel, the first hotel he and Ian Schrager owned, to a boutique. Many boutique hotels are furnished in a themed, stylish and/or aspirational manner. The popularity of the boutique concept has prompted some multi-national hotel companies to try and capture a market share. In the United States, New York City remains an important centre for boutique hotels clustered about Manhattan.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A boutique hotel is one that is generally not chain-affiliated, features an intimate and stylish appearance, and provides impeccable amenities. Also referred to as lifestyle or design hotels, the trend and related name began in the 1980s by Northern Americans. A private hot tub is one amenity that might be offered at a boutique hotel. A boutique hotel will not have a chain affiliation, and most target middle to upper income clientele.
Boutique hotel is a term used initially in North America and the United Kingdom to describe small hotels which have typically between 10 and 100 rooms in unique settings with upscale accommodations. Many boutique hotels are furnished in a themed, stylish and/or aspirational manner. The popularity of the boutique concept has prompted some multi-national hotel companies to try and capture a market share. In the United States, New York City remains an important centre for boutique hotels clustered about Manhattan.
Whether it’s a luxury Boutique Hotel in Paris, or an intimate design hotel in London, Barcelona, Berlin, Milan, Rome, Florence or New York City, MyBoutiqueHotel.com removes the guess-work and delivers exactly what discerning travelers are looking for in the luxury boutique hotel and design hotel experience. A boutique hotel is a small hotel with unique or intimate decor, offering luxury, personalized services and facilities. The interior design is often stylish and trendy, with an intimate and cosy atmosphere.