Low blood pressure means that your blood pressure is lower than normal. Another name for low blood pressure is hypotension (say hy-poh-TEN-shun). In most healthy adults, low blood pressure does not cause problems or symptoms. In fact, it may be normal for you. For example, people who exercise regularly often have lower blood pressure than people who are not as fit. Some of the causes of low blood pressure include: 1  Getting up after you sit or lie down. 2  This can cause a quick drop in blood pressure called orthostatic hypotension. 3  Standing for a long time. 4  Not drinking enough fluids (dehydration).
Types of low blood pressure. Doctors often break down low blood pressure (hypotension) into different categories, depending on the causes and other factors. Some types of low blood pressure include: Low blood pressure on standing up (orthostatic, or postural, hypotension). This is a sudden drop in blood pressure when you stand up from a sitting position or if you stand up after lying down. Ordinarily, gravity causes blood to pool in your legs whenever you stand. As a result, the brain lessens the heart rate, decreasing blood pressure even further. This causes more blood to pool in the legs and less blood to reach the brain, leading to lightheadedness and fainting. Low blood pressure due to nervous system damage (multiple system atrophy with orthostatic hypotension). Also called Shy-Drager syndrome, this rare disorder causes progressive damage to the autonomic nervous system, which controls involuntary functions such as blood pressure, heart rate, breathing and digestion
About Hypotension. Hypotension (HI-po-TEN-shun) is abnormally low blood pressure. Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps out blood. Blood pressure is measured as systolic (sis-TOL-ik) and diastolic (di-a-STOL-ik) pressures
Certain medical conditions can raise your risk of orthostatic hypotension, including: 1  Heart conditions, such as heart attack, heart valve disease, bradycardia (a very low heart rate), and heart failure. 2  These conditions prevent the heart from pumping enough blood to the body. 3  Anemia. Many factors and conditions can cause severe hypotension linked to shock. Some of these factors also can cause orthostatic hypotension. In shock, though, blood pressure drops very low and doesn't return to normal on its own.
In other people, certain conditions or factors cause abnormally low blood pressure. As a result, less blood and oxygen flow to the body's organs. For the most part, hypotension is a medical concern only if it causes signs or symptoms or is linked to a serious condition, such as heart disease. Hypotension (HI-po-TEN-shun) is abnormally low blood pressure. Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps out blood. Blood pressure is measured as systolic (sis-TOL-ik) and diastolic (di-a-STOL-ik) pressures.
Definition. Low blood pressure (hypotension) would seem to be something to strive for. However, for many people, low blood pressure can cause symptoms of dizziness and fainting. In severe cases, low blood pressure can be life-threatening. 
Intradialytic hypotension (IDH), which is caused by a decrease in blood volume, is a common complication of haemodialysis treatment. It is characterized by a sudden drop in blood pressure with symptoms of nausea, sweating, cramping, or dizziness and causes much discomfort to the patient. Hypotension (HI-po-TEN-shun) is abnormally low blood pressure. Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps out blood. Blood pressure is measured as systolic (sis-TOL-ik) and diastolic (di-a-STOL-ik) pressures
Blood pressure varies from one person to another. A drop as little as 20 mmHg, can cause problems for some people. There are different types and causes of low blood pressure. Severe hypotension can be caused by sudden loss of blood (shock), severe infection, heart attack, or severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). Orthostatic hypotension is caused by a sudden change in body position