The U.S. bought Alaska from the Russian Empire in 1867 for $7.2 million. At the time the purchase was derided as “Seward’s Folly,” but today it’s common to compare the purchase price with Alaska’s gross state product of $45 billion and claim it a resounding success. Now that that doesn’t appear to be the case,you can go into more complicated reasons why it was or was not a good decision. But in the case of Alaska, it could been simply the case that it was profitable using any calculus, and knowing that that isn’t the case is indeed knowledge.
When did the US buy Alaska? The Alaska Purchase (also known as Seward's Folly) was completed in  1867 which allowed the United States to acquire all of Russian  Alaska from the Russian Empire for appro … ximately $7.2 million, at a  rate of 2 cents per acre. Yes, think of all the oil and gold that came from it! It was sold for just two cents per acre. ~AnswerMan. Yes, Alaska was a good deal. Yes, Alaska was a very good deal.
Barandarian, in the particular of case of Alaska it might make more sense. After all, when people say that Alaska was a good purchase, they don;t mean that in the abstract having Alaska in the union is good thing worth paying for. They usually mean that it contained oil and other valuables, and selling/ “taxing” those generates indeed a significant flow towards the federal coffins. Now that that doesn’t appear to be the case,you can go into more complicated reasons why it was or was not a good decision. But in the case of Alaska, it could been simply the case that it was profitable using any calculus, and knowing that that isn’t the case is indeed knowledge.
We are talking housing, groceries, gas, and everything inbetween. I come from the Midwest where things are cheap! Now it is normal to pay $5-6 for a gallon of milk, $3-4 for a dozen of eggs, $3 for a pound of apples, and $4 a gallon for gas. There is a disclaimer: I do live in Anchorage, which some people claim is 5 minutes from Alaska. So while Anchorage is a decent-sized city with all the amenities of other mid-sized cities, there are still things that make this state and city unique and one-of-a-kind. 1. High cost of living.
Well, 5 1/2 years later, we are still here. It has been quite the adjustment for me, so I wanted to give a rundown of the things that I have learned while living in Alaska. There is a disclaimer: I do live in Anchorage, which some people claim is 5 minutes from Alaska. So while Anchorage is a decent-sized city with all the amenities of other mid-sized cities, there are still things that make this state and city unique and one-of-a-kind. 1. High cost of living.
Purchase of Alaska March 30, 1867. But Seward had wanted to buy Alaska for a long time. Alaska is so large that the addition of this land would increase the size of the U.S. by nearly 20 percent. Russia had established a presence in Alaska in the early 18th century and offered to sell it to the United States during President James Buchanan's administration. But the Civil War stalled negotiations
A good example is the Alaska Railroad, built by the federalgovernment at a cost of over $53 million from 1915 to 1924, and operated at a lossuntil 1938. The railroad showed some proﬁt from 1938 through the end of World WarII, but then required another $100 million in rehabilitation. Armor De Cosmos, the premier of British Columbia from1872-74, wrote “The purchase of Alaska in 1867 by the United States placed BritishColumbia, so to speak, ‘in the nutcrackers’ ” (Shelton, 1967, p. 76).British Columbia would have been a greater prize for the United States thanAlaska.
William Seward thought it was a good idea, because it would remove Russia from North America and clear their claims in Oregon Territory. Alaska turned out to be rich in oil, p … roving that 'Seward's Folly' was a good investment. Yes, think of all the oil and gold that came from it! It was sold for just two cents per acre. ~AnswerMan. Yes, Alaska was a good deal. Yes, Alaska was a very good deal.