American River is a small town situated on the north-east coast of Kangaroo Island, South Australia about 39Km as the road runs from the ferry terminal at Penneshaw and 42Km from the island's capital-Kingscote.
American River-Kangaroo Island. American River was named by American sealers who sheltered there in the 1800's. Matthew Flinders visited the area in 1802 and named many of the local features including Prospect Hill, Pelican Lagoon, Eastern Cove and Kangaroo Head.
Sealers and whalers arrived soon after, many of whom escaped convicts. They used the island as a base for trading and salt. Piracy was common in the area. American River gained its name from American sealers, some of whom built a trading schooner (from native timber) in 1804 at Independence Point on Pelican Lagoon.
Here are some other names and fishing locations around the American River and Penneshaw area in the northern part of the Island. As one fisherman narrated to me, 'The fishing ground The Gums is in the American River area, just off the coast. It's about 400 metres north-east from Edgar's Ground.
A plaque on its wall commemorates the building of the house. They produced 16 children and the Buick name is still common on Kangaroo Island. Kangaroo Island's tourism industry started in American River in 1895 when Nils Ryberg, a Swedish immigrant who arrived in 1884, built and opened Ryberg House.
American River is a small town tucked into native bush overlooking Eastern Cove and Pelican Lagoon. The birdlife is prolific and in season many species of wildflowers can be seen. Sheltered coastal waters and nearby deserted beaches offer wonderful opportunities for fishing, great walking and swimming.
This idyllic setting on Kangaroo Island has welcomed generations of holiday maker's since 1892. Today American River is set aside as an Aquatic Reserve and is a pleasant destination which is popular with holiday maker's who want to enjoy aquatic activities including fishing, swimming, boating and sailing.
Piracy was common. American River gained its name from American sealers, some of whom built a trading schooner (from native timber) in 1804 at Independence Point on Pelican Lagoon. This was the beginning of the area's shipbuilding history which was continued on by John Buick and Frank Potts in 1842.