You should be able to swim 1000 meters in 25-30 minutes using the freestyle stroke, prior to basic training. Strength and Endurance: The training and mission rigors of Pararescue will make strong demands on your overall strength and endurance capabilities. Strength is your ability to exert a strong force.
The key to successful marathon training is consistently putting in enough weekly mileage to get your body accustomed to running for long periods of time. Newer runners may start with 15 to 20 miles per week total and gradually build to a peak week of 35 to 40 miles.
As a prospective pararescue jumper, you must pass one of the most rigorous physical fitness tests in the entire military. You must demonstrate fitness in swimming, running and strength challenges. The swimming component requires you to swim 1000 m in less than 26 minutes and swim 25 m underwater on a single breath.
Under this 5K run schedule, you'll spend a portion of your training walking. For instance, during week one on run/walk days, you'll run for 15 seconds and then walk for 45 seconds, repeating that cycle for 30 minutes.
Once in the PJ Candidate Course, you will be challenged physically for ten weeks in Lackland AFB, Texas. The first phase is known as Team Training and is 8 weeks long. It consists of extensive physical training with swimming, running, weight training, calisthenics and obstacle courses.
Running: You will be required to do extensive running during Pararescue training. These runs progress rapidly and after several weeks will vary up to 40 minutes and longer in duration. In preparation, you should run 3-4 times per week for 15 to 25 minutes, at a speed you can maintain without walking or stopping. You should be able to run 3 miles under 21 minutes prior to starting basic training. Swimming: You will swim everyday during the Indoctrination Course. A trainee may swim 2000 meters or more in a typical session. In preparation, you should swim 500-1000 meters, 3-5 times per week.
Doing a 5K run can add a new level of challenge and interest to your exercise program. A 5K run is 3.1 miles. Don't be daunted by the distance. A 5K run is a great distance for a beginner. You can prepare for a 5K run in just two months. Consider using this seven-week 5K run training schedule as your guide.
You must also run 1.5 miles in less than 10.5 minutes, and perform 50 situps and 50 pushups in 2 minutes or less. According to the USAF Pararescue website, however, meeting the minimum requirements may not be sufficient, and the site recommends that candidates exceed the minimum targets by about 50 percent.