An aldehyde is a type of organic carbon-based molecule. Specifically, it’s one that contains (somewhere) a set of three particular atoms – carbon (C), oxygen (O), and hydrogen (H) arranged just so: Formaldehyde is the simplest aldehyde – the rest of the molecule besides the requisite CHO piece is just one tiny hydrogen. 
Benzaldehyde (C 6 H 5 CHO) is an organic compound consisting of a benzene ring with a formyl substituent. It is the simplest aromatic aldehyde and one of the most industrially useful. This colorless liquid has a characteristic pleasant almond-like odor. In fact, benzaldehyde is the primary component of bitter almond oil and can be extracted from a number of other natural sources.
An aldehyde /ˈaeldɨhaɪd/ ˈældɨhaɪd or alkanal is an organic compound containing a formyl. Group the formyl group is a functional, group with the Structure-R, cho consisting of a carbonyl (center a carbon double bonded to) oxygen bonded to hydrogen and An r, group which is any generic alkyl or side. chain The group without R is called the aldehyde group or formyl group. Aldehydes differ from ketones in that the carbonyl is placed at the end of a carbon skeleton rather than between two carbon atoms. Aldehydes are common in organic chemistry. Many fragrances are aldehydes.
The formyl group is a functional group, with the structure R-CHO, consisting of a carbonyl center (a carbon double bonded to oxygen) bonded to hydrogen and an R group, which is any generic alkyl or side chain. The group without R is called the aldehyde group or formyl group. Aldehydes differ from ketones in that the carbonyl is placed at the end of a carbon skeleton rather than between two carbon atoms. Aldehydes are common in organic chemistry. Many fragrances are aldehydes.
Classify each compound as an aldehyde or a ketone. Give the common name for each ketone. Solution. 1  This compound has the carbonyl group on an end carbon atom, so it is an aldehyde. 2  This compound has the carbonyl group on an interior carbon atom, so it is a ketone. 3  This compound has the carbonyl group between two alkyl groups, so it is a ketone. Because the carbonyl group in a ketone must be attached to two carbon groups, the simplest ketone has three carbon atoms. It is widely known as acetone, a unique name unrelated to other common names for ketones.
Aldol Condensation. The aldol condensation is a reaction in which aldehydes and ketones react to form larger molecules. A new carbon-carbon bond is formed. In this generalized reaction the a-carbon of one aldehyde forms a bond with the carbonyl carbon of the other aldehyde. Aldehydes and ketones have higher melting and boiling points than hydrocarbons of equivalent molecular weight. This is due to the attraction between molecule due to the polarity of the carbonyl group.
Nomenclature of Aldehydes and Ketones. Aldehydes and ketones are organic compounds which incorporate a carbonyl functional group, C=O. The carbon atom of this group has two remaining bonds that may be occupied by hydrogen or alkyl or aryl substituents. If at least one of these substituents is hydrogen, the compound is an aldehyde. If neither is hydrogen, the compound is a ketone. The IUPAC system of nomenclature assigns a characteristic suffix to these classes, al to aldehydes and one to ketones. For example, H 2 C=O is methan al, more commonly called formaldehyde
An aldehyde is any of a class of highly-reactive organic chemical compounds obtained by oxidation of primary alcohols. They are characterized by the terminal carbonyl group O= … C-H (carbon bonded to hydrogen and double bonded to oxygen), and are used in the manufacture of resins, dyes, and organic acids.  An aldehyde is a carbohydrate that has lost hydrogen. 1 The Aldehyde Functional Group An aldehyde is a type of organic compound. 2  The aldehyde functional group has a carbon at the center, with an oxygen double and hydrogen single bonded to the carbon.
Formaldehyde (HCHO) is the simplest aldehyde. It is also known as methanal (NOT methanol) or paraform. An aldehyde is any of a class of highly-reactive organic chemical compounds obtained by oxidation of primary alcohols. They are characterized by the terminal carbonyl group O= … C-H (carbon bonded to hydrogen and double bonded to oxygen), and are used in the manufacture of resins, dyes, and organic acids.
37. Statements:(1) The simplest aldehyde is formaldehyde and the simplest ketone is acetone.(2) Carbonyl group polarity makes dipole-dipole interactions between like aldehyde molecules or like ketone molecules possible.(3) Reaction of a hemiacetal with an alcohol produces an acetal. 