Modern paperbacks can be differentiated by size. In the US there are  mass-market paperbacks  and larger  trade paperbacks . In the UK, there are A-format, B-format and the largest C-format sizes. Paperback editions of books are issued when a publisher decides to release a book in a low-cost format. A trade paperback, sometimes referred to as a trade paper edition or just trades, is a large-sized paperback book.
In the meantime, a dozen copies of the identical book (the same edition & condition) may have been sold by other dealers for just $50. So, $50 will be closer to the actual “value” of the book. A book is only worth what someone is willing to pay. Each book that’s published, of course, has a first edition. And that’s often the only edition. However, for a first edition to have value, there must be a demand for it. If not, the fact that it’s a first edition doesn’t matter. Some books are published in such huge quantities that first editions are very common
17. B esides the typical hardcover, trade paperback and mass-market paperback editions commonly found in stores, there are other editions that you may, or may not, want to consider. These include large print, audio books, translations, ex-library copies. In most cases, these editions are not worth much to collectors. So, according to that, it is the second trade paperback edition. No, it is the first trade paperback edition released but the second edition of the book, since the author added a significant amount of material to the text for the trade paperback release.
Unity 0 red and Chaos Effect Alpha red both sell for between $40 and $80. The Chaos Effect Alpha Red (or CEAR, as it is affectionately known), tends to be worth a little more than Unity 0 red. In addition to these red variants, there are blue variants of a few of the trade paperbacks. Gold and V.V.S.S. books. The gold logo books were incentive books that Valiant gave to people for supporting or promoting Valiant. These are worth about $10 to $20 each. The stand outs are the first gold logo books printed, Archer & Armstrong 0 gold, and Eternal Warrior 1 gold, especially the flat version.
Traditionally, a trade paperback will reproduce the stories at the same size as they were originally presented in comic book format. However, certain trades have been published in a smaller,  digest-sized  format, similar in size to a paperback novel. For many years, trade paperbacks were mainly used to reprint older comic-book stories that were no longer available to the average reader, when original copies of those stories were scarce and hard to find, and often very expensive when found due to their rarity.
Unlike the individual issues, trade paperbacks usually have no particular value to collectors, as they are reprints (which lack the historical significance of the original publication), and they are often kept in print (thus readily available new). For many years, trade paperbacks were mainly used to reprint older comic-book stories that were no longer available to the average reader, when original copies of those stories were scarce and hard to find, and often very expensive when found due to their rarity.
(June 2010). In comics, a trade paperback (often shortened to TPB, TP or trade) is a collection of stories originally published in comic books, reprinted in book format, usually capturing one story arc from a single title or a series of stories with a connected story arc or common theme from one or more titles. For many years, trade paperbacks were mainly used to reprint older comic-book stories that were no longer available to the average reader, when original copies of those stories were scarce and hard to find, and often very expensive when found due to their rarity.
Pre-Unity Books. The only regular edition Valiant comics that are worth anything are the pre-Unity issues, and the last few issues of each series. By “regular edition”, I mean the normal copy of the book that hit newsstands and comic racks. Not the gold logo books or the V.V.S.S. The pre-Unity books are: 1  Magnus, Robot Fighter 0-14. Gold and V.V.S.S. books. The gold logo books were incentive books that Valiant gave to people for supporting or promoting Valiant. These are worth about $10 to $20 each. The stand outs are the first gold logo books printed, Archer & Armstrong 0 gold, and Eternal Warrior 1 gold, especially the flat version.