Tweet. Dialysis is expensive….around $30,000 per year. If you have to dialyze, you have two choices as to where you get your treatment: in-center or at home. Both options are covered by Medicare, Medicaid and many private insurances.
Tips to know: 1  Before purchasing a home dialysis machine, ensure that it will be cost effective. 2  If the cost of your health insurance covering the use of the dialysis machine will be more expensive than purchasing one for yourself, then it may be a worthwhile investment.
In contrast, with home dialysis, his center has to pay a nurse $25 to $50 an hour to work with a patient one-on-one daily for at least three weeks. For patients, the energy cost of running a dialysis machine at home can be a significant barrier.
Medicare pays for dialysis regardless of patient age, reimbursing the same amount for at-home or dialysis center care. But Crooks cites Kaiser statistics that home dialysis users require less hospitalization, potentially saving $10,000 to $20,000 in annual health care costs per patient.
In the agency's rule on ESRD payments issued last November, the CMS increased the rate for training patients to perform home dialysis by 50%, from $33 a session to $50. Medicare pays 80% of costs associated with dialysis care for services either at home or at a dialysis center.
1 The biggest cost to think about is a nurse to run the dialysis machine. 2  Even if this machine is used at home, an in-home nurse will be needed to run it and supervise the machine and the patient. 3  If the dialysis machine is used in a facility, then there will be a team of nurses available to
1 A basic dialysis machine can be purchased in the regions of $15,000; however, this does not include any necessary supplies such as a drip. 2  For example, a NxStage kidney dialysis machine purchased with supplies can cost upwards of $45,000. 3  This does not include the costs of running the machine.
Waste lines will also need to be connected. The cost of furnishing and installing waste and water piping as required will range between $750.00 and $1500.00. Most home hemodialysis machines require a dedicated 20 amperes GFI (ground fault interrupter) circuit.