1 AML affects the myeloid (also known as nonlymphocytic) type of white blood cells, the red blood cells and the cells that make platelets. 2  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 3  CLL most commonly affects adults over age 55 and rarely occurs in children. 4  CLL affects the lymphocytic type of white blood cells. The most common types of leukemia are: 1  acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  ALL is the most common type of leukemia in children. 3  It also affects adults, especially those age 65 and older.
1 It occurs in children and adults. 2  AML is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults. 3  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 4  With CLL, the most common chronic adult leukemia, you may feel well for years without needing treatment. Types of leukemia. The major types of leukemia are: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  This is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 3  ALL can also occur in adults. 4  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). 5  AML is a common type of leukemia. 6 
1 This is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 2  ALL can also occur in adults. 3  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). 4  AML is a common type of leukemia. 5  It occurs in children and adults. 6  AML is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults. 7  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Types of leukemia. The major types of leukemia are: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  This is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 3  ALL can also occur in adults. 4  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). 5  AML is a common type of leukemia. 6
Leukemia is the most common form of cancer in childhood. It affects approximately 3,000 children each year in the US, accounting for about 30 percent of childhood cancers. Leukemia can occur at any age, although it is most commonly seen in children between 2 and 6 years of age. The disease occurs slightly more frequently in males than in females, and is more commonly seen in Caucasian children than in African-American children, or children of other races. 1 With acute lymphocytic leukemia, the bone marrow makes too many of these lymphocytes and they do not mature correctly. 2  The lymphocytes overproduce, thus, crowding out other blood cells. 3  Immature blood cells (blasts) do not work properly to fight infection. 4  Acute leukemia can occur over a short period of days to weeks.
The success of treatment depends on the type of leukemia and the age of the person. Outcomes have improved in the developed world. The average five-year survival rate is 57% in the United States. In children under 15, the five-year survival rate is greater than 60 to 85%, depending on the type of leukemia. 1 Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 2  It also affects adults, especially those 65 and older. 3  Standard treatments involve chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 4  The survival rates vary by age: 85% in children and 50% in adults.
1 AML is a common type of leukemia. 2  It occurs in children and adults. 3  AML is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults. 4  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 5  With CLL, the most common chronic adult leukemia, you may feel well for years without needing treatment. Types of leukemia. The major types of leukemia are: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  This is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 3  ALL can also occur in adults. 4  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). 5  AML is a common type of leukemia. 6
1 acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  ALL is the most common type of leukemia in children. 3  It also affects adults, especially those age 65 and older. 4  ALL affects the lymphocytic type of white blood cells. The most common types of leukemia are: 1  acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  ALL is the most common type of leukemia in children. 3  It also affects adults, especially those age 65 and older.
1 ALL is the most common type of leukemia in children. 2  It also affects adults, especially those age 65 and older. 3  ALL affects the lymphocytic type of white blood cells. 4  acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The most common types of leukemia are: 1  acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). 2  ALL is the most common type of leukemia in children. 3  It also affects adults, especially those age 65 and older.
1 Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) occurs more commonly in adults than in children, and more commonly in men than women. 2  It is treated with chemotherapy. 3  The five-year survival rate is 40%, except for APL (Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia), which has a survival rate greater than 90%. 1 Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common type of leukemia in young children. 2  It also affects adults, especially those 65 and older. 3  Standard treatments involve chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 4  The survival rates vary by age: 85% in children and 50% in adults.