The smallest is the Staffordshire Bull Terrier. The average weight of an American Pit Bull Terrier is 35-60 pounds. That is what is stated in their breed standard under the UKC. American Pit Bull Terriers are not registered with the AKC, that is why you could not find any info on them on akc.org. Sorry hon, not a pit bull! The American Pit Bull Terrier is a medium sized dog. Females between 35-65 somtimes bigger, males will run larger, but anything over 80 lbs is way outside breed standard, my girl is pretty normal still a pup but almost mature and she stands 17 1/2 inches.
your so wrong the average weight of a pitbull male or female is not even in the hundreds but my dog is 110 lbs but the average weight is 55-75 lbs but don't under estimate them they are very dangerous and they can take down dogs 200 lbs or more. You're wrong and playing into the dangerous Pit Bull hype .... What is the average height of a pit bull terrier? Most Pit Bull Terriers, or American Staffordshire Terriers, are between 43-48cm (17-19in).
When compared with the English Staffordshire Bull Terrier (another breed within the type commonly called pit bulls), the American Pit Bull Terrier is larger by margins of 6–8 inches (15–20 cm) in height and 25–35 pounds (11–16 kg) in weight. The dog was bred first to bait bulls and bears. The American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT) is a dog breed. Is a medium-sized, solidly built, short haired dog whose early ancestors came from England and Ireland. It is a member of the molosser breed group.
The average weight of a purebred Angus bull, at maturity, is ~2500 pounds. This depends on his diet, genes, and general health. There are a lot of mature Angus bulls that can … weigh well over 2500 lbs, and there are mature Angus bulls that will only weigh around 2000 lbs. 11 people found this useful. The average lifespan of a Pit Bull is 12-14 years.   If you want more info about pitbulls visit http://www.pitbull-info-and-training.com.
The average weight of a female pitbull is about 120-130. What is the average height of a pit bull terrier? Most Pit Bull Terriers, or American Staffordshire Terriers, are between 43-48cm (17-19in).
Blue is not a natural color in the pit line so they have to bring it over from the mastiff line. Our adult male American Pit Bull Terriers were never more than 50 pounds. Average weight for a purebred is 35-55 pounds according to breed standard. The term Pitbull is a generic term that covers a number of breeds in the Bull group (check and encyclopedia). An american pitbull terrier which is one of the breeds in the group, is most common 40 - 60 lb.
For male pit bulls, average height at the shoulder is generally between 15 and 21 inches. For females, the average height at the shoulder is between 14 and 20 inches. That's a greater variance than for most sanctioned dog breeds. Because pit bulls tend to vary in size, organizations such as the UKC emphasize that, in terms of showing dogs, standards suggested for height and weight are less important in pit bulls than are balanced and proportion.
Pocket Pitbull Weight and Height. According to the American Bully Kennel Club, the height of a fully grown male Pocket Pit bull not to be exceeded from 17 inches and for female height is less than 16 inches. The weight may somewhere between 35 and 60 pounds. The life expectancy of pocket pitbull is 11 years to 13.
The American Pit Bull Terrier is both powerful and agile. Actual weight and height are less important than the correct proportion of weight to height. A very common misconception is that APBTs are muscle-bound hulks that weigh in around 85 pounds (39 kg) or more and this is generally not the majority.
It really depends on the type of pit that you have because pit bull is a term used for ABPT's, AmStaff's, and Staffordshire Bull Terriers. The latter two have breed guidelines on the AKC site. From http://www.akc.org: AmStaff: Size Height and weight should be in proportion. A height of about 18 to 19 inches at shoulders for the male and 17 to 18 inches for the female is to be considered preferable. Sorry hon, not a pit bull! The American Pit Bull Terrier is a medium sized dog. Females between 35-65 somtimes bigger, males will run larger, but anything over 80 lbs is way outside breed standard, my girl is pretty normal still a pup but almost mature and she stands 17 1/2 inches.