Successful completion of a BTEC First Diploma could lead to entry onto a BTEC National Diploma in ICT, which is a Level 3 qualification. Timetable. Whilst studying the BTEC First Diploma you will attend 6 hours of lessons each week over a 2 year period. complete all designated units. achieve a minimum points score of 18 points for a First Certificate and 36 points for a First Diploma. achieve a pass grade for all designated units for a First Certificate and achieve a pass grade for units with a combined total of 300 guided learning hour
For the subsidiary diploma you will be graded with a starred distinction (140 UCAS points), a distinction (120 UCAS points), a merit (80 UCAS points) or a pass (40 UCAS points). If you continue with the subject in your second year you will achieve a BTEC subsidiary diploma. Students interested in studying a level 3 BTEC certificate/subsidiary diploma usually select one or two which they study alongside A-levels or a level 3 BTEC extended diploma.
1 An Advanced Extension Award can either be worth 20 for a Merit or 40 for a distinction (this is on top of the A level tariff). 2  Foundation Art and Design ranges from 165 for a pass to 285 for a distinction. 3  Free-standing Mathematics Qualifications points range from 7 points for a grade E up to 20 points for a grade A. 
This Site Might Help You. RE: UCAS points for a BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma? I&#39;m taking Science Applied (with Forensics) - BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma. I&#39;m in my first year out of two years. When I look on the UCAS website, namely the points tarrif... There are several options for BTEC, and most of them say &quot;excluding BTEC national&quot;. I can&#39;t...
I'm taking Science Applied (with Forensics) - BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma. I'm in my first year out of two years. When I look on the UCAS website, namely the points tarrif... There are several options for BTEC, and most of them say excluding BTEC national. I&#39;m taking Science Applied (with Forensics) - BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma. I&#39;
At least five GCSEs at grade C or above (200 points) or have completed a Level 2 qualification. Level 3 qualifications:BTEC Certificate/Subsidiary Diploma/Diploma/Extended Diploma, NVQ/VRQ 3, Access to Higher Education Courses, A-levels. 
A Levels. Students take AS (Advanced Subsidiary) module exams at the end of Year 12. Students then go on to take A2 modules in Year 13 and these modules together with the AS modules make up the full ‘A’ Level. The following table indicates the grades and the associated UCAS (university acceptance points): Level 3 Courses and UCAS points. The following lists show the UCAS points associated with the range of qualifications currently delivered in the FCC 6th Form.
If it's a BTEC national award/cert/diploma then yes, it is worth UCAS points. A pass at any of those 3 is 40, a merit is 80 and a distinction is 120. Basically, unless you have DMM at the very least then forget about it. Hi, I'm sure you've solved this by now. BTEC LEVEL 3 Diplomas replaced the old form a couple of years ago; points tarriff remain the same, its just a name change and curriculum shuffle. A PPP (straigh pass) is worth 120 points.
22 – 26. 160. P2. PASS. 120. P3. Candidates achieving an OCR Level 3 National qualification will receive a certificate listing the units and grades achieved. Each unit is graded Fail, Pass, Merit or Distinction. Candidates will also receive a full award certificate giving the qualification title with the overall grade awarded. Each full award will have an overall grade of Pass, Merit or Distinction allocated depending on a candidate’s achievements at unit level. For the purposes of reporting to UCAS the following grades will be used: D, D1, D2, M, M1, M2, M3, P, P1, P2, P3 (see columns above titled Reporting Grade To UCAS).