Captive raccoons have been known to live for more than 20 years. However, the species' life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years, depending on the local conditions in terms of traffic volume, hunting, and weather severity. It is not unusual for only half of the young born in one year to survive a full year. The two most widespread subspecies are the Eastern raccoon (Procyon lotor lotor) and the Upper Mississippi Valley raccoon (Procyon lotor hirtus). Both share a comparatively dark coat with long hairs, but the Upper Mississippi Valley raccoon is larger than the Eastern raccoon.
The raccoon is a medium sized bear-like mammal that was originally only found in North America. Due to the deliberate introduction of the raccoon into other countries, the common raccoon can also be found now in Europe and Japan. The average raccoon is around 70 cm from the raccoons nose to the tip of the raccoons tail. A fully grown raccoon can weigh up to 10kg and can live for up to 20 years in captivity. Raccoons are grey, omnivorous animals surviving on a diet consisting of insects, plants and small animals such as fish and the occasional bird. Raccoons tend to be nocturnal but it is not uncommon to spot a raccoon during the day.
The raccoon (Procyon lotor) is a native mammal, measuring about 3 feet long, including its 12-inch, bushy, ringed tail. Because their hind legs are longer than the front legs, raccoons have a hunched appearance when they walk or run. A hunting or trapping license is required to hunt or trap raccoons during an open season. A property owner or the owner’s immediate family, employee, or tenant may kill or trap a raccoon on that property if it is damaging crops or domestic animals (RCW 77.36.030).
The raccoon (/rəˈkuːn/ or US /raeˈkuːn/ , Ræˈkuːn procyon), lotor sometimes spelled, racoon also known as the common, Raccoon North american, raccoon northern raccoon and colloquially as, coon is a-medium sized mammal native To North. america The two most widespread subspecies are the Eastern raccoon (Procyon lotor lotor) and the Upper Mississippi Valley raccoon (Procyon lotor hirtus). Both share a comparatively dark coat with long hairs, but the Upper Mississippi Valley raccoon is larger than the Eastern raccoon.
Raccoons have grayish-brown fur, and are easily identified by a black eye mask and bushy, black-ringed tail. They are medium-sized mammals, approximately 26 to 39 inches in length (including the tail), and weigh 6 to 27 pounds depending on the animal's age and condition. An average adult male weighs 15 to 20 pounds. 
Raccoons are adaptable, nocturnal animals that often live in urban environments in their native North America. They are great climbers and have slim, dexterous forepaws that aid agility. They also don’t mind a spot of swimming, but since their fur is not waterproof, it's by no means their preferred travelling mode. 
The four smallest raccoon subspecies, with a typical weight of 1.8 to 2.7 kg (4.0 to 6.0 lb), are found along the southern coast of Florida and on the adjacent islands; an example is the Ten Thousand Island raccoon (Procyon lotor marinus). The two most widespread subspecies are the Eastern raccoon (Procyon lotor lotor) and the Upper Mississippi Valley raccoon (Procyon lotor hirtus). Both share a comparatively dark coat with long hairs, but the Upper Mississippi Valley raccoon is larger than the Eastern raccoon.
Tanuki  is often mistakenly translated into English as  badger  or  raccoon  (as used in the US version of the movie Pom Poko, and outlined in Tom Robbins ' book Villa Incognito), two unrelated types of animals with a superficially similar appearance. The Japanese Raccoon Dog (Nyctereutes procyonoides viverrinus), also known as tanuki (狸 or たぬき) in Japanese, is a subspecies of the Asian raccoon dog.
The Raccoon is a members-only land animal. Raccoons were introduced in the Jamaa Journal, where Jammers had to solve a puzzle to guess what the new animal would be. The puzzle for raccoons appeared in the February 2013 and the raccoons are able to be used as an animal in March 2013. Trivia. 1  They have a pet counterpart, the Raccoon (Pet) . 2  The Raccoon Hat is for sale in Epic Wonders for 1,750 Gems, and may have been hinting at the future presence of raccoons. 3  There is also a Raccoon Tail for sale at the Summer Carnival. 4  There is a rare Raccoon Tail that is also available.