English Meaning: The name Emelyn is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Emelyn is: French Emmeline, which ultimately derives from the Old German 'amal' meaning labor. French Meaning: The name Emelyn is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Emelyn is: Hardworking., from an Old German variant of Emmeline. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc
there was a book that i read that had the name emmaline in it. 
Meaning of Emelyn: Emelyn is either a variation of the name Emeline, a French form of the Germanic name Amelina (little work), or an elaboration of the name Emily, which is either derived from Aemilius (rival). close. + Add to my list. Emelyn is either a variation of the name Emeline, a French form of the Germanic name Amelina (little work), or an elaboration of the name Emily, which is either derived from Aemilius (rival). Tweet. Pin It.
Emelyn /eme-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Emelyn's name origins are German and Latin, and the meaning of the name Emelyn is peaceful home; rival; laborious; eager. Emelyn is a variant form, with the suffix-yn, of Emeline (German): from heim lind. Emelyn is also a variant of Emily (Latin). Kreatif forms: Emelynna, Emelynne, Emilyn. 
Latin Meaning: The name Emlyn is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Emlyn is: Excellent. Masculine equivalent of Emily, from the name Aemilia, the feminine form of the Roman family name Aemilius. Also a. Welsh Meaning: The name Emlyn is a Welsh baby name. 
What does Evelyn mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Evelyn is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Evelyn is life. It is also of Latin origin, where its meaning is bird and French origin, where its meaning is little bird, hazelnut.
What does Emely mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Emely is of German origin. The meaning of Emely is industrious leader. It is also of Latin origin, where its meaning is flatterer and English origin, where its meaning is rival. Emely is a variant spelling of Emily. Emily is derived from Aemilia, the Latin feminine form of the Roman family name Aemilius. The name Aemilius was in turn derived from the Latin word aemulus meaning rival. Emely has the diminutives (nicknames) Emmie, Emmy.