While the annual IRA contribution limit of $5,500 may not seem like much, you can stack up significant savings. Here's a hypothetical example: If you contribute $5,500 yearly and realize a 6% average annual return, at the end of 20 years, you could have $214,460 in your retirement account.
The downside is that you'll have to pay taxes on withdrawals in retirement. In a Roth IRA, you invest post-tax dollars now and receive no current tax deduction-but you can then withdraw funds tax-free during your retirement years. If you meet the qualifications for this account type, Roth IRAs let your invested funds compound tax-free, which can save you a bundle over the long run.
The returns are more in line with traditional covered call writing. It is a simple matter to convert expected returns from selling puts on margin to cash-based returns. Example: suppose a margin-based put sale of the XYZ Jan 30 put (trading for 1.25) has an expected return of 45% and an expected investment of $800.
IRAs cannot be enabled for margin trading, which prevents you from using certain options strategies. For example, if you sell short puts, they must be completely cash-secured. Otherwise this strategy is not permitted in an IRA. Short put positions have a limited profit potential with a substantial amount of risk.
If your brokerage does not allow cash-based put-selling, you can always move the account to one that does like Fidelity or Interactive Brokers. Once you write a naked put in a cash account, your broker will “set aside” the appropriate amount of cash.
1 Can I sell puts in my IRA? 2  You can sell cash secured puts in your IRA if you have approval for that level of options trading from your broker and you have enough cash in your account to buy the requisite amount of the underlying security (100 shares per option) if your puts are assigned.
If you have a Roth IRA and a Traditional IRA, the maximum amount you can contribute in total is still $5,500 or $6,500, depending on your age. If you’re 40 years old, you can put $3,000 into a Roth IRA and $2,500 into a Traditional IRA. You can’t put $5,500 into both.
1 Can I use a stop loss order in my IRA account? 2  Yes, but for stocks / ETPs you should wait 3 days after your purchase to put it in place if you used unsettled funds for the purchase. 3  Otherwise you run the risk of violating the SEC’s free-riding rules if the stop loss triggers. 4  See this post for more information.