Best Answer: The diameter of the majority of viruses are 10 to 300nm. One of the smallest is the hoof and mouth disease virus (10nm) and one of the largest is the yellow fever virus (400nm). Some filoviruses -- which are very long and narrow -- have a total length of up to 1400 nm but a diameter of only 70-80nm.
Virus-like particles resemble viruses, but are non-infectious because they do not contain any viral genetic material. The expression of viral structural proteins, such as Envelope or Capsid, can result in the self-assembly of virus like particles (VLPs). VLPs derived from the Hepatitis B virus and composed of the small HBV derived surface antigen (HBsAg) were described over 40 years ago from patient sera. 
and Virus-Like Particles. A virus particle consists of several parts including the genetic material (DNA or RNA), a protein coat that protects these genes, and in some cases an envelope of lipids that surrounds the protein coat when they are outside a cell. The size of viruses ranges from a few tens to a few hundreds of nm, which is equal to 1/100 to 1/1000 of the cell (a few to a few tens of μm in size) of any other common living organism. Influenza vaccines are now produced by growing the virus in fertilized eggs, then multiplying and inactivating it
The HORIBA SZ-100 and LA-960 particle size analyzers can measure the size of viruses and virus-like particles quickly and accurately. The size of viruses ranges from a few tens to a few hundreds of nm, which is equal to 1/100 to 1/1000 of the cell (a few to a few tens of μm in size) of any other common living organism. Influenza vaccines are now produced by growing the virus in fertilized eggs, then multiplying and inactivating it
If you were to look at a HIV virus particle under a microscope, it would look something like this: The size of the particle is around 0.0001mm. (For a more detailed simulation, see 3D HIV .). There are two main parts, essentially: the inner core (the pill-shaped section in the diagram), and the viral membrane. Let's look at these in a little more detail: 
The particle size of hepatitis C virus estimated by filtration through microporous regenerated cellulose fibre. Yuasa T(1), Ishikawa G, Manabe S, Sekiguchi S, Takeuchi K, Miyamura T. Author information: (1)Department of Enteroviruses, National Institute of Health, Tokyo, Japan. 
Water Filters like the Lifesaver Jerrycan will filter out viruses to 0.015 microns (15 nanometers) in size, which includes all of the most common viruses found in water. Amazing technology when you think about it, a portable water filter that can remove such microscopic (and dangerous) particles from water. 
Bacteria are one-celled living organisms. The average bacterium is 1,000 nanometers long. (If a bacterium were my size, a typical virus particle would look like a tiny mouse-robot. If an average virus were my size, a bacterium would be the size of a dinosaur over ten stories tall. Bacteria and viruses are not peers!) All bacteria are surrounded by a cell wall.
The LA-960 Particle Size Analyzer measuring range stretches from 10 nanometers to 5 millimeters. This is more than sufficient to measure virus-like particle samples -- including those containing material larger than several microns. An example size result (below) shows three separate populations. The size of viruses ranges from a few tens to a few hundreds of nm, which is equal to 1/100 to 1/1000 of the cell (a few to a few tens of μm in size) of any other common living organism. Influenza vaccines are now produced by growing the virus in fertilized eggs, then multiplying and inactivating it