The Law of Inheritance in Islam FEMALE HEIRS A statement attributed to the prophet Mohamed says learn the laws of inheritance and teach them to the people for they are one-half of useful knowledge.. The manner in which Islamic inheritance is made is prescribed by the law in rigid and uncompromising terms. 
5. Proof of Muslim law and 'ada. — Muslim law and 'ada not embodied in this Code shall be proven in evidence as a fact. No 'ada which is contrary to the Constitution of the Philippines, this Code, Muslim law, public order, public policy or public interest shall be given any legal effect. . chanrobles virtual law library. Art.
According to Muslim Law, the age of Majority is 15 years, but it is not applicable to the wills in India. 2. Competence of Legatee:-- Any person having capacity to hold the property can be a legatee. The Legatee may be a Muslim or a Non-Muslim. Construction of Will:- A Muslim will is to be construed in accordance with the rules of construction of the will as laid down in Muslim Law. Will is a document created by any person during his life time, which operates after his death.
(c) to any of other person who is not a Muslim, Christian, Parsi or Jew by religion unless it is proved that any such persons would not have been governed by the Hindu law or by custom or usage as part of that law in respect of any of the matters dealt with herein if this Act had not been passed. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 is an Act of the Parliament of India enacted to amend and codify the law relating to intestate or unwilled succession, among Hindus, Buddhists, Jains, and Sikhs. The Act lays down a uniform and comprehensive system of inheritance and applies to persons governed by both the Mitākṣarā and Dāyabhāga schools. It is hailed for its consolidation of Hindu laws on succession into one Act.
The law of intestacy was virtually codified by the Intestate Succession Act, which came into force on 18 March 1988. Before that, the South African system of intestate succession had to be construed from a variety of common-law and statutory rules. While the Intestate Succession Act is important, one cannot discount case law when determining the rules of intestate succession. If and when the RCLSA is promulgated into law, it, too, will be relevant for determining South Africa's intestate-succession laws.
Any property possessed by a Hindu female is to be held by her absolute property and she is given full power to deal with it and dispose it of by will as she likes. Parts of this Act was amended in 2005 by the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005. The Act lays down a uniform and comprehensive system of inheritance and applies to persons governed by both the Mitākṣarā and Dāyabhāga schools. It is hailed for its consolidation of Hindu laws on succession into one Act.
There is a statute not yet in force (the Reform of Customary Law of Succession and Regulation of Related Matters Act) which states that the estates of persons subject to customary law who die intestate will devolve in terms of the Intestate Succession Act. This Act thus modifies the customary-law position. While the Intestate Succession Act is important, one cannot discount case law when determining the rules of intestate succession. If and when the RCLSA is promulgated into law, it, too, will be relevant for determining South Africa's intestate-succession laws.
However, a minor can make a will subject to ratification on attaining majority. According to Muslim Law, the age of Majority is 15 years, but it is not applicable to the wills in India. 2. Competence of Legatee:-- Any person having capacity to hold the property can be a legatee. The Legatee may be a Muslim or a Non-Muslim. 4. Testamentary Capacity:- A Muslim cannot dispose of by will more than 1%3 of the net assets after allowing (meeting) for the debts and funeral expenses of the testator (under both Hanafi Law and Shia Law). The remaining 2/3 share should be made available for distribution amongst the heirs.