Collagen is the most abundant protein in the body and is a key constituent of all connective tissues. Collagen provides the infrastructure of the musculoskeletal system, essential for mobility. The intake of collagen ensures the cohesion, elasticity and regeneration of skin, hair, tendon, cartilage, bones and joints. All of these tissues, the bones, ligaments, tendons, and the skeletal muscles themselves are made up of proteins. The most predominant protein is collagen. Collagen is vital for strengthening blood vessels and giving skin its elasticity and strength.
Yes. Collagen is a mineral in your bone and marrow that makes your bones flexible yet strong enough to withstand a blow. :). The organic material in bone is collagen. This is a protein which forms long, flexible fibres in the matrix surrounding the bone cells. 
Types of Collagen. There are many different types of collagen found throughout the body. Some of the most common are Type I and Type II. Type I collagen is the most abundant and is found in scar tissue, skin, tendons, artery walls, and bones. It is a very strong type of collagen, with good tensile strength. Type II collagen is found in hyaline cartilage like nose, ears, trachea, larynx, and smaller respiratory tubes, which is the most abundant type of cartilage in the body. Type III collagen is found in blood vessel
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers.
collagen. a fibrous structural protein that constitutes the protein of the white fibers (collagenous fibers) of skin, tendon, bone cartilage and all other connective tissues. It also occurs dispersed in a gel to provide stiffening, as in the vitreous humor of the eye. It is made of monomers of tropocollagen. The major protein of the white fibers of connective tissue, cartilage, and bone; insoluble in water but can be altered to easily digestible, soluble gelatins by boiling in water, dilute acids, or alkalies. See also: collagen fiber. Synonym(s): ossein, osseine, ostein, osteine.
Increase of calcium and collagen will cut the risk of osteoporosis. Cartilage. The cartilage is a tissue made of fibres located at the end of the bones. It reduces friction between the bones. Long term adaptations help the hyaline cartilage increase its thickness. Lifting weights can help thicken the hyaline cartilage. ATP is produced and goes to your muscles
collagen. The major protein of the white fibres of connective tissue, cartilage, tendons and bones. It is strong, fibrous, insoluble in water, rich in glycine and proline and can be hydrolysed into gelatin by boiling. The major protein of the white fibers of connective tissue, cartilage, and bone; insoluble in water but can be altered to easily digestible, soluble gelatins by boiling in water, dilute acids, or alkalies. See also: collagen fiber. Synonym(s): ossein, osseine, ostein, osteine.
Increase in bone calcium stores. Mechanical force links to bone strength because the demands that are placed upon the bones will help increase bone strength. Your bone calcium stores are the amount of calcium that is stored in your body. When you exercise your skeletal system responds to this by taking in more calcium. 
Collagen /ˈkɒlədʒɨn/ is the main structural protein in the extracellular space in the various connective tissues in animals. As the main component of connective tissue, it is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up from 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. The name collagen comes from the Greek κόλλα (kolla), kólla  meaning , glue and -suffix, -γέν, gen denoting. Producing this refers to the'compound s early use in the process of boiling the skin and sinews of horses and other animals to obtain. glue
Collagen, in the form of elongated fibrils, is mostly found in fibrous tissues such as tendons, ligaments and skin. It is also abundant in corneas, cartilage, bones, blood vessels, the gut, intervertebral discs and the dentin in teeth. In muscle tissue, it serves as a major component of the endomysium. The name collagen comes from the Greek κόλλα (kolla), kólla  meaning , glue and -suffix, -γέν, gen denoting. Producing this refers to the'compound s early use in the process of boiling the skin and sinews of horses and other animals to obtain. glue