For the purposes of parking, stopping and standing, a truck is considered a commercial vehicle. The full listing of regulations for parking, stopping and standing a vehicle in New York City can be found in Section (pdf) 4-08 of the New York City Traffic Rules. Double Parking. Under the New York City Traffic Rules, double parking is when the driver of a vehicle stands or parks that vehicle on the roadway side of another vehicle that is stopped, standing, or parked at the curb.
For the purposes other than parking, stopping and standing rules, a vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for the transportation of property or for the provision of commercial services and bearing commercial plates is considered a commercial vehicle. Double Parking. Under the New York City Traffic Rules, double parking is when the driver of a vehicle stands or parks that vehicle on the roadway side of another vehicle that is stopped, standing, or parked at the curb.
1 . Every motor vehicle used for transportation of persons that is designed for carrying more than 14 passengers, or has more than four tires, or that exceeds 9 feet in height from underside of tire to the top of the vehicle, 7 feet in width or 19 feet in length, . 
A vehicle may be considered a commercial vehicle if it: 1  Belongs to a company or corporation. 2  Is used for business, but is in an individual's name, such as a sole proprietor. 3  Is a leased vehicle and in the name of the financial institution that owns it. 1 Is a leased vehicle and in the name of the financial institution that owns it. 2  Exceeds a certain weight or class and therefore, is classified as commercial even though it may not be commercially used or commercially owned. 3  A weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more is always consider commercial.
In the United States a vehicle is designated “commercial” when it is titled or registered to a company. This is a broad definition, as commercial vehicles may be fleet vehicles, company cars, or other vehicles used for business. 1 Is a leased vehicle and in the name of the financial institution that owns it. 2  Exceeds a certain weight or class and therefore, is classified as commercial even though it may not be commercially used or commercially owned. 3  A weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more is always consider commercial.
For the purposes other than parking, stopping and standing rules, a vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for the transportation of property or for the provision of commercial services and bearing commercial plates is considered a commercial vehicle. 
13.000 Commercial Vehicle Definition. A commercial vehicle is a type of vehicle: 1  Used or maintained for the transportation of persons for hire, compensation, or profit (for example, a taxi or limousine). 2  Designed, used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property. 1 A bus is a commercial vehicle when: 2  Used to transport persons for hire, compensation, or profit. 3  Bus transportation is supplied by a profit-making entity and a customer ends up paying for the bus service as part of the overall consideration for the primary service.
1 Is used for business, but is in an individual's name, such as a sole proprietor. 2  Is a leased vehicle and in the name of the financial institution that owns it. 3  Exceeds a certain weight or class and therefore, is classified as commercial even though it may not be commercially used or commercially owned. 1 Is a leased vehicle and in the name of the financial institution that owns it. 2  Exceeds a certain weight or class and therefore, is classified as commercial even though it may not be commercially used or commercially owned. 3  A weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more is always consider commercial.
The European Union defines commercial motor vehicle as any motorised road vehicle, that by its type of construction and equipment is designed for, and capable of transporting, whether for payment or not: (1) more than nine persons, including the driver; (2) goods and standard fuel tanks. 1 Is a leased vehicle and in the name of the financial institution that owns it. 2  Exceeds a certain weight or class and therefore, is classified as commercial even though it may not be commercially used or commercially owned. 3  A weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more is always consider commercial.