In modern usage, a ceilidh cèilidh or /ceilidh/ ˈkeɪli is a Traditional gaelic social, gathering which usually involves Playing gaelic folk music and. dancing Ceilidh cèilidh music may be provided by an assortment of, fiddle, flute tin, whistle, accordion, bodhran bodhrán hammered dulcimer and in more recent times, also, drums, guitar mandolin bouzouki and electric. bass guitar
A Scottish dance group is only as good as its leader and its players. Tony & Donald, the organisers of Scotland's Ceilidh Band, come with a 20-year track record in the Scottish traditional music scene. Few other organisers can provide this depth of expertise and insider-knowledge on how to deliver a memorable performance along with a great party atmosphere. We had a fantastic ceilidh.
CEILIDH is a public key cryptosystem based on the discrete logarithm problem in algebraic torus. This idea was first introduced by Alice Silverberg and Karl Rubin in 2003. The main advantage of the system is the reduced size of the keys for the same security over basic schemes. 
Ceilidh bands; great fun, great value. For sheer enjoyment and entertainment, a ceilidh dance band is terrific value for money. Most bands require very little in the way of equipment provided by you, as they bring their own, and setup times are usually quite short compared to function bands. This top class ceilidh / barn dance band has an amazing funk / rock sound and a unique approach to getting the audience involved. The musicians are some of the best in the country and line-up is very flexible to suit your budget and / or venue.
A professional Irish, Scottish or English ceilidh band is the driving force behind all this fun and laughter, not just providing the music but also teaching everyone how to do the dances. This top class ceilidh / barn dance band has an amazing funk / rock sound and a unique approach to getting the audience involved. The musicians are some of the best in the country and line-up is very flexible to suit your budget and / or venue.
In Ireland the first Ceilidh cèilidh band was put together in 1926 By Seamus, Séamus Éireann'radio eireann éireann S, director of music to have dance music-for his. Studio based Programmes dancing at ceilidhs cèilidhs is usually In the, form of ceilidh cèilidh dances. set dances or couple dances Ceilidh cèilidh music may be provided by an assortment of, fiddle, flute tin, whistle, accordion, bodhran bodhrán hammered dulcimer and in more recent times, also, drums, guitar mandolin bouzouki and electric. bass guitar
What is a Ceilidh. A Ceilidh (pronounced Kay-lay, emphasis on 1st syllable) is many things. It derives from the Gaelic word meaning a visit and originally meant just that (and still does in Gaelic). It can also mean a house party, a concert or more usually an evening of informal Scottish traditional dancing to informal music. 
How to book your ceilidh band. You’ll find lots of ceilidh bands here at Alive Network to choose from; simply click on the link in the left hand column and browse each band’s Profile to hear demo tracks, view their dance and song repertoire and, in most cases, watch a video too. This top class ceilidh / barn dance band has an amazing funk / rock sound and a unique approach to getting the audience involved. The musicians are some of the best in the country and line-up is very flexible to suit your budget and / or venue.
Originally the word Ceilidh (kay-lee) descended from the Gaelic word for ‘gathering’ or ‘party’… However, these days when people think of a Ceilidh, they think of a fun filled night of wild dancing, good music and great company! As for the rest: they all mean pretty much the same thing! Having a Ceilidh is the perfect Icebreaker! Whatever the occasion, from team-building days, to Weddings and Birthdays, Corporate Functions or Student Nights!The emphasis is on having fun and being sociable!
Reel Time Ceilidh Band: Contemporary Scottish music with a funky twist. A selection of our 2011 favourite functions, weddings, corporate dinners and events. Set to one of our new tracks from the upcoming album. Available worldwide for Burns and St Andrews dinners, ceilidhs, weddings, festivals and other interesting events. 