The rate of decay is conveniently expressed in terms of an isotope's half-life, or the time it takes for one-half of a particular radioactive isotope in a sample to decay. Another important atomic clock used for dating purposes is based on the radioactive decay of the isotope carbon-14, which has a half-life of 5,730 years. Carbon-14 is produced continuously in the Earth's upper atmosphere as a result of the bombardment of nitrogen by neutrons from cosmic rays.
The rate of radioactive decay is commonly measured in a length of time called a half-life. The half-life is the amount of time it takes for half of a given amount of a radioactive isotope to decay away. It's an easy way to get a feel for how long a substance takes to decay, and it's a great way to begin a comparison of the activity of one isotope to another. Radioactive decay is the spontaneous change or disintegration of an unstable atomic nucleus as it transforms itself to lose energy.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting radiation. A material that spontaneously emits such radiation — which includes alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays and conversion electrons — is considered radioactive. The product is called the daughter nuclide. In some decays, the parent and the daughter nuclides are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in the creation of an atom of a different element. This is known as a nuclear transmutation.
Atoms of the same element with differing atomic weights are called isotopes. Radioactive decay is a spontaneous process in which an isotope (the parent) loses particles from its nucleus to form an isotope of a new element (the daughter). Another important atomic clock used for dating purposes is based on the radioactive decay of the isotope carbon-14, which has a half-life of 5,730 years. Carbon-14 is produced continuously in the Earth's upper atmosphere as a result of the bombardment of nitrogen by neutrons from cosmic rays.
By contrast, there are radioactive decay processes that do not result in a nuclear transmutation. The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in a process called gamma decay, or be used to eject an orbital electron by its interaction with the excited nucleus, in a process called internal conversion. The product is called the daughter nuclide. In some decays, the parent and the daughter nuclides are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in the creation of an atom of a different element. This is known as
Radioactive Half-Life. The radioactive half-life for a given radioisotope is a measure of the tendency of the nucleus to decay or disintegrate and as such is based purely upon that probability. The rate of radioactive decay is typically expressed in terms of either the radioactive half-life, or the radioactive decay constant. They are related as follows: The decay constant is also sometimes called the disintegration constant.
References. Quizzes. Radioactive Decay and Half-Life. As mentioned previously, radioactive decay is the disintegration of an unstable atom with an accompanying emission of radiation. As a radioisotope atom decays to a more stable atom, it emits radiation only once. The decay of radioactive elements occurs at a fixed rate. The half-life of a radioisotope is the time required for one half of the amount of unstable material to degrade into a more stable material.
We measure the quantity of radioactivity in several different units, but they are all related to a single basic characteristic of radioactive materials-the rate at which they decay.. This question calls for some discussion of some of the terms used to describe radioactivity. When a radioactive atom goes through such a transition, it always changes to a more stable atom. We call this change a decay or disintegration, although the atom doesn't really disintegrate. The decay of radioactive material into stable material is also accompanied by the emission of ionizing radiation.
Alpha decay is one type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms (or decays) into an atom with a mass number decreased by 4 and atomic number decreased by 2. The product is called the daughter nuclide. In some decays, the parent and the daughter nuclides are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in the creation of an atom of a different element. This is known as a nuclear transmutation.
Graph of decayCalculation. The radioactive half-life for a given radioisotope is a measure of the tendency of the nucleus to decay or disintegrate and as such is based purely upon that probability. The rate of radioactive decay is typically expressed in terms of either the radioactive half-life, or the radioactive decay constant. They are related as follows: The decay constant is also sometimes called the disintegration constant.