Beef and other red meats are also high in valine. A 3 oz. serving of beef provides 1,028 mg of valine. Tuna is also high in valine, delivering 1,117 mg in every 3 oz. portion. Photo Credit naito8/iStock/Getty Images. Valine is one of the nine essential amino acids that your body requires for healthy cell and organ functioning. As an essential amino acid, valine can only be obtained through food sources, as your body isn't capable of synthesizing the amino acid on its own.
Edamame, or immature soybeans that can be eaten after they've been steamed, contain 251 mg of valine in a 1/2 cup serving. The 9 g of protein in one cup of soy milk include 345 mg from valine, while a 1/2 cup serving of tofu delivers 573 mg of valine. Soy-based products that use soy milk as a base, such as soy yogurt and ice cream, are also rich sources of valine. Photo Credit naito8/iStock/Getty Images. Valine is one of the nine essential amino acids that your body requires for healthy cell and organ functioning. As an essential amino acid, valine can only be obtained through food sources, as your body isn't capable of synthesizing the amino acid on its own.
Amino acids are essential for everyday body functions, as well as for maintaining muscle and regulation of the immune system. L-Valine is not processed by the liver, it is taken up by muscles. Some foods that contain L-Valine include leafy vegetables, kidney beans, poultry and milk. Benefits of L-Valine Some of the benefits of L-Valine include improvement in insomnia and nervousness. 
High sources of valine include: beans, spinach, legumes, broccoli, sesame seeds, hemp seeds, chia seeds, soy, peanuts, whole grains, figs, avocado, apples, sprouted grains and seeds, blueberries, cranberries, oranges, and apricots. 
Description. Valine is an essential amino acid. This means that it must be obtained through the diet in adequate quantities to meet the body's needs. Valine is a member of the branched-chain amino acid family, along with leucine and isoleucine. The three branched-chain amino acids constitute approximately 70 percent of the amino acids in the body proteins. 
A cup of milk has 800 mg leucine and 500 mg valine and isoleucine combined. Other good sources of leucine include poultry, red meats, dairy products, beans and brown rice. Leucine is essential for growth because it stimulates protein synthesis in your muscles. Valine, in fact, is found in most foods and is an essential part of many proteins. It can spare glucose in your body due to the fact that it can be metabolized to make energy. You’ll find valine in cottage cheese, turkey, wild game, sausage and duck.
Valine. Valine, in fact, is found in most foods and is an essential part of many proteins. It can spare glucose in your body due to the fact that it can be metabolized to make energy. You’ll find valine in cottage cheese, turkey, wild game, sausage and duck.
Isoleucine and valine are found together in relatively high amounts in soy protein and nuts; nuts and soy flour also are good sources of leucine. Lentils, chickpeas, chicken, rye and liver are good sources of valine and isoleucine as well. Valine, in fact, is found in most foods and is an essential part of many proteins. It can spare glucose in your body due to the fact that it can be metabolized to make energy. You’ll find valine in cottage cheese, turkey, wild game, sausage and duck.
From this Valine rich foods list, the highest amount of Valine is Egg, white, dried, powder, stabilized, glucose reduced which in 100g contains 6.17 g of Valine. Conversely, the food with the lowest amount of Valine is Seeds, cottonseed flour, low fat (glandless) . This food item, in 100g, contains 2.557 g of Valine. In summary, from the list of foods on this page, in 100 g, the range of Valine is 6.17 g through to 2.557 g of Valine.
The myelin covering of neurons may be negatively affected by a deficiency of the amino acid valine in the body. Good food sources of the amino acid valine include various grains, all kinds of dairy products-cottage cheese in particular, foods like mushrooms, poultry and meats, peanuts and soy proteins. 