Muscles: Rotator Cuff. The main muscles that are used in conjunction with the glenohumeral joint are the group of muscles known as the rotator cuff. The rotator cuff is made up of four muscles, the supraspinatus, subscapularis, infraspinatus, and teres minor. All four of these muscles connect the scapula to the humerus. One main purpose of the rotator cuff muscles is to pull the humerus into the scapula such that the two bones are fitted tightly against one another. Thus rotator cuff muscles are important for stabilizing the glenohumeral joint.
The rotator cuff muscles act as a force couple with each other and the deltoid. The rotator cuff muscles work together to contain the glenohumeral joint, which is an inherently unstable joint. The progression of a rotator cuff tear or dysfunction leads to superiorsubluxation of the humeral head. In the shoulder the body is the humeral head and the equal but opposite forces are the rotator cuff muscles. In a force couple, force generated by one muscle (the primary agonist) requires the activation of an antagonistic muscle so that a dislocating force does not result (Nordin & Frankel, 2001).
Rotator Cuff. The rotator cuff is a collection of muscles originating on or about the shoulder blade. These muscles act on the shoulder by anchoring onto the humerus, or ball. The workhorse for this complex is the rotator cuff tendons. Due to generalized use, overuse, or injuries, these tendons are susceptible to damage. Muscles. The subscapularis originates from the anterior, or front, portion of the shoulder. The end result of damage to the rotator cuff is tearing. Typically, the tendon rips off its attachment to the humerus. The muscle bellies themselves continue to fire and pull on the tendon whether it is attached or not.
The shoulder complex comprises 30 muscles. These muscles both move the shoulder and stabilise it - 'movers' and 'shakers'. The rotator cuff muscles predominantly stabilise the glenohumeral joint, but also contribute significantly to movement. In the shoulder the body is the humeral head and the equal but opposite forces are the rotator cuff muscles. In a force couple, force generated by one muscle (the primary agonist) requires the activation of an antagonistic muscle so that a dislocating force does not result (Nordin & Frankel, 2001).
The rotator cuff muscles are important in shoulder movements and in maintaining glenohumeral joint (shoulder joint) stability. These muscles arise from the scapula and connect to the head of the humerus, forming a cuff at the shoulder joint. The tendons at the ends of the rotator cuff muscles can become torn, leading to pain and restricted movement of the arm. A torn rotator cuff can occur following a trauma to the shoulder or it can occur through the wear and tear on tendons, most commonly the supraspinatus tendon found under the acromion.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In anatomy, the rotator cuff (sometimes incorrectly called a rotator cup, rotor cuff, or rotary cup) is a group of muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the shoulder. The four muscles of the rotator cuff are over half of the seven scapulohumeral muscles. The tendons at the ends of the rotator cuff muscles can become torn, leading to pain and restricted movement of the arm. A torn rotator cuff can occur following a trauma to the shoulder or it can occur through the wear and tear on tendons, most commonly the supraspinatus tendon found under the acromion.
Impingement of the Shoulder (Rotator Cuff). The rotator cuff is a group of four muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the shoulder. These muscles enable the wide range of motion in the shoulder. They emerge from the scapula or shoulder blade and connect to the head of the humerus bone, forming a cuff at the shoulder joint. Small fluid-filled sacs called bursae are also present near the rotator cuff. These cushion the space between bones, tendons, and muscles around the joint facilitating movement. Any inflammation of the tendons (tendinitis) in the rotator cuff or of the bursae (bursitis) can cause the muscles of the rotator cuff to be rubbed or squeezed against the bones. This type of impingement causes tenderness in the front of the shoulder, and sometimes stiffness as well.
(wikipedia). The rotator cuff muscles are important in shoulder movements and in maintaining glenohumeral joint (shoulder joint) stability.[2] These muscles arise from the scapula and connect to the head of the humerus, forming a cuff at the shoulder joint. The rotator cuff is a group of four muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the shoulder.