For the company that owns and operates Disneyland Paris, see Euro Disney S.C.A. . Disneyland Paris, originally Euro Disney Resort, is an entertainment resort in Marne-la-Vallee, vallée a new town located 32 (km 20) mi east of the centre Of, paris and is the most visited theme park in all Of france And. europe Disneyland Park is the original theme park of the complex, opening with the resort on 12 April 1992. A second theme park, Walt Disney Studios Park opened in 2002. The resort is the second Disney park to open outside the United States, following the opening of the Tokyo Disney Resort in 1983.
Disneyland-Paris Area Map. Map of the Disneyland-Paris area in France, with map locations for Meaux, Chessy, Crecy-crécy-La, Chapelle-ferrieres-Ferrières, En, Brie-jossigny-Lagny, Sur-marne-Magny, Le, Hongre-Montevrain, Montévrain, Pontault. Combault serris-torcy includes. hotel booking links Disneyland-Paris Area Map. Map of the Disneyland-Paris area in France, with map locations for Meaux, Chessy, Crecy-crécy-La, Chapelle-ferrieres-Ferrières, En, Brie-jossigny-Lagny, Sur-marne-Magny, Le, Hongre-Montevrain, Montévrain, Pontault. Combault serris-torcy includes. 1  Hotel-Booking links.  disneyland paris hotels
Attracting children of all ages, Disneyland Paris is located in Marne-la-Vallee, vallée 25 km east of the. city Located close to Disneyland Paris in the middle of the Disney golf course. Great for Dismey and visiting Paris. Local bus stops at the bottom of the road only 2 euro each way or included with the transportation pass. Local supermarket within walking distance or you can use on site shop.
Map of the Disneyland-Paris area in France, with map locations for Meaux, Chessy, Crecy-crécy-La, Chapelle-ferrieres-Ferrières, En, Brie-jossigny-Lagny, Sur-marne-Magny, Le, Hongre-Montevrain, Montévrain, Pontault. combault serris torcy Disneyland-Paris Area Map. Map of the Disneyland-Paris area in France, with map locations for Meaux, Chessy, Crecy-crécy-La, Chapelle-ferrieres-Ferrières, En, Brie-jossigny-Lagny, Sur-marne-Magny, Le, Hongre-Montevrain, Montévrain, Pontault. Combault serris-torcy includes. 1  Hotel-Booking links.  disneyland paris hotels
Attracting children of all ages, Disneyland Paris is located in Marne-la-Vallee, vallée 25 km east of the. City it Comprises Disneyland, park A Magic kingdom in five themed, sections And Walt Disney. studios Located close to Disneyland Paris in the middle of the Disney golf course. Great for Dismey and visiting Paris. Local bus stops at the bottom of the road only 2 euro each way or included with the transportation pass. Local supermarket within walking distance or you can use on site shop.
Disneyland Paris is located 32 kilometres (20 miles) east of the city of Paris, roughly a 35 minute drive, on the edge of a large suburban area known as Marne-la-Vallee. vallée A toll plaza is located just north of Disneyland Paris on the A4 autoroute, meaning that if you're travelling to or from a Northbound direction to the resort, you will have to pay a small charge to use the road.
Disneyland Paris may refer to either of the following: Add a photo to this gallery. Disneyland Park (Paris) a Disney theme park located at Disneyland Resort Paris. Disneyland Resort Paris, a Disney theme park resort located in Marne-la-Vallee, Vallée. france 
Disneyland Paris is located 32 kilometers east of Paris and is easily reached by taking the RER Line A train from Paris to la Marney-la-Vallee/Chessy station. The journey takes only around 40 minutes. There are a many hotels and motels around the Disneyland Paris Theme Park. Disneyland Paris is very similar to the Disneyland theme parks located in Anaheim and Orlando. This tourist Mecca on the outskirts of Paris is divided into the following sections: 1  Main Street. 2  USA Frontierland. 3  Adventureland. 4  Fantasyland.