Meaning of Uzzah. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Uzzah means-strength goat.The name Uzzah originated as an Israeli name. The name Uzzah is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-strength goat. Origin-Israel
Dictionaries-Smith's Bible Dictionary-Uzza, (strength), one of the sons of Abinadab, in whose house at Kirjath-jearim the ark rested for twenty years. Uzzah probably was the second and Ahio the third. They both accompanied its removal when David first undertook to carry it to Jerusalem.
Perez-uzzah meaning. For a meaning of the name Perez-uzzah, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads The Breech Of Uzzah (which might be a typo, and a jolly one to boot), but in a footnote to 2 Samuel 6:8, NOBSE interprets it as The Breakthrough Of Uzza. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names proposes Breach Of Uzzah. The name Perez-uzzah in the Bible. The name Perez-uzzah is mentioned twice in the Bible but only in one scene, namely that of king David's first attempt to transport the Ark of the Covenant from Kiriath-jearim to Jerusalem (2 Samuel 6:8, 1 Chronicles 13:1).
[ syll. uz-zah, uzz-ah ] The baby girl name Uzzah is pronounced as uwZSAH- †. Uzzah's origin is Arabic. Uzzah is a form of the name Uzza. Uzzah is an unusual baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Uzzah include Uzza, Uki (Japanese), Usha (Indian), Ushas, Ushi, Uza, Uchechee, Uchechey, Uchechi, Uchechie, Uchechy, Uchechea, and Uchecheah. 
0 Shares. Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Uzzah. strength, a son of Abinadab, in whose house the men of Kirjath-jearim placed the ark when it was brought back from the land of the Philistines (1 Samuel 7:1). The place where this occurred was henceforth called Perez-uzzah (1 Chronicles 13:11). David on this feared to proceed further, and placed the ark in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite (2 Samuel 6:2-11; 1 Chronicles 13:6-13). These dictionary topics are fromM.G.
Uzzah meaning. For a meaning of the name Uzzah, both NOBSE Study Bible Name List and Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names read Strength. Also note the striking similarity between the names עזה (Uzzah) and עזה (Gaza). | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |. The name Uzzah in the Bible. There are two people named Uzzah in the Bible, one is a descendant of Merari, a son of Levi, whose father is named Shimei and whose son is named Shimea (1 Chronicles 6:29). Probably the most famous one is the son of Abinadab and the brother of Ahio (2 Samuel 6:3)
Uzziah /uzzi-ah/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Hebrew origin, and the name Uzziah means the Lord is my strength; strength, power. Uzziah is an alternate form of Uziah (Hebrew). Uzziah is also a derivative of Uziel (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Ulziah, Umziah, Upziah. 