Patrick Ryan/Lifesize/Getty Images. Aristotle coined logos, ethos and pathos as the three pillars of rhetoric. Today, it is used as the three persuasive appeals -- distinct ways to successfully convince an audience that a particular stance, belief or conclusion is correct.
Pathos or the emotional appeal, means to persuade an audience by appealing to their emotions. Authors use pathos to invoke sympathy from an audience; to make the audience feel what what the author wants them to feel. A common use of pathos would be to draw pity from an audience.
Ethos is a term with Greek origins, and it refers to the morals, values and beliefs of a person, or even an entire culture. Ethos is also one of the three rhetorical appeals identified by Aristotle. The other two appeals are logos (logic) and pathos (emotion).
Greek philosopher Aristotle separated the means of rhetoric into three categories--ethos, logos and pathos. Aristotle was born in 384 B.C. in Stagirus, a seaport on the coast of Thrace. As a teenager, he was sent to Athens and studied under Plato. When he began to lecture, Aristotle focused on the subject of rhetoric.
Pathos. Pathos, Greek for suffering, refers to an appeal based on emotion or feelings rather than logic. Pathos appeals try to resonate with the audience's emotions and make the audience identify emotionally with the speaker or writer.
Ethos, Pathos, and Logos are modes of persuasion used to convince audiences. They are also referred to as the three artistic proofs (Aristotle coined the terms), and are all represented by Greek words. Ethos or the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the author’s credibility or character. An author would use ethos to show to his audience that he is a credible source and is worth listening to.
In rhetoric-- the art of persuasive speaking or writing -- the different ways of persuading someone to your side are called appeals.. The Greek philosopher Aristotle referred to three kinds of appeals: logos, ethos, and pathos.