Glands and the Digestive System. Several glands are involved in the digestion process. These include the salivary glands, glands in the stomach, and glands in the duodenum or small intestine. The salivary glands located under the tongue, and in the back of the mouth, produce saliva in the mouth.
There are four accessory glands of the digestive system and they are the salivary glands, the pancreas, the liver and the gallbladder. The salivary glands in mammals a … re exocrine glands that produce saliva. They also secrete amylase, an enzyme that breaks down starch into glucose.
The endocrine system uses 2 hormones to regulate the digestive function of the pancreas: secretin and cholecystokinin (CCK) . 1  Cells in the lining of the duodenum produce secretin in response to acidic chyme emerging from the stomach.
Science Main Index. Glands are organs in the body that release hormones. Hormones are chemical messengers the help regulate bodily functions. In the digestive system, hormones regulate functions such as enzyme and gastric juice production used in the breakdown of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates.
Function of the Digestive System. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long tube from the mouth to the anus. The main function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them for energy and cell nourishment.
The primary function of the digestive system is to break down the food we eat into smaller parts so the body can use them to build and nourish cells and provide energy. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. Inside this tube is a lining called the mucosa. In the mouth, stomach, and small intestine, the mucosa contains tiny glands that produce juices to help digest food.
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Functioning as an exocrine gland, the pancreas excretes enzymes to break down the proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in food.