As you exercise, the blood vessels in your muscles dilate and the blood flow is greater, just as more water flows through a fire hose than through a garden hose. Your body has an interesting way of making those vessels expand. Because the rest of the body gets the message to constrict the blood vessels and the muscles dilate their blood vessels, blood flow from nonessential organs (for example, stomach, intestines and kidney) is diverted to working muscle. This helps increase the delivery of oxygenated blood to working muscle further. Print.
Your working muscles can take oxygen out of the blood three times as well as your resting muscles. Your body has several ways to increase the flow of oxygen-rich blood to working muscle: 1  increased local blood flow to the working muscle. 2  diversion of blood flow from nonessential organs to the working muscle. 3  increased flow of blood from the heart (cardiac output).
Your heart rate and blood flow increase with exercise. Photo Credit IT Stock/Polka Dot/Getty Images. There are a variety of physiological reasons why more blood travels to your muscles during exercise, which allows you to exercise at optimal levels.
Blood carries oxgen, muscles need oxygen to work. Muscle cells are the only cells in the body with memory..they expand and contract during exercise depending on the blood flow, and the oxygen. caz_v8 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. oxygen is carried in hemoglobin which is found in the blood. muscles require oxygen to function and the greater pressure you put onto your muscles the more oxygen they will require to function to their full potential. this is the basic outline of it
The Skeletal Muscle System. Skeletal muscles are the muscles found in your legs and arms and throughout the body. The skeletal system is different from the smooth muscle system in organs like your liver and the cardiac muscle in your heart because the skeletal muscles contract voluntarily.
Your body performs a process called Respiration. This is when your body combines glucose and oxygen to create energy (and water vapour). Your blood carries glucose and oxygen so when you exercise your muscles need to perform respiration faster in order to create energy.