One way to make potassium chloride is to react the hydroxide with hydrochloric acid. The resulting salt can then be purified by recrystallization. In practice however, potassium chloride is available in massive amounts in nature and can simply be recrystallized to recover it. KOH(aq) + HCl(aq) → KCl(aq) + H 2 O(l). 
Potassium chloride also is a naturally occurring mineral and is used primarily in agriculture. It works in softeners the same way sodium chloride does but replaces the hard water minerals with potassium instead of sodium. Remember, both sodium chloride and potassium chloride softener salts have a role to play in your operation. Your input can carry a lot of weight in the customer’s product choices. By sharing your product knowledge with customers you can maximize the sales potential of both kinds of products.
Sodium chloride and potassium chloride are ionic compounds. Both are solids, where cations and anions are in a closed packed structure. Sodium and potassium are group 1 metals, which have the capability to make +1 cations. Chloride is the -1 anion made by group 7 element, chlorine. Since group 1 elements are electropositive and group seven elements are electronegative, their electronegativity difference is larger. So they form ionic bonds.
Potassium forms an alloy with sodium (NaK) that is used as a heat transfer medium in some types of nuclear reactors. Potassium forms many important compounds. Potassium chloride (KCl) is the most common potassium compound. It is used in fertilizers, as a salt substitute and to produce other chemicals. Potassium hydroxide (KOH) is used to make soaps, detergents and drain cleaners. 
Potassium Chloride. Potassium chloride, which is shown as KCl, is an ionic solid. It is in the form of a white color, odorless crystal. The crystal structure of this is a face-centered cubic structure. Sodium and potassium are group 1 metals, which have the capability to make +1 cations. Chloride is the -1 anion made by group 7 element, chlorine. Since group 1 elements are electropositive and group seven elements are electronegative, their electronegativity difference is larger. So they form ionic bonds.
The chemical compound potassium chloride (KCl) is a metal halide salt composed of potassium and chloride. It is odorless and has a white or colorless vitreous crystal appearance. The solid dissolves readily in water and its solutions have a salt-like taste. 
Potassium is chemically very similar to sodium, which is also in column 1 of the Periodic table, and is in row 3, adjacent to potassium in row 4. They both have a similar ionization energy, which allows for each atom to give up its sole outer electron. In the Periodic table, potassium is one of seven elements in column (group) 1 (alkali metals): they all have a single electron in their outer electron shell, which they readily give up to create an atom with a positive charge-a cation, and combine with anions to form salts.
You lose both potassium and sodium via your sweat. Sodium chloride or table salt and potassium have some things in common: They’re both electrolytes present in your body and they both end in -ium. But when it comes to their effects in the body, salt and potassium have different purposes. Sodium chloride or table salt and potassium have some things in common: They’re both electrolytes present in your body and they both end in -ium