The Anglo-Saxons came to England after the Romans left in the year 410. Nobody was really ruling all of England at the time – there were a lot of little kingdoms ruled by Anglo-Saxons that eventually came together as one country. The earliest English kings were Anglo-Saxons, starting with Egbert in the year 802. Anglo-Saxons ruled for about three centuries, and during this time they formed the basis for the English monarchy and laws. 1 Egbert was the first Anglo-Saxon king to rule England. 2  The last Anglo-Saxon king was Harold II in 1066. 3  The two most famous Anglo-Saxon kings are Alfred the Great and Canute the Great. 4  The Anglo-Saxon period covers about 600 years, and Anglo-Saxon kings ruled England for about 300 years.
The Anglo-Saxons were a people who inhabited Great Britain from the 5th century. They included people from Germanic tribes who migrated to the island from continental Europe, and their descendants; as well as indigenous British groups who adopted some aspects of Anglo-Saxon culture and language. The Anglo-Saxon period includes the creation of an English nation, with many of the aspects that survive today including regional government of shires and hundreds; the re-establishment of Christianity; a flowering in literature and language; and the establishment of charters and law.
With the breakdown of Rome's control of Britain it became possible for the Angles, Saxons and Jutes from across the North Sea who had been raiding the coast of Britain for a hundred years to increase their pressure. Instead of raiding and then withdrawing, by about 450 A.D they were beginning to settle here. 
Includes lesson plans, objectives and resources. In this topic the children will learn about who the Saxon were and why they came to England, aspects of their daily life such as village life, clothing, religion, the Saxon Army, famous Saxon leaders, famous Saxon stories and the archaeological finds at Sutton Hoo. Add to favorites. 
1 The Anglo-Saxons are made up of three tribes who came to England from across the North Sea around the middle of the 5th century – the Angles, Saxons and Jutes. 2  For a long time, England wasn’t really one country – Anglo-Saxon kings ruled lots of little kingdoms across the land. 1 Egbert was the first Anglo-Saxon king to rule England. 2  The last Anglo-Saxon king was Harold II in 1066. 3  The two most famous Anglo-Saxon kings are Alfred the Great and Canute the Great. 4  The Anglo-Saxon period covers about 600 years, and Anglo-Saxon kings ruled England for about 300 years.
They were descendants of three different peoples. The Angles and Saxons came from different parts of what is now Germany, and the Jutes came from Jutland, a part of Denmark. In the 400s the Celtic Britons who were living in England asked the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes to protect them from fierce. Anglo-Saxon... Enable free complete viewings of premium articles from Britannica Online for Kids when linked from your website or blog-post.
The Angle, Saxon, and Jute are known as the Anglo-Saxons. The Angles and the Saxon tribes were the largest of the three attacking tribes and so we often know them as Anglo-Saxons. They shared the same language but were each ruled by different strong warriors. Anglo-Saxons. The Anglo-Saxons were warrior-farmers and came from north-western Europe. They began to invade Britain while the Romans were still in control. The Anglo-Saxons were tall, fair-haired men, armed with swords and spears and round shields. They loved fighting and were very fierce
1 Anglo-Saxon manuscripts-Make your own Anglo-Saxon manuscript. 2  Anglo-Saxon riddles-Solve the Anglo-Saxon riddles and try writing your own. 3  Anglo-Saxon runes-Write in runes, like the Anglo-Saxons did. 4  Make your own timeline-Test your knowledge by arranging time period tabs. 
The Anglo-Saxon age in Britain was from around AD410 to 1066. Find out who they were and where they came from. 