Moisture content is one of the most commonly measured properties of food materials. It is important to food scientists for a number of different reasons: 1  Legal and Labeling Requirements. 2  There are legal limits to the maximum or minimum amount of water that must be present in certain types of food. Selection of a representative sample, and prevention of changes in the properties of the sample prior to analysis, are two major potential sources of error in any food analysis procedure. When determining the moisture content of a food it is important to prevent any loss or gain of water. For this reason, exposure of a sample to the atmosphere, and excessive temperature fluctuations, should be minimize
Soil moisture importance. Water contained in soil is called soil moisture. The water is held within the soil pores. Soil water is the major component of the soil in relation to plant growth. If the moisture content of a soil is optimum for plant growth, plants can readily absorb soil water. Not all the water, held in soil, is available to plants. Much of water remains in the soil as a thin film
1.The degree to which water clings to the soil is the most important soil water characteristic to a growing plant. This concept is often expressed as soil moisture tensi … on. Soil moisture tension is negative pressure and commonly expressed in units of bars. 
While the soil system is fundamental to the growth of living things, water is one of the most important components of plant growth. Moisture in the soil determines crop growth and agricultural production. 
Organic material is also vital to support the presence of earthworms. The tunneling activity of worms is essential for enabling the movement of air and water through the soil. The reason why soil is so important to a plant’s survival is because of this need to maintain a balance between moisture and air. The reason why soil is so important relative to acidity certainly hinges on the interaction of nutrients in the soil. It can be very frustrating for a gardener to regularly apply fertilizer, only to see no improvement in the condition of your plants.
The water is held within the soil pores. Soil water is the major component of the soil in relation to plant growth. If the moisture content of a soil is optimum for plant growth, plants can readily absorb soil water. Not all the water, held in soil, is available to plants. Much of water remains in the soil as a thin film. Soil water dissolves salts and makes up the soil solution, which is important as medium for supply of nutrients to growing plants.
Aim of the test: In almost all soil tests natural moisture content of the soil is to be determined. The knowledge of the natural moisture content is essential in all studies of soil mechanics. To sight a few, natural moisture content is used in determining the bearing capacity and settlement. The natural moisture content will give an idea of the state of soil in the field. Definition: The natural water content also called the natural moisture content is the ratio of the weight of water to the weight of the solids in a given mass of soil. This ratio is usually expressed as percentage. Device: 1. Non-corrodible air-tight container
Water content testing is also used to provide preliminary quality-control information that can be used as a guide during construction on whether water needs to be added or removed from the soil. The water content is always an important factor in controlling earthfill compaction. The definition of water content is “the ratio of the mass of water contained in the pore spaces of soil or rock material, to the solid mass of particles in that material, expressed as a percentage.” The equation is. where: