1. mitral valve-valve with two cusps; situated between the left atrium and the left ventricle. bicuspid valve, left atrioventricular valve. atrioventricular valve-either of two heart valves through which blood flows from the atria to the ventricles; prevents return of blood to the atrium.
The mitral valve (also known as the bicuspid valve or left atrioventricular valve) is a dual-flap (bi-from the Latin, meaning double, and mitral-from the Latin, meaning shaped like a mitre) valve in the heart that lies between the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV).
aortic valve. see aortic valve. atrioventricular v's. the valves between the right atrium and right ventricle (tricuspid valve) and the left atrium and left ventricle (mitral valve). bicuspid valve. mitral valve. cardiac v's. valves that control flow of blood through and from the heart.
The purpose of the valve is to close when the ventricle pumps blood … into the pulmorary arteries that lead to the lungs. The bicuspid valve, or mitral valve, functions similarly to maintain blood flow in one direction only. The bicuspid valve is located on the right side of the heart. Oxygenated blood from the left ventricle is pumped throughout the body as the mitral valve stays closed during compression.
These are the valves of the human heart. The bicuspid (or mitral) valves each have two large flaps, curved to close the rear entrance of a chamber, through which blood enter … s. The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and the right ventricle.
n. 1. (Anatomy) the valve between the left atrium and the left ventricle of the heart, consisting of two membranous flaps, that prevents regurgitation of blood into the atrium. Also called: bicuspid valve.
The mitral valve (not to be confused with the congenital bicuspid aortic valve) and the tricuspid valve are known collectively as the atrioventricular valves because they lie between the atria and the ventricles of the heart and control the flow of blood.
The mitral valve is located between the left atrium (LA) and left ventricle (LV). When oxygenated blood comes from the lungs into the LA, it goes from the LA to the LV (… diastole). When the LV contracts (systole), it pumps the blood from the LV to the aorta for circulation throughout the body.