A similar multicomponential description of emotion is found in sociology. For example, Peggy Thoits described emotions as involving physiological components, cultural or emotional labels (e.g., anger, surprise etc.), expressive body actions, and the appraisal of situations and contexts. There are some theories on emotions arguing that cognitive activity in the form of judgements, evaluations, or thoughts are necessary in order for an emotion to occur. A prominent philosophical exponent is Robert C. Solomon (for example, The Passions, Emotions and the Meaning of Life, 1993).
According to other theories, emotions are not causal forces but simply syndromes of components, which might include motivation, feeling, behavior, and physiological changes, but no one of these components is the emotion. There are some theories on emotions arguing that cognitive activity in the form of judgements, evaluations, or thoughts are necessary in order for an emotion to occur. A prominent philosophical exponent is Robert C. Solomon (for example, The Passions, Emotions and the Meaning of Life, 1993).
Affective science is the scientific study of emotion or affect. This includes the study of emotion elicitation, emotional experience and the recognition of emotions in others. 
Scope. Emotion Science publishes contributions that focus on laboratory and experimental methods. Submissions from multiple domains are encouraged, including but not limited to studies of perceptual, cognitive, developmental, and biological variables that affect or are affected by emotional functioning. This is no longer the case, and researchers from a number of different fields are currently bringing new questions and novel methodologies to the study of emotion as traditionally conceived. At least three different trends structure the new science of emotion.
Emotion is, in everyday speech, a person 's state of feeling in the sense of an affect. Scientific discourse has drifted to other meanings and there is no consensus on a definition. Emotion is often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, and motivation. On some theories, cognition is an important aspect of emotion. Those acting primarily on emotion may seem as if they are not thinking, but mental processes are still essential, particularly in the interpretation of events. There are some theories on emotions arguing that cognitive activity in the form of judgements, evaluations, or thoughts are necessary in order for an emotion to occur. A prominent philosophical exponent is Robert C. Solomon (for example, The Passions, Emotions and the Meaning of Life, 1993).
But coming back to the role of emotion in art and science. I think it’s in both places, but we have to recognise the subjectivity of all of this. Different individuals are touched by different things. It’s nearly impossible to make somebody care about something if they aren’t naturally inclined to care. 
What you've just experienced -- the basic emotion of anger -- has passed. Why a slight impact to the nose leads to a series of physiological and mental changes has long been a matter of speculation, but most psychologists agree that a basic emotion like anger exists as an evolutionary trigger. Over time, this list of basic emotions has been added to, subtracted from and reshaped based on the idea that human emotions are universal. This notion suggests that for any given situation, like being hit in the nose, any individual in any culture would experience something like anger.
In the past ten years, we have seen an enormous explosion of emotion studies. For decades, investigations of human emotion processes were largely confined to a well-defined area of science. This is no longer the case, and researchers from a number of different fields are currently bringing new questions and novel methodologies to the study of emotion as traditionally conceived. At least three different trends structure the new science of emotion.
Our concept of emotion is in large part shaped by the science of emotion, especially the experimental psychology of emotion that emerged in the nineteenth century. The history of modern emotions since the nineteenth century should, then, in large part be a history of science. Science and Emotions after 1945 tells the story of this shift by looking closely at scientific disciplines in which the study of emotions has featured prominently, including medicine, psychiatry, neuroscience, and the social sciences, viewed in each case from a humanities perspective.