Slow twitch motor units are controlled by slow twitch nerves. In the laboratory you can take a nerve from a motor unit that supplies a slow twitch muscle fiber and replace it with one that supplies a fast twitch fiber and the slow twitch fiber will behave just like a fast twitch fiber! The reverse is also true.
Noun. 1. muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. 1. muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber)
Muscle Fibers & Nerves. You see, the type of fiber expressed as far as type I vs Type II is controlled by the nervous system. Nerves that control and connect to a group of motor units run from the brain to the motor unit and are hardwired in the brain. Fast twitch motor units are controlled by fast twitch nerves. In the laboratory you can take a nerve from a motor unit that supplies a slow twitch muscle fiber and replace it with one that supplies a fast twitch fiber and the slow twitch fiber will behave just like a fast twitch fiber! The reverse is also true.
Fiber is an essential part of any diet. Protein gains the most attention when discussing the nutritional aspects of muscle building. However, it is equally important to not neglect other nutrient groups, in particular, fiber. Where protein, carbohydrates and fats provide the energy and raw materials to increase muscle mass, fiber carries away the waste byproducts of muscle production. Fiber Actions. Your body is not able to digest fiber. When eaten, fiber passes through your gastrointestinal system carrying excess nutrients and metabolic waste excreted in bile out of your body. If this waste is excreted into the intestines, and fiber is not present, it may be partially reabsorbed into
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. 1 Type I, slow twitch, or red muscle, is dense with capillaries and is rich in mitochondria and myoglobin, giving the muscle tissue its characteristic red color. 2  It can carry more oxygen and sustain aerobic activity using fats or carbohydrates as fuel.
Synonyms: muscle cell; muscle fiber; muscle fibre. Hypernyms (muscle fiber is a kind of...): somatic cell; vegetative cell (any of the cells of a plant or animal except the reproductive cells; a cell that does not participate in the production of gametes). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of muscle fiber):
Skeletal muscle tissue is attached to our bones. It is striated; that is, the fibers (cells) contain alternating light and dark bands (striations) that are perpendicular to the long axes of the fibers. Skeletal muscle tissue can be made to contract or relax by conscious control (voluntary). And how do we know what type of muscle fibers we have in the muscle we are training; by knowing what muscle fibers a specific muscle has, can take the guess work out of what type of training that specific muscle requires.
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. 
You may also choose to add a fiber supplement to your protein shake if you drink one. Foods contain insoluble or soluble fiber. Soluble fiber absorbs water forming a gel and speeding digestion. Foods that contain mainly soluble fiber include apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley, beans, peas and oats. Fiber Actions. Your body is not able to digest fiber. When eaten, fiber passes through your gastrointestinal system carrying excess nutrients and metabolic waste excreted in bile out of your body. If this waste is excreted into the intestines, and fiber is not present, it may be partially reabsorbed into