Hi all – I was on the pill for 8 years and when I came off it I didn’t get my period for 14 months. Multiple doctors visits, ultrasound to check for cysts, even a CT scan to make sure I don’t have a brain tumour. Well my period finally came back today. Boost Your Detox Capacity. Having a strong ability to detoxify is crucial for recovering from post birth control syndrome, as one of the primary issues with taking oral contraceptives for a long period of time is hormonal build up.
I have started using natural progesterone cream (using it for 3 weeks, then off 1….like birth control but with natural hormones…do that for 3 months, then the 4th month you should have your period without any progesterone). Hopefully, that will help my body get back on a regular cycle. Boost Your Detox Capacity. Having a strong ability to detoxify is crucial for recovering from post birth control syndrome, as one of the primary issues with taking oral contraceptives for a long period of time is hormonal build up.
Having a healthy cycle is step one for boosting your fertility naturally and being able to get pregnant. There are a myriad of reasons your cycle may be irregular such as stress, dietary deficiencies, low body weight, getting off of birth control pills, hormonal imbalance, perimenopause or other underlying issues. My name is Jade and I have been having irregular menstrual cycles for years now (over 10 years). I was formerly a competitive runner through high school and college. In college, I started noticing my cycle becoming irregular then eventually absent. Now I am trying to get it back every month.
Basically, the no contact period should be as long as it takes you to get yourself together and feel great about your life without your ex. In my experience, it can take up to 30 days. However, in extreme cases, it could range from anywhere from 2 months to 6 months. 
I also was in birth-control for so many years and stop sometimes to take breaks and get back on it. Last time i stop was for 6 months and got periods but got a cyst, and the doctor told me to get back on the birth-control. Boost Your Detox Capacity. Having a strong ability to detoxify is crucial for recovering from post birth control syndrome, as one of the primary issues with taking oral contraceptives for a long period of time is hormonal build up.
If you have not had a menstrual period for 3 consecutive cycles or more, it is time to make an appointment with your healthcare practitioner. They can help you to determine what the causes may be. Most medical doctors will often prescribe oral contraceptives (birth control pill) to get the menstrual cycle to regulate. Causes of Absent Period. A menstrual cycle that has stopped is not a disease, it may be a sign that there is an underlying imbalance in the body. A regular menstrual cycle is regulated by a complex system of messages and actions orchestrated by the endocrine system.
Relax. It's normal for your period not to be normal -- especially in the first few years after you first get it. You can skip or miss your period because of stress, exercise, and sickness. It can happen if you gain or lose a lot of weight. And of course it can happen if you're pregnant. Most women get their period every 28 to 35 days. If you get yours more often than that regularly or skip more than two in a row, see your doctor.
If you have not had a menstrual period for 3 consecutive cycles or more, it is time to make an appointment with your healthcare practitioner. They can help you to determine what the causes may be. Most medical doctors will often prescribe oral contraceptives (birth control pill) to get the menstrual cycle to regulate. My name is Jade and I have been having irregular menstrual cycles for years now (over 10 years). I was formerly a competitive runner through high school and college. In college, I started noticing my cycle becoming irregular then eventually absent. Now I am trying to get it back every month.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How to get your period back? Secondary amenorrhea? I havent had my period since May 2007, and I went to my doctor and she said it was because my BMI was 16.9. She put me on a protein drink and made me eat heaps more, and guess what-its been four months and I haven't put on anything, nor has my period came. I know I eat healthy and I accept that I am a... You won't get it back until you have the BMI to support one. That means you will have to gain some weight, specifically you need some fat on your bones. You may eat healthy, but not enough. Without sufficient fat reserves, your body can't support a pregnancy, so it supresses ovulation to prevent that happening.
If you have not had a menstrual cycle for two or more months you may want to consider performing a Fertility Cleanse. Fertility cleansing helps to cleanse the uterus of old blood and tissues while helping the liver to get rid of excess hormones to promote a healthy menstrual cycle. My name is Jade and I have been having irregular menstrual cycles for years now (over 10 years). I was formerly a competitive runner through high school and college. In college, I started noticing my cycle becoming irregular then eventually absent. Now I am trying to get it back every month.