Well, it will all depend on what type of business you going to start will determine the amount of money you will need, but personally, I think its how you start and what you do with the little you have, I read in an article where a 15 years of age start of with $500.00 and now doing over $24 million per year in revenue. Although you do not necessarily need a degree(s) to start a business, some might help, such as a degree in Business Management, from there you choose an area of focus such as marketing, international business, ect.
There are many books on this topic. I can’t condense them all into a short article, but I can give you some important points to consider. This information will get you started on the thought process and preparation and may further encourage you or discourage you to start your own business. 1 I can quickly jump from small tasks to larger planning issues. 2  I communicate and work well with others. 3  I can do my own bookkeeping and accounting. 4  I have the personnel, partners or resources to fill in the blanks where I don’t have the skills to do the job myself AND I will be able to afford to pay these people.
Next. It's time for me to choose colleges and I need to know what courses e.g. business studies do I need to take if I want to own my own night club in another country (I live in england). Update: Btw I'm studying in england but want to have my nightclub in america. Follow. 1 answer 1. 
Money to start your own business is known as Start up capital   Depends on what kind of business you want to start.   The first place to start looking for a loan is … with your local commercial bank or lending institution. Although you do not necessarily need a degree(s) to start a business, some might help, such as a degree in Business Management, from there you choose an area of focus such as marketing, international business, ect.
The prospects of your success in a business of your own are questionable. You have some deficiencies that might out-shadow some good traits you have. If you still want to go on with it, be sure to call up all the persistence you can get. You are going to face some tough adversity on the way. 
With a few strategies, you might even be able to start your own business during your leftover time at work. Keep in mind, however, that working full-time during the day and on your business in the off hours can be taxing, and your business might be more successful if you focus more fully on it. You might just have the tenacity needed to start your own business. However, besides your resolve, you'll also need two very important things to start a successful business: a good idea and people who can be convinced to buy into it.
You do not need any college degree just a passion from inside yourself. I started my own company at the age of 17 and became a self made millionaire by the age of 25, I know h … ard to believe from a stranger over the internet, but nevertheless true. Although you do not necessarily need a degree(s) to start a business, some might help, such as a degree in Business Management, from there you choose an area of focus such as marketing, international business, ect.
If you are still convinced you want to start your own business, I wish you much luck on your journey! Before Starting a Profitable Business. Before starting a business, you need to begin with some serious planning, and research. 1 I can quickly jump from small tasks to larger planning issues. 2  I communicate and work well with others. 3  I can do my own bookkeeping and accounting. 4  I have the personnel, partners or resources to fill in the blanks where I don’t have the skills to do the job myself AND I will be able to afford to pay these people.
Let’s start out with a few questions about you, your resources, and your abilities: 1  I can afford to quit my job and live on next to nothing for at least 3 years. 2  I can work part time and get my business going on the side until it takes off. 1 I can quickly jump from small tasks to larger planning issues. 2  I communicate and work well with others. 3  I can do my own bookkeeping and accounting. 4  I have the personnel, partners or resources to fill in the blanks where I don’t have the skills to do the job myself AND I will be able to afford to pay these people.
Best Answer: To answer the first part of your question. If you want to go into business your major or at least minor should be business management.Since you are leaning towards being a restaurateur one of the best colleges is Cornell. Running a restaurant means you need to know all aspects of its operation from the front of the house to the back