Answers. Best Answer: uncooked scrambled eggs = beaten eggs. Kept covered, beaten eggs will keep about 3 days. Frozen can keep for several weeks. It's probably good to sub-divide the beaten eggs into serving size portions when you freeze them. That way you defrost only what you need
Expert answer: We tell consumers to look to the egg carton sell-by dates to judge freshness. The USDA says that the date can be no further ahead than 30 days after the packing date. Your store can choose any day within that 30 days to date the eggs. If you don't find a date on the carton, using the eggs within three weeks of the carton date should allow them to be used within optimum quality, meaning the yolk will be high and upstanding, and the white will be tall and firm. 
Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe. Even with its natural (but easily cracked) calcium-carbonate container, a hard-cooked egg is a perishabl … e food, so it shouldn't be kept at room temperature for more than two hours.   If kept in an unbroken shell and in the refrigerator about a week.
I've been cooking my eggs in a small round pan. To keep that shape, I'll cook 4 batches for 4 days at a time, then place them in fridge. Wake up, grab one round cooked egg, nuke in the microwave for 30 secs and it tastes great to me on a piece of Ezekiel bread. 
Best Answer: According to the health department, potentially hazardous foods (like scrambled eggs) can be safely kept at 41 F for 7 days, or 3 days if kept at 45 F. 
Eggs are perishable and must be stored in the refrigerator or freezer. Many factors can affect how long eggs last. When properly handled and stored, eggs rarely spoil. However, if you keep them too long, they are likely to dry up. Refrigerated whole egg yolks should be covered with water to prevent them from drying out; drain before using. The following chart shows how long hard-boiled eggs and raw eggs last when stored in the refrigerator.
How long do scrambled eggs stay fresh in the refrigerator?   You should eat them within four days at the most, but I don't recommend keeping them in the fridge at all. Eggs … can remain edible for even longer than one month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.   There is an expiration date on the carton. If in doubt, put the egg in water.
Prepare other recipes as usual. You can keep pasteurized shell eggs refrigerated for at least 30 days from the pack date (a three-digit number on the short side of the carton which represents the day of the year, with 001 = January 1 and 365 = December 31), but do not freeze them. 
The short version: 3-5 weeks in the shell. Healthy. Any egg can go bad, of course, but undamaged eggs will last many weeks in the fridge and I've read studies that have even claimed to have edible eggs after a year at room temperature. I don't refrigerate the eggs that my chickens lay and have yet to see one go bad. I have a flock of free range chickens and my unwashed eggs last over 6 months in sealed containers in the fridge. I had unwashed eggs at room temperature for over 3 months with no problem at all. I had 6 unwashed eggs out of the sealed container in the fridge for 8 months and they were good to eat.