An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  These problems may include a herniated disc, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or myasthenia gravis (MG). An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
Electromyography (EMG). Electromyography (EMG) measures muscle response or electrical activity in response to a nerve’s stimulation of the muscle. The test is used to help detect neuromuscular abnormalities. During the test, one or more small needles (also called electrodes) are inserted through the skin into the muscle. 
A nerve conduction study (NCS), also called a nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test--is a measurement of the speed of conduction of an electrical impulse through a nerve. NCS can determine nerve damage and destruction. During the test, the nerve is stimulated, usually with surface electrode patches attached to the skin. 
A nerve conduction study (NCS) is a medical diagnostic test commonly used to evaluate the function, especially the ability of electrical conduction, of the motor and sensory nerves of the human body. 
Electromyography (EMG) is a diagnostic procedure to assess the health of muscles and the nerve cells that control them (motor neurons). Motor neurons transmit electrical signals that cause muscles to contract. An EMG translates these signals into graphs, sounds or numerical values that a specialist interprets. A nerve conduction study, another part of an EMG, uses electrodes taped to the skin (surface electrodes) to measure the speed and strength of signals traveling between two or more points. EMG results can reveal nerve dysfunction, muscle dysfunction or problems with nerve-to-muscle signal transmission. 1  Why it's done.
The results from EMG and nerve conduction studies are used along with your medical history, symptoms, physical and neurological exams, and the results of other tests to help your doctor find out what the problem is or see how a disease is changing. The speed of the response is called the conduction velocity. The same nerves on the other side of the body may be studied for comparison. When the test is done, the electrodes are removed. Nerve conduction studies are done before an EMG if both tests are being done. Nerve conduction tests may take from 15 minutes to 1 hour or more, depending on how many nerves and muscles are studied
An electromyogram (EMG) measures the electrical activity of muscles at rest and during contraction. Nerve conduction studies measure how well and how fast the nerves can send electrical signals. Nerves control the muscles in the body with electrical signals called impulses. These impulses make the muscles react in specific ways. Nerve and muscle problems cause the muscles to react in abnormal ways. An EMG is done to: 1  Find diseases that damage muscle tissue, nerves, or the junctions between nerve and muscle. 2  Find the cause of weakness, paralysis, or muscle twitching.
An electromyogram (EMG) measures the electrical activity of muscles at rest and during contraction. Nerve conduction studies measure how well and how fast the nerves can send electrical signals. Nerves control the muscles in the body with electrical signals called impulses. The speed of the response is called the conduction velocity. The same nerves on the other side of the body may be studied for comparison. When the test is done, the electrodes are removed. Nerve conduction studies are done before an EMG if both tests are being done. Nerve conduction tests may take from 15 minutes to 1 hour or more, depending on how many nerves and muscles are studied
Video presented by Ana Bracilovic, MD. This video accompanies the article: Electromyography (EMG) . Video Transcript. EMG/NCS stands for electromyogram and nerve conduction studies and this is an electrical test of your nerves and muscles. The purpose of the test is to localize where your symptoms are coming from. When weakness, pain, or a change in sensation occurs along a nerve, an electromyogram-a nerve conduction study-may be performed to determine whether there is degeneration of the nerve or if pressure on the nerve is causing the symptoms.