When it s very hot or cold, the stinkbug lives in burrows of kangaroo rats or other rodents. It eats seeds, and plant and animal debris. It is eaten by ants, roadrunners, and other birds. The Stinkbug has glands that give off a smell to help protect it from ants and other desert predators. 
Bobcat. These cats are native to the Americas and also live in the desert. This large solitary cat has the greatest range of any large wild mammal in the Western Hemisphere, extending from the Yukon in Canada to the Southern Andes of South America. They are related to smaller felines. These cats are smaller and have shorter legs. They also have a shorter snout than other cats. They are mostly daytime hunters, unlike other cats that are active in the evenings and at night, looking for smaller game animals like rabbits and foul.
A Photo Gallery Of Australian Outback Animals. Australian desert animals had to evolve some nifty adaptations to the harsh Outback environment they live in. The Australian Outback deserts are not the driest deserts in the world, it actually rains a fair bit here and there is a lot of wildlife ... But the rain is unpredictable. Years may pass between showers.
In the Sahara they are known as ‘the cat that digs holes.’ Among Saharan nomads, Sand Cats have a reputation for being snake hunters, particularly of horned and sand vipers, which they stun with rapid blows to the head before dispatching with a neck bite. Sand cats occur across the Sahara Desert, from Morocco in the west to as far as Egypt and the Sudan in the east. Many areas that appear suitable have no records of their presence, but this may be a result of limited observations.
Many years ago Clyde, a female bobcat, was confiscated from its human owners by the Arizona Game & Fish Department and brought to the Desert Museum. She was the first bobcat to be housed in the newly completed Small Cat Habitat. But not for long. The bobcat is both more common and more widely distributed in the Sonoran Desert than the mountain lion. It hunts smaller prey and can more easily adapt to marginal habitats. This small cat is solitary, avoiding other bobcats, and it is also careful to avoid mountain lions, which will kill it, given the chance.
I doubt they are desert animals. house cats are just a smaller and domisticated compared to the big cats. I do not know of any (actually I think there is one) big cats that are native to the desert. given their lifestyles and how they are put together, I would say they were originally woods/forest/jungle creatures. Marcus S · 9 years ago.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hi there...biologists believe that the domestic cats are descendents or have evolved from the African Wild Cat (Felis Silvestris Lybica) because of its tabby markings, which is a desert cat. I do not know of any (actually I think there is one) big cats that are native to the desert. given their lifestyles and how they are put together, I would say they were originally woods/forest/jungle creatures. Marcus S · 9 years ago.
Contact Us. Bighorn sheep and wild horses are probably the largest animals in the desert, then there's the burro's, the pronghorn antelope, the deer, and cats in the desert. Least we not forget the coyotes, kit foxes, and the rabbits. You really need to see this section.... Insects in the desert. Here's a list of State Animals-Reptile-Insects shown by state. It's interesting to note here that the states of California and Nevada have both chosen the Desert Tortoise as their State Reptile.
Lions are superbly adapted predators, an essential part of the Sonoran Desert ecosystem. They are designed to efficiently kill animals larger than themselves. Lions are built with long hind legs and powerful hindquarters, which give them excellent jumping ability and thrust for great bursts of speed. The bobcat is both more common and more widely distributed in the Sonoran Desert than the mountain lion. It hunts smaller prey and can more easily adapt to marginal habitats. This small cat is solitary, avoiding other bobcats, and it is also careful to avoid mountain lions, which will kill it, given the chance.
(Redirected from Desert cat). The Arabian Mau is a formal breed of domestic cat, originated from the desert cat, a short-haired landrace native to the desert of the Arabian Peninsula. It lives there in the streets and has adapted very well to the extreme climate. 