You want to make sure that your turkey cooks to at least 165 internal temp though. With the big easy, you will be cooking at approximately 10 minutes a pound so for a 12 lb turkey, you would be looking at 120 minutes. My suggestion would be to check the bird about 20 minutes from the “planned” amount of time – @100 minutes to see where you are temp wise. Mark – The Big Easy will cook a turkey in about 10 minutes per pound compared to 20 in an oven. A 15 pound turkey can be cooked to perfection in right around 2.5 hours. To answer your second question, you can cook turkey, whole chickens, chicken pieces, kabobs, wings, boston (pork shoulder), veggies, etc.
Cleanup of an infrared oil-less turkey fryer is a breeze. After you remove the turkey, leave the fryer on for another 15 minutes to cook off any stuck-on food. Turn off the cooker, allow 15 minutes for it to cool down, then wipe out the insides with a rag. Food should wipe easily from the nonstick surface. Cooking Tips. Like many cooking pans, your infrared turkey fryer will work best if it's seasoned first. Coat all surfaces with vegetable oil and turn on the cooker for 15 minutes. Your cooker will then be seasoned and ready to use. The turkey can weigh up to 16 lbs. and should be completely thawed before cooking.
The ultimate turkey fryer powered by TRU-Infrared™ technology that requires no oil. Create delicious roasts, chicken and turkey dishes with ease. It features a rotary ignition for easy lighting and a removable grease tray for easy cleanups. Fryer parts are covered for one year, so fry with peace of mind. Rated 5 out of 5 by LeeOtis from The WAY to grill! The Big Easy Oil-less Turkey Fryer is a great way to prepare turkeys, chicken, beef, pork, wild game...you name it.
Thanksgiving Special: The Rocky Mountain Meat Hunter cooks a 16lb. turkey with The Big Easy Infrared Fryer by Char-Broil. Please like us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Rocky-M... 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Faster Than Oil. An infrared turkey fryer cuts cooking time in half, because oil fryers require 45 minutes to preheat the oil and several hours for the oil to cool after cooking. The Big Easy requires no preheat time and cools down in 15 minutes after cooking. Cooking Tips. Like many cooking pans, your infrared turkey fryer will work best if it's seasoned first. Coat all surfaces with vegetable oil and turn on the cooker for 15 minutes. Your cooker will then be seasoned and ready to use. The turkey can weigh up to 16 lbs. and should be completely thawed before cooking.
Anything you can lower into the cooking chamber can be cooked quickly (turkey at about 10 minutes a pound). This unit won't grill steaks or burgers, but any whole poultry, roasts and other larger cuts of meat are perfect. All in all I have to say that this little cooker is very impressive. Pros. 1  Quick Heating. 
1. The Big Easy® Oil-less Turkey Fryer is rated 4.804 out of 5 by 403. Rated 5 out of 5 by SuperD11 from Some Good Cook'n I bought the Big Easy infrared turkey fryer for Thanksgiving 2013. I did a comparison with two turkeys, one with the oil fryer and one infrared. Rated 5 out of 5 by LeeOtis from The WAY to grill! The Big Easy Oil-less Turkey Fryer is a great way to prepare turkeys, chicken, beef, pork, wild game...you name it.
You should budget approximately 10 minutes per pound cooking type, but more importantly make sure to cook the turkey to an internal temperature of 165 degrees F. In the interest of full disclosure, we have no business relationship with Char-Broil and their Big Easy Oil-less Fryer. Armadillo Pepper shows you how to deep fry a whole turkey using an oil-less fryer. Today, we are using the Char-Broil Big Easy Tru-Infrared Oil-Less Fryer.