Email. Cost of sales refers to the direct costs attributable to the production of the goods or supply of services by an entity. It is also commonly known as the “cost of goods sold (COGS)”. Cost of sales measures the cost of goods produced or services provided in a period by an entity. It includes the cost of the direct materials used in producing the goods, direct labor costs used to produce the good, along with any other direct costs associated with the production of goods. The cost of sales attributed to a company's products or services are expensed as the company sells these goods. As the cost of sales does not include overhead costs, it has a higher proportion of variable cost than the operating costs. Some fixed costs, such as labor costs, might be included in the cost of sale
The cost of sales is the accumulated total of all costs used to create a product or service, which has been sold. The term is most commonly used by retailers. A manufacturer is more likely to use the term cost of goods sold. The cost of sales line item appears near the top of the income statement, as a subtraction from net sales. The result of this calculation is the gross margin earned by the reporting entity.
Definition of COST OF SALES. 1. in retailing: the purchase cost or inventory value of merchandise sold during a stated period plus the cost of direct work thereon (as alterations or workroom charges). 2. in manufacturing: the production cost or inventory value of goods sold during a stated period. 
So, for example, we may have sold 100 units this year at $4 each, and these 100 units that we sold cost us $3 each originally. So our sales would be $400 and our cost of the goods we sold (cost of sales) would amount to $300. This would result in a gross profit of $100 (sales minus cost of sales). Cost of goods sold is not the same as purchases, as you will see from our examples below. 
Cost of sales refers to the direct costs attributable to the production of the goods or supply of services by an entity. It is also commonly known as the “cost of goods sold (COGS)”. The cost of sales attributed to a company's products or services are expensed as the company sells these goods. As the cost of sales does not include overhead costs, it has a higher proportion of variable cost than the operating costs. Some fixed costs, such as labor costs, might be included in the cost of sales
Cost of Sales. Cost of sales, sometimes called Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) or direct costs, is traditionally the costs of materials and production of the goods a business sells. Cost of Sales or COGS belongs in accounting in the month in which the goods or services are actually sold, regardless of when they were purchased. For a manufacturing company this is materials, labor, and factory overhead. For a retail shop it would be what it pays to buy the goods that it sells to its customer
The cost of sales is one of the fundamental metrics by which small business owners can gauge profit or loss. In the simplest of terms, subtracting the cost of your sales from the amount you receive from your sales will tell you how much money you make, or your gross profit in accounting terms. 
The direct costs incurred in the production of the goods sold by a company; it includes the cost of the materials and direct labor costs. Indirect expenses such as distribution costs and sales force costs are not part of COGS. 
Cost of Sales is a special type of expense that is used to differentiate between the direct costs and general overhead expenses of a business. 