DMV.org has compiled the title information that specifically applies to your home state. Summary: How to Transfer a Vehicle Title in Your State. When you buy or sell a vehicle, gift a car, or require a name change on a car title after a marriage or divorce, you'll usually need to transfer the title. Click your state to find the cost to transfer titles with your Department of Motor Vehicles or vehicle licensing agency. If you buy a used car, you must not only submit a title transfer application, but depending on your state's requirements you might also have to provide an odometer reading, a vehicle identification number(VIN), and a bill of sale. This is a how to guide to transfer a vehicle's title in your state.
To sell, donate or gift a vehicle, follow the instructions below: 1  Sign the title (buyer/recipient and all owners shown on the front of the title must sign). 2  On the back of the title, there is a section for the buyer(s) and seller(s) to sign. 1 Sign the title (buyer/recipient and all owners shown on the front of the title must sign). 2  On the back of the title, there is a section for the buyer(s) and seller(s) to sign. 3  If the title is older, you may see a section for registered owners and new owners instead
Warnings. 1  Make sure the name you sign on the title is the name that appears on your driver's license. 2  Don't use a nickname. 3  Make sure you comply with your state's laws before transferring the car's title. 1 The bill of sale releases the current lien on the car. 2  Gather required information to transfer the title. 3  You need the bill of sale, the car's Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and the current odometer reading to complete
Confidence votes 91. THE BUYER AND SELLER WILL SIGN ON THE BACK OF THE TITLE MAKE SURE YOU WRITE YOUR NAME AS IT IS ON THE TITLE, THERE WILL BE A PLACE FOR SELLER AND BUYER TO WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS AND ZIP. A PLACE FOR THE AMOUNT SOLD. You should sign the front of the title to prevent someone from forging your name on the back of the title. In Texas you are not required to sign the front however it is a good … idea to do so.
Once the title is signed over, you are no longer the owner of that vehicle. Yet, as I said above, it's common for mistakes to be made when signing over title to a used car. Take your time when finishing the paperwork for a used car transaction to make sure everything goes correctly the first time. 1 Don't pay for a used car until you have a clean title that has been filled out correctly. 2  This is a little tricky because the owner is going to want to know you can pay before signing over the title. 3  Use your instincts on this. 4  Maybe you turn over payment once your name is correctly filled out on the buyer's line.
Twice recently, once via email and once via story comment, I have been made aware of problems signing over a title to a used car-problems that have made it difficult to register the used car-and asked how to sign over title. Probably the most important step in the used car purchase is signing over the title. It is that piece of paper, above all others, that makes you the true owner of the used car and, on the other hand, releases you from the obligations assigned to you for the used car you are selling. 1 Don't pay for a used car until you have a clean title that has been filled out correctly. 2  This is a little tricky because the owner is going to want to know you can pay before signing over the title. 3  Use your instincts on this. 4  Maybe you turn over payment once your name is correctly filled out on the buyer's line.
Ask the person on the title to repossess the car. You may have legal liabilities until the car title is properly transferred.   Another Perspective A person can't sign o … ver the Certificate of Title if it's not in their own name. That would be fraud and forgery. The person on the Certificate of Title must sign it over to the person in possession. If that is not possible then the title cannot be transferred legally and the person who is in possession of the car will not be able to register it or sell it. You'll just have to forget about it
Warnings. 1  Make sure the name you sign on the title is the name that appears on your driver's license. 2  Make sure you comply with your state's laws before transferring the car's title. 3  Going to the DMV to transfer the title ensures that paperwork is received and processed in a timely fashion. 1 The bill of sale releases the current lien on the car. 2  Gather required information to transfer the title. 3  You need the bill of sale, the car's Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and the current odometer reading to complete
Ask the person on the title to repossess the car. You may have legal liabilities until the car title is properly transferred.   Another Perspective A person can't sign o … ver the Certificate of Title if it's not in their own name. That would be fraud and forgery. You should sign the front of the title to prevent someone from forging your name on the back of the title. In Texas you are not required to sign the front however it is a good … idea to do so.