With growth rates of 0.3 to 2 centimeters per year for massive corals, and up to 10 centimeters per year for branching corals, it can take up to 10,000 years for a coral reef to form from a group of larvae (Barnes, 1987). As the corals grow and expand, reefs take on one of three major characteristic structures fringing, barrier or atoll. Fringing reefs, which are the most common, project seaward directly from the shore, forming borders along the shoreline and surrounding islands.
Different species of coral grow at different rates depending on water temperature, salinity, turbulence, and the availability of food. The massive corals are the slowest growing species, adding between 5 and 25 millimeters (0.2–1 inch) per year to their length. Branching and staghorn corals can grow much faster, adding as much as 20 centimeters (8 inches) to their branches each year. Coral reefs grow best in warm water (70–85° F or 21–29° C). Corals prefer clear and shallow water, where lots of sunlight filters through to their symbiotic algae. It is possible to find corals at depths of up to 300 feet (91 meters), but reef-building corals grow poorly below 60–90 feet (18–27 meters). 
Click the image to see an animation. Coral reefs begin to form when free-swimming coral larvae attach to submerged rocks or other hard surfaces along the edges of islands or continents. As the corals grow and expand, reefs take on one of three major characteristic structures fringing, barrier or atoll. Fringing reefs, which are the most common, project seaward directly from the shore, forming borders along the shoreline and surrounding islands.
Drilling revealed about 1,400 metres (4,600 feet) of reef material. At least two writers have attacked the young age position using the argument that this coral atoll must have taken a very long time to form 1,2 —they estimate 138,000 and 176,000 years respectively as the minimum age for Eniwetok. Australia’s beautiful Great Barrier Reef is the world’s longest coral reef. It extends from near Papua New Guinea down Australia’s east coast for about 2,000 kilometres. In a previous Creation magazine (Vol.
This distinction probably belongs to Eniwetok Atoll in the Marshall Islands. This is a living reef resting on an extinct volcano cone which comes up about three kilometres (two miles) from the ocean floor. Drilling revealed about 1,400 metres (4,600 feet) of reef material. Such reef growth rates have been reported as high as 414 millimetres per year in the Celebes. 5 At such a rate, the entire thickness of the Eniwetok Atoll could have been formed in less than 3,500 years.
It takes a long time for the tiny coral polyps to create an entire reef. Coral formations grow an average of 1 to 8 inches per year. While ancestors of today's coral date back 240 million years, today's reefs began growing more than 50 million years ago, although most reefs are about 5,000 to 10,000 years old. Coral Types. Coral comes in two types -- hard corals and soft corals. Hard corals grow in colonies and are responsible for the unique rock-like formations associated with coral reefs. Soft corals look like plants.
Different species of coral grow at different rates, depending on the water temperature, oxygen level, amount of turbulence, and availability of food around them. Most massive boulder corals are the slowest growing species, adding only between 1/4 to 7/8 inch (5 to 25 millimeters) per year to their length. The geological record indicates that the ancestors of modern coral reef ecosystems were formed at least 350 million years ago. The coral reefs existing today began growing as early as 50 million years ago. Most established coral reefs are between 5,000 and 10,000 years old. Although size can be a good indicator of the age of a coral reef, it is not a certain indicator
There are complex factors which both add to the growth of a reef and take away from it. For instance, attack by certain organisms and wave destruction will contribute to a decline in reef size. On the other hand, a growing reef can trap sediments as they are moved along by currents, thus adding to its thickness. Such reef growth rates have been reported as high as 414 millimetres per year in the Celebes. 5 At such a rate, the entire thickness of the Eniwetok Atoll could have been formed in less than 3,500 years.
Depending on their size, barrier reefs and atolls can take from 100,000 to 30,000,000 years to fully form. As coral reefs grow, they establish characteristic biogeographic patterns. Click the image for a larger view. All three reef typesfringing, barrier and atollshare similarities in their biogeographic profiles. As the corals grow and expand, reefs take on one of three major characteristic structures fringing, barrier or atoll. Fringing reefs, which are the most common, project seaward directly from the shore, forming borders along the shoreline and surrounding islands.