Terms  GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) is a system to ensure that products meet food safety, quality and legal requirements.  HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) can be part of GMP and is a systematic program to assure food safety. HACCP  HACCP is an acronym for Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point  Food safety program  Developed in 1960s for NASA  To ensure the safety of food products that were to be used by the astronauts in the space program.
Good manufacturing practice guidelines provide guidance for manufacturing, testing, and quality assurance in order to ensure that a food or drug product is safe for human consumption. 1 Manufacturing processes are controlled, and any changes to the process are evaluated. 2  Changes that have an impact on the quality of the drug are validated as necessary.
GMPs are enforced in the United States by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), under Title 21 CFR. The regulations use the phrase current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) to describe these guidelines. 1 Manufacturing processes are controlled, and any changes to the process are evaluated. 2  Changes that have an impact on the quality of the drug are validated as necessary.
Good manufacturing practices, along with good agricultural practices, good laboratory practices and good clinical practices, are overseen by regulatory agencies in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, and other countries. 1 Manufacturing processes are controlled, and any changes to the process are evaluated. 2  Changes that have an impact on the quality of the drug are validated as necessary.
Inventory Management and Lot Tracking Software. If you are a food manufacturer and are searching for a Food Safety Manual that satisfies the FDA's 21 CFR Part 110 - Current Good Manufacturing Practice In Manufacturing, Packing, or Holding Human Food, look no further. O ur Food Safety GMP Manual is designed for small to medium size businesses and includes 25 procedures and 50 forms, which you customize specifically for your needs.
GMP and HACCP. GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) is a system to ensure that products meet food safety, quality and legal requirements. As a food manufacturer you should have GMP in place. HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) can be part of GMP and is a systematic program to assure food safety
Good manufacturing practices (GMP) are the practices required in order to conform to the guidelines recommended by agencies that control authorization and licensing for manufacture and sale of food, drug products, and active pharmaceutical products. 1 Manufacturing processes are controlled, and any changes to the process are evaluated. 2  Changes that have an impact on the quality of the drug are validated as necessary.
This video gives an overview of Good Manufacturing Practices for the food industry. This is an excellent instructional tool for new hires and veterans to give everyone a general understanding of the parameters and importance of GMPs. Visit www.multi-mediaaccess.com for more information. 
Return to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) for the 21st Century-Food Processing. Current food good manufacturing practices (GMPs) are published in Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 110 (21 CFR 110). GMPs describe the methods, equipment, facilities, and controls for producing processed food. In July of 2002, FDA formed a Food GMP Modernization Working Group to examine the effectiveness of current food GMPs given the many changes that have occurred in the food industry since 1986.