Three types of muscle. You've got around 650 muscles in your body, and they make up roughly half of your bodyweight. These muscles can be divided into three different groups: skeletal, smooth and cardiac. All of these muscles can stretch and contract, but they perform very different functions. Skeletal muscle. The tissue most commonly thought of as muscle is skeletal muscle. Skeletal muscles cover your skeleton, giving your body its shape. 
Nine muscles of the chest and upper back are used to move the humerus (upper arm bone). The coracobrachialis and pectoralis major muscles connect the humerus anteriorly to the scapula and ribs, flexing and adducting the arm toward the front of the body when you reach forward to grab an object. Muscles of the Chest and Upper Back. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders.
Click to read more below. The trapezius is one of the major muscles of the back and is responsible for moving, rotating, and stabilizing the scapula (shoulder blade) and extending the head at the neck. It is a wide, flat, superficial muscle that covers most of the upper back and the posterior of the neck. Like most other muscles, there are two trapezius muscles – a left and a right trapezius – that are symmetrical and meet at the vertebral column
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Muscles also can be identified by their function. The flexor group of the forearm flexes the wrist and the fingers. The supinator is a muscle that allows you to roll your wrist over to face palm up.
In addition to moving the arm and pectoral girdle, muscles of the chest and upper back work together as a group to support the vital process of breathing. The diaphragm is a strong, thin, dome-shaped muscle that spans the entire inferior border of the rib cage, separating the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity. Muscles of the Chest and Upper Back. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders.
The basic function of muscle is to generate force. Secondarily, muscles can provide some shape and form to the organism. Anatomically and functionally, muscle can be divided into two types, smooth and striated. Striated or striped muscle can be further divided into skeletal muscle and cardiac (heart) muscle. 
Rhomboid. The rhomboid muscle. This muscle is located on the upper portion of the back anatomy, underneath the trapezius. They originate from the vertebrae and insert into the scapulae. The rhomboid muscle is activated as you bring and squeeze your scapula or shoulder blades back and together. The latissimus dorsi, also known as the “lats” or “wings,” are the largest and most well-known of all the back muscles. Once large enough, the lats are responsible for your body’s “V-taper” because of their protruding appearance under your armpit area and on the back of your ribs.
These important muscles control many motions that involve moving the arms and head – such as throwing a ball, looking up at the sky, and raising your hand. Breathing, a vital body function, is also controlled by the muscles connected to the ribs of the chest and upper back.... Muscles of the Chest and Upper Back. The muscles of the chest and upper back occupy the thoracic region of the body inferior to the neck and superior to the abdominal region and include the muscles of the shoulders.