Jewel yams contain a high level of sugar -- 7 g. Despite this, the jewel yam is a low glycemic index vegetable, recommended for those with diabetes. The American Diabetes Association refers to the jewel yam as a superfood, suggesting diabetics replace regular potatoes with these sweet potatoes. The jewel yam contains zero g of fat, making it a good choice if you follow a low-fat diet. The majority of the calories in this sweet potato come from carbohydrates, a macronutrient your body primarily uses for energy. A medium-sized jewel yam contains 33 g of carbohydrates.
yam = moist-fleshed sweet potato Notes: Americans use the word yam to refer to a sweet, moist, orange-fleshed variety of sweet potato. To everyone else in the world, a yam is what Americans call a tropical yam, a firm tuber with white flesh. sweet potato Notes: In American supermarkets, sweet potatoes are displayed next to something called yams, which are moister than sweet potatoes and have darker skins. But according to the rest of the world (and botanists), we have it all wrong. To them, our yams are just a variety of sweet potatoes.
Jewel yams are ovate and cylindric in shape, tapering at the ends. They have a rough semi thick skin with a rose hued pale orange color. The flesh is brilliant orange, moist and starchy. The flesh's vibrant color increases when cooked. Its flavor is sweet and its starchy textures allows it to absorb accompanying ingredients' flavors. The Jewel yam is a high source for beta carotene and yields a substantial amount of carbohydrates per single yam. True yams are native to Asia and Africa and are one of the most important food crops in tropical and subtropical regions
Yams. By now most people are aware that it is important to have healthy fats in our diet, and when it comes to omega-3 fatty acids, yams are quite preferable. Although both the yam and the sweet potato are low-fat foods, the ratio of essential fatty acids is preferable in the yam compared to the sweet potato. Yams are native to Africa and Asia and you’ll have to venture to your local ethnic market to find a true yam—a starchy tuber that has an almost black bark-like skin and white, purple or reddish flesh and come in many varieties—and can be as small as regular potatoes or grow upwards of five feet long.
Fiber. The jewel yam provides you with 4 g of fiber per serving, although be sure to include the skin of the sweet potato when you consume it -- a good deal of the fiber resides there. Your meal plan should include 25 to 38 g of fiber per day to maintain the health of your digestive system. The jewel yam contains zero g of fat, making it a good choice if you follow a low-fat diet. The majority of the calories in this sweet potato come from carbohydrates, a macronutrient your body primarily uses for energy. A medium-sized jewel yam contains 33 g of carbohydrates.
All the earlier sweet potato posts made me hungry. Now I am the proud owner of a garnet yam and a jewel yam. I know these are just 2 different varieties of the same tuber but figured I'd ask if anyone here knows of any distinctions betweenn the two. 
The Jewel yam is, in fact, not a yam. It is a sweet potato that lost its identity to an American labeling system that forced the naming of yellow-orange fleshed sweet potatoes to include yam in their identification. The flesh is brilliant orange, moist and starchy. The flesh's vibrant color increases when cooked. Its flavor is sweet and its starchy textures allows it to absorb accompanying ingredients' flavors. The Jewel yam is a high source for beta carotene and yields a substantial amount of carbohydrates per single yam.
Jewel & Garnet Yams – These have brownish-orange skins and bright orange interiors. While labeled yams, they are actually sweet potatoes and are even more common than the standard white-fleshed sweet potato. These varieties are a low-calorie, nutrient-dense food, packed with vitamin-A (more than carrots!). These “yams” can be substituted for sweet potatoes in recipes because… well, they are sweet potatoes. True yams, on the other hand, are a different animal entirely. They may be found in ethnic or specialty grocery stores, but are more common in international markets.
There are about 200 varieties of yams, none of which are grown in mainland United States. Sweet potatoes are native to the New World, specifically Peru and Ecuador. The Jewel variety is one of the most common sweet potatoes cultivated for American markets. The flesh is brilliant orange, moist and starchy. The flesh's vibrant color increases when cooked. Its flavor is sweet and its starchy textures allows it to absorb accompanying ingredients' flavors. The Jewel yam is a high source for beta carotene and yields a substantial amount of carbohydrates per single yam.
The jewel yam, commonly available at grocery stores throughout the United States, is not a yam at all -- it is a variety of sweet potato. While this root vegetable is available all year round, the best harvest for jewel yams occurs from September through March. The jewel yam contains zero g of fat, making it a good choice if you follow a low-fat diet. The majority of the calories in this sweet potato come from carbohydrates, a macronutrient your body primarily uses for energy. A medium-sized jewel yam contains 33 g of carbohydrates.