The titles of these articles suggested that their content focused on research questions whose outcomes inform the development process and techniques to be used in the development of educational technology and instructional materials in general. This analysis is intended to answer two questions: (1) What kinds of questions are being asked in current research in this field, (2) How could these categories of questions could apply to PETTTs research on The Arthritis Source.
2. The link between research & policymaking. Another rather important assumption (perhaps 'conceit' is the more appropriate word) that animated this list of research questions was that research can play an important role in informing policy decisions related to technology use in education. The list of research questions to be investigated going forward was a sort of companion document to Knowledge maps: What we know (and what we don't) about ICT use in education in developing countries.
In addition to keeping abreast of the general landscape of educational technology, the Office of Technology for Education (OTE) and the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence collects, synthesizes and summaries examples and research on teaching with technology in order to identify successful models of use. 
Developing a good research question is one of the first critical steps in the research process. The research question, when appropriately written, will guide the research project and assist in the construction of a logical argument. The following unit will discuss the basics of how to develop a good research questions and will provide examples of well-designed questions.
Status of Assistive Technology in Schools. The goal for this area of research is to determine the status of AT use in schools and the role that AT provides in the education of students with disabilities. Research Methodologies. Three different studies will be performed to answer the questions in this area of research. The first will be a telephone survey of State Directors of Special Education, the District of Columbia, and U. S. Trust Territories.
Introduction Top. Now that you are doing your own research, you need to formulate or consider your own question or questions to be answered. A good research question helps to: 1  guide the research process. 2  construct a logical argument. 3  write a literature review. 4  plan thesis chapters. 5  devise efficient search strategies
December 1999 (Draft). One way of generating research questions that could be addressed in PETTTs research on The Arthritis Source is to look at the types of research being explored in prominent educational technology journals. This analysis is intended to answer two questions: (1) What kinds of questions are being asked in current research in this field, (2) How could these categories of questions could apply to PETTTs research on The Arthritis Source.
Research questions about technology use in education in developing countries. let's investigate this systematically ... Back in 2005, I helped put together a 'quick guide to ICT and education challenges and research questions' in developing countries. This list was meant to inform a research program at the time sponsored by the World Bank's infoDev. The list of research questions to be investigated going forward was a sort of companion document to Knowledge maps: What we know (and what we don't) about ICT use in education in developing countries.
Technology Integration is a four part series on essential questions, technology integration resources, web page design, and multimedia in projects. Sections contain relevant opening essays and resources. 