Sippy cups can cause speech problems. Our Ped told us, as our kids were approaching 18 months to start weening them off the sippy cup. DS was in a preschool program at that age and all the kids drank water from Dixie cups -- they did not allow sippy cups. DS (age 27 mos) is currently in the Toddler I room, which has kids ranging in age from about 18 mos. to 2 1/2 depending on their developmental abilities. They allow sippy cups, straw cups, whatever the parents bring in. The Toddler II room, which most kids move into at 2 1/2, uses open cups only.
The question of when it is a good age to transition baby to a sippy cup and to have baby begin to use a sippy cup has many different answers. We gave our babies sippy cups from the time they started solids and had a pretty good grasp – around 6 months old. The sippy cup at that age was just to allow the babies to practice holding and moving the cup around. 1 Do NOT allow your infant or toddler to walk around the house all day with a sippy cup full of water, juice or formula. 2  This is bad for his teeth and his appetite! 3  Sippy cups are transitional devices to help baby move from a bottle to a regular cup-the AAPD discourages extended use of sippy cups.
Using cups with a straw are much better for speech development and dental health. Bottom line: switch to a straw cup as soon as you can. 4. Encourage kids to drink from regular cups: The AAP recommends teaching children to start drinking from regular cups between 12 and 15 months. Once children master this, you might want to use regular cups at meals and straw cups for water on the go. I dont think in any case a child should even want a sippy cup after the age of 3. I have 3 children and she has 2 my 3 speak very well but her oldest son seems to have some trouble getting out what he needs to say. I feel that the “sippy cup” is the reason for this
Your DD is right where she should be. My DS (now almost 5) started daycare when he was 26 months. In the two's room at his school, they had all the kids using open cups so it was a transition he just had to make. We still used sippy cups at home for a few months afterward. 
I wouldn't worry about that at all! Your DD is right where she should be. My DS (now almost 5) started daycare when he was 26 months. In the two's room at his school, they had all the kids using open cups so it was a transition he just had to make. We still used sippy cups at home for a few months afterward. DS (age 27 mos) is currently in the Toddler I room, which has kids ranging in age from about 18 mos. to 2 1/2 depending on their developmental abilities. They allow sippy cups, straw cups, whatever the parents bring in. The Toddler II room, which most kids move into at 2 1/2, uses open cups only.
The American Academy of Pediatrics states that you should “teach your child to drink from a cup as soon as possible, usually by 1 year of age. Drinking from a cup does not cause the liquid to collect around the teeth, and a cup cannot be taken to bed. 1 Do NOT allow your infant or toddler to walk around the house all day with a sippy cup full of water, juice or formula. 2  This is bad for his teeth and his appetite! 3  Sippy cups are transitional devices to help baby move from a bottle to a regular cup-the AAPD discourages extended use of sippy cups.
Like others described above, our daycare phases out sippy cups as kids get older. DS (age 27 mos) is currently in the Toddler I room, which has kids ranging in age from about 18 mos. to 2 1/2 depending on their developmental abilities. They allow sippy cups, straw cups, whatever the parents bring in. The Toddler II room, which most kids move into at 2 1/2, uses open cups only.
While babies will have fun throwing these cups for a while, by 9 months many will start drinking from it. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends phasing out the bottle between 12 and 24 months of age and if possible, breastfeeding for at least one year. I dont think in any case a child should even want a sippy cup after the age of 3. I have 3 children and she has 2 my 3 speak very well but her oldest son seems to have some trouble getting out what he needs to say. I feel that the “sippy cup” is the reason for this
We struggled to get him to drink from a sippy cup at all. At 12 months (adjusted) we took the bottle away and got him to drink from a Gerber water bottle – we had at least 10 different sippy cups we tried from age 6 months on. He refused all of them. My baby girl loves drinking out of a straw. I gave her the playtex straw cup at 4.5 months and she was able to learn within one day. Playtex is definitely the way to go if you want to teach your child to drink