Cars and motorcycles MUST normally pass an MOT test three years from the date of the first registration and every year after that. You MUST NOT drive a vehicle without an MOT certificate, when it should have one. Driving an unroadworthy vehicle may invalidate your insurance. Exceptionally, you may drive to a pre-arranged test appointment or to a garage for repairs required for the test.
If your vehicle passes its MOT, you will receive an MOT certificate. Your vehicle will also be recorded on the central MOT database as having passed. If the vehicle fails, this will also be recorded, and you will need to have repairs made to the vehicle to bring it up to MOT standards. 
An MOT test is required once your vehicle reaches 3 years old. To find the exact date you should check your vehicle registration document, also known as a V5C. For example if the date of first registration is shown as 1st March 2013 then your first MOT is due by the 1st March 2016 at the latest. You can now find out when your MOT will expire using the MOT Check. This requires only the registration number and make of the vehicle. Crucially, there are no reminders sent from the Government so it is your responsibility to ensure you renew your MOT on time.
If your MOT has expired you may not legally drive your vehicle on the road and you may be prosecuted if caught. The only time a driver can legally operate a vehicle whose MOT certification has expired is when driving to and from an inspection station to perform a pre-booked test. You can now find out when your MOT will expire using the MOT Check. This requires only the registration number and make of the vehicle. Crucially, there are no reminders sent from the Government so it is your responsibility to ensure you renew your MOT on time.
If you have lost your MOT certificate and you would like to sell your car to us, it would be worth you replacing the document. You can get a duplicate test certificate from any MOT test station. You will need to provide the registration mark and the original MOT test number, or V5C document reference number. 
Report Abuse. Your car would be due for an MOT on its 3rd anniversary,you can find this out by looking at the V5 you have.If in doubt then have the vehicle tested beforeusing it again.The onus would be on you if you drive a vehicle on the road without a test certificate.Job done. 
An MOT certificate does not mean that the vehicle is roadworthy for the life of the certificate and is not a substitute for regular maintenance. If your vehicle is more than three years old you will have to get it tested every year to show that it meets the minimum road safety and environmental standards. You can check the MOT status of a vehicle online if you have a legitimate interest in the vehicle-you must be the owner, registered keeper or be considering buying the vehicle. You will need to know the vehicle registration number and the MOT test number from the most recent 'certificate' or test refusal certificate.
MOT and vehicle insurance. A to Z. 1  Check the MOT history of a vehicle. 2  Check the MOT status of a vehicle. 3  Check you’re not buying a stolen vehicle. 4  Contact DVSA. 5  Emissions testing. 6  Getting an MOT. 7  Pass Plus. 8  Replace a lost or damaged MOT certificate. 9  V890 - Statutory Off Road Notification (SORN). 10  Vehicle insurance. 11  What to do if your vehicle has been stolen