What the ERA Says. The text of the Equal Rights Amendment is: Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. Section 3. In 1923, Alice Paul wrote the  Lucretia Mott Amendment, which said, Men and women shall have equal rights throughout the United States and every place subject to its jurisdiction.. It was introduced annually in Congress for many years. In the 1940s, she rewrote the amendment.
1 Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. 4  Section 3. 1 The equal protection clause of the Constitution's 14th Amendment was first applied to sex discrimination only in 1971, and it has never been interpreted to grant equal rights on the basis of sex in the uniform and inclusive way that the ERA would.
The Equal Rights Amendment is needed in order to prevent a rollback of women's rights by conservative/reactionary political votes, and to promote laws and court decisions that fairly take into account women's as well as men's experiences. 1 The equal protection clause of the Constitution's 14th Amendment was first applied to sex discrimination only in 1971, and it has never been interpreted to grant equal rights on the basis of sex in the uniform and inclusive way that the ERA would.
This simple sentence comprised Section 1 of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), which was first proposed in Congress by the National Women's Party in 1923. Phyllis Schlafly was perhaps the most visible opponent of the Equal Rights Amendment. Her Stop ERA campaign hinged on the belief that the ERA would eliminate laws designed to protect women and led to the eventual defeat of the amendment.
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution designed to guarantee equal rights for women. The ERA was originally written by Alice Paul and Crystal Eastman. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. Eleven states have adopted constitutions or constitutional amendments providing that equal rights under the law shall not be denied because of sex. Most of these provisions mirror the broad language of the ERA, while the wording in others resembles the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It states, “Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex.” (www.equalrightsamendment.org)The ERA was first written in 1923 by suffragist leader and founder of the National Women’s Party (NWP), Alice Paul. The Equal Rights Amendment is an amendment that promotes gender equality in the United States constitution. It states, Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. (www.equalrightsamendment.org).
Equal Rights Amendment. The Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution was first proposed in the United States Congress in December 1923. It was promoted by Alice Paul and National Women's party, but opposed by many of their colleagues who had worked to pass the Nineteenth Amendment (women's suffrage) in 1920. However, it was not until 1972 that a version of ERA was passed by the Senate and sent onto the states for ratification. By then the Legacy of the 1960s revolution in civil rights seemed to assure the amendment's passage.
1 Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. 4  Section 3. Alice Paul rewrote the ERA in 1943 to what is now called the Alice Paul Amendment, reflecting the 15th and the 19th Amendments: Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex..
The legal analysis for this strategy is outlined in The Equal Rights Amendment: Why the ERA Remains Legally Viable and Properly Before the States, an article by Allison Held, Sheryl Herndon, and Danielle Stager in the Spring 1997 issue of William & Mary Journal of Women and the Law. Alice Paul rewrote the ERA in 1943 to what is now called the Alice Paul Amendment, reflecting the 15th and the 19th Amendments: Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex..