tert-Butyl alcohol (TBA) , or 2-methylpropan-2-ol (2M2P), is the simplest tertiary alcohol. It is one of the four isomers of butanol. tert-Butyl alcohol is a clear liquid (or a colorless solid, depending on the ambient temperature) with a camphor-like odor. As a tertiary alcohol, tert-butyl alcohol is more stable to oxidation and less reactive than the other isomers of butanol. When tert-butyl alcohol is deprotonated with a strong base, the product is an alkoxide anion. In this case, it is tert-butoxide
Answers. Best Answer: tert is short for tertiary. tert for organic chemistry is specifically referring to a carbon that is already bonded to 3 other carbon atoms. You could also think of it as a third degree carbon but no one calls it that, I've no idea why. In this case, tert-is a specific type of group. A tert-butyl group is a-C(CH3)3 group; the tert is necessary to distinguish between the 4 different arrangements of a 4-carbon side chain. I hope this helped! Paul · 7 years ago.
tert-. (organic chemistry). Abbreviation for tertiary; trisubstituted methyl radical with the central carbon attached to three other carbons (R 1 R 2 R 3 C‒). 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Butyl is the largest substituent for which trivial names are commonly used for all isomers. The butyl group's carbon that is connected to the rest (R) of the molecule is called the R I or R-prime carbon. The prefixes sec (from secondary) and tert (from tertiary) refer to the number of additional side chains connected to the first butyl carbon. The prefix iso (from isomer) means equal while the prefix ' n- ' stands for normal.
Step 3. The overall reaction, therefore, is: Because tert-butyl alcohol is a tertiary alcohol, the relative stability of the tert-butyl carbocation in the Step 2 allows the S N 1 mechanism to be followed. As a tertiary alcohol, tert-butyl alcohol is more stable to oxidation and less reactive than the other isomers of butanol. When tert-butyl alcohol is deprotonated with a strong base, the product is an alkoxide anion. In this case, it is tert-butoxide
Report Abuse. In this case, tert-is a specific type of group. A tert-butyl group is a-C(CH3)3 group; the tert is necessary to distinguish between the 4 different arrangements of a 4-carbon side chain. I hope this helped! Paul · 7 years ago.
The prefix n- is used when all carbons form a continuous, unbranched (linear) chain. If a functional group (such as an alcohol) is present that functional group is on the end of the chain. The prefix  sec  or  s  is used when the functional group is bonded to a secondary carbon. This prefix is only useful for a four-carbon chain. It is not applicable with a shorter chain, and it is often ambiguous when the chain has five or more carbons. Common name: sec-butanol (s-butanol). IUPAC name: 2- butanol. 
The tert-butyl substituent is very bulky and used in chemistry for kinetic stabilisation together with other bulky groups such as the related trimethylsilyl group. The prefixes sec (from secondary) and tert (from tertiary) refer to the number of additional side chains connected to the first butyl carbon. The prefix iso (from isomer) means equal while the prefix ' n- ' stands for normal.
The effect that the t-butyl group exerts on the progress of a chemical reaction is called the tert-butyl effect. This effect is illustrated in the Diels-Alder reaction below, where the tert-butyl substituent causes a reaction rate acceleration by a factor of 240 compared to hydrogen as the substituent. The prefixes sec (from secondary) and tert (from tertiary) refer to the number of additional side chains connected to the first butyl carbon. The prefix iso (from isomer) means equal while the prefix ' n- ' stands for normal.