Therefore, in general usage today, analytical psychology embraces theory, writing, and research as well as psycho-therapeutic practice. The international professional association of Jungian analysts is called the International Association for Analytical Psychology. In 1913, the year when Jung left the psychoanalytic movement, he used the term analytical psychology to identify what he called a new psychological science seen by him as having evolved out of psychoanalysis. 
Analytical psychology or Jungian psychology is a school of psychology that originated from the ideas of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung. Analytical psychology emphasizes the primary importance of the individual psyche and the personal quest for wholeness. The overarching goal of Jungian psychology is the attainment of self through individuation. Jung defines self as the archetype of wholeness and the regulating center of the psyche.. Central to this process is the individual's encounter with his/her psyche and the bringing of its elements into consciousness.
Analytical Psychology. When you read about analytic psychology, Carl Jung's name is always associated with it. The term 'psychoanalyst' is currently used to cover all those facts and theories presented in the works of Freud, Jung, and Adler. Analytic psychology is the analysis of the human mind, psyche and the unconscious, as well as the conscious components of the mind. It is thought that man's behavior and his conscious states can be explained only by unconscious sources of motivation.
psychology. the science dealing with the mind and mental processes, especially in relation to human and animal behavior. adj., adj psycholog´ic, psycholog´ical. analytic psychology (analytical psychology) the system of psychology founded by Carl Gustav Jung, based on the concepts of the collective unconscious and the complex. clinical psychology the use of psychologic knowledge and techniques in the treatment of persons with emotional difficulties. community psychology the application of psychological principles to the study and support of the mental health of individuals in their social sphere. criminal psychology the study of the mentality, the motivation, and the social behavior of criminals.
analytical psychology. The process of attempting to explain or relieve disturbance by looking into the unconscious forces governing behavior. The term is also used more specifically to refer to the school of Carl Jung. 
Meredith Mitchell, Ph.D. Analytical psychology is a form of analysis in which the emphasis of the treatment process is on strengthening the individual's connection to, and consciousness of, the creative and healing elements as well as destructive potentials within the psyche. In the process, our ego is strengthened by integration of what we call the shadow, or the unconscious parts of our personality. We strive to establish a healthier relationship with our contra-sexual side and ultimately to develop a connection with the greater personality, the Self.
Medical Definition of ANALYTIC PSYCHOLOGY. : a modification of psychoanalysis due to C. G. Jung that adds to the concept of the personal unconscious a racial or collective unconscious and advocates that psychotherapy be conducted in terms of the patient's present-day conflicts and maladjustments.
Jung developed a foundational approach to the study of the human mind. Jung began his career as a psychiatrist in Zurich, Switzerland. There, he conducted research for the Word Association Experiment at the world-renowned Burgholzli Clinic. The overarching goal of Jungian psychology is the attainment of self through individuation. Jung defines self as the archetype of wholeness and the regulating center of the psyche.. Central to this process is the individual's encounter with his/her psyche and the bringing of its elements into consciousness.
With regard to Carl Jung's concepts, the objective in any person's life is to have a true harmony and equilibrium met across all these sectors as a whole. ANALYTIC PSYCHOLOGY: Analytic psychology is very much alive and kicking in new age philosophies today such as harmony, karma, and peace.. No related posts. 