Best Answer: exons-DNA sequence that codes for either an RNA or a protein. introns-bits of 'noncoding' sequence that are within exons. Introns are transcribed, but then spiced out before the final mRNA is released. coding: any DNA sequence that is transcribed into a protein or functional RNA. non-coding: stretches of DNA that appear to have no function. this does not mean it's junk sequence, it just means that we don't know of the function.
Introns. Introns are sequences of nucleotides present in the genes between exons. These nucleotide sequences do not code for proteins, and that means introns are not immediately important for the process of protein synthesis. • Exons are found at the two ends of a gene while introns are always found inside the gene. • When mutations take place, introns sometimes contribute nucleotides but usually not the other way around. • Both DNA and RNA contain introns and exons, but mature RNA only contain exons and not the introns.
Exons are the DNA sequences that code for proteins. Introns are involved however they dont carry the genetic information that exons carry, the variation provides for revolutio … nary flexibility allowing cells to shuffle exons between genes to make new ones. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The difference between exons and introns is that exons are codes of proteins, while introns are not involved with the coding for proteins.
Exons. Exons are the nucleotide sequences of genes that are expressed, and those are found at either sides of an intron. In simple terms, it could be stated that exons really hit the ground in the expression of genes or in the protein synthesis. The polypeptide strand is formed based on the nucleotide sequence in exons. • Exons are found at the two ends of a gene while introns are always found inside the gene. • When mutations take place, introns sometimes contribute nucleotides but usually not the other way around. • Both DNA and RNA contain introns and exons, but mature RNA only contain exons and not the introns.
The term ‘intron’ was derived from ‘intragenic region,’ a region inside a gene. Introns are also sometimes termed as intervening sequences. ‘Exon’ is a term that is derived from ‘expressed region.’ Walter Gilbert, an American biochemist, coined the term. 5. Exons can be termed as DNA bases which are translated into mRNA. Introns are also DNA bases that are found in between exons. 6. Introns are very much common in the genome of higher vertebrates such as human beings and mice but unlikely to be seen in the genome of certain varieties of eukaryotic micro-organisms.
1. Exons are coding areas whereas introns are non-coding areas. 2. An exon is termed as a nucleic acid sequence which is represented in the RNA molecule. Introns, on the other hand, are termed as nucleotide sequences seen within the genes which are removed through RNA splicing for generating a mature RNA molecule. 3. 5. Exons can be termed as DNA bases which are translated into mRNA. Introns are also DNA bases that are found in between exons. 6. Introns are very much common in the genome of higher vertebrates such as human beings and mice but unlikely to be seen in the genome of certain varieties of eukaryotic micro-organisms.
Exons vs Introns. Exons and introns are related to genes. An exon is termed as a nucleic acid sequence which is represented in the RNA molecule. Introns, on the other hand, are termed as nucleotide sequences seen within the genes which are removed through RNA splicing for generating a mature RNA molecule. 5. Exons can be termed as DNA bases which are translated into mRNA. Introns are also DNA bases that are found in between exons. 6. Introns are very much common in the genome of higher vertebrates such as human beings and mice but unlikely to be seen in the genome of certain varieties of eukaryotic micro-organisms.
Answer by Shelbyray2014. Confidence votes 91. Exons are the DNA sequences that code for proteins. Introns are involved however they dont carry the genetic information that exons carry, the variation provides for revolutionary flexibility allowing cells to shuffle exons between genes to make new ones. 