For the sake of simplicity, we well refer to all types as salamanders.. Often mistaken for lizards, salamanders (sometimes called sallies by people who raise them) have soft, moist skin covering their long bodies and even longer tails. They have no scales, claws or external ear openings. What is called a salamander in the Americas may well be called a newt in Europe. Some apply the name salamander to the fully aquatic and fully terrestrial animals, while applying the name newt to those animals that live on land from late summer through winter, entering water to breed in the spring.
For example, this skink is often mistaken for a snake because of its sleek appearance. When it is running fast, you can easily miss its four legs — which means it is a lizard and not a snake. This image is of a legless lizard — which is often mistaken for a snake. The way to tell it is a lizard and not a snake is to look closely at its eyes. If it blinks it is a lizard, because snakes don’t have eyelids. Some lizards may have dropped their tail giving them a foreshortened appearance. 
Salamander is a common name for the order of Caudata which includes 9 families, of which 8 are found in North America. Newt is a common name applied to certain members of a family of relatively small salamanders. Also in the order of Caudata are sirens which are aquatic salamanders, which have no hind limbs. So newts and sirens are really salamanders. Salamanders make up a mere 350 species out of the 4000 or so known species of amphibians. APPEARANCE: Often mistaken for lizards, salamanders (sometimes called sallies by people who raise them) have soft, moist skin covering their long bodies and even longer tails. They have no scales, claws or external ear openings, and they lay eggs that are surrounded by clear jelly. 
In this video, he tells you nine cool facts about tiger salamanders and fire salamanders. From the world of amphibians, frogs, toads, newts, we also have salamanders, an animal that's often mistaken for a lizard because it's lizard-like in its appearance. But if you could reach out of the camera there and feel this, you'd realize he's kind of on the slimy side. 
These long thin salamanders are often mistaken for worms. The grooves on their sides even give them a somewhat ringed appearance like a worm. Like worms, they are usually discovered hiding underneath objects such as boards and pots and rocks in wet places. This is not a scientific key to identifying salamanders found in California. It is meant to be used as a basic tool for the novice who wants identify a salamander primarily by appearance and location.
Salamanders are amphibians which are nocturnal and (unlike the noisy frogs) they are quiet. They have slender bodies, long tails, and front and hind legs that are nearly equal in size. Some salamanders have tails that break off. When a predator grabs it by the tail, the tail just snaps off and continues to wiggle. This gives the predator a tasty morsel to distract him while the salamander runs away and grows a new tail. Salamanders are not lizards, as people often think they are. Sirens are a special type of salamander found only in North America. They remain in the larval stage with long bodies, gills, no hind legs, and tiny front legs. They are often mistaken for eels.
Like the frogs, most salamanders have a larval stage in the water and an adult stage which may be spent in water or on land. They are carnivorous in both stages of life. Like frogs, most salamanders lay their eggs in water. The larvae which hatch in the water have gills for breathing. Sirens are a special type of salamander found only in North America. They remain in the larval stage with long bodies, gills, no hind legs, and tiny front legs. They are often mistaken for eels.
Tiger Salamander Feeding. Worms, insects, frogs, and even other salamanders are part of the diet for them. They tend to eat at night when it is cooler. They are very aggressive when it comes to hunting. They are fast and they are calculated so they almost always get their prey.