Some Adivasi organisations have demanded that a distinct religious code be listed for Adivasis in the 2011 census of India. The All India Adivasi Conference was held on 1 and 2 January 2011 at Burnpur, Asansol, West Bengal. Land dispossession and subjugation by British and zamindar interests resulted in a number of adivasi revolts in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, such as the Santal hul (or Santhal rebellion) of 1855–56.
Adivasi. Adivasi is an umbrella term for a heterogeneous set of ethnic and tribal groups claimed to be the aboriginal population of India. They comprise a substantial indigenous minority of the population of India. The same term Adivasi is used for the ethnic minorities of Bangladesh and the native Vedda people of Sri Lanka. The word is also used in the same sense in Nepal as is another word janajati, although the political context differed historically under the Shah and Rana dynasties.
Adivasi. n. 1. (Peoples) a member of any of the aboriginal peoples of India. [Sanskrit, from adi beginning + vasi dweller]. 
1.1 A descendant of any of the Adivasi peoples. Example sentences. 1  Tirkey, under whose captaincy India won the inaugural Afro-Asian Games recently, will be the first Adivasi to be decorated with a Padma Shree. 2  Tirkey is only the second Adivasi player to lead the Indian hockey team, after Jaipal Singh led India in the 1928 Amsterdam Olympic
Adivasi is an umbrella term for a heterogeneous set of ethnic and tribal groups considered the aboriginal population of South Asia. Adivasi make up 8.6% of India 's population or 104 million according to the 2011 census and 40% of Nepalese population. They comprise a substantial indigenous minority of the population of India and Nepal. The same term Adivasi is used for the ethnic minorities of Bangladesh, the native Madhesi people of Madhesh region of Nepal and also to the native Vedda people of Sri Lanka (Sinhalese: ආදී වාස). Land dispossession and subjugation by British and zamindar interests resulted in a number of adivasi revolts in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, such as the Santal hul (or Santhal rebellion) of 1855–56.
Adivasi of India Like all tribal people across the globe, the Adivasi of India were happy to live in lives that were uncomplicated by money. Till recently, they were living in harmony with their surroundings. The forest gave them food, clothing, material for housing and medicine. Like all tribal people across the globe, the Adivasi of. were happy to live in lives that were uncomplicated by money. Till recently, they were living in harmony with their surroundings. The forest gave them food, clothing, material for housing and medicine.
1 Tirkey, under whose captaincy India won the inaugural Afro-Asian Games recently, will be the first Adivasi to be decorated with a Padma Shree. 2  Tirkey is only the second Adivasi player to lead the Indian hockey team, after Jaipal Singh led India in the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics. Example sentences. 1 