Stop by our locksmith shop or have us come to you. Locksmith services and safe sales provided by Lowell Lock & Key, in Lowell, Massachusetts, are offered both in our shop and at your location. Reliable Residential Services Have your home's locks rekeyed to a new or existing key, or upgrade your current locks for more security and style. 
Lowell is home to the University of Massachusetts Lowell, a Carnegie-classified research university and the second largest public university in Massachusetts. In 2009, Lowell was ranked as the 139th most dangerous city of over 75,000 residents in the United States, out of 393 communities. Out of Massachusetts cities, nine are larger than 75,000 residents, and Lowell was fifth most dangerous or safest.
(978) 208-3105. 24 HOUR SERVICE. 20 MIN RESPONSE. 24/7 Emergency Locksmiths Providing Reliable Locksmith & Key Service In Lowell, MA. Lowell Lock & Safe is one of Lowell, MA premier locksmith companies providing 24 hour emergency lock smith services for all Residential, Commercial and Automotive customers as one. We are dedicated for the best reliable, affordable and expert services. locksmith lowell ma, lowell locksmiths, locksmiths in lowell, locksmiths in lowell ma, lock smith lowell, locked out in lowell, locksmith in lowell. lock repair lowell, lock change lowell, ignition problem lowell, car keys lowell, locks mith lowell ma, lockout lowell ma, locksmith lowell.
Over the years lowell has definitely gone from being a safe city to a not so safe city to a getting safer city (if that makes sense-it's definitely changing again). there are many unsafe areas that I wouldn't be caught in but there are also some very safe areas to live. You may even research the city of Boston, and look for jobs in urban planning. I would stick with the Boston area. also Southie is now expensive, Dorchester, was a bad area, however, check it out. Check the city of Boston web site, then apply, I think you would do better than being in Lowell.
House of Hope Shelter 812 Merrimack Street. The House of Hope Shelter, located off of Merrimack Street in Lowell, MA is a safe, clean and welcoming environment to families in need of an emergency shelter. We provide a stable, well-organized and healthy place for homeless parents and their children. 
That’s courtesy of the Massachusetts legislature. And now lawmakers in Lowell, Massachusetts (a.k.a. Spindle City) want to pass a law that would require homeowners owning ten or more firearms to store all the weapons in a locked safe. That’s alarmed. Connected directly to the police. 27 Responses to Lowell, MA: 5 Years in Jail for Failing to Store Multiple Guns in a Safe. says: May 11, 2011 at 11:30. It’s Blue Dawn, my man! (The sequel to Red Dawn). Reply. says: May 11, 2011 at 13:05. I’ll get the arrows.
Lowell is a city in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, in the United States. With an estimated population of 108,861, it is the fourth-largest city in Massachusetts, after Boston, Worcester, and Springfield, and the second-largest in what the U.S. Census Bureau defines as Boston's metropolitan area. In 2009, Lowell was ranked as the 139th most dangerous city of over 75,000 residents in the United States, out of 393 communities. Out of Massachusetts cities, nine are larger than 75,000 residents, and Lowell was fifth most dangerous or safest.
Description. Part of the DOJ-sponsored Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) initiative, Lowell, Massachusetts, was one of 11 target cities that the U.S. Attorney, District of Massachusetts, selected for PSN implementation. In 2006, Lowell, Massachusetts, adopted the Comprehensive Gang Model, which expanded the prevention and intervention goals along with law enforcement suppression that was stressed in the PSN model.
Hank & Sons Locksmith Service provides locksmith services to residential and commercial areas in Lowell, MA. We've been a family owned and operated business since 1965. We also have a radio dispatched mobile unit for fast and immediate service. Learn More About Hank & Sons Locksmith Service: 