Report Abuse. Silicon is a major ion in osteogenic cells, which are the bone-forming cells in young, uncalcified bone. The silicon in tissues is usually bonded to glycoproteins such as cartilage, whereas the silicon in blood is almost entirely found as either free orthosilicic acid or linked to small compounds. Low dietary silicon also has been shown by the GFHNRC to increase the excretion of products resulting from collagen and bone breakdown and loss, which are used as markers of osteoporosis risk.
Silicon. The mineral silicon is an essential mineral for the human body and has a primary function in helping develop and maintain the structural and functional integrity of the connective tissues and the skeletal system. There are also other essential functions that silicon fulfills in the human body in combination with mucopolysaccharides such as in the rapid healing of tissues, chemical regulations involving the transfer of nutrients and water in the membranes of the connective tissues as well as embryonic development and growth.
Silicon is believed to play a role in the production and maintenance of connective tissue. In addition, silicon has been found in areas of bone that are undergoing the mineralization process, which may indicate that it plays a role in bone formation and function. Although it does not play an essential part in the human diet, it is the most abundant mineral in the earth's crust. It is extremely hard, and is often found in rock crystals such as quartz and flint. Many plants absorb silicon into their fibers, which are consumed by people as part of a regular diet.
Why silica is good for you. Silica is a trace mineral, which means the body only needs a very small amount of it to stay healthy. Silica is found most predominantly in the connective tissues-skin, blood vessels, cartilage, bone, teeth, tendons and hair.
Silicon is actually not the most optimal electronic material, but it is used instead of other materials with better electronic properties because it is cheap and extremely abundant. In fact, Si is the eighth most abundant element on earth (albeit, you need to do processing beforehand). 
Silicon can be found in some whole-grain breads and cereals, certain vegetables (such as potatoes and carrots), and beer. A modified form of silicon, silicate, is sometimes added to processed foods. Most silicon supplements are derived from sugar cane, alfalfa, and the herb horsetail. Although it does not play an essential part in the human diet, it is the most abundant mineral in the earth's crust. It is extremely hard, and is often found in rock crystals such as quartz and flint. Many plants absorb silicon into their fibers, which are consumed by people as part of a regular diet.
Do not confuse silicon with silicone. Silicone is the name of a group of materials resembling plastic that contain silicon, oxygen, and other chemicals. Silicone is used to make breast implants, medical tubing, and a variety of other medical devices. SILICON Overview Information. Silicon is a mineral. Silicon supplements are used as medicine. Silicon is used for weak bones (osteoporosis), heart disease and stroke (cardiovascular disease), Alzheimer's disease, hair loss, and improving hair and nail quality. It is also used for improving skin healing; and for treating sprains and strains, as well as digestive system disorder
News. abundant element, Dr. Willard's, silica, silicon. Silica, or silicon, is the most abundant element on Earth, after oxygen. Most people know a little something about silicon and how it’s used in our everyday lives such as in computer chips and some forms of breast implants. But few of us would consider that silicon is something our bodies actually need to be healthy. For example, our bodies use silicon, along with calcium, to grow and maintain strong bones. It is also an important anti-aging nutrient and a major player in preventing osteoporosis.