The annual salary for someone with the job title Customer Service Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Customer Service Manager in the United States is $81,093, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Customer Service Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $81,093. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits.
Cash earnings of Client Service Managers — including $12K in bonuses, $8K in profit sharing proceeds, and $28K in commissions near the top of the pay scale — stretch from approximately $36K to approximately $91K depending on individual performance. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. Client Service Managers seem to exploit a large range of skills on the job. Lucky workers who know Business Analysis can expect a significant pay bump, scoring salaries 41 percent above average.
Average Client Services Manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 6% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
With a median pay of $73K, U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Customer Service Managers make much more than the national average ($51K annually) for those in this field. Customer Service Managers can also look forward to large paychecks at Wells Fargo & Co. For those looking to make money, Customer Service Managers in Minneapolis enjoy an exceptional pay rate, 19 percent above the national average.
For Client Service Managers, busy San Francisco offers a higher-than-average pay rate, 31 percent above the national average. Client Service Managers will also find cushy salaries in Boston (+27 percent), New York (+22 percent), Los Angeles (+19 percent), and Houston (+16 percent). This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. Client Service Managers seem to exploit a large range of skills on the job. Lucky workers who know Business Analysis can expect a significant pay bump, scoring salaries 41 percent above average.
Average Customer Service Coordinator Salaries. The average salary for customer service coordinator jobs is $40,000. Average customer service coordinator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. 
$45,000. Average Customer Service Manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 23% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
For Customer Service Managers, more experience in the field does not usually mean bigger paychecks. Survey participants with less than five years' experience pocket $40K on average, but those with five to 10 years of experience enjoy a much bigger median of $48K. For those looking to make money, Customer Service Managers in Minneapolis enjoy an exceptional pay rate, 19 percent above the national average.
The average salary for client services manager jobs is $64,000. Average client services manager salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term client services manager anywhere in the job listing.