Muscarinic receptor antagonists bind to muscarinic receptors thereby preventing ACh from binding to and activating the receptor. By blocking the actions of ACh, muscarinic receptor antagonists very effectively block the effects of vagal nerve activity on the heart. General Pharmacology. The vagus (parasympathetic) nerves that innervate the heart release acetylcholine (ACh) as their primary neurotransmitter. ACh binds to muscarinic receptors (M 2) that are found principally on cells comprising the sinoatrial (SA) and atrioventricular (AV) nodes.
Muscarinic receptors are characterised through their interaction with muscarine, a water-soluble toxin derived from the mushroom Amanita muscaria that causes substantial activation of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system through its binding to muscarinic AChRs, resulting in convulsions and even death. The muscarinic AChRs occur primarily in the CNS, and are part of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (G proteins), which use an intracellular secondary messenger system involving an increase of intracellular calcium to transmit signals inside cells.
Two Types of Receptors. There are two types of acetylcholine receptors (AChR) that bind acetylcholine and transmit its signal: muscarinic AChRs and nicotinic AChRs, which are named after the agonists muscarine and nicotine, respectively. The muscarinic AChRs occur primarily in the CNS, and are part of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (G proteins), which use an intracellular secondary messenger system involving an increase of intracellular calcium to transmit signals inside cells.
The neurotransmitter at excitatory synapses depolarizes the postsynaptic membrane (of a neuron in this diagram). 1  Binding of acetylcholine to its receptors on the postsynaptic cell opens up ligand-gated sodium channels. 2  These allow an influx of Na + ions, reducing the membrane potential. The neurotransmitter at inhibitory synapses hyperpolarizes the postsynaptic membrane. The GABA A receptor is a ligand-gated chloride channel. Binding of GABA to the receptors increases the influx of chloride (Cl −) ions into the postsynaptic cell raising its membrane potential and thus inhibiting it.
An acetylcholine receptor (abbreviated AChR) is an integral membrane protein that responds to the binding of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors can be blocked by curare, hexamethonium and toxins present in the venoms of snakes and shellfishes, like α-bungarotoxin. Drugs such as the neuromuscular blocking agents bind reversibly to the nicotinic receptors in the neuromuscular junction and are used routinely in anaesthesia.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are the best-studied of the ionotropic receptors. Like the other type of acetylcholine receptor —the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR)—the nAChR is triggered by the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh). In the muscle-type receptors, found at the neuromuscular junction, receptors are either the embryonic form, composed of α 1, β 1, γ, and δ subunits in a 2:1:1:1 ratio, or the adult form composed of α 1, β 1, δ, and ε subunits in a 2:1:1:1 ratio.
Binding of acetylcholine to a muscarinic AChR causes a conformational change in the receptor that is responsible for its association with and activation of an intracellular G protein, the latter converting GTP to GDP in order to become activated and dissociate from the receptor. The muscarinic AChRs occur primarily in the CNS, and are part of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (G proteins), which use an intracellular secondary messenger system involving an increase of intracellular calcium to transmit signals inside cells.
(4) Acetylcholine binds to postsynaptic receptors. (5) This binding causes ion channels to open and allows sodium ions to flow into the muscle cell. (6) The flow of sodium ions across the membrane into the muscle cell generates an action potential which induces muscle contraction. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles.
AchR antibodies hinder the action of acetylcholine, a chemical (neurotransmitter) that transmits messages between nerve cells. The antibodies do this in three major ways:  1 Binding antibodies attach to the acetylcholine receptors on nerve cells and may initiate an inflammatory reaction that destroys them.  2 Blocking antibodies may sit on the receptors, preventing acetylcholine from binding.