View. comments. Success: But women need an average of four more lessons than men to pass their driving test. Women take longer to pass their driving test than men, according to a study. Researchers found girls need an average of 21 lessons before they pass their test, compared to just 17 lessons for men. Men are also more likely to pass first time with less than 54 per cent needing another attempt, while 57 per cent of women have to take a second test. The poll of 3,000 drivers revealed the average bloke passes his test at the age of 19 and eight months, while the average woman has to wait until she is 20 years and six months. More than one in 20 ladies even passed their 31st birthday before they were able to get behind the wheel of a car on their own.
This inevitably means that the more lessons you have the better prepared for the road you’ll be. On average you can expect to take around 45 hours of professional driving lessons to pass your test-plus as much practise as you can get outside of your lessons. 
Women take longer to pass their driving test than men, according to a study. Researchers found girls need an average of 21 lessons before they pass their test, compared to just 17 lessons for men. Men are also more likely to pass first time with less than 54 per cent needing another attempt, while 57 per cent of women have to take a second test. Photo: PA. 7:30AM BST 04 May 2010
It is not possible for an instructor to answer this question, how many driving lessons for test varies, as every individual is different when it comes to learning to drive. Here are a few facts that you should bear in mind when thinking about how many hours or driving lessons you need to pass your driving test. 1. The Driving Standards Agency (DSA) which conducts the UK driving test recommends an average of 45 hours with about 22 hours of private practice. 2. I m a driving instructor and this is more like your age x 3. Most people will take approx 50 hours without any private practice. 17years old x 3 = 51 hours needed. There are only about 10% of my pupils that need 25 hours to be ready for a test from scratch.
How long are driving lessons. Weekly driving lessons is the typical method that most learners choose for learning to drive. It usually takes around 30 to 40 hours to reach test standard. 2 x 1.5 hour lessons per week should allow you to reach test standard within around 2 to 3 months depending on your ability. Opting for one lesson per week can take up to six months to reach test standard. This is a full-time course in that all 30 to 40 hours of driving are taken within a single week, again often with a driving test scheduled at the end. These can be ideal for those that wish to pass the driving test as quickly as possible and who are limited on time. Many individuals take a week off work to achieve this
My average time until students passed their test in 2014 was 38 hours, 36 hours in 2013, 31 hours in 2012, 34 hours in 2011, and in 2010, 36 hours. This is a common question I got asked when I qualified as a driving instructor over 12 years ago. I was surprised at the varied number of hours required for someone with good driving skills to reach test standard, and for those who did not already possess these skills. I have taught many pupils to pass their test in 15-20 hours, whereas others of a similar age have taken 50. The pupils who will take the fewest hours will be confident and have good co-ordination skill
The first time I did my test was around 14 one hour lessons, and I only had 3 minors. Still failed because coming out off a roundbout I was going (according to the examiner) 34MPH in a 30MPH zone and had no intention to slow down. Of course, that wasn't really accurate. I've been doing it for 5 weeks now, with 2-3 lessons a week (all 2 hours). Ive done 24hours now. I've covered all the major road obstacles and the maneuvers (apart from bay parking). Now its a case of 'the little things' in the words of my instructor.