Biography [edit]. Mike Murphy is currently a partner at Revolution Agency, a political advertising, advocacy, public affairs and political consulting firm in Washington, DC. Murphy's Revolution Agency built Spanish and English websites for Right to Rise. The Associated Press reported that Murphy would run Right to Rise as a surrogate of Bush's campaign. The PAC would handle data gathering, phone banks, and even get out the vote efforts.
Politics is often rich with irony. No one knows that better than Todd Harris. During the 2000 presidential primary, the veteran Republican strategist, then John McCain’s traveling press secretary, went head to head with Heath Thompson, who was running George W. Bush’s campaign in South Carolina. 
(Newser) - Republican strategist Tucker Eskew, who helped smear John McCain in the 2000 primaries, is now on board the GOP candidate’s campaign and will prep Sarah Palin for her role, reports Jake Tapper on ABC News. “He's one of the best and most collaborative talents in Republican politics,”... More ». 
WASHINGTON — Ana Navarro, a blunt and sometimes outrageous GOP operative from Coral Gables, sounded miserable last month amid Washington's frigid winter, running around in her Jimmy Choo heels between CNN appearances and gala parties surrounding the president she wanted to defeat. Related News/Archive. 
That's what Chris Matthews pressed Republican strategist Todd Harris about during Hardball on Wednesday. Matthews repeatedly asked for examples, while citing negative examples like Bush-era spending bills, Katrina, Iraq, and Afghanistan. YouTube is watching, he told Harris. You're the Republican consultant. One of the best in the country. Tell me what the Republican party has done for this country in the last ten to 20 years..
Republican strategist: Michael Steele has 'obviously been a disaster'. By Felicia Sonmez. A top Republican Party strategist had some harsh words for beleaguered Republican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele on Sunday. Next: Petraeus: Too soon to tell in Afghanistan; GOP strategist: Steele is 'a disaster'; Cornyn: NYC mosque issue 'not about religious freedom'. Comments. I am a OBAMA supporter, I think based on where we were, which included on the brink of a depression to where we are now is incredible.
In December 2014, Jeb Bush announced that he would avoid creating a Presidential exploratory committee in order to form a leadership political action committee. The PAC is called Right to Rise, and it will be headquartered in Los Angeles to accommodate Mike Murphy's living situation. Murphy's Revolution Agency built Spanish and English websites for Right to Rise. The Associated Press reported that Murphy would run Right to Rise as a surrogate of Bush's campaign. The PAC would handle data gathering, phone banks, and even get out the vote efforts.
(LAUGHTER) MATTHEWS: Thank you, Todd Harris. You got plenty of time, `64 -- we`ll have you back with the answer. Republican strategist Todd Harris has some trouble giving Chris Matthews one example of anything Republicans have done that's positive for America in the last 20 years. I'll be curious if he does any better when Matthews has him back on.
Murphy has been called a media master by Fortune magazine, the GOP's hottest media consultant by Newsweek, and the leader of a new breed of campaign consultants by Congressional Quarterly. Mike is a partner in the Revolution Agency, a strategic communications firm in Washington DC. Murphy also serves as a pundit and political analyst, writing the widely read Murphy's Law column for TIME magazine and frequently appearing on the Meet the Press Roundtable.
Schmidt at the 2012 Tribeca Film Festival premiere of Knife Fight. Steve Schmidt (born 1970) is an American campaign strategist and public relations worker for the U.S. Republican Party. He specializes in political message development and strategy.. Schmidt was the senior campaign strategist and advisor to the 2008 presidential campaign of Senator John McCain. He is currently a political analyst for MSNBC and also appears frequently on Real Time with Bill Maher on HBO. In 1995, Steve Schmidt managed the unsuccessful campaign for Kentucky Attorney General of Will T. Scott, who is now a Justice of the Kentucky Supreme Court. This Kentucky campaign's advertising strategy was featured in the second edition of George Magazine.