A clinical pathologist looks at blood, urine, and other body fluid specimens under a microscope, or with other diagnostic tools, to observe levels of certain chemicals and/or other substances in the body. A diagnosis or determination to conduct further study is then made based on the test results. 
A pathologist is a physician with a specialty training in tissue diagnosis and laboratory medicine. If you have tissues or fluids removed during a hospital visit, a pathologist will examine your specimen and provide a diagnosis to your physician. 
Pathologists help care for patients every day by providing your doctor the information needed to ensure appropriate patient care. They are valuable resources for other physicians 24 hours a day, seven days a week. A pathologist may also recommend what you can do to prevent illness and maintain good health. For example, when your blood is drawn as part of your annual physical, the pathologist supervises testing and performs tests to help assess your health. A pathologist will also examine a tissue biopsy to determine if it is benign or if you have cancer, and shares that information with your primary care doctor
As a field of general inquiry and research, pathology addresses four components of disease: cause/ etiology, mechanisms of development (pathogenesis), structural alterations of cells (morphologic changes), and the consequences of changes (clinical manifestations). Anatomical pathology (Commonwealth) or anatomic pathology (United States) is a medical specialty that is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the gross, microscopic, chemical, immunologic and molecular examination of organs, tissues, and whole bodies (as in a general examination or an autopsy).
Forensic pathologists conduct autopsies and assist in death investigations. They are medical doctors, holding either an allopathic medical degree (M.D.) or a doctorate of osteopathic medicine (D.O.). After completing an autopsy, a forensic pathologist uses all gathered information to form a conclusion on the method and manner of the victim's death and puts his or her findings in a written report. Forensic pathologists often are called upon to testify in court as expert witnesses.
Anatomical pathology (Commonwealth) or Anatomic pathology (U.S.) is a medical specialty that is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the macroscopic, microscopic, biochemical, immunologic and molecular examination of organs and tissues. Anatomical pathology is one of two branches of pathology, the other being clinical pathology, the diagnosis of disease through the laboratory analysis of bodily fluids and/or tissues. Often, pathologists practice both anatomical and clinical pathology, a combination known as general pathology
Pathology (from the Ancient Greek roots of pathos (πάθος), meaning experience or suffering, and-logia (-λογία), an account of) is a significant component of the causal study of disease and a major field in modern medicine and diagnosis. Anatomical pathology (Commonwealth) or anatomic pathology (United States) is a medical specialty that is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the gross, microscopic, chemical, immunologic and molecular examination of organs, tissues, and whole bodies (as in a general examination or an autopsy).
A pathologist is a physician who studies body fluids and tissues, helps your primary care doctor make a diagnosis about your health or any medical problems you have, and uses laboratory tests to monitor the health of patients with chronic conditions. A pathologist may also recommend what you can do to prevent illness and maintain good health. For example, when your blood is drawn as part of your annual physical, the pathologist supervises testing and performs tests to help assess your health. A pathologist will also examine a tissue biopsy to determine if it is benign or if you have cancer, and shares that information with your primary care doctor