Astigmatism is a common eye condition that's usually corrected by eyeglasses, contact lenses, or surgery. Astigmatism is caused by an eye that is not completely round and occurs in nearly everybody to some degree. For vision problems due to astigmatism, glasses, contact lenses, and even vision correction procedures are all possible treatment options. A person's eye is naturally shaped like a sphere. However, the eye of a person with astigmatism is shaped more like a football or the back of a spoon. For this person, when light enters the eye it is refracted more in one direction than the other, allowing only part of the object to be in focus at one time.
Astigmatism is a vision condition that causes blurred vision due either to the irregular shape of the cornea, the clear front cover of the eye, or sometimes the curvature of the lens inside the eye. Astigmatism occurs due to the irregular shape of the cornea or the lens inside the eye. The cornea and lens are primarily responsible for properly focusing light entering your eyes allowing you to see things clearly.
Astigmatism is an optical defect in which vision is blurred due to the inability of the optics of the eye to focus a point object into a sharp focused image on the retina. This may be due to an irregular or toric curvature of the cornea or lens. The two types of astigmatism are regular and irregular. 
Astigmatism is a condition of the eye which causes either blurred vision or a sense that each eye is seeing objects slightly differently. A structural problem — usually from either an unevenly curved cornea or lens — causes light coming into the eye to not focus correctly. 
With Myopic astigmatism, one or both principal meridians of the eye are nearsighted. A meridian is a line that bisects a circle or a curve that bisects a sphere (such as an eyeball). For example, on a clock’s face, a line connecting 6 to 12 is a meridian. It is important to know that most cases of astigmatism are caused by the curvature of the cornea. Because of that, only surgery can effectively correct the condition. Eyeglasses and contact lenses are good for correcting vision while they are being worn, but they are not a cure.
In some cases, astigmatism is caused by the shape of the lens inside the eye. This is called lenticular astigmatism, to differentiate it from the more common corneal astigmatism. Try these interactive Rx forms to learn what the measurements mean on your eyeglass prescription or contact lens prescription. Most astigmatism is regular corneal astigmatism, which gives the front surface of the eye a football shape. Irregular astigmatism can result from an eye injury that has caused scarring on the cornea, from certain types of eye surgery or from keratoconus, a disease that causes a gradual thinning of the cornea.
Astigmatism usually occurs when the front surface of your eye, the cornea, has an irregular curvature. Astigmatism is one of a group of eye conditions known as refractive errors and these errors cause a disturbance in the way that light rays are focused within your eye. Astigmatism often occurs with nearsightedness and farsightedness, conditions also resulting from refractive errors. Astigmatism is not a disease nor does it mean that you have bad eyes.. It simply means that you have a variation or disturbance in the shape of your cornea. In astigmatism, the front surface of the cornea is curved more in one direction than in the other. This abnormality may result in vision that is much like looking into a distorted, wavy mirror. The distortion results because of an inability of the eye to focus light rays to a single point.
The condition can cause blurred vision. Astigmatism occurs when the front surface of your eye (cornea) or the lens, inside your eye, has a slightly different surface curvature in one direction from the other. Instead of being even and smooth in all directions, the surface may have some areas that are flatter or steeper. Astigmatism blurs your vision at all distances. Astigmatism is often present at birth and may occur in combination with nearsightedness or farsightedness. Often it's not pronounced enough to require corrective action. When it is, your treatment options include corrective lenses and surgery.