The lexicon of a creole language is largely supplied by the parent languages, particularly that of the most dominant group in the social context of the creole's construction, though there are often clear phonetic and semantic shifts. A creole is believed to arise when a pidgin, developed by adults for use as a second language, becomes the native and primary language of their children — a process known as nativization. The pidgin-creole life cycle was studied by Hall in the 1960s.
Pidgin may also be used as the specific name for local pidgins or creoles, in places where they are spoken. For example, the name of the creole language Tok Pisin derives from the English words talk pidgin. Pidgins usually have low prestige with respect to other languages. Not all simplified or broken forms of a language are pidgins. Each pidgin has its own norms of usage which must be learned for proficiency in the pidgin.
A pidgin is not the native language of any speech community, but is instead learned as a second language. A pidgin may be built from words, sounds, or body language from multiple other languages and cultures. They allow people who have no common language to communicate with each other. Pidgins usually have low prestige with respect to other languages. Not all simplified or broken forms of a language are pidgins. Each pidgin has its own norms of usage which must be learned for proficiency in the pidgin.
Such languages are called creoles. The difference between pidgins and creoles is that people grow up speaking creoles as their first language, whereas nobody speaks pidgin as their first language. There is no single accepted theory that explains the genesis of creole languages. The term creole comes from the French creole, from Spanish criollo ‘person native to a locality’. The word was coined in the 16th century and applied to people born in the colonies, to distinguish them from European-born immigrants. Since most creole languages developed in the colonies they are typically based on English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish, the languages of the superpowers of the time.
1 What we know about the history and origins of existing creoles suggests that this may happen at any stage in the development of a pidgin.. ( 2 Mark Sebba, Contact Languages: Pidgins and Creoles. 3  Palgrave Macmillan, 1997).  4 There are several possible fates for a pidgin. Ronald Wardhaugh, for example, observes that a pidgin is a language with no native speakers. . . . [It is] sometimes regarded as a 'reduced' variety of a 'normal' language (An Introduction to Sociolinguistics, 2010). See Examples and Observations, below. See also: 1  Contact Language and Contact Linguistics
A pidgin /ˈpɪdʒɨn/ , or pidgin language, is a grammatically simplified means of communication that develops between two or more groups that do not have a language in common: typically, a mixture of simplified languages or a simplified primary language with other languages' elements included. Pidgins usually have low prestige with respect to other languages. Not all simplified or broken forms of a language are pidgins. Each pidgin has its own norms of usage which must be learned for proficiency in the pidgin.
10/13/2011 3 Some Encyclopedic Definitions  A simplified form of speech that is usually a mixture of two or more languages, has a rudimentary grammar and vocabulary, is used for communication between groups speaking different languages, is not spoken as a first or native language, but used as contact language. Superstratum & Substratum Languages  While a pidgin is used by speakers of different languages, it is typically based on the lexicon of what is called a “dominant” language in the area where it is spoken.  Dominant languages were typically those of the European colonialists, e.g., French, English, Dutch, etc.
Overall, we can say that, even though pidgins and creoles seem to have less morphology than their lexifiers, there is indeed morphology in pidgins and creoles, with important differences between individual languages and also between languages of different status (pidgin or creole). Let us first turn to the question of how much morphology we find in pidgins and creoles. To answer that question, it seems necessary to distinguish between pidgins and creoles. It is often assumed that pidgins are morphologically more impoverished than creoles (e.g., Siegel, 2004a on restricted pidgins).