Type 1: Type 1 diabetes can occur at any age, but it usually starts in people younger than 30. Symptoms are usually severe and occur rapidly. They include: 1  Increased thirst. 2  Increased urination. 3  Weight loss despite increased appetite. 4  Nausea. 5  Vomiting. 6  Abdominal pain. 7  Fatigue. 
Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), also known as type 1 diabetes, usually starts before 15 years of age, but can occur in adults also. Diabetes involves the pancreas gland, which is located behind the stomach (Picture 1). The special cells (beta cells) of the pancreas produce a hormone called insulin. Type 2 diabetes is more common than type 1. About 9 out of 10 people with diabetes have type 2. Type 2 DM used to occur mostly in adults, but is becoming increasingly more common in children. It is associated with obesity.
1 Age. 2  The older you are, the higher your risk. 3  Generally, type 2 diabetes occurs in middle-aged adults, most frequently after age 45. 4  However, health care providers are diagnosing more and more children and adolescents with type 2 diabetes. 
Type 2 Diabetes: Causes and Symptoms. In type 2 diabetes, the body produces insulin but either it's not enough or the body can't use it properly. There are two reasons for this inability to use insulin: 1  The beta cells produce insulin, but not enough to lower blood sugar and meet the body's energy needs. Other risk factors to be aware of: 1  People usually develop type 2 diabetes after age 45, but in recent years the average age of onset has been lower. 2  Type 2 is also starting to show up in children. 3  Gestational diabetes increases a woman's chance of developing type 2 diabetes later in life by almost 40 percent.
People with type 1 diabetes need to take insulin injections every day. Although it can occur at any age, this type of diabetes occurs more often in children and young adults. Type 2 diabetes occurs when your body cannot use insulin properly (called insulin resistance) or it does not make enough insulin. This type of diabetes is usually seen in adults who are overweight and less active. Due to obesity and inactivity this type of diabetes is increasing in children.
There are two main types of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes usually occurs during childhood or adolescence. Type 2 diabetes, which is the most common form of the disease, usually occurs in people who are 45 years of age or older. However, the rate of diagnosis of type 2 diabetes in children and adolescents is increasing. 
1 People usually develop type 2 diabetes after age 45, but in recent years the average age of onset has been lower. 2  Type 2 is also starting to show up in children. 3  Gestational diabetes increases a woman's chance of developing type 2 diabetes later in life by almost 40 percent. Other risk factors to be aware of: 1 
Types Of Diabetes. There are two kinds of diabetes that can happen at any age. In type 1 diabetes, the body makes little or no insulin. This type of diabetes develops most often in children and young adults. In type 2 diabetes, the body makes insulin, but doesn't use it the right way. 
This form of diabetes usually develops in children or young adults, but can occur at any age. Type 2 (formerly called adult-onset or non insulin-dependent) diabetes results when the body doesn’t produce enough insulin and/or is unable to use insulin properly (insulin resistance). There are two major types of diabetes. In type 1 (fomerly called juvenile-onset or insulin-dependent) diabetes, the body completely stops producing any insulin, a hormone that enables the body to use glucose found in foods for energy. People with type 1 diabetes must take daily insulin injections to survive.
1 Type 1 diabetes can occur in an older individual due to destruction of the pancreas by alcohol, disease, or removal by surgery. 2  It also results from progressive failure of the pancreatic beta cells, the only cell type that produces significant amounts of insulin. 1 Type 1 diabetes involves about 10% of all people with diabetes in the United States. 2  Type 1 diabetes is typically diagnosed during childhood or adolescence. 3  It used to be referred to as juvenile-onset diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.