Assume the hypothetical employees described above actually worked 55 hours in a work week -- 15 FLSA overtime hours. Employee A's regular rate is $10 per hour, which paid straight time for 40 hours. S/he is due $15 per hour for each FLSA overtime hour, or an additional $225, for total pay due of $625.
Under the FLSA, overtime means time actually worked beyond a prescribed threshold.. The normal FLSA work period is the work week -- 7 consecutive days -- and the normal FLSA overtime threshold is 40 hours per work week. Some jobs may be governed by a different FLSA overtime threshold. These will be addressed specifically, below.
To ensure the basic, family-friendly right to a limited workweek, the Fair Labor Standards Act requires that workers covered by FLSA overtime provisions must be paid at least “time-and-a-half,” or 1.5 times their regular pay rate, for each hour of work per week beyond 40 hours.
EPI estimates that 13.5 million salaried workers would directly benefit from the Department of Labor’s proposal to raise the salary threshold below which salaried workers are automatically eligible for overtime pay. The proposal would raise the threshold from $455 per week to $933 per week (in 2014 dollars).
If the medical employer chooses, it may pay these employees FLSA overtime for actual time worked in excess of 8 hours per day, or 80 hours every two weeks (whichever is better for the employee), instead of for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per work week.
A. The FLSA generally requires overtime for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week. In a regular, 40 hour week situation, the FLSA threshold is thus 40 hours per week. Some government employees, and some medical employees, may have different thresholds. For FLSA purposes, only actual work time counts toward the overtime threshold.
The salary threshold for the exemption to the overtime protections of the Fair Labor Standards Act has eroded to such a level—$455 per week, or $23,660 for someone who works year-round—that it is currently less than the poverty threshold for a family of four.