From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aluminium(I) oxide is a compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula Al 2 O. It can be prepared by heating the stable oxide Al2O3 with elemental silicon at 1800 °C under vacuum. Aluminium (I) Oxide is formed by heating Al and Al 2 O 3 in vacuo while in the presence of SiO 2 and C, and only by condensing the products. Information is not commonly available on this compound due to instability, complex high-temperature spectra, difficult detection, and identification.
The Most Well-known Oxide Ceramic Material. Alumina or aluminum oxide (Al 2 O 3) in its various levels of purity is used more often than any other advanced ceramic material. CeramTec offers a wide range of material types with different property profiles that can be adjusted via a targeted matrix design. 
Aluminum oxide is a common, naturally occurring compound that’s employed in various industries, most particularly in the production of aluminum. The compound is used in production of industrial ceramics. Its most common crystalline form, corundum, has several gem-quality variants, as well. Metallic aluminum is reactive with oxygen, which could cause corrosion to build up. However, when aluminum bonds with oxygen to form aluminum oxide, it creates a thin coating that protects it from oxidation. This keeps the aluminum from corroding and losing strength.
aluminum oxide, (Al 2 O 3), a compound occurring naturally as various minerals. It is used in the production of abrasives, refractories, ceramics, and catalysts and in chromatography. It is also used to strengthen dental ceramics. aluminum hydroxychloride aluminum chlorohydrate. aluminum oxide Al 2 O 3, occurring naturally as various minerals; used in the production of abrasives, refractories, ceramics, catalysts, to strengthen dental ceramics,
For other uses, see Aluminium oxide (compounds) . Aluminium oxide is a chemical compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula Al 2 O 3. It is the most commonly occurring of several aluminium oxides, and specifically identified as aluminium(III) oxide. Aluminium oxide is an amphoteric substance, meaning it can react with both acids and bases, such as hydrofluoric acid and sodium hydroxide, acting as an acid with a base and a base with an acid, neutralising the other and producing a salt.
The most common use of aluminum oxide is in the production of metal aluminum. Metallic aluminum is reactive with oxygen, which could cause corrosion to build up. However, when aluminum bonds with oxygen to form aluminum oxide, it creates a thin coating that protects it from oxidation. This keeps the aluminum from corroding and losing strength.
indium oxide. thallium oxide. Aluminum Oxide is a chemical compound consisting of two aluminum ions and three oxygen ions demonstrated by the formula Al 2 O 3 Another commons name for aluminum oxide is aluminium oxide which is its proper name. It may also be referred to as aloxide, aloxite, or alundum. 
Aluminum oxide, Al2O3, forms a stable passive layer that protects aluminum from corrosion or further oxidation. This layer is about 4 nm thick and will provide corrosion protection as long as this oxide layer is stable. Aluminum is an amphoteric metal and can react with an acid as well as a base. The protective layer of aluminum oxide will deteriorate in environments with high or low pH or even in environments where aggressive ions are present. 
Aluminum Oxide. alumina, A1 2 0 3; a compound of aluminum with oxygen; a component of clays and a raw product for the production of aluminum. Colorless crystals with a melting point of 2,050°C and a boiling point above 3,000°C. Aluminum oxide is known in two modifications, α and γ. A specially prepared aluminum oxide, known as active aluminum oxide, is used in the form of a fine crystallic powder as an adsorbent and catalyst. Its adsorbent and catalytic properties depend to a great degree upon the quality and processing of the initial materials and upon the method of preparation.