Hysterosalpingography, also called uterosalpingography, is an x-ray examination of a woman's uterus and fallopian tubes that uses a special form of x-ray called fluoroscopy and a contrast material. An x-ray (radiograph) is a noninvasive medical test that helps physicians diagnose and treat medical conditions. Hysterosalpingography is primarily used to examine women who have difficulty becoming pregnant by allowing the radiologist to evaluate the shape and structure of the uterus, the openness of the fallopian tubes, and any scarring within the uterine or peritoneal (abdominal) cavity.
Hysterosalpingography is also used to evaluate the openness of the fallopian tubes, and to monitor the effects of tubal surgery, including: 1  blockage of the fallopian tubes due to infection or scarring. 2  tubal ligation. 3  the closure of the fallopian tubes in a sterilization procedure and a sterilization reversal. Hysterosalpingography is primarily used to examine women who have difficulty becoming pregnant by allowing the radiologist to evaluate the shape and structure of the uterus, the openness of the fallopian tubes, and any scarring within the uterine or peritoneal (abdominal) cavity.
Hysterosalpingography, also called uterosalpingography, is an x-ray examination of a woman’s uterus and fallopian tubes that uses a special form of x-ray called fluoroscopy and a contrast material. Hysterosalpingography is primarily used to examine women who have difficulty becoming pregnant by allowing the radiologist to evaluate the shape and structure of the uterus, the the fallopian tubes (tubes leading to the ovaries), and any scarring.
What is hysterosalpingography (HSG)? Hysterosalpingography (HSG) is an X-ray procedure that is used to view the inside of the uterus and fallopian tubes. It often is used to see if the fallopian tubes are partly or fully blocked. It also can show if the inside of the uterus is of a normal size and shape. During HSG, a contrast medium is placed in the uterus and fallopian tubes. This is a fluid that contains a dye. The dye shows up in contrast to the body structures on an X-ray screen. The dye outlines the inner size and shap
Purpose. Hysterosalpingography is used to determine if the fallopian tubes are open, or if there are any apparent abnormalities or defects in the uterus. It can be used to detect tumors, scar tissue, or tears in the lining of the uterus. This procedure is often used to help diagnose infertility in women. Hysterosalpingography is a procedure where x rays are taken of a woman's reproductive tract after a dye is injected. Hystero means uterus and salpingo means tubes, so hysterosalpingography literally means to take pictures of the uterus and fallopian tubes.
A hysterosalpingography is a type of X-ray that looks at a woman’s uterus (womb) and fallopian tubes (structures that transport eggs from the ovaries to the uterus). This type of X-ray uses a contrast material so that the uterus and fallopian tubes show up on the X-ray images. The type of X-ray used is called a fluoroscopy, which creates a video image rather than a still picture. Hysterosalpingography can help diagnose the cause of infertility. Infertility may be caused by: 1  structural abnormalities in the uterus, which may be congenital or acquired. 2  blockage of the fallopian tubes. 3  scar tissue in the uterus.
Hysterosalpingography, also called uterosalpingography, is an x-ray examination of a woman's uterus andfallopian tubes that uses a special form of x-ray called fluoroscopy and a contrast material.An x-ray (radiograph) is a noninvasive medical test that helps physicians diagnose and treat medicalconditions. The hysterosalpingography procedure is best performed one week after menstruation but before ovulationto make certain that you are not pregnant during the exam.This procedure should not be performed if you have an active inflammatory condition.
Hysterosalpingography (HSG) is a radiologic procedure to investigate the shape of the uterine cavity and the shape and patency of the fallopian tubes. It entails the injection of a radio-opaque material into the cervical canal and usually fluoroscopy with image intensification. The procedure involves X-rays. It should be done in the follicular phase of the cycle. It is contraindicated in pregnancy. It is useful to diagnose uterine malformations, Asherman's syndrome, tubal occlusion and pelvic inflammatory disease and used extensively in the work-up of infertile women.