From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Human body cavities: Dorsal body cavity is to the left. The dorsal body cavity is located along the dorsal (posterior) surface of the human body, where it is subdivided into the cranial cavity housing the brain and the spinal cavity housing the spinal cord. The two cavities are continuous with one another. 
The Dorsal Cavity contains the Cranial Cavity (brain) and the Spinal Cavity (spinal cord). It's basically your back (think dorsal fin of a fish). The Ventral Cavity contains the Thoracic Cavity and the Abdominal-pelvic Cavity. Think ventral = front. It contains all the structures within the chest and abdomen. Like the dorsal cavity, the ventral body cavity is subdivided. The superior thoracic cavity is separated from the rest of the ventral cavity by a dome-shaped muscle, the diaphragm.
The ventral cavity includes the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities and their subdivisions. The dorsal cavity includes the cranial and spinal cavities. 1  The cranial cavity is a large, bean-shaped cavity filling most of the upper skull where the brain is located. 2  The vertebral cavity is a very narrow, thread-like cavity running from the cranial cavity down the entire length of the spinal cord. The cavities include: 1  Dorsal body cavity. 2  cranial cavity, enclosed by the skull and contains the brain. 3  spinal canal, enclosed by the spine and contains
The dorsal body cavity consists of the cranial cavity that contains the brain, and the vertebral cavity (or canal) that contains the spinal cord. Compare: ventral body cavity. See also: body cavity. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
Dorsal cavity: The smaller of the two main body cavities, the larger being the ventral cavity. It contains the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord). … I think there are only 2 cavities that the dorsal cavitiy encompasses and those are the cranial cavity and the spinal cord. The human dorsal cavity consists of the cavities in the posterior of the torso and head, including the cranial cavity and the vertebral column.
The dorsal cavity, which is located along the BACK of the body and head, contains organs if the nervous system that coordinate body functions. The ventral cavity, which it's … located along the FRONT of the body, contains the body organs that maintain homeostasis. 2 people found this useful. … I think there are only 2 cavities that the dorsal cavitiy encompasses and those are the cranial cavity and the spinal cord. The human dorsal cavity consists of the cavities in the posterior of the torso and head, including the cranial cavity and the vertebral column.
Body Cavities. Body cavities are areas in the body that contain our internal organs. The dorsal and ventral cavities are the two main cavities. The dorsal cavity is on the posterior (back side) of the body and contains the cranial cavity and spinal cavity. In human anatomy, dorsal, caudal and posterior mean the same thing. The ventral cavity is on the front (anterior) of the body and is divided into the thoracic cavity (chest) and abdominopelvic cavity. The dorsal cavity is further divided into subcavities: 1  cranial cavity (also called the calvaria) which surrounds and holds the brain. 2  vertebral cavity (also called the spinal cavity) which includes the vertebrae (spinal column) and spinal cord.
The dorsal body cavity is a space within the body, located towards the dorsal/posterior surface of the body, that contains the brain   Contains the brain and spinal cord. … I think there are only 2 cavities that the dorsal cavitiy encompasses and those are the cranial cavity and the spinal cord. The human dorsal cavity consists of the cavities in the posterior of the torso and head, including the cranial cavity and the vertebral column.
The dorsal (posterior) cavity and the ventral (anterior) cavity are the largest body compartments. These cavities contain and protect delicate internal organs, and the ventral cavity allows for significant changes in the size and shape of the organs as they perform their functions. The cavities include: 1  Dorsal body cavity. 2  cranial cavity, enclosed by the skull and contains the brain. 3  spinal canal, enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord.