The pelagic zone can be thought of in terms of an imaginary cylinder or water column that goes from the surface of the sea almost to the bottom. Conditions differ deeper in the water column; the pressure increases, the temperature drops and less light penetrates. The pelagic zone can be contrasted with the benthic and demersal zones at the bottom of the sea. The benthic zone is the ecological region at the very bottom of the sea. It includes the sediment surface and some subsurface layers. Marine organisms living in this zone, such as clams and crabs, are called bentho
Pelagic fish inhabit the water column (not near the bottom or the shore) of coasts, open oceans, and lakes. Oceanic pelagic fish, such as the tuna pictured above, have agile bodies made for long distance migration. Many oceanic pelagic fish travel in schools while some are solitary that drift with ocean currents. 
Spatially, the marine environment is divided into the pelagic division and benthic division. Being pelagic means to be in the water, surrounded by water at any depth. The pelagic division above the continental shelf is distinguished as the neritic province from the pelagic area above the open ocean (abyssal plain, oceanic ridges/rises, and trenches) which is call the oceanic province.
The benthic zone is the ecological region at the lowest level of a body of water such as an ocean or a lake, including the sediment surface and some sub-surface layers. Organisms living in this zone are called benthos, e.g. the benthic invertebrate community, including crustaceans and polychaetes. The benthic region of the ocean begins at the shore line (intertidal or eulittoral zone) and extends downward along the surface of the continental shelf out to sea. The continental shelf is a gently sloping benthic region that extends away from the land mass.
• Benthic zone is the layer closer to the bottom of a water body, whereas pelagic zone refers to the uppermost layers of a water body. • Organisms that live in the benthic region are coined as ’benthos’, and organisms found in the pelagic zones are referred as pelagic organisms. • Referring to the open sea, benthic zone is characterized by low temperatures, low dissolved oxygen levels, low/no light, and high pressures.
The marine pelagic environment is the largest aquatic habitat on Earth, occupying 1,370 million cubic kilometres (330 million cubic miles), and is the habitat for 11% of known fish species. The oceans have a mean depth of 4000 metres. Demersal fish live on or near the bottom of the sea. Demersal fish are found by the seafloor in coastal areas on the continental shelf, and in the open ocean they are found along the outer continental margin on the continental slope and the continental rise.
The word pelagic is derived from Greek πέλαγος (pelagos) , pélagos meaning open. Sea the pelagic zone can be thought of in terms of an imaginary cylinder or water column that goes from the surface of the sea almost to the. bottom The pelagic zone can be contrasted with the benthic and demersal zones at the bottom of the sea. The benthic zone is the ecological region at the very bottom of the sea. It includes the sediment surface and some subsurface layers. Marine organisms living in this zone, such as clams and crabs, are called benthos.
Pelagic fish live in the pelagic zone of ocean or lake waters – being neither close to the bottom nor near the shore – in contrast with demersal fish, which do live on or near the bottom, and reef fish, which are associated with coral reefs. Demersal fish live on or near the bottom of the sea. Demersal fish are found by the seafloor in coastal areas on the continental shelf, and in the open ocean they are found along the outer continental margin on the continental slope and the continental rise.