The posterior chain is a group of muscles that generate from your lower back to the back of your legs. It includes the lower back, the glutes, the hamstrings and the calves. 
The posterior chain is a group of muscles consisting predominantly of tendons and ligaments on the posterior of the body. Examples of these muscles include the biceps femoris, gluteus maximus, erector spinae muscle group, trapezius, and posterior deltoids. The primary exercises for developing the posterior chain are the Olympic lifts, squats, good-mornings, bent over rows, deadlifts, pull ups and hyperextensions; the common denominator among many of these movements is a focus on hip extension, excluding bent over rows and pull ups.
Yes the posterior chain has been getting a lot of attention, and yes it plays a vital role in not only jumping, but most athletic performance. These two things are undeniable. What is also undeniable is that the role of the posterior chain is no more important than that of the anterior chain. These muscles include the lower back, the glutes, the hamstrings, and also the calves. The muscles in the posterior chain are important for jumping for several reasons. The first one is that due to their size they generally have plenty of potential to generate a lot of power for your jump.
The term posterior chain refers to the series of muscles that include the low back, the glutes, the hamstrings, and even the calf muscles. Posterior chain exercises involve most, if not all, of these muscles in a chainlike manner. Strong and flexible hamstrings and posterior chain muscles are an important part of an injury-prevention strategy. The low back is one of the most commonly injured areas, often leading to lost work hours and high medical expenses. And in the world of sports, athletes are routinely sidelined by hamstring injuries.
Check it out. T he Posterior Chain is a common training term in athletic development. Jim Wendler, a powerlifter and strength coach from Elite Fitness Systems (EFS) explains how everyone can benefit by training the chain. 
The posterior chain is simply the backside of your body and its primary muscles include the lower back, gluteus maximus (glutes), hamstrings, and calves. This area is often neglected and misunderstood. There are two main reasons why. The first reason is many people sit 8-10+ hours per day. Although the posterior chain consists of the low back, glutes, hamstrings and calves, the focus here will be on the function and importance of the glutes. When the glutes become inhibited the posterior chain is not functioning properly.
Figure 1: The muscles of the posterior chain. The posterior chain is the group of muscles that runs from your lower back down behind your legs, hence the name, posterior. These muscles include the lower back, the glutes, the hamstrings, and also the calves. The muscles in the posterior chain are important for jumping for several reasons. The first one is that due to their size they generally have plenty of potential to generate a lot of power for your jump.
The posterior chain is the most influential muscle group in the body. The glutes, hamstrings, and lower back tremendously affect your athletic prowess: they're the prime movers of forward propulsion. With such a huge role in performance, we can't take programming for the posterior chain lightly. 