protection for the beneficiary of the trust. 1. The grantor sets up the irrevocable trust and transfers the family home, money, securities or other property to the trust that generate income.
BREAKING DOWN 'Irrevocable Trust'. The main reason for setting up an irrevocable trust is for estate and tax considerations. The benefit of this type of trust for estate assets is that it removes all incidents of ownership, effectively removing the trust's assets from the grantor's taxable estate.
So while the Trust is Irrevocable, it can be amended by your and with the consent of your children at any time. Also a provision can be added called a limited power of appointment, that would allow you alone to cut out any beneficiary, usually a child or grandchild that you wished to cut out
An Irrevocable Family Trust is an inter vivos trust (one you set up during your life) that is managed by Trustees (usually your children) for the benefit of the beneficiaries (usually your children and grandchildren).
An irrevocable trust is simply a trust with terms and provisions that cannot be changed by the grantor. This is distinguished from a revocable trust, which is commonly used in estate planning and allows the grantor to change the terms of the trust and/or take the property back at any time.
When a grantor funds an irrevocable trust with property during his or her lifetime, and the grantor is neither a trustee nor beneficiary of the trust, he or she is giving up all right, title, and interest to that property — the legal definition of a gift.
An irrevocable trust is an arrangement whereby a grantor relinquishes legal ownership of property and places it under the administration of a trustee, who administers it for the benefit of the trust beneficiaries. A family trust is a trust in which the beneficiaries are all relatives of the grantor.
An irrevocable family trust is a noncharitable trust set up by the creator, or settlor, for the benefit of family members. This type of trust is typically a permanent agreement that controls family assets placed into the trust for the benefit of the beneficiaries named in the trust papers.