Split and merge into it. Answer by ComSoop. Confidence votes 31. It's not actually a river; it's a strait named the Bosporus that connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara which then drains into another strait called the Dardanelles and then into the Mediterranean Sea. The movie A River Runs Through It (1992) was filmed in the following locations:Bozeman, MontanaGranite Falls, WyomingLivingston, MontanaVarious other locations in Montana. + 4 others found this useful.
Traveling with Airstream in tow along the rivers that run through Montana, I couldn't help but reflect back on the film,  A River Runs Through It , and the life lessons learned through the storytelling of American author Norman Maclean. 
), once known as Constantinople and Byzantium before that, is the most populous city in Turkey, and the country's economic, cultural, and historical center. Istanbul is a transcontinental city in Eurasia, straddling the Bosphorus strait between the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea. Istanbul is one of the world's most populous cities and ranks as world's 5th-largest city proper and the largest European city. Founded on the Sarayburnu promontory around 660 BCE as Byzantium, the city now known as Istanbul developed to become one of the most significant cities in history.
(July 2015). A River Runs Through It is the true story about two boys, Norman (Craig Sheffer) and Paul (Brad Pitt), growing up in 1920s Missoula, Montana with their father, a Presbyterian minister. Much of the film is about the two boys returning home after becoming troubled adults. It is a period drama based on the semi-autobiographical novella A River Runs Through It (1976) written by Norman Maclean (1902–90), adapted for the screen by Richard Friedenberg.
AllMusic Review by Mark Morton. Digitally remastered and featuring an exclusive interview track with composer Mark Isham, this special edition score of the 1992 Robert Redford film, A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT, is presented by Milan Records. 
A River Runs Through It is a 1992 American film directed by Robert Redford and starring Craig Sheffer, Brad Pitt, Tom Skerritt, Brenda Blethyn, and Emily Lloyd. It is a period drama based on the semi-autobiographical novella A River Runs Through It (1976) written by Norman Maclean (1902–90), adapted for the screen by Richard Friedenberg.
The Po the longest river in Italy, flowing through Turin and Ferrara, before emptying into the Adriatic Sea after about 652 kilometers (405 miles). The Adige River is also quite long, flowing 410 kilometers (250 miles) from the border of Austria and Switzerland over near Verona and out into the Adriatic Sea. The Tiber flows through Rome, and drains into the Tyrrhenian Sea to the west of Italy. The Tiber is the third longest river in Italy, flowing about 406 kilometers (252 miles) from the Apennine Mountain range, through the regions of Emilia-Romagna, Umbria, and finally Lazio, where it reaches Rome. The Arno eventually flows into the Ligurian Sea after first passing through Florence in the Tuscany region. 
A River Runs Through It is a 1992 film about two sons of a Presbyterian minister — one studious and the other rebellious — as they grow up and come of age in a time that roughly spans the Prohibition era (1919-33) in the United States: from World War I (1917-18) to the early days of the Great Depression (1929-41). 1 Eventually, all things merge into one, and a river runs through it. 2  The river was cut by the world's great flood and runs over rocks from the basement of time. 3  On some of those rocks are timeless raindrops.
Mali is a country that is situated in the west of Africa. The Niger  River runs through Mali and is the third longest river in Africa. The movie A River Runs Through It (1992) was filmed in the following locations:Bozeman, MontanaGranite Falls, WyomingLivingston, MontanaVarious other locations in Montana. + 4 others found this useful.