RNA and DNA differ in these ways: (1) DNA has deoxyribose sugar, and RNA has ribose sugar. (2) DNA is made up of these four bases: adenine & guanine, cytosine & thymine; R … NA is made up of adenine & guanine, cytosine & URACIL, the difference being that in RNA, uracil replaces thymine. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) has double helix. a phosphate group, and 5 carbon sugar back bone. DNA also has 4 nucleotides that pair, Adenine to Thymine and Guanine to Cytosin … e. RNA (ribonucleic acid) is a single strand with 5-carbon sugar that has one more oxygen than DNA.
DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA stands for ribonucleic acid. DNA, thus, carries a deoxyribose sugar and RNA contains a ribose sugar. DNA is composed of several types of nitrogenous bases: adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine. RNA contains nitrogenous bases similar to DNA, but does not contain thymine. It contains uracil instead. DNA and RNA are the genetic material that is found in every living cell. These compounds are responsible for cell reproduction and production of proteins necessary for life. While each of these compounds carries information coded by genes, they differ in a number of ways.
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. 1 The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 2  DNA is a double stranded molecule while RNA is a single stranded molecule. 3  DNA is stable under alkaline conditions while RNA is not stable.
The sugar present in the molecules is the main difference between the DNA and RNA. So the correct potion is 4. The sugar present in RNA molecule is ribose and in DNA molecule it is deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is the same as ribose, except that the former has one more OH. Deoxyribose sugar is less reactive because of C-H bond and ribose sugar is more reactive because of C-OH bonds.
DNA contain the deoxyribose sugar. Other differences may include; DNA is double stranded while RNA is single stranded DNA contain the base thymine while RNA contain the base Uracil in place of thymine. The sugar present in RNA molecule is ribose and in DNA molecule it is deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is the same as ribose, except that the former has one more OH. Deoxyribose sugar is less reactive because of C-H bond and ribose sugar is more reactive because of C-OH bonds.
DNA is two stranded while RNA is usually one stranded. DNA uses a deoxyribose sugar while RNA uses a ribose sugar. DNA has the base thymine while RNA uses uracil in it's place … . RNA is catalytic, while DNA is only an information storage molecule. Thymine, the fourth base pair found in DNA, is replaced by uracil in RNA. DNA has deoxyribose sugar while RNA has ribose sugar. The deoxyribose sugar has one less oxygen atom than the ribose sugar. DNA is longer than RNA because DNA contains all the genes of the organism and more besides.
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 1 The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 2  DNA is a double stranded molecule while RNA is a single stranded molecule. 3  DNA is stable under alkaline conditions while RNA is not stable.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: RNA differs from DNA in a number of ways. 1) RNA is single stranded molecule, while DNA is double stranded. 2) RNA is a polymer with ribose and phosphate backbone, while DNA has a deoxyribose(1 less oxygen) and phosphate backbone. Also, adding to the previous answer. RNA is also single stranded, while DNA is double stranded, making it a double helix. RNA is involved in the production of proteins, as it is the rubric for protein synthesis. There are many different types who play different roles in the cell.
3) RNA has uracil as a nucleotide (along with adenine, cytosine, and guanine). DNA has adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine as nucleotides. 4) Their functions differ. DNA is a medium for long-term storage, along with the transmission of genetic material. RNA serves as a messenger between DNA and the protein synthesis complexes known as ribosomes. 5) There is only one type of DNA. Also, adding to the previous answer. RNA is also single stranded, while DNA is double stranded, making it a double helix. RNA is involved in the production of proteins, as it is the rubric for protein synthesis. There are many different types who play different roles in the cell.