Trabeculae of bone provide structural support to the spongy bone found at the ends of longs bones. In this lesson, we will learn about the structure of trabeculae and how they can grow and change in response to mechanical stress. Bone tissue is formed by cells called osteoblasts and is secreted in rings called lamellae that expand outward as the trabeculae get larger. As new tissue grows around the osteoblast, a hard ceramic material called calcium phosphate begins to surround the cell.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Trabeculae is the plural form of trabecula, which means small beam or small wood plank in Latin to describe a certain tissue structure. The term is meant to be the smaller form of the Latin word trabes, thus denoting its most common function — support. Trabeculae, also described as rods or struts, can be found in certain areas of the body, which include the bones, the penis, the heart and the eyes. They also vary in manufacture and function depending on location.
Trabeculae carneae. Definition. noun. Muscular ridges that crisscross and project from the inner walls of the heart ventricles. Supplement. Their structure is important to their role. Had the inner surface of heart ventricles been flat, suction could occur and this would impair the heart's ability to pump efficiently. Word origin: Latin trabeculae (beam) + carneae (flesh).
Lesson Summary. Trabeculae are thin columns and plates of bone that create a spongy structure in cancellous bone, which is located at the ends of long bones, and in the pelvis, ribs, skull, and vertebrae. Bone tissue is formed by cells called osteoblasts and is secreted in rings called lamellae that expand outward as the trabeculae get larger. As new tissue grows around the osteoblast, a hard ceramic material called calcium phosphate begins to surround the cell.
1.1. Papillary muscles The papillary muscles can be found in the left and rightventricles. These muscles project from the ventricularwalls and are roughly conical in shape with a rounded end.Their purpose is to keep the atrioventricular valves closedwhen the ventricles contract. 
Function remains more or less fixed whereas the purpose (which indicates intention or objecti … ve) generally changes. For example, the function of a hammer is to strike something nearby whereas its purpose (what to strike and why) could be anything the hammer-wielder has in mind. 2.
The trabeculae carneae (columnae carneae, or meaty ridges), are rounded or irregular muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the right and left ventricles of the heart. These are different from the pectinate muscles, which are present in the right atrium and the atrial appendages of the heart. 
Function remains more or less fixed whereas the purpose (which indicates intention or objecti … ve) generally changes. For example, the function of a hammer is to strike something nearby whereas its purpose (what to strike and why) could be anything the hammer-wielder has in mind. The tiny plates of bone material found in spongy bone are called A interstitial lamellae. E. Trabeculae Well, Trabeculae translates to tiny beam or rod whereas trabeculae means tiny plates... and if it is for spongy bone, then that would be A. interstitial lamella … e. 1 person found this useful.
This type of porous bone is known as cancellous bone, and it's found at the ends of long bones like the femur, and also in the pelvic bones, ribs, skull, and the vertebrae in the spinal column. Cancellous bone also contains a lot of red bone marrow that fills up the spaces between trabeculae. Bone tissue is formed by cells called osteoblasts and is secreted in rings called lamellae that expand outward as the trabeculae get larger. As new tissue grows around the osteoblast, a hard ceramic material called calcium phosphate begins to surround the cell.
The trabeculae carneae are muscular, columnar protrusions found on the internal surface of the ventricles, the main pumping chambers of the heart. It is thought that they help prevent suction that would occur with a smooth surface. 