Image caption Barryroe off County Cork could yield 280m barrels, Providence says. Ireland is on the verge of securing revenue from oil that could run into billions of pounds. Providence Resources Plc, an Irish and UK company, has confirmed its Barryroe site, 30 miles off the Cork coast, should yield 280m barrels of oil.
The Corrib gas project (Irish: Tionscanamh Ghas Ghás aiceanta Na) coiribe entails the extraction of a natural gas deposit off the northwest coast Of. ireland The Corrib gas field is located about 83 kilometres (52 mi) off Erris Head in County Mayo in an area known as the Slyne Trough in water depths of 355 metres (1,165 ft).
Based on the average price of a barrel of oil for 2009 of $60, this works out at $600 billion, or €420 billion. This does not take account of further oil and gas reserves off Ireland’s south coast. The total volume of oil and gas which rightfully belongs to Ireland could be significantly higher. The €420,000,000,000+ Ireland is giving away. Vast quantities of gas and oil have been discovered under Irish waters in the Atlantic Ocean over the past 15 years.
The Corrib field is a Triassic gas development in the Atlantic Ocean, situated off the coast of Ireland. It is approximately 50 miles west of the Mullet peninsula in County Mayo and lies in the Slyne Trough in Blocks 18/20 and 18/25. 
Oil exploration in Irish waters tends to focus around the North Celtic Basin, a shallow stretch of water just off the coast of county Cork, where Providence Resources last year discovered 1.6 billion barrels of oil. Providence has now begun to drill the Dunquin exploratory well with its partner ExxonMobil, in the deepwater Porcupine basin, some 200km off Ireland’s west coast.
It is connected to the Celtic Sea in the south by St George's Channel, and to the Inner Seas off the West Coast of Scotland in the north by the North Channel. Anglesey is the largest island within the Irish Sea, followed by the Isle of Man. 
Oil and gas companies are stepping up exploration efforts off Ireland's coast. The draws are an attractive tax regime and higher energy prices. Offshore projects in Ireland had been overlooked by many firms because of high costs and a lack of commercial finds since drilling first began in the 1970s. West coast. Exploration activity in Ireland has remained relatively slow, with 177 wells drilled to date, compared with about 4,000 in the UK and 1,200 in Norway. While much of the drilling has centred on the Celtic Sea off southern Ireland, no oil has been produced yet.
Spanish Point; __ Providence Resources. Further up the coast is the Spanish Point field, which is 200km off the coast of Clare. The field has known reserves of one and a quarter trillion cubic feet of gas and 206 million barrels of oil, and is valued at €19.6bn. Ireland's Natural Resources: Under International Law, the Irish Nation owns a very large area, over 220 Million Acres (or 25%) of the European Continental Shelf, and under International Law, any Oil, Gas, or Minerals found within or beneath our Exclusive Economic Zone belongs to the Irish Nation.
Image caption Barryroe off County Cork could yield 280m barrels, Providence says. Ireland is on the verge of securing revenue from oil that could run into billions of pounds. Providence Resources Plc, an Irish and UK company, has confirmed its Barryroe site, 30 miles off the Cork coast, should yield 280m barrels of oil. The money generated will depend on the market value at the time of extraction and on licensing arrangements.
The Corrib gas project (Irish: Tionscanamh Ghas Ghás aiceanta Na) coiribe entails the extraction of a natural gas deposit off the northwest coast Of. Ireland the project includes a development of The corrib gas, field and constructions of the natural gas pipeline and a gas processing. plant The Corrib gas field is located about 83 kilometres (52 mi) off Erris Head in County Mayo in an area known as the Slyne Trough in water depths of 355 metres (1,165 ft).