Several species of turtles can live for several decades. With this longevity also comes a negative side. It takes several years for turtles to sexually mature (4 to 10 years for a Painted turtle, 14 to 20 years for a Blanding's or Wood turtle, and 15 years for a Snapping turtle). 
Painted Turtle Life Span. Painted turtles have been known to live as long as 50 years in captivity, so they can truly be (nearly) lifelong companions. Given proper diet, housing, and care, you can reasonably expect a painted turtle to live for 25 to 30 years. At a minimum, a single baby or juvenile painted turtle should be provided about 10 gallons of water volume. This does not mean a 10-gallon tank, but at least a 15- or 20-gallon tank partially filled with 10 gallons of water. Increase the volume of water by 5 gallons for each additional baby turtle.
Many turtles have very long lifespans! Box turtles can live well over 100 years and other turtles like the spotted turtle can live over 50 years. Because turtles live so long, it is not so important that they produce many offspring every year. Report Abuse. There isn't an exact age. The age turtles reach depend on many factors. Some can live a very long time.The large Galapagos tortoises from the Galapagos Islands can live more than 200 years.
The adult painted turtle female is 10–25 cm (4–10 in) long; the male is smaller. The turtle's top shell is dark and smooth, without a ridge. 1 The southern painted turtle (C. p. dorsalis), the smallest subspecies, is 10–14 cm (4–6 in) long. 2  Its top stripe is a prominent red, and its bottom shell is tan and spotless or nearly so. 3  The largest subspecies is the western painted turtle (C. p. bellii), which grows up to 26.6 cm (10 in) long.
Longevity in Captivity. When the threats of predators and communicable disease are removed, a painted turtle can live quite a long life in captivity. A typical life span range for a pet painted turtle is 15 to 25 years with proper care. Note that these animals are naturally wild, so their life spans will be significantly shorter if they are confined to a limited habitat or are not properly nourished.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. painted turtles usually live 15-20 years in captivity. they live longer in the wild, but how long varies. Painted turtles...like many other turtles are simi-aquatic. Which means that they require land and water. They need some place to swim and they also need some place so they ca … n get out and dry off under a heat lamp of some kind. 11 people found this useful.
Chrysemys picta picta. Eastern Painted Turtles are water turtles. They can grow up to nine inches long. They are black with smooth, flattened shells. The top part of a turtle's shell is called a carapace. The carapace has many small plates called scutes. The Eastern Painted Turtle has thick lines between its scutes. 
The turtle is the only species of the genus Chrysemys, which is part of the pond turtle family Emydidae. Fossils show that the painted turtle existed 15 million years ago. Four regionally based subspecies (the eastern, midland, southern, and western) evolved during the last ice age. 1 The southern painted turtle (C. p. dorsalis), the smallest subspecies, is 10–14 cm (4–6 in) long. 2  Its top stripe is a prominent red, and its bottom shell is tan and spotless or nearly so. 3  The largest subspecies is the western painted turtle (C. p. bellii), which grows up to 26.6 cm (10 in) long.
They are adaptable reptiles that can live in a wide variety of environments, which is the reason they are found all over the continent. In the wild, it is estimated that painted turtles can live as long as 40 years, though that figure is not common. With the risk of predators and illness, life span in the wild can be only a quarter that length. A typical life span range for a pet painted turtle is 15 to 25 years with proper care. Note that these animals are naturally wild, so their life spans will be significantly shorter if they are confined to a limited habitat or are not properly nourished.