Pancreas. THE pancreas. (Science: anatomy, gastroenterology) A tongue-shaped glandular organ lying below and behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is encircled by the duodenum and its tail touches the spleen. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 22 April 2007, at 17:48.This page has been accessed 25,566 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.
(Science: anatomy, gastroenterology) A tongue-shaped glandular organ lying below and behind the stomach. Pancreas. Organ of the mammalian body secretin g insulin and glucagon, two important hormones in the regulation of glucose and digestive enzymes. Pronounce: Related Links. This is a search for pancreas in our database ... ~ a large, glandular organ lying near the stomach that produces many of the enzymes used to digest food. parasites organ isms that attack living things and cause disease. parasitism a type of symbiosis in which one population benefits while the other is harmed. The ~.
the islets of Langerhans remain normal but acinar tissue atrophies and exocrine function is compromised. Seen most commonly in large breeds of dogs, particularly German shepherd dogs. Clinical signs are related to the exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (see below). one of the two excretory ducts of the pancreas. Depending on the species, it may unite with the common bile duct before entering the duodenum at the major duodenal papilla.
The pancreas /ˈpaeŋkriəs/ ˈpæŋkriəs is a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of. vertebrates In pancreatitis, enzymes of the exocrine pancreas damage the structure and tissue of the pancreas. Detection of some of these enzymes, such as amylase and lipase in the blood, along with symptoms and findings on X-ray, are often used to indicate that a person has pancreatitis.
islets of cells scattered through the pancreas; contain alpha, beta, C and D cells. pancreatic islet cell tumor. see gastrinoma, insulinoma. pancreatic lipase. enzyme released from the exocrine pancreas; catalyzes the hydrolysis of dietary lipids in the presence of bile salts. See also lipase. one of the two excretory ducts of the pancreas. Depending on the species, it may unite with the common bile duct before entering the duodenum at the major duodenal papilla.
The pancreas is also responsible in producing digestive enzymes to be used in the duodenum which will contain fo. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 22 April 2007, at 17:48.This page has been accessed 25,566 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.
~ A gland in the abdominal cavity that secretes digestive enzymes into the small intestine and also secretes the hormones insulin and glucagon into the blood, where they regulate blood glucose levels. ~. (pang-kree-us) [Gk. ~ a large, glandular organ lying near the stomach that produces many of the enzymes used to digest food. parasites organ isms that attack living things and cause disease. parasitism a type of symbiosis in which one population benefits while the other is harmed. The ~.
The pancreas is also a digestive organ, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids in the chyme. In pancreatitis, enzymes of the exocrine pancreas damage the structure and tissue of the pancreas. Detection of some of these enzymes, such as amylase and lipase in the blood, along with symptoms and findings on X-ray, are often used to indicate that a person has pancreatitis.