Corian – Solid Surface Material by Dupont. Corian® is the brand name for a solid surface material created & manufactured by DuPont® . DuPont® are original inventor of solid surface material and are market leader when it comes to manufacturing solid surface materials. It is composed of acrylic polymer and alumina trihydrate (ATH).
Corian Worktops. Corian is the original solid surface material. First introduced in 1967, Corian was specifically designed as a worksurface. With a balance of beauty and performance, Corian worktops, lend themselves to imaginative use
DuPont Corian Solid Surface. Corian is the brand name for a solid surface material created by E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont). It is the original material of this type, created by DuPont scientists in 1967. It is composed of acrylic polymer and alumina trihydrate (ATH), a material derived from bauxite ore. Dr. Donald Slocum, a DuPont chemist, is credited as the inventor of Corian solid surface in 1967. His name appears on the patent issued in October 1968. A “ Space Age ” material, the product has evolved since its invention and spawned many imitations.
Corian® Worktops. (see solid surface special offers for up to 70% OFF). 1  10 year Limited Manufacturer’s Warranty backed by DuPont™. 2  Introduced in 1967, Corian is the original solid surface material. 3  Corian worktops are available in a wide selection of colours. 4  Solid, homogeneous and non-porous worksurface
Corian acrylic solid surface worktops are the original solid surface material. Created to last a lifetime, Corian's unique blend of minerals and acrylic creates a stone-hard worktop surface that can be shaped to meet any design or dimension. 
Before discussing the pros & cons of Corian worktops, it’s worth explaining what it is. Corian is perhaps the most well known brand of solid surface worktop on the market. Solid surface is made by mixing acrylic resin with bauxite filler & pigments to form a sheet of solid surface material. This sheet is then bonded onto a timber substrate to form a solid surface worktop (as shown below). Although Corian worktops are heat resistant, they’re no where near as heat resistant as Granite or Quartz. Corian is made from acrylic, which, at the end of the day, is a posh type of plastic. In reality, plastic will never be as heat resistant as stone.
Corian is mainly used for worktops and work surfaces in kitchens, laboratories, hospitals, schools, dentist’s and doctor’s surgeries – in fact anywhere that hygiene is of the utmost importance. It is really easy to take care of, basically needing only a wipe with a damp cloth to clean up any spills or splashes. Corian Worktops admin 2015-09-13T15:32:38+00:00. We are one of the UK’s leading suppliers of Corian work surfaces with showrooms and fitting teams based all over the country.
Corian Worktops are perhaps the best well known brand of all Composite Solid Surfaces. Corian Du Pont has established a good reputation for quality, long term. performance and design flexibility. Seen initially as a space age material, Corian Worktops has been a leader in the online market for over 40 years. You can have a customised Sink Corian, Table Corian, and even Corian Shower Walls. Corian Worktop Material Composition, is based on a mixture of acrylic polymers and bauxite rock, and continues to provide lasting durability. Corian Countertops provide all the positive factors of balancing performance with beauty.
Corian Countertops. Corian® was introduced in 1967, it is the original Solid Surface material. Corian's superb all-round quality makes it the perfect choice for kitchens and bathrooms. Warm and inviting to the touch it takes on the ambient room temperature and is not cold to touch