190. 205. This data is approximated well by the exponential growth model P = 100 e 0.08t, where t is the number of years since 1980. In other words, the year 1980 corresponds to t = 0, 1981 corresponds to t = 1, etc. 
We will now examine rate of growth and decay in a three step process. We will (1) build a chart to examine the data and see the growth or decay, (2) write an equation for the function, and (3) prepare a scatter plot of the data along with the graph of the function. For this example, each time x is increased by 1, y increases by a factor of 2. Such a situation is called Exponential Growth. Many real world phenomena can be modeled by functions that describe how things grow or decay as time passes.
The scatter plot of the data table can be prepared by hand or with the use of a graphing calculator. For graphing the function, employ your graphing calculator. See how to prepare a scatter plot of your data table using your TI 83+/84+ graphing calculator. Click here. For this example, each time x is increased by 1, y increases by a factor of 2. Such a situation is called Exponential Growth. Many real world phenomena can be modeled by functions that describe how things grow or decay as time passes.
The general exponential growth model is. y = C(1 + r) , where C is the initial amount or number, r is the growth rate (for example, a 2% growth rate means r = 0.02), and t is the time elapsed. Example: A population of 32,000 with a 5% annual growth rate would be modeled by the equation: y = 32000(1.05). with t in years. Problem: 1. In the exponential function given below, identify the initial amount and the growth rate. y = 250(1 + 0.2) t. Problem: 3. In the exponential function given below, identify the initial amount and the growth rate. y = 9.8(1.35) t. Problem: 5. Write an exponential growth function to model the situation.
Take a look at how you identify exponential behavior from a pattern in your data. You'll also see how to figure out if that pattern represents exponential growth or exponential decay. Check it out! Create a table of values to give you ordered pairs. Then, plot those ordered pair on a coordinate plane and connect the points to make your graph! Follow along with this tutorial as it shows you all the steps.
Compare this function to the original exponential growth function: 100 = a (1 - .12) 10. y = a(1 + b)x. The variable, y, represents the amount of computer illiterate people at the end of 10 months, so 100 people are still computer illiterate after World Wide Web on Wheels began to work in the community. Exponential decay: the change that occurs when an original amount is reduced by a consistent rate over a period of time. Here's an exponential decay function: y = a(1 -b)x. 1  y: Final amount remaining after the decay over a period of time. 2  a: The original amount. 3  x: Time. 4  The decay factor is (1- b). 5  The variable, b, is percent decrease in decimal form
Exponential decay is a very common process. In this week's lab we will generate some data that should follow this law, and you will have to fit exponential data at least twice more this quarter. The purpose of this lab description is to remind you how to do so. An exponential decay curve fits the following equation: 
No sweat! Create a table of values to give you ordered pairs. Then, plot those ordered pair on a coordinate plane and connect the points to make your graph! Follow along with this tutorial as it shows you all the steps.