All living beings are adapted to the changing environment from time to time. Take any animal, and it is not how its ancestors looked. Over a period of time, their appearance has changed as several physical features have undergone changes. These changes were essential so that they can adapt to the newer environments. This means that their blood always contains high levels of oxygen. Also, the muscles of the leatherback store oxygen, which is used when the turtle is diving. In addition, sea turtles have a gland that helps to secrete excess salt from the body. The salt is excreted into the eyes, giving the eyes a shiny wet look.
Sea turtles have adapted to life in a marine environment such as the sea or ocean and have evolved flippers instead of legs. Since sea turtles cannot hide in their shells, they use speed to protect themselves against predators such as sharks. Background. Not all turtles are alike. Turtles have developed special adaptations to live in specific environments. Some turtles such as sliders, mud turtles, and soft shells have adapted to living over half their life in a freshwater environment such as ponds, lakes, or streams. They have claws and webbed toes on their feet. The claws help them climb onto muddy banks and tree branches floating in the water
Desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) are terrestrial turtles that live in both the United States and Mexico. In the U.S., they roam throughout Nevada, Arizona, California and Utah. Like many other varieties of animals, desert tortoises have a handful of convenient adaptations that help make their lives easier. 
Color Adaptations. Snapping turtles have adapted to blend with their environment. They live in swampy waters and sandy river bottoms. The green shell and skin blend with the plant matter and murky water. They also have a broken pattern with some shades of tan and brown to camouflage. Dietary Adaptations. Snapping turtles have adapted to digest a variety of food sources. They eat plant matter, flesh and insects. They primarily prey on smaller reptiles, small fish and insects. They also eat crayfish and crustaceans when they are available.
They are most common on the island of Isabella. The sea turtle has adapted to have flippers to swim which is why they are called sea turtles and not just turtles, and they can regulate body temperature faster that any other animal in the Galapagos. They are most common on the island of Santa Cruz and eat sea algae (algae under the sea), sea lettuce, and yellow fish. 
Sea turtles have many adaptations that help them survive in their habitat. Living in Water. Living in Water. 1  Sea turtles are strong swimmers. 2  The cruising speed for green sea turtles, like the one in this video, is about 0.9 to 1.4 miles per hour (1.5 to 2.3 km per hour). Land and Sea. All sea turtles begin life on land before crawling to the water. Despite their adaptations for life at sea, sea turtles must breathe air with lungs, like humans do. They can hold their breath for 30 minutes or several hours while in a resting state, but they must eventually surface to take a breath of air.
Adaptations of the turtle One adaption turtles have is a hard shell to protect them from predators .Another adaption is that most turtles are able to pull themselves into their shell. Another Adaption is hibernation most turtles hibernate (except sea turtles and tortoises). Another adaptation is that they have camouflage .Most turtles shells are dull green, black or brown. One turtle is the mantama turtle it has loose flaps of skin that look like dead leaves.
Loggerhead resting on the beach. source: NOAA. There are relatively few reptile species that have adapted to the challenges of the marine environment. Unlike mammals, most reptiles cannot maintain a constant body temperature (endothermic); their body temperature changes with the environment around them (ectothermic). The records of five species of marine turtles are the only representatives of reptiles on the Bank. Only one of these species, the leatherback, is considered to be cold adapted: they can maintain a body temperature well above the surrounding sea temperature using many of the same adaptations that marine mammals use.