In fact three major kingdoms belong to this domain, the kingdoms Plantae, Fungi and Animalia (Campbell et al., 2008). Kingdom: Animalia. The loggerhead sea turtle belongs to kingdom Animalia (NOAA, 2013). Loggerhead sea turtles belong to the subphylum Vertebrata, which stems from the Latin root vertebra meaning a joint or backbone (Duermit, 2007; Guill, 1960). Characteristics of the subphylum vertebrata are that all the organisms have a vertebral column that is a main skeletal structure along the length of its body.
What kingdom do turtles belong to? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What inspired you to get into the producing side of the film industry? What order do turtles belong to? What phylum do turtles belong to? What kingdom does a sea turtle belong to? What vertebrate group does a turtle ... Turtles are characterized by  a bony shell, formed from their ribs, and acting as a shield.  Terrapin is used to describe several speci … es of small, edible,  hard-shell turtles, typically those found in brackish waters, and  is an Algonquian word for turtle. Answered.
KINGDOM-Animalia. PHYLUM-Chordata. CLASS-Reptilia. Class Reptilia includes snakes, lizards, crocodiles, and turtles. Reptiles are ectothermic (cold-blooded) and are vertebrates (have a spine). All reptiles have scaly skin, breathe air with lungs, and have a three-chambered heart. Most reptiles lay eggs
Some languages do not have this distinction, as all of these are referred to by the same name. For example, in Spanish, the word tortuga is used for turtles, tortoises, and terrapins. A sea-dwelling turtle is tortuga marina, a freshwater species tortuga de rio, río and a tortoise tortuga. terrestre Turtle may either refer to the order as a whole, or to particular turtles that make up a form taxon that is not monophyletic. The meaning of the word turtle differs from region to region. In North America, all chelonians are commonly called turtles, including terrapins and tortoises.
Turtles belong to the reptilia class. Turtles are characterized by  a bony shell, formed from their ribs, and acting as a shield.  Terrapin is used to describe several speci … es of small, edible,  hard-shell turtles, typically those found in brackish waters, and  is an Algonquian word for turtle. Answered.
Domain: Eukarya. The loggerhead sea turtle belongs to the domain Eukarya. The main characteristic of this domain is that all organisms are eukaryotic, where eu means true and karyo means nut or in this case nucleus (Guill, 1960). Loggerhead sea turtles belong to the subphylum Vertebrata, which stems from the Latin root vertebra meaning a joint or backbone (Duermit, 2007; Guill, 1960). Characteristics of the subphylum vertebrata are that all the organisms have a vertebral column that is a main skeletal structure along the length of its body.
Best Answer: The ancestor of birds belong to the group of reptiles known as Archosauria. Archosauria is part of Class Reptilia. Birds themselves are not classified as archosaurs, since most sane scientists classify birds in Class Aves. 
The loggerhead sea turtle belongs to the order Testudines (NOAA, 2013). Testudine is the order of reptiles that has 260 living species of turtles and tortoises. Turtles and tortoises, or testudines, are different from other reptiles because they do not have holes in the side of the skull. Loggerhead sea turtles belong to the subphylum Vertebrata, which stems from the Latin root vertebra meaning a joint or backbone (Duermit, 2007; Guill, 1960). Characteristics of the subphylum vertebrata are that all the organisms have a vertebral column that is a main skeletal structure along the length of its body.
Phylogenetic Tree. Created by: Melissa Martinelli. The position of the turtle is somewhat controversial. In the past they were thought to have had a special relationship with crocodiles. Here is possible phylogenetic tree for the Green Sea Turtle. The Green Sea Turtle belongs to class Reptalia. This is because they are amniotes-which means eggs are protected from desiccation or other environmental problems by an extra membrane. This membrane can be a leathery or calcium based shell. It is separated from the other turtles of its genus because it has green fatty deposits and four coastal scoutes. Most commonly Chelonia mydas has a greenish-grey shell with darker patches on it. The underside of this turtle is white. It has a rounded head, modified flippers, and is found in warm tropical areas.