A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet. Domain names are formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System (DNS). Any name registered in the DNS is a domain name. Domain names can also be thought of as a location where certain information or activities can be found. Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific naming and addressing purposes. A fictitious domain name is a domain name used in a work of fiction or popular culture to refer to a domain that does not actually exist, often with invalid or unofficial top-level domains such as  .web , a usage exactly analogous to the dummy 555 telephone number prefix used in film and other media.
Domain names are used to identify one or more IP addresses. For example, the domain name microsoft.com represents about a dozen IP addresses. Domain names are used in URLs to identify particular Web pages. For example, in the URL http://www.pcwebopedia.com/index.html, the domain name is pcwebopedia.com. Every domain name has a suffix that indicates which top level domain (TLD) it belongs to. There are only a limited number of such domains. For example: Because the Internet is based on IP addresses, not domain names, every Web server requires a Domain Name System (DNS) server to translate domain names into IP addresses.
In general, a domain name represents an Internet Protocol (IP) resource, such as a personal computer used to access the Internet, a server computer hosting a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet. In 2014, the number of active domains reached 271 million. A fictitious domain name is a domain name used in a work of fiction or popular culture to refer to a domain that does not actually exist, often with invalid or unofficial top-level domains such as  .web , a usage exactly analogous to the dummy 555 telephone number prefix used in film and other media.
A domain name is a unique name that identifies a website. For example, the domain name of the Tech Terms Computer Dictionary is techterms.com.. Each website has a domain name that serves as an address, which is used to access the website. Whenever you visit a website, the domain name appears in the address bar of the web browser. Some domain names are preceded by www (which is not part of the domain name), while others omit the www prefix. All domain names have a domain suffix, such as .com, .net, or .org. The domain suffix helps identify the type of website the domain name represents.
An Internet Protocol, or IP, address is different than a domain name. The IP address is an actual set of numerical instructions. It communicates exact information about the address in a way that is useful to the computer but makes no sense to humans. The domain name functions as a link to the IP address. Domain Names and URLs. The universal resource locator, or URL, is an entire set of directions, and it contains extremely detailed information. The domain name is one of the pieces inside of a URL. It is also the most easily recognized part of the entire address.
DNS is an acronym for Domain Name Server, and is the system used to translate word-based addresses of systems (such as WWW.EXAMPLE.COM) to the numerical IP (Internet Protocol) address of the computer or system that should be located at that address. 
Domain Name System. The Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical, distributed database that contains mappings of DNS domain names to various types of data, such as Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. DNS allows you to use friendly names, such as www.microsoft.com, to easily locate computers and other resources on a TCP/IP-based network. 
On the Web, the domain name is that part of the Uniform Resource Locator(URL) that tells a domain name server using the domain name system (DNS) whether and where to forward a request for a Web page. The domain name is mapped to an IP address (which represents a physical point on the Internet). 
A domain name is an address that people use on the internet, whether for websites or for email. It's a string of characters which usually spells out a word, a company name or person's name. You can buy domain names from a domain registrar such as GetDotted.com, and they can be incredibly useful things (see below). 
Answer: Domain Name System, or DNS, is the most recognized system for assigning addresses to Internet web servers (aka Internet hosts). Somewhat like international phone numbers, the domain name system helps to give every Internet server a memorable and easy-to-spell address. 