How to use ondansetron HCl (PF) injection. To prevent nausea from chemotherapy, ondansetron is mixed in a solution and given by injection into a vein as directed by your doctor, usually over 15 minutes. This drug is usually started 30 minutes before your chemotherapy treatment begins.
The active ingredient in ZOFRAN® Tablets and ZOFRAN® Oral Solution is ondansetron hydrochloride (HCl) as the dihydrate, the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5-HT3 receptor type. The empirical formula is C 18 H 19 N 3 O representing a molecular weight of 293.4. Each 4-mg ZOFRAN Tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dehydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron. Each 8-mg ZOFRAN Tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron.
Zofran is a brand name for the drug ondansetron, prescribed to treat or prevent nausea and vomiting. Doctors sometimes prescribe Zofran to treat nausea and vomiting caused by cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Zofran also can treat nausea and vomiting after surgery. 
Ondansetron HCl dihydrate is a white to off-white powder that is soluble in water and normal saline. The active ingredient in ZOFRAN ODT® Orally Disintegrating Tablets is ondansetron base, the racemic form of ondansetron, and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5-HT3 receptor type. The empirical formula is C 18 H 19 N 3 O representing a molecular weight of 293.4. Each 4-mg ZOFRAN Tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dehydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron. Each 8-mg ZOFRAN Tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron.
Uses of This Medicine. Ondansetron is used to prevent nausea and vomiting that is caused by cancer medicines (chemotherapy) or radiation therapy. It is also used to prevent nausea and vomiting that may occur after surgery. Ondansetron works in the stomach to block the signals to the brain that cause nausea and vomiting. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
ZOFRAN Tablets, 8 mg (ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron), are yellow, oval, film-coated tablets engraved with “Zofran” on one side and “8” on the other in daily unit dose packs of 3 tablets (NDC 0173-0447-04), and bottles of 30 tablets (NDC 0173-0447-00). HOW SUPPLIED. ZOFRAN Tablets, 4 mg (ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron), are white, oval, film-coated tablets engraved with “Zofran” on one side and “4” on the other in bottles of 30 tablets (NDC 0173-0446-00). Store between 2° and 30°C (36° and 86°F).
This medication is used alone or with other medications to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by cancer drug treatment (chemotherapy) and radiation therapy. It is also used to prevent and treat nausea and vomiting after surgery. It works by blocking one of the body's natural substances (serotonin) that causes vomiting. 
ZOFRAN Tablets, 4 mg (ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron), are white, oval, film-coated tablets engraved with “Zofran” on one side and “4” on the other in bottles of 30 tablets (NDC 0173-0446-00). HOW SUPPLIED. ZOFRAN Tablets, 4 mg (ondansetron HCl dihydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron), are white, oval, film-coated tablets engraved with “Zofran” on one side and “4” on the other in bottles of 30 tablets (NDC 0173-0446-00). Store between 2° and 30°C (36° and 86°F).
Uses. This medication is used alone or with other medications to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by cancer chemotherapy. It is also used to prevent and treat nausea and vomiting after surgery. It works by blocking one of the body's natural substances (serotonin) that causes vomiting. To prevent nausea from chemotherapy, ondansetron is mixed in a solution and given by injection into a vein as directed by your doctor, usually over 15 minutes. This drug is usually started 30 minutes before your chemotherapy treatment begins.