APFs are numbers that indicate the level of workplace respiratory protection that a respirator, or class of respirators, is expected to provide to employees when used as part of an effective respiratory protection program. The new final rule takes effect on November 22, 2006. It includes a table of APFs (attached to this message) for the four basic types of respirators -- air-purifying respirator (APR), powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR), supplied-air respirator (SAR), and self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA).
The definitions are: Assigned protection factor (APF) means the workplace level ofrespiratory protection that arespirator or class of respirators isexpected to provide to employeeswhen the employer implements acontinuing, effective respiratoryprotection program as specified bythis section[meaning 29 CFR1910.134]. Assigned Protection Factor Table The following table of APFs is nowincluded in the respiratoryprotection standard. Footnotes 2and 4 to this table should be noted.This rule assigns an APF of 10 toall half facepiece style respiratorsincluding filtering facepiecerespirators.
The assigned protection factor (APF) of a respirator reflects the level of protection that a properly functioning respirator would be expected to provide to a population of properly fitted and trained users. Take into account the factors that can influence respirator selection such as job-site and worker characteristics Understand the assigned protection factors Know the various kinds of respirators and their relevant characteristics.
Assigned protection factor (APF) means the workplace level of respiratory protection that a respirator or class of respirators is expected to provide to employees when the employer implements a continuing, effective respiratory protection program as specified by this section. In any workplace where respirators are necessary to protect the health of the employee or whenever respirators are required by the employer, the employer shall establish and implement a written respiratory protection program with worksitespecific procedures.
Once the new rule takes effect, employers will be required to use the protection factors in the APF table to select the appropriate type of respirator based upon the exposure limit of a contaminant and the concentration of the contaminant in the workplace. The new final rule takes effect on November 22, 2006. It includes a table of APFs (attached to this message) for the four basic types of respirators -- air-purifying respirator (APR), powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR), supplied-air respirator (SAR), and self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA).
4. a. The protection factor is a measure of the degree of protection afforded by. a respirator, defined as the ratio of the concentration of airborne radioactive. material outside the respiratory protective equipment to that inside the. equipment, usually inside the facepiece, under conditions of use. It is. If the protection factor for respiratory protective. equipment is 5, the effective protection factor for tritium is about 1.4; with. Table 6 (Continued 2). protection factors of 10, the effective factor for tritium oxide is about 1.7; and.
Regulations Update #26Assigned Protection Factors 2029 page 2 of 10 Respiratory Protection Selection The selection paragraph of therespiratory protection standard, 29 CFR 1910(d)(3)(i), is amendedto state:A. Assigned Protection Factors (APFs). Assigned Protection Factor Table The following table of APFs is nowincluded in the respiratoryprotection standard. Footnotes 2and 4 to this table should be noted.This rule assigns an APF of 10 toall half facepiece style respiratorsincluding filtering facepiecerespirators.
If you want to be certain that others understand what you mean, do not use the term Protection Factor by itself. Here are the definitions of FF, WPF and APF: Fit Factor (FF) A Fit Factor is a number that is the direct result of a quantitative respirator fit test. It is a measurement made by an instrument during a simulation of workplace activities (the exercises).
OSHA points out in notes accompanying the new APF table that the half mask air-purifying respirator category, which is assigned a protection factor of 10, includes both filtering facepieces (i.e. , dust masks) and half masks with elastomeric facepieces. The new final rule takes effect on November 22, 2006. It includes a table of APFs (attached to this message) for the four basic types of respirators -- air-purifying respirator (APR), powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR), supplied-air respirator (SAR), and self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA).