It is so easy these days to choose a Vitamin C supplement suited to your own needs, lifestyle and budget as there are a variety of different forms of Vitamin C available. This is pure Vitamin C and has a sharp taste. Thank you for taking time to read this information about the different types of Vitamin C. Here's to your good health.........naturally! Nadine Masseron ND DN MRN is a registered naturopathic physician and clinical nutritionist. She is dedicated to increasing awareness about the benefits of natural health.
Calcium Ascorbate is ascorbic acid bound to calcium, providing a non-acidic form of Vitamin C that is gentle on the digestive system. Calcium Ascorbate also provides a supplemental form of calcium. Magnesium Ascorbate is acsorbic acid bound to magnesium. Thank you for taking time to read this information about the different types of Vitamin C. Here's to your good health.........naturally! Nadine Masseron ND DN MRN is a registered naturopathic physician and clinical nutritionist. She is dedicated to increasing awareness about the benefits of natural health.
Available forms of vitamin C supplements include powders that can be dissolved in water, tablets, capsules, and flavored drink mixes. Dosages can vary widely, ranging from 25 milligrams to upward of 1,500 milligrams, and even timed-release versions are offered. 
Ester C is a patented formulation of Vitamin C in the Calcium Ascorbate form that makes it easily absorbable as well as non-acidic. It is a top of the range product and highly recommended for maximum, rapid absorption and for taking large doses. It is also the most expensive type of Vitamin C. A powder form of Vitamin C will be more rapidly absorbed, as it does not have to be digested first. A powder form of Vitamin C will not contain any added tableting agents. A Vitamin C tablet can be buffered to make it more gentle on the stomach. Thank you for taking time to read this information about the different types of Vitamin C. Here's to your good health.........naturally! Nadine Masseron ND DN MRN is a registered naturopathic physician and clinical nutritionist. She is dedicated to increasing awareness about the benefits of natural health.
Here’s how that works. These two forms of Vitamin C – Ascorbic Acid and Calcium Ascorbate – cause different pH reactions in different Metabolic Types. For example, Calcium Ascorbate balances the pH of certain Metabolic Types, but unbalances other types. And the same is true of Ascorbic Acid – it balances certain types and unbalances others. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that helps with the immune system and other metabolic processes. It has been shown that vitamin C is an essential building block of collagen, which builds bone, skin, blood vessels and other tissues.
Vitamin C with bioflavonoids. Bioflavonoids or flavonoids are polyphenolic compounds found in plants. Vitamin C-rich fruit and vegetables, especially citrus fruit, are often rich sources of flavonoids as well. The effect of bioflavonoids on the bioavailability of ascorbic acid has been recently reviewed (7) . Mineral ascorbates are available in the following forms: 1  Sodium ascorbate: 1,000 mg of sodium ascorbate generally contains 111 mg of sodium. 2  Calcium ascorbate: Calcium ascorbate generally provides 90-110 mg of calcium (890-910 mg of ascorbic acid) per 1,000 mg of calcium ascorbate.
Fruits and vegetables contain ascorbic acid. Some great sources of this vitamin C in fruits include oranges, cantaloupe, papaya, grapefruit, lemons and limes, pineapple, watermelon, kiwifruit and strawberries. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that helps with the immune system and other metabolic processes. It has been shown that vitamin C is an essential building block of collagen, which builds bone, skin, blood vessels and other tissues.
Dietary supplements. Supplements typically contain vitamin C in the form of ascorbic acid, which has equivalent bioavailability to that of naturally occurring ascorbic acid in foods, such as orange juice and broccoli [ 13-15 ]. Other forms of vitamin C supplements include sodium ascorbate; calcium ascorbate; other mineral ascorbates; ascorbic acid with bioflavonoids; and combination products, such as Ester-C®, which contains calcium ascorbate, dehydroascorbate, calcium threonate, xylonate and lyxonate [ 16 ].
Types Of Vitamin C. There are different types of Vitamin C’s available in serums. Here’s a review of all the most popular formulations available on the market today. L-Ascorbic Acid. This water soluble form of Vit C is available in some of the most popular formulas including Skinceuticals CE Ferulic and Phloretin CF. 
Collagen is a type of protein found in many different types of tissue, such as skin, blood vessels, bones and cartilage. Without vitamin C, collagen can't be replaced and the different types of tissue break down, leading to the symptoms of scurvy. These include: 1  muscle and joint pain. 2  tiredness. 3  the appearance of red dots on the skin. 4  bleeding and swelling of the gums