The direct Coombs test is used to detect these antibodies or complement proteins that are bound to the surface of red blood cells; a blood sample is taken and the RBCs are washed (removing the patient's own plasma) and then incubated with anti-human globulin (also known as Coombs reagent). The indirect Coombs test (also known as the indirect antiglobulin test or IAT) is used to detect in-vitro antibody-antigen reactions. It is used to detect very low concentrations of antibodies present in a patient's plasma/serum prior to a blood transfusion.
If your red blood cells are being destroyed, this can result in a condition called hemolytic anemia. There are two types of Coombs tests: the direct Coombs test and the indirect Coombs test. The direct test is more common and checks for antibodies that are attached to the surface of your red blood cells. An abnormal result to an indirect Coombs test means you have antibodies circulating in your bloodstream that could cause your immune system to react to any red blood cells that are considered foreign to the body, particularly regarding those that may be present during a blood transfusion.
A type of hemolytic anemia called autoimmune hemolytic anemia is a rare disease that causes antibodies to be made against a person's own red blood cells. Two blood tests can check for antibodies that attack red blood cells: the direct Coombs test and the indirect Coombs test. The direct Coombs test is done on a sample of red blood cells from the body. It detects antibodies that are already attached to red blood cells. The indirect Coombs test is done on a sample of the liquid part of the blood (serum). 
The indirect Coombs test is used in prenatal testing of pregnant women and in testing blood prior to a blood transfusion. It detects antibodies against RBCs that are present unbound in the patient's serum. In this case, serum is extracted from the blood sample taken from the patient. The indirect Coombs test (also known as the indirect antiglobulin test or IAT) is used to detect in-vitro antibody-antigen reactions. It is used to detect very low concentrations of antibodies present in a patient's plasma/serum prior to a blood transfusion.
1 A negative test result means that your blood does not have antibodies attached to your red blood cells. 2  Indirect Coombs test. 3  A negative test result means that your blood is compatible with the blood you are to receive by transfusion. This is called a negative test result. 1  Direct Coombs test. 2  A negative test result means that your blood does not have antibodies attached to your red blood cells. 3  Indirect Coombs test. 4
No antibodies are found. This is called a negative test result. 1  Direct Coombs test. 2  A negative test result means that your blood does not have antibodies attached to your red blood cells. 3  Indirect Coombs test. 4  A negative test result means that your blood is compatible with the blood you are to receive by transfusion.
Coombs' test. any of a number of tests to ascertain the presence or absence of immunoglobulin and complement in the coating of erythrocytes. Rabbit antihuman serum is used to act as a bridge between sensitized cells, yielding agglutination (a positive result). Coombs' test. n. Either of two tests for detecting red blood cell antibodies: the direct test, for detecting sensitized red blood cells in erythroblastosis fetalis and in acquired hemolytic anemia; and the indirect test, for cross-matching blood or investigating transfusion reactions.
A Coombs test (also known as Coombs' test, antiglobulin test or AGT) is either of two clinical blood tests used in immunohematology and immunology. The indirect Coombs test (also known as the indirect antiglobulin test or IAT) is used to detect in-vitro antibody-antigen reactions. It is used to detect very low concentrations of antibodies present in a patient's plasma/serum prior to a blood transfusion.
1 Direct Coombs test. 2  A negative test result means that your blood does not have antibodies attached to your red blood cells. 3  Indirect Coombs test. 4  A negative test result means that your blood is compatible with the blood you are to receive by transfusion. This is called a negative test result. 1 