In the first type, Clathria, water flow is in and out basically through the same tissue mass; thus, the flows are opposing. In the second type, Haliclona, water flow is unidirectional, entering through myriad ostia on the outer surface and exiting through large oscula (chimneys).
Sponges. Above: a Pov-Ray model of a sponge. Sponges belong to the phylum Porifera, which literally many 'many pores' since the surface of a sponge is covered in minute pores that suck in water and nutrients, which the sponge filters before expelling the water from a large opening or osculum.
The beating of the choanocytes’ flagella creates the sponge’s water current. * Porocytes are tubular cells that make up the pores into the sponge body through the mesohyl. * Pinacocytes which form the pinacoderm, the outer epidermal layer of cells. This is the closest approach to true tissue in sponges.
The sponges that we see commonly in tidepools or under rocks at low tide contain a highly vacuolated rubbery protein material known as spongin that provides support for a variety of different types of cells, some of which are scattered loosely, others of which are arranged in layers or epithelia.
A sponge has water flow in through the pores. The water contains the food and oxygen the sponge needs. Respiration. A sponge takes in water through its pores and in more advanced forms, with canals that move the water to all throughout the sponge.
Asconoid sponges have the simplest type of organization. Small and tube shaped, water enters the sponge through dermal pores and flows into the atrium. Choanocyte flagella create the current to expel it through a single osculum. Note that water enters the sponge through a modified cell known as a porocyte.
Sponges have a unique feeding system among animals. Instead of a mouths they have tiny pores (ostia) in their outer walls through which water is drawn. Cells in the sponge walls filter food from the water as the water is pumped through the body and the osculum (little mouth). The flow of water through the sponge is in one direction only, driven by the beating of flagella which line the surface of chambers connected by a series of canals.