If any of these effects persist or worsen, notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. It can reduce skin problems in lupus and prevent swelling/pain in arthritis, though it is not known exactly how the drug works. OTHER USES: This section contains uses of this drug that are not listed in the approved professional labeling for the drug, but may be prescribed by your health care professional.
Hydroxychloroquine is in a class of medications that was first used to prevent and treat malaria. Today it is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, some symptoms of lupus, childhood arthritis (or juvenile idiopathic arthritis) and other autoimmune diseases. Hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) is considered a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD), because it can decrease the pain and swelling of arthritis, and it may prevent joint damage and reduce the risk of long-term disability.
Hydroxychloroquine differs from chloroquine by the presence of a hydroxyl group at the end of the side chain: The N-ethyl substituent is beta-hydroxylated. It is available for oral administration as hydroxychloroquine sulfate (plaquenil) of which 200 mg contains 155 mg base in chiral form. Hydroxychloroquine has similar pharmacokinetics to chloroquine, with quick gastrointestinal absorption and elimination by the kidney. 
Plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine) is a medication most known for its original purpose of treating or preventing malaria, (a disease caused by parasites that enter the body through the bite of a mosquito). How to use Plaquenil. Lupus and/or rheumatoid arthritis patients will most likely take this medication by mouth, usually once or twice daily or as directed. Hydroxychloroquine generally is given to adults in doses of 200 mg or 400 mg per day. In some cases, higher doses can be used.
Hydroxychloroquine is used to treat or prevent malaria, a disease caused by parasites that enter the body through the bite of a mosquito. Malaria is common in areas such as Africa, South America, and Southern Asia. If you are pregnant, talk with your doctor about the risks of traveling to areas where malaria is common. It is not known whether hydroxychloroquine passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
1 Although vision problems and loss of sight while taking hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) for the treatment of lupus or arthritis are very rare, notify your doctor if you notice any changes in your vision. 2  Your doctor also may suggest regular eye exams while taking this medication. Hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) is considered a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD), because it can decrease the pain and swelling of arthritis, and it may prevent joint damage and reduce the risk of long-term disability.
INDICATIONS. PLAQUENIL (hydroxychloroquine) is indicated for the suppressive treatment and treatment of acute attacks of malaria due to Plasmodium vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale, and susceptible strains of P. falciparum. Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Plaquenil sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Here are the three most common antimalarial drugs prescribed for lupus: 1  Hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil): This is the most commonly prescribed antimalarial because it is generally believed to cause fewer side effects than the others. ( 2 Learn about side effects further down in this blog). How to use Plaquenil. Lupus and/or rheumatoid arthritis patients will most likely take this medication by mouth, usually once or twice daily or as directed. Hydroxychloroquine generally is given to adults in doses of 200 mg or 400 mg per day. In some cases, higher doses can be used.
Today, Plaquenil and other antimalarials are also used to treat and help prevent symptoms caused by certain autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus, and discoid lupus, even though these diseases are not caused by malaria parasites. How to use Plaquenil. Lupus and/or rheumatoid arthritis patients will most likely take this medication by mouth, usually once or twice daily or as directed. Hydroxychloroquine generally is given to adults in doses of 200 mg or 400 mg per day. In some cases, higher doses can be used.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Plaquenil sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Before taking hydroxychloroquine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other aminoquinolines (e.g., chloroquine); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.