Confederation had become a serious question in the Province of Canada (formerly Lower Canada and Upper Canada) by 1864. In the Atlantic colonies, however, a great deal of pressure would still be necessary to convert romantic ideas of a single northern nation spanning the continent into political reality. 
Confederation would allow each colony (party) to have their own provincial government with their own avocations like; language, religion and educational necessities they need. They federal union is a political union with the government separated into two levels, federal union is the same thing as Confederation. The colony of PEI was formed in the 1860’s, before confederation it had a population of approximately 87,000 people settled there. The Absteene landlords would take tenants but wouldn’t use them to improve the colony.
During these early settlement years the land was divided into colonies which were called the British colonies. However, in the 1860s there were many problems amongst the colonies. At that time, the Province of Canada (Ontario and Quebec) faced problems due to a division amongst the English and French speaking people. Each colony also needed to develop a larger market to sell its products and a railroad was part of thi
United Province of Canada then was made up of two colonies; Canada East and Canada West also known as Upper Canada (Quebec) and Lower Canada (Ontario.) They were looking for more eastern and western British North American colonies to join there federal union. The colony of PEI was formed in the 1860’s, before confederation it had a population of approximately 87,000 people settled there. The Absteene landlords would take tenants but wouldn’t use them to improve the colony.
All the former colonies and territories that became involved in the Canadian Confederation on July 1, 1867, were initially part of New France, and were once ruled by France. Nova Scotia was granted in 1621 to Sir William Alexander under charter by James VI. That act, which united the Province of Canada with the colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, came into effect on July 1 that year. The act replaced the Act of Union (1840) which had previously unified Upper Canada and Lower Canada into the united Province of Canada.
In the 1860s the British colonies were facing many different kinds of problems. One solution for all of these was for the colonies to come together to form one country. These are the problems that led to Confederation : Economic problems. In order for their economies to do well, the colonies needed to be able to sell their goods to other markets. At this time there were very few places that they could sell to. One solution was to bring all the colonies together. In this way they could more easily sell their goods to each other.
Canadian Confederation (French: Confederation confédération) canadienne was the process by which the Federal dominion Of canada was formed On july, 1. 1867 on that, day Three british colonies became four provinces of the new. dominion That act, which united the Province of Canada with the colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, came into effect on July 1 that year. The act replaced the Act of Union (1840) which had previously unified Upper Canada and Lower Canada into the united Province of Canada.
In this Canadian context, confederation generally describes the political process that united the colonies in the 1860s, related events and the subsequent incorporation of other colonies and territories. That act, which united the Province of Canada with the colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, came into effect on July 1 that year. The act replaced the Act of Union (1840) which had previously unified Upper Canada and Lower Canada into the united Province of Canada.
The Charlottetown Conference was held in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island for representatives from the colonies of British North America to discuss Canadian Confederation. Delegates of the Charlottetown Conference on the steps of Government House. The Charlottetown Conference was held in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island for representatives from the colonies of British North America to discuss Canadian Confederation. The conference took place between September 1st through 9th 1864.
By Susan Munroe. Canadian Confederation, the birth of Canada as a nation, took place on July 1, 1867. Originally just four provinces joined Confederation: Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Ontario and Quebec. There are now 10 provinces and three territories in Canada. These are the dates each of the Canadian provinces and territories joined Confederation. 