Before the community of Ajo was settled, the Tohono O’odham used water from a series of potholes in the area they called Mu’i Wawhia or Moivavi (many wells). Mexican miners later called the site Ajo, perhaps influenced by another O’odham name for the area –-au-auho—for the pigment they obtained from the ore-rich rocks. Ajo has been named a Certified Wildlife Habitat Community by the National Wildlife Federation. Ajo is the second community in Arizona and the 65th in the nation to earn this certification.
The Ajo Country Club golf course boasts a classic Arizona setting for golf, with the Ajo Mountains to the south, Childs Mountain to the west, and an arroyo cutting through the middle of the course, plus an abundance of wildlife including roadrunners, coyotes and deer. 
Ajo and the New Cornelia mine. NASA photo. Ajo (/ˈɑːhoʊ/ AH-hoh; O'odham: Moik Wahia or O'odham: ʼOʼoho) is a census-designated place (CDP) in Pima County, Arizona, United States. In the year 1884, the camp at Ajo was practically abandoned. Not a soul was in camp when Tom Childs Sr., and his son arrived. With them was Washington Michael Jacobs of Tucson, Arizona ...Childs and Jacobs located the mining claim which constituted most of the old Ajo group of mines.
High-grade native copper made Ajo the first copper mine in Arizona. Soon the Arizona Mining & Trading company, formed by Peter R. Brady, a friend of Childs, worked the rich surface ores, shipping loads around Cape Horn for smelting in Swansea, Wales, in the mid-1880s. In the year 1884, the camp at Ajo was practically abandoned. Not a soul was in camp when Tom Childs Sr., and his son arrived. With them was Washington Michael Jacobs of Tucson, Arizona ...Childs and Jacobs located the mining claim which constituted most of the old Ajo group of mines.
It is north of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument in Southern Arizona, 30 miles north of the Mexican Border and 10 miles south of Ajo. Most people know of it because of its interesting name and as a place they drive through on their way to Rocky Point, Mexico. Population / Elevation. 
Certified Wildlife Habitat. Ajo has been named a Certified Wildlife Habitat Community by the National Wildlife Federation. Ajo is the second community in Arizona and the 65th in the nation to earn this certification. 
This is Ajo, Arizona. Ajo is a town of about 4000 people in southwestern Arizona. Once a copper mining community, Ajo became something of a retirement community in the 1980s after Phelps Dodge stopped mining operations. Though sometimes called a sleepy mining town, Ajo has never been ordinary. Even the name Ajo is different, and a bit of a mystery. Depending on whom you listen to, Ajo (pronounced AH-ho) comes from either a Tohono O'odham word for paint or the Spanish word for garlic.
Our Services. Ajo Ambulance provides emergency medical services to the communities of Ajo, Why, Lukeville, and the Tohono O'odham Nation. Our services at a glance. 1  Emergency medical transportation to hospitals in Phoenix, Tucson, Casa Grande, Sells Hospital
Welcome to Ajo Ambulance. ﻿. Ajo Ambulance, Inc. began operations in 1991 with one ambulance, loaned to the community by the Arizona Department of Health Services, and two Basic EMTs. Twenty years later Ajo Ambulance employs 17 paramedics, 27 basic EMTs and support personnel. The service operates seven trucks daily and averages 3000 calls per year. Ajo Ambulance provides top notch Emergency Medical Services to the communities of Ajo, Why, and Lukeville in Western Pima County in southwestern Arizona. 