Entrepreneurship is the act of being an entrepreneur, which is a French word meaning one who undertakes an endeavor. Entrepreneurs assemble resources including innovations, finance and business acumen in an effort to transform innovations into economic goods. 29 people found this useful. entrepreneurship is that form of business which is taken up by an individual.It means if u hav set up a business on your own & if u are bearing all d responsibilities,profits … nd losses,den u r an entrepreneur.
Re: What is meant by the term entrepreneurship? Hello The term ENTERPRENEURSHIP is that form of business which is taken up by an individual .It means if a person have to set up a business on his own & if he is bearing all the responsibilities,profits and losses,then he is an ENTERPRENEUR. Entrepreneurship refers to the functions performed by an entrepreneur. It is the process involving various actions to be undertaken by the entrepreneur in establishing a new enterprise.
Entrepreneurship is the development of a business from the ground up — coming up with an idea and turning it into a profitable business. But while the definition of entrepreneurship may be simple, its execution is much more difficult. Entrepreneurship is the journey of opportunity exploration and risk management to create value for profit and/or social good, said Ajay Bam, a lecturer at the Lester Center for Entrepreneurship at the University of California, Berkeley's Haas School of Business.
Entrepreneurship is the process of starting a business, typically a startup company offering an innovative product, process or service. The entrepreneur perceives an opportunity and often exhibits biases in taking the decision to exploit the opportunity. More recently, the term entrepreneurship has been extended to include a specific mindset (see also entrepreneurial mindset) resulting in entrepreneurial initiatives, e.g. in the form of social entrepreneurship, political entrepreneurship, or knowledge entrepreneurship.
Definition. The capacity and willingness to develop, organize and manage a business venture along with any of its risks in order to make a profit. The most obvious example of entrepreneurship is the starting of new businesses. In economics, entrepreneurship combined with land, labor, natural resources and capital can produce profit. Entrepreneurship can be scary because there is no guarantee that the business will work, and the entrepreneur may end up losing money for the first few years.
Entrepreneurship is a phenomenon in which any entrepreneur runs a business with a motive to earn profit.it is a combination of companies,its owners,customers,companies profit,its effect on economy and etc.overall it is a process without which an economy cannot run. Entrepreneurship refers to the functions performed by an entrepreneur. It is the process involving various actions to be undertaken by the entrepreneur in establishing a new enterprise.
The concept of entrepreneurship has a wide range of meanings. On the one extreme an entrepreneur is a person of very high aptitude who pioneers change, possessing characteristics found in only a very small fraction of the population. The word entrepreneur originates from the French word, entreprendre, which means to undertake.. In a business context, it means to start a business. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary presents the definition of an entrepreneur as one who organizes, manages, and assumes the risks of a business or enterprise.
DEFINITION of 'Entrepreneur'. An individual who, rather than working as an employee, runs a small business and assumes all the risk and reward of a given business venture, idea, or good or service offered for sale. The entrepreneur is commonly seen as a business leader and innovator of new ideas and business processes