Making the world better, one answer at a time. Normally a volcano is formed when a column of molten rock, known as magma, rises from deep within the Earth, erupts on the surface, and hardens in layers forming the familiar cone shaped mountain we typically associate with volcanoes. Supervolcanoes are different. 
Answers. Best Answer: Volcanoes form when hot material from below rises and leaks into the crust. The hot material, called magma, rising from lower ground, gathers in a reservoir called the magma chamber. Eventually, but not always, the magma erupts onto the surface and forms lava. A volcano is formed when plates hit each other. One of the plates goes under the other. This is where the earth heats and melts the rock into magma and gases. This can happen as deep as 100 miles below the earth.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from below the surface. Volcanoes are formed when magma from within the Earth's upper mantle works its way to the surface. At the surface it erupts to form lava flows and ash deposits. Ash deposits r … esult from more explosive activity and lava flows usually are associated with quieter activity.
Confidence votes 35. Volcanoes are formed by upwelling of magma (hot molten rock) deep under the earth's surface. No one is quite sure why magma rises in certain areas, but when it does, it forms pockets which create pressure on the rock of the Earth's crust. Volcanoes are formed when magma from within the Earth's upper mantle works its way to the surface. At the surface it erupts to form lava flows and ash deposits. Ash deposits r … esult from more explosive activity and lava flows usually are associated with quieter activity.
A volcano is a cone shaped mountain formed from lava or lava and ash which has been forced through a hole in the earth's crust. Volcanoes are classified as. Active-Volcanoes that have erupted recently. Dormant-Volcanoes that have not erupted recently but have done in the last 2000yrs. Extinct-Volcanoes that have not erupted for many thousands of years. How are Volcanoes Formed Volcanoes form where magma escapes through a vent, which is a crack in the earth's surface. This often happens at plate boundaries such as at destructive and constructive plate boundaries
A volcano is an opening in the ground that spits out hot gases, rock and lava. The eruption can be so bad it can blow the top off the mountain. A volcano is formed when plates hit each other. One of the plates goes under the other. This is where the earth heats and melts the rock into magma and gases. This can happen as deep as 100 miles below the earth.
Report Abuse. Here's how a volcano is formed. First, pressure builds in the mantle under the crust. Then, the pressure finally builds up enough to acually make lava come out of the crust. Then, the lava pours out and hardens making a mountain made from lava. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Most volcanoes are formed by the movement of tectonic plates on the surface of the earth. These plates are basically huge pieces of rock that ‘float’ on the mantle (a layer of the earth that is sort-of liquid rock). The tectonic plates are in constant motion, albeit very slow motion
Volcanoes can also be formed when the plates go away from each other. The magma pushes up and lava forms. These types of volcanoes are found on the ocean floor. The volcanoes around Hawaii are not created by a tectonic plate, but hot spots. Hot spots are places that have fierce heat in the mantle. A volcano is formed when plates hit each other. One of the plates goes under the other. This is where the earth heats and melts the rock into magma and gases. This can happen as deep as 100 miles below the earth.
Best Answer: Most volcanoes occur where two plates meet. When two plates move apart causing a gap, hot molten rock-called lava-rises up between them. This type of volcano occurs on the ocean floor and is mostly invisible. 