Skeletal striated muscle, or Voluntary muscle, primarily links to bone through tendon, thus enabling through levers of the bones of the human skeleton posturing, upright stance under atmospheric pressure, and voluntary movements. The origin of a muscle is the bone, typically proximal, which has greater mass and is more stable during a contraction than a muscle's insertion. For example, with the latissimus dorsi muscle, the origin site is the torso, and the insertion is the arm.
Agonist and Antagonist Muscles Summary. Agonist / prime mover – muscle directly responsible for the movement at a joint. Antagonist – muscle that is relaxing and has the. opposite action. to the agonist
The supinator muscle of the forearm and the biceps brachii of the upper arm supinate the forearm by pulling on the radius. These muscles rotate the radius in the opposite direction of the pronator muscles, moving the distal end of the radius back to its position on the lateral side of the wrist. Pronation and supination are a pair of unique movements possible only in the forearms and hands, allowing the human body to flip the palm either face up or face down.
The Brachioradialis Muscle can. act as a shunt muscle due to its position. During elbow flexion, the angular component, the one that makes the radius move around the elbow joint, is the swing component. The brachioradialis is an example of a shunt muscle, which is able to provide a compressive force. Fixator Muscle. A fixator is a stabilizer that acts to eliminate the unwanted movement of an agonist's, or prime mover's, origin. Many muscles are attached to more than one bone. When this happens the muscles are said to be multiarticulate or multijoint muscles.
The elbow is a synovial hinge joint located between the upper arm and forearm. It is formed by the meeting of three bones: the humerus in the upper arm and the ulna and radius in the lower arm. Like all other hinge joints, the elbow permits movement in one plane, namely the flexion and extension of the forearm relative to the upper arm. Although it is found mostly in the forearm, the brachioradialis is the third flexor muscle of the elbow, running from the distal end of the humerus to the distal end of the radius.
The triceps (all 3 heads) are fulfilling the role of agonist or prime mover during extension about the elbow. The anconeus muscle also acts in synergy with the triceps to contribute to elbow extension. 
Agonist muscles and antagonist muscles refer to muscles that cause or inhibit a movement. Agonist muscles cause a movement to occur through their own contraction. For example, the triceps brachii contracts during the up phase of a push-up (elbow extension). During the down phase of a push-up, the same triceps brachii actively controls elbow flexion while relaxing. The origin of a muscle is the bone, typically proximal, which has greater mass and is more stable during a contraction than a muscle's insertion. For example, with the latissimus dorsi muscle, the origin site is the torso, and the insertion is the arm.
As stated above, agonist muscles are muscles that are responsible for causing a certain joint motion. However, the term is often defined incorrectly to mean ALL the muscles that have a role in producing a movement. By this definition stabilizers, neutralizers, and fixators are also agonists. Fixator Muscle. A fixator is a stabilizer that acts to eliminate the unwanted movement of an agonist's, or prime mover's, origin. Many muscles are attached to more than one bone. When this happens the muscles are said to be multiarticulate or multijoint muscles.
Antagonist. An antagonist is a muscle that is capable of opposing the movement of a joint by producing torque that is opposite to a certain joint action. This is usually a muscle that is located on the opposite side of the joint from the agonist. Fixator Muscle. A fixator is a stabilizer that acts to eliminate the unwanted movement of an agonist's, or prime mover's, origin. Many muscles are attached to more than one bone. When this happens the muscles are said to be multiarticulate or multijoint muscles.
1. Agonist: The agonist in a movement is the muscle(s) that provides the major force to complete the movement. Because of this agonists are known as the ‘prime movers’. In the bicep curl which produces flexion at the elbow, the biceps muscle is the agonist, as seen in the image below. 4. Fixator: The fixator in a movement is the muscle(s) that stabilises the origin of the agonist and the joint that the origin spans (moves over) in order to help the agonist function most effectively. In the bicep curl this would be the rotator cuff muscles, the ‘guardians of the shoulder joint’.