The Chimera2 In, 2 Out-Dual Extrusion System Chimera is a neat and simple way in which to add conventional dual extrusion to your machine in a simple, air cooled package. Nozzles can be individually adjusted in height for an easy setup experience. We've partnered with E3D to be a US distributor of their hotends! $3 shipping in the US, $12 shipping internationally. 24v versions available upon request, simply order and then use the contact form above to request 24v. All variants in stock, ready to ship.
Chimera: In medicine, a person composed of two genetically distinct types of cells. Human chimeras were first discovered with the advent of blood typing when it was found that some people had more than one blood type. More twins mean more chimeras. In Greek mythology, the Chimera was an awesome fire-breathing monster with the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a serpent. The Chimera was killed by the hero Bellerophon mounted, in most versions of the tale, on Pegasus, the winged horse.
A chimeric mouse with its offspring. A chimera (also spelled chimaera) (from the creature Chimera in Greek mythology) is a single organism composed of genetically distinct cells. This can result in male and female organs, two blood types, or subtle variations in form. Animal chimeras are produced by the merger of multiple fertilized eggs. An animal chimera is a single organism that is composed of two or more different populations of genetically distinct cells that originated from different zygotes involved in sexual reproduction. If the different cells have emerged from the same zygote, the organism is called a mosaic.
E3D Cyclops/Chimera (Dual Extrusion Hotends) We've partnered with E3D to be a US distributor of their hotends! $3 shipping in the US, $12 shipping internationally. 24v versions available upon request, simply order and then use the contact form above to request 24v. All variants in stock, ready to ship.
Chimera Systems is a private company owned by David James Scott and Gillian Katinka de Villiers. Chimera Systems was founded in 2014 as an independent consultancy specialising in the areas of Food safety management and Food labelling, and is based in Cape Town, South Africa. 
Hybrids, as seen in Resistance 3, the most commonly seen Chimera. The Chimera are an alien species hailing from an unknown star system. Originally, it was believed that gruesome Russian experiments resulted in the creation of the Chimera, due to their invasion starting out of that country. History Edit. Concept art of the Chimera's home planet. The precise origins of the Chimera are unknown, but it is known that at least 60 million years ago a race of beings, presumably the original or Pure Chimera, had colonized Earth and established a foothold on the planet. During this era, the Chimera came into conflict with another alien race