Magma (liquid rock) seeps upward to fill the cracks. In this way, new crust is formed along the boundary. Earthquakes occur along the faults, and volcanoes form where the magma reaches the surface. Where a divergent boundary crosses the land, the rift valleys which form are typically 30 to 50 kilometers wide. Examples include th e East Africa rift in Kenya and Ethiopia, and the Rio Grande rift in New Mexico. Where a divergent boundary crosses the ocean floor, the rift valley is much narrower, only a kilometer or less across, and it runs along the top of a midoceanic ridge. 
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.
Here are examples of a divergent boundary: The Mid-Atlantic ridge, Red Sea Rift, Baikal Rift Zone, East African Rift, East Pacific Rise, Gakkel Ridge, Galapagos Rise, Explorer … Ridge, Pacific-Antarctic Ridge, and the West Antarctic Rift. In plate tectonics, a Divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between … two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. These areas can form on the end of continents but eventually form ocean basins
Effects that are found at a divergent boundary between oceanic plates include: a submarine mountain range such as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge; volcanic activity in the form of fissure eruptions; shallow earthquake activity; creation of new seafloor and a widening ocean basin. Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of divergent boundaries between continental plates. Two locations are marked within the rift valley of East Africa and another location is marked within the Red Sea.
At divergent boundaries, two plates move apart from each other and the space that this creates is filled with new crustal material sourced from molten magma that forms below. The origin of new divergent boundaries at triple junctions is sometimes thought to be associated with the phenomenon known as hotspots. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.
The mid-Atlantic ridge is an example of a divergent boundary, where the Eurasian Plate that covers all of Europe separates from the North American Plate. This underwater mountain range is constantly growing as new crust is formed. Further up that same boundary, it passes through Iceland. In this lesson, you will learn the meaning of the term 'divergent boundary' in the context of plate tectonics. A number of features and examples of divergent boundaries will be introduced.
In the theory of plate tectonics, the earth's crust is broken into plates that move around relative to each other. As a result of this movement, three types of plate boundaries are formed: divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries. Divergent boundaries are boundaries where plates pull away from each other, forming mild earthquakes and volcanoes as magma comes to the surface. Convergent boundaries are boundaries where two plates are pushing in
In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plates or fragments of the lithosphere move toward one another and collide. 
Introduction. A divergent boundary is an area where two crustal plates are separating. Most of these tectonic plate boundaries are located on the floor of the oceans. The separating plates form rift valleys on the ocean floor where there are weaknesses in the crust. New oceanic crust.