Heart is located safely inside the chest cavity which looks like a cage bound by the ribs and breast bone (sternum). The chest cavity is also called as thoracic cavity and it lies between neck and abdomen. Heart lies slightly to the left in the chest cavity. [ 2 ]. Location of heart in the Mediastinum. Heart is located in a space in the centre of the chest cavity called mediastinum in particular theMiddle mediastinum. It is the space between the 2 lungs and the heart is wedged between them. [ 3 ]. The mediastinum is divided into. 1  Superior mediastinum
The heart is located in the thoracic cavity, in the portion of the chest known as the mediastenum-the region between the pleural sacs and containing all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. The pericardium is the thin sac or membrane which contains the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels. The heart is located in the middle mediastinum(cavity).The heart is surrounded by the pericardium(tissue layer).You can have a friendly Gross Anatomy e-manual below.. Source(s): http://viralurl.com/hamid/grossanatomy. hamid · 7 years ago.
Confidence votes 16.6K. The heart is in the thoracic cavity in a part called the mediastinum. It is protected by the pericardium, a membranous sac that surround the heart. The mediastinum is that space in the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart. The thoracic cavity consists of the lungs, heart, liver, stomach and other important squishy organs. the ribcage stops these organs getting damaged if you fall over, for examp … le, which is why the heart's in the thoracic cavity.
The thoracic cavity is the more superior subdivision of the anterior cavity, and it is enclosed by the rib cage. The thoracic cavity contains the lungs and the heart, which is located in the mediastinum. The diaphragm forms the floor of the thoracic cavity and separates it from the more inferior abdominopelvic cavity. 1 The superior mediastinum is a wedge-shaped cavity located between the superior regions of the two thoracic cavities. 2  The pericardial cavity within the mediastinum is located at the center of the chest below the superior mediastinum. 3  The pericardial cavity roughly outlines the shape of the heart
The mediastinum is the middle section of the chest cavity. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum. The mediastinum contains all of the chest organs except the lungs. Organs located in the mediastinum include the heart, the aorta, the thymus gland, the chest portion of the trachea, the esophagus, lymph nodes and important nerves.
It also contains the pituitary and endocrine glands. 2. Thoracic cavity: thoracic means chest, this cavity is located in the anterior portion of the body and the mediastinum. It contains the cavity that surrounds the breast bone and ribs. Containing the lungs, heart, trachea, larynx and bronchial tubes. 3. Abdominal cavity: This cavity is the space inferior the thoracic cavity, located in the superior /medial half of the transverse plane.
The pericardium lies within the mediastinum, the portion of the thoracic cavity between the left and right pleural cavities (Figure 1-11d). The connective tissue of the mediastinum surrounds the pericardial cavity and heart, the large arteries and veins attached to the heart, and the thymus, trachea, and esophagus. The relationship between the heart and the cavity resembles that of a fist pushing into a balloon (Figure 1-11b). The wrist corresponds to the base (attached portion) of the heart, and the balloon corresponds to the serous membrane that lines the pericardial cavity. The serous membrane is called the pericardium.