‘ AN INSPECTOR CALLS’- REVISION PACK CONTEXT To understand the context of the play, it's helpful to know a little about J B Priestley's life and his political views during the early 20th century-a time of great global change. He wrote An Inspector Calls after the Second World War and like much of his work contains controversial, politically charged messages. Keen to pioneer a new 'morality' in politics, Priestley’s chief concerns involved social inequality in Britain and the need for nuclear disarmament.
Description. An introduction to the social and political influences behind J. B. Priestley's 'An Inspector Calls'. The distinction between when 'An Inspector Calls' is set (1912) and when it was written (1945) is fundamental when analysing the social and political background of the novel.
For the 1982 TV series, see An Inspector Calls (TV series) . For the 2015 film, see An Inspector Calls (2015 film) . For the 2015 TV film, see An Inspector Calls (2015 TV film) . An Inspector Calls is a play written by English dramatist J. B. Priestley, first performed in 1945 in the Soviet Union and in 1946 in the UK. It is one of Priestley's best known works for the stage and considered to be one of the classics of mid-20th century English theatre. The first film version of An Inspector Calls was produced in the United Kingdom by Watergate Productions Ltd, the 1954 screenplay was adapted by Desmond Davis and directed by Guy Hamilton.
What is the role of the Inspector in An Inspector Calls. Priestley constructed this clever twist for the ending of the play since it reinforces his message that we cannot avoid the consequences of our actions. J.B Priestley gives the Inspector a number of roles in the play. 1 5 When World War Two broke out in 1939 Priestley continued to write his plays, while also writing and broadcasting on BBC radio. 2  During this time he was producing his best work and wrote An Inspector Calls (1945) about the effects of an individual’s actions and the consequences of those actions.
J B Priestley wrote An Inspector Calls after the First World War and like much of his work contains controversial, politically charged messages. An Inspector Calls is set in 1912, it was written in 1945. This table describes what society was like in 1912 and 1945. J. B. Priestly: Context behind the drama. John Boynton Priestley was born in Yorkshire in 1894. He knew early on that he wanted to become a writer, but decided against going to university as he thought he would get a better feel for the world around him away from an academic community.
Should you wish a member of The Society to visit your school or college and give a presentation about Priestley’s life and work then please contact us: click here. J.B. Priestley’s famous play, An Inspector Calls is a set text at GCSE level. In his lifetime Priestley wrote hundreds of press and magazine articles that engaged with a wide range of social, political and intellectual ideas. An Inspector Calls was not the only instance of Priestley being preoccupied about the well being of society and the world.
J B Priestley. John Boynton Priestley was born in Yorkshire in 1894. He knew early on that he wanted to become a writer, but decided against going to university as he thought he would get a better feel for the world around him away from academia [academia: An academic community, usually a university. ] .
Introduction. This guide is written for teachers and students who are studying J.B. Priestley's play An Inspector Calls. The guide is written specifically for students in the UK, but I hope it may be helpful to users from other parts of the world