Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome is a condition that most cataract surgeons have encountered. Since this side effect of systemic alpha-1 blockers (most notably tamsulosin (Flomax)) was first reported, we are much more knowledgeable about IFIS and management strategies. 
SUMMARY: Floppy eyelid syndrome--an underdiagnosed condition--produces significant ocular morbidity. Symptoms range from occasional redness and irritation to corneal ulcer. Diagnosis is based on ocular signs, including easy or spontaneous eversion of the upper eyelids in conjunction with conjunctivitis and keratitis. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Although floppy eyelid syndrome causes significant ocular symptoms and morbidity, the condition is often underdiagnosed.
Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) is a complication that may occur during cataract extraction in certain patients. IFIS has been associated with Flomax (tamsulosin), a medication widely prescribed for urinary symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Tamsulosin is a selective alpha blocker that works by relaxing the bladder and prostatic smooth muscle.
Blepharochalasis -- chronic eyelid swelling, or edema--may also play a part in floppy eyelid syndrome by leading to thinning of the skin, development of small broken blood vessels and relaxation of the tendon that helps elevate the upper eyelid, the levator aponeurosis. A person who develops floppy eyelid syndrome has a decreased amount of elastin in the upper eyelid. Elastin helps keep tissues taut and firm. Abnormalities in the meibomian gland, which supplies oil as part of the tear film in the eye, also contribute to floppy eyelid syndrome.
This syndrome is characterized by a flaccid iris which billows in response to ordinary intraocular fluid currents, a propensity for this floppy iris to prolapse towards the area of cataract extraction during surgery, and progressive intraoperative pupil constriction despite standard procedures to prevent this. IFIS has been associated with Flomax (tamsulosin), a medication widely prescribed for urinary symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Tamsulosin is a selective alpha blocker that works by relaxing the bladder and prostatic smooth muscle.
Overview. 1  A relatively uncommon condition characterized by loose, easily everted upper eyelids. 2  Floppy eyelid syndrome (FES) is often seen in overweight, middle-aged males. 3  Some of these patients also suffer from obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). 1
Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome, or IFIS, was first diagnosed as a strange interplay between two common effects of aging: the development of cataracts and prostate enlargement among men. 
Answer: Floppy eyelid syndrome almost always occurs in obese patients. Other associations may include eyelid rubbing or mechanical pressure, keratoconus, hyperglycemia, and sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea is a potentially fatal condition that should be evaluated in patients with floppy eyelid syndrome. 
Floppy eyelid syndrome (FES) was initially described by Culbertson and Ostler in 1981. It had not been recognized as a specific entity prior to this. The syndrome was seen in overweight male patients with floppy, rubbery, and easily everted upper eyelids associated with a variable chronic papillary conjunctivitis of the upper palpebral conjunctiva. FES, because its symptoms are common to other disease processes, often is not diagnosed at the onset of symptoms. Several unsuccessful trials of artificial tears, vasoconstrictors, topical steroids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drops, or antibiotics may already have taken place before the correct diagnosis is made.
Disease [edit | edit source]. Floppy eyelid syndrome (FES) is an under-diagnosed entity characterized by chronic papillary conjunctivitis in upper palpebral conjunctiva that is poorly respondent to topical lubrication and steroids. Easy eversion of the eyelid without excess manipulation or even spontaneous eversion is an important examination mark for FES with subsequent increased horizontal laxity and redundancy of the lid (Image courtesy of Cat Burkat, MD FACS) .