Definition of CULTURAL for Kids. 1. : relating to the habits, beliefs, and traditions of a certain people. 2. : relating to the arts (as music, dance, or painting). — cul·tur·al·ly adverb. 
Visage/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Definition: Folk dance is a form of dance developed by a group of people that reflects the traditional life of the people of a certain country or region. 
Discovering Cultural Dance. This is an excerpt from Discovering Dance by Gayle Kassing. Dance has been called the universal language; you live in a world that dances. Take a look at the map of the world and its continents (figure 8.1). Geographers have identified distinct natural and physical features (ecosystems) in regions throughout the world
The term Traditional is more frequently used when the emphasis is on the cultural roots of the dance. A Traditional dance will therefore have arisen from a people s cultural traditions, for example, the folk dances of indigenous populations of Europe. Use this web site to either. 1  Search for dance events or people. 2  Publicise your dance event or person. 3  To publicise something new, click on the Register a new event venue or person link.
The terms ethnic and traditional are used when it is required to emphasize the cultural roots of the dance. In this sense, nearly all folk dances are ethnic ones. The term folk dance is reserved for dances which are to a significant degree bound by tradition and originated in the times when the distinction existed between the dances of common folk and the dances of the high society. A number of modern ballroom dances originated from folk ones.
They share some or all of the following attributes: 1  Dances are usually held at folk dance gatherings or social functions by people with little or no professional training, often to traditional music. The term folk dance is reserved for dances which are to a significant degree bound by tradition and originated in the times when the distinction existed between the dances of common folk and the dances of the high society. A number of modern ballroom dances originated from folk ones.
Folk dances are dances developed by groups of people that reflect the traditional life of the people of a certain country or region. The term folk dance is reserved for dances which are to a significant degree bound by tradition and originated in the times when the distinction existed between the dances of common folk and the dances of the high society. A number of modern ballroom dances originated from folk ones.