3. Voter Approval on Passage of Amendment If a majority of qualified voters, voting on the question of passage of the amendment at the polls passes, the proposed amendment will be in effect from the time of passage as part of the constitution of the state of West Virginia. Amending the Constitution of West Virginia: Although some states have been able to amend their constitutions via citizen’s initiative or a referendum process, this is not permitted in West Virginia.
This is the complete list of the thirty-three amendments to the United States Constitution which have been proposed by the United States Congress and sent to the states for ratification since the Constitution was put into operation on March 4, 1789. Would have treated the District of Columbia as if it were a state regarding representation in the United States Congress (including repealing the 23rd Amendment) , representation in the Electoral College and participation in the process by which the Constitution is amended.
The Amendment Process. There are essentially two ways spelled out in the Constitution for how to propose an amendment. One has never been used. The first method is for a bill to pass both houses of the legislature, by a two-thirds majority in each. Once the bill has passed both houses, it goes on to the state
An amendment may be proposed and sent to the states for ratification by either: 1  The United States Congress, whenever a two-thirds majority in both the Senate and the House of Representatives deem it necessary; Would have treated the District of Columbia as if it were a state regarding representation in the United States Congress (including repealing the 23rd Amendment) , representation in the Electoral College and participation in the process by which the Constitution is amended.
The Constitution of West Virginia requires the amendment process to take place either by a convention or by an act of the WV Legislature. Therefore, the following provisions and procedures are required by the state legislature to place a constitutional amendment on the ballot. Amending the Constitution of West Virginia: Although some states have been able to amend their constitutions via citizen’s initiative or a referendum process, this is not permitted in West Virginia.
Though there was no process for revising the 1851 constitution other than the vote scheduled in 1865, an amendment was proposed by the same 1861 convention that approved the ordinance of secession withdrawing Virginia from the United States. Virginia's state constitution was first drafted in 1776, to establish a basis for government after declaring independence from Great Britain. George Mason is credited with drafting the Declaration of Rights, which was adopted first.
Virginia's Ratification. Ratification of the Constitution by the State of Virginia, June 26, 1788. Virginia ratified the Constitution in two steps. The first was the declaration of ratification. The second was a recommendation that a bill of rights be added to the Constitution, and that a list of amendments also be added in accordance with Article 5. The following text is taken from the Library of Congress's Continental Congress Broadside Collection.
The original Virginia Constitution of 1776 was enacted in conjunction with the Declaration of Independence by the first thirteen states of the United States of America. Virginia was the first state to adopt its own constitution, and the document was widely influential both in the United States and abroad. In addition to frequent amendments, there have been six major subsequent revisions of the constitution (in 1830, 1851, 1864, 1870, 1902, and the one currently in effect, in 1971). These new constitutions have been part of, and in reaction to, periods of major regional or social upheaval in Virginia. 