Insects swarm over the Madagascar savanna. Grasslands in different regions have different names: Africa has savannas; Asia has steppes; South America has pampas; and North America has prairies. Photograph by Maria Stenzel. A quarter of Earth was once covered by grasslands, but much of these have now been turned into farms. This has resulted in a widespread loss of wildlife habitat. Grassland soil is rich, and almost anything can be grown there. But poor agricultural practices can ruin soil and turn grassland into lifeless, barren spaces. If crops are not rotated properly, nutrients in the soil are stripped out, and nothing can be grown for several years.
1 In the grassland areas of Rollapadu, Andhra Pradesh, the Great Indian Bustard is rarely sighted. 2  The grasslands are fragmented due to the Telugu-Ganga canal and the once seasonal crop-lands of groundnut and millets, have changed to irrigated crop-lands that are too wet for the Bustards. 1 Solar Farms: Hectares of grassland has been lost to solar farms in the Susner grassland site. 2  Along with the building of solar farms, the road network and high human activity in these areas disturb activity of grassland fauna, likewise destroying plant communities.
Poaching, overgrazing and clearing of the land for crops are the main threats. About 16 percent of tropical grasslands have been converted for agriculture or urban development. Desertification is also a significant threat. Animals. Tropical grassland animals (which do not all occur in the same area) include giraffes, zebras, buffaloes, kangaroos, mice, moles, gophers, ground squirrels, snakes, worms, termites, beetles, lions, leopards, hyenas, and elephants.
Temperate grasslands are located north of the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees North) and south of the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5 degrees South). The major temperate grasslands include the veldts of Africa, the pampas of South America, the steppes of Eurasia, and the plains of North America. Animals. Temperate grasslands have a low diversity of wildlife, but a high abundance of wildlife. In North America the dominant grazing animals are bison and pronghorn. Rodents include pocket gophers and prairie dogs. Carnivores include wolves, coyotes, swift foxes, badgers and black-footed ferrets.
Threats to Savanna Grasslands. The threats listed below are destructive to the landscape and the globally threatened species of flora and fauna inhabiting it. 1 Solar Farms: Hectares of grassland has been lost to solar farms in the Susner grassland site. 2  Along with the building of solar farms, the road network and high human activity in these areas disturb activity of grassland fauna, likewise destroying plant communities.
Grasslands are generally located between deserts and forests. The major temperate grasslands are located in central North America in the United States, in Southeast South America in Uruguay and Argentina, and in Asia along the southern portion of Russia and Mongolia. 1 Prairie-Grasslands in North America are called the prairies. 2  They cover around 1.4 million square miles of the central United States including some of Canada and Mexico. 3  Steppes-The steppes are grasslands that cover southern Russia all the way to the Ukraine and Mongolia.
In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest. Trees and large shrubs are rarely found in grassland areas. There are many species of grasses that live in this biome, including, purple needlegrass, wild oats, foxtail, ryegrass, and buffalo grass. Many animals munch on these grasses, but they survive because the growth point on the grasses is very close to the ground.