Report Abuse. The steak will be more juicy if you let the steak sit long (2 or 3 min.) enough for the juices to go back into it. If you cut up the steak while it is hot off the grill, it will be more on the dry side. wildflower · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. If you cut into a steak immediately after cooking it, all the juices run right out onto the plate and the steak is hard and tough. Let it sit for 5-10 minutes and the juices redistribute throughout the entire cut of meat so it stays moist well after the first bite.
On the other hand, when and how you salt does make a difference in the quality. The best options are to salt at least 40 minutes before cooking, or right at the time of cooking. The reason is that if you salt 40 minutes ahead, the salt dissolves, and then the juices are reabsorbed. With less time, there is not time for reabsorption, so you would be better off waiting until the time of the cooking. Otherwise it will be well done on the outside and rare in the middle. – user73 Jul 9 '10 at 20:28. Actually, you don't need to put it out of the fridge before cooking. There is really only a very small difference in temperature after two hours, and this is negligible in the cooking process.
The first thing you're going to want to do is take the steak out of the fridge and let it sit out at room temperature for 20-30 minutes. At this point you can also pre-heat your grill, and trim any excess fat from the steaks. But don't trim it all off. Leave about ¼ inch of fat all the way around. 
The reason to let it come up to temperature is so that it takes less time to cook (in the center). Otherwise it will be well done on the outside and rare in the middle. – user73 Jul 9 '10 at 20:28. Actually, you don't need to put it out of the fridge before cooking. There is really only a very small difference in temperature after two hours, and this is negligible in the cooking process.
you should let a steak rest AFTER cooking it not before and as for seasoning only do the salt and pepper just before cooking not before as it draws out the moisture in the meat. Lessels28 · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. Yes, it is true if you want the steak to cook evenly... You are going to want to let them come to room temp (this should take about 30 - 45 minutes) out in the open air... Go ahead and season them right before you toss them on the grill... My suggestion is just a little salt and some cracked black pepper..
Depending on how hot and how long you cook, there might be 10 to 25% water loss, mostly due to evaporation and dripping. Let's call it 15%. So a properly cooked steak is down to about 60% water, but most of it cannot escape when the meat is cut because it is bound by proteins and held by capillary action. 
The Theory: You want your meat to cook evenly from edge to center. Therefore, the closer it is to its final eating temperature, the more evenly it will cook. Letting it sit on the counter for 20 to 30 minutes will bring the steak up to room temperature—a good 20 to 25°F closer to your final serving temperature. After the first 20 minutes—the time that many chefs and books will recommend you let a steak rest at room temperature—the center of the steak had risen to a whopping 39.8°F. Not even a full two degrees. So I let it go longer. 30 minutes. 50 minutes. 1 hour and 20 minutes. After 1 hour and 50 minutes, the steak was up to 49.6°F in the center. Still colder than the cold water comes out of my tap in the summer, and only about 13% closer to its target temperature of a medium-rare 130°F than the steak in the fridg