1 Bridge entity, if the unit is a DCE. 2  Bridge entities provide LAN-to-LAN interfaces between LANs that use the same protocol (for example, Ethernet to Ethernet) and also between different protocols (for example, Ethernet to Token Ring). 3  Bridge entities are defined by IEEE 802.1 standards. The Basic Ethernet Frame Format. The IEEE 802.3 standard defines a basic data frame format that is required for all MAC implementations, plus several additional optional formats that are used to extend the protocol's basic capability.
Physical connections are made between nodes and/or infrastructure devices (hubs, switches, routers) by various types of copper or fiber cable. 802.3 is a technology that supports the IEEE 802.1 network architecture. 802.3 also defines LAN access method using CSMA/CD. This amendment to IEEE Std 802.3 defines the physical layer specifications and management parameters for EPON operation on point-to-multipoint passive optical networks supporting extended power budget classes of PX30, PX40, PRX40, and PR40 PMDs.
The Ethernet standards comprise several wiring and signaling variants of the OSI physical layer in use with Ethernet. The original 10BASE5 Ethernet uses coaxial cable as a shared medium, while the newer Ethernet variants use twisted pair and fiber optic links in conjunction with hubs or switches. As per the OSI model, Ethernet provides services up to and including the data link layer. Since its commercial release, Ethernet has retained a good degree of backward compatibility. Features such as the 48-bit MAC address and Ethernet frame format have influenced other networking protocols.
This article is about the standards working group. For Ethernet frame data format, see Ethernet frame. IEEE 802.3 is a working group and a collection of IEEE standards produced by the working group defining the physical layer and data link layer 's media access control (MAC) of wired Ethernet. This is generally a local area network technology with some wide area network applications. This amendment to IEEE Std 802.3 defines the physical layer specifications and management parameters for EPON operation on point-to-multipoint passive optical networks supporting extended power budget classes of PX30, PX40, PRX40, and PR40 PMDs.
10-Gigabit Ethernet is under development and will likely be published as the IEEE 802.3ae supplement to the IEEE 802.3 base standard in late 2001 or early 2002. Other technologies and protocols have been touted as likely replacements, but the market has spoken. The Basic Ethernet Frame Format. The IEEE 802.3 standard defines a basic data frame format that is required for all MAC implementations, plus several additional optional formats that are used to extend the protocol's basic capability.
The term Ethernet refers to the family of local-area network (LAN) products covered by the IEEE 802.3 standard that defines what is commonly known as the CSMA/CD protocol. The Basic Ethernet Frame Format. The IEEE 802.3 standard defines a basic data frame format that is required for all MAC implementations, plus several additional optional formats that are used to extend the protocol's basic capability.
Cisco Active Network Abstraction 3.7 Reference GuideOL-20014-02Chapter 17 Ethernet (IEEE 802.3) Technology Description VPLS Virtual Private LAN Services (VPLS) is a class of Layer 2 VPN that provides Ethernet-based multipoint-to-multipoint communication over MPLS networks. Cisco Active Network Abstraction 3.7 Reference GuideOL-20014-02Chapter 17 Ethernet (IEEE 802.3) Vendor-Specific Inventory and IMOs Cisco REP Service The Cisco REP Service object represents REP protocol configured on a device.
1 Bridge entities provide LAN-to-LAN interfaces between LANs that use the same protocol (for example, Ethernet to Ethernet) and also between different protocols (for example, Ethernet to Token Ring). 2  Bridge entities are defined by IEEE 802.1 standards. The Basic Ethernet Frame Format. The IEEE 802.3 standard defines a basic data frame format that is required for all MAC implementations, plus several additional optional formats that are used to extend the protocol's basic capability.
The standard specifies requirements for mapping the protocol to specific network implementations and defines such mappings, including User Datagram Protocol (UDP)/Internet Protocol (IPversions 4 and 6), and layer-2 IEEE 802.3 Ethernet. 
Ethernet /ˈiːθərnɛt/ is a family of computer networking technologies for local area networks (LANs) and metropolitan area networks (MANs). It was commercially introduced in 1980 and first standardized in 1983 as IEEE 802.3, and has since been refined to support higher bit rates and longer link distances. Over time, Ethernet has largely replaced competing wired LAN technologies such as token ring, FDDI, and ARCNET. As per the OSI model, Ethernet provides services up to and including the data link layer. Since its commercial release, Ethernet has retained a good degree of backward compatibility. Features such as the 48-bit MAC address and Ethernet frame format have influenced other networking protocols.