The main spices found in most curry powders of the Indian subcontinent are turmeric, coriander, and cumin; a wide range of additional spices may be included depending on the geographic region and the foods being included (white/red meat, fish, lentils, rice and vegetables). 1 Pasanda – in the UK, a mild curry sauce made with cream, coconut milk, and almonds or cashews, served with lamb, chicken, or king prawns (US: jumbo shrimp). 2  The name was derived from a Mughlai dish of lamb strips beaten to make them tender.
Since its inception, the word curry has changed its meaning and become ubiquitous as a menu word, says Alan Davidson, in the Oxford Companion to Food. Once it just meant Indian food, but it now denotes various kinds of dish in numerous different parts of the world, but all are savoury and all are spiced, it reads. The UK has adopted curry as a national dish, with more than 9,000 Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi restaurants and the creation of British-Asian dishes such as chicken tikka masala and balti, says the National Curry Week website. It says about 23 million people eat curry regularly.
This article is about the surname Curry. For other uses, see Curry (disambiguation) . Curry is a common surname used in Ireland, Scotland and England. In England and Scotland, it is thought to derive from local place names, curie (an Old French word from kitchen worker) and, in Scotland, also possibly from MacVurich. 1 Victoria Curry was a medieval pioneer in the science of midwifery in the British north west. 2  Wayne K. Curry was elected county executive for Prince George's County, Maryland in November 1994, and served two terms as county executive from 1994 to 2002. 3  Wes Curry (1860–1933) was an American baseball player and umpire.
Some limit the use of the term curry to dishes prepared in a sauce, but curries may be wet or dry. A curry dish may be spiced with leaves from the curry tree, but many curries do not have this ingredient. 1 Pasanda – in the UK, a mild curry sauce made with cream, coconut milk, and almonds or cashews, served with lamb, chicken, or king prawns (US: jumbo shrimp). 2  The name was derived from a Mughlai dish of lamb strips beaten to make them tender.
The far east countries like India. The word 'curry' itself comes from the Tamil: (கறி), literally meaning 'gravy'. So the origins of the word are from Southern India. The British brought curries to the West. However, these days the term 'curry' is used for any dish or meat cooked in a spicy or hot sauce or gravy. Curries are known from Africa, India, South-east Asia and the Pacific islands
The Madras curry originates from what was the Madras region in the south east of India and it’s a spicy curry that can be made with chicken, pork, beef and even mince beef or lamb as a Keema Madras. 
Curry leaves come from the curry tree, and they are used in many Indian dishes, much like bay leaves are used in Italian cooking. Curry leaves taste slightly bitter and a bit like citrus, but their flavor is short-lived. 
The term likely derives from kari, the word for sauce in Tamil, a South-Indian language. Perplexed by that region’s wide variety of savory dishes, 17th-century British traders lumped them all under the term curry. A curry, as the Brits defined it, might be a melange mélange of, onion, ginger, turmeric, garlic, pepper, chilies, coriander, cumin and other spices cooked with, shellfish, meat or. vegetables
Curry (/ˈkʌri/ , plural curries) is a dish originating in the cuisine of the Indian Subcontinent and Southeast Asia. 1 Pasanda – in the UK, a mild curry sauce made with cream, coconut milk, and almonds or cashews, served with lamb, chicken, or king prawns (US: jumbo shrimp). 2  The name was derived from a Mughlai dish of lamb strips beaten to make them tender.
And, until recently, how and when curry first appeared was a culinary mystery as well. The term likely derives from kari, the word for sauce in Tamil, a South-Indian language. Perplexed by that region’s wide variety of savory dishes, 17 th-century British traders lumped them all under the term curry. Today, the word describes a bewildering number of spicy vegetable and meat stews from places as far-flung as the Indian subcontinent, the South Pacific, and the Caribbean Islands. There is little agreement about what actually constitutes a curry.