Geography. France is about 80% the size of Texas. In the Alps near the Italian and Swiss borders is western Europe's highest point—Mont Blanc (15,781 ft; 4,810 m). The forest-covered Vosges Mountains are in the northeast, and the Pyrenees pyrénées are along The spanish. border 
History. The third largest city in France, Lyon is situated in the Rhone-Alpes region between Paris and Marseille. A UNESCO World Heritage site, the city is home to roughly 490,000 inhabitants and was prized in ancient times as a major centre for the production and sale of silk. 
Lyon Map. Lyon France is located 287 miles southeast of Paris, on the west edge of the Alps. Marseilles, a fascinating and historic town in its own right, is to the south. The luscious towns of Cannes, St. Tropez, and Nice lie on the nearby French Rivera. 
Tweet. Located in the Rhone-Alps region in east-central France, Lyon is sandwiched in the “Big Three” cities in France between Paris and Marseille, population-wise. And, actually, kind of geographically as well! Lyon is a major center of business and trade and is also know as the capital of gastronomy in France. Lyon is also the industrial center for chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech industries with a growing software industry as well.
Okko Hotels Lyon Pont Lafayette 4-star hotel This property has agreed to be part of our Preferred Property Program, which groups together properties that stand out because of their excellent service and quality/price ratio with competitive prices. Onur, Germany. In the center of Lyon, Okko Hotels Lyon Pont Lafayette is a 17-minute walk from the Place Bellecour. It has a fitness center, free Wi-Fi and air-conditioned rooms with a flat-screen TV with satellite channels.
Provence is a vast region in France and in order to truly appreciate it, you need to be the type of traveler who likes food, wine and local crafts. how to get from Paris to Marseille. Avignon is another major city in Provence. The major city landmarks include: 1  Le Pont Saint-Benezet is a ruined bridge built in the Middle Ages.
Confidence votes 173K. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. The city of Lyon is in east central France about 80 km (50 mi) SW of Geneva, Switzerland.
Major cities in Provence include: Marseille, Avignon, Cannes and Nice. Marseille is an important French city, known for its culture and history. There is a lot to do and see. The major city landmarks include: 1  Old Port (Vieux Port), the main city harbor, guarded by two forts. how to get from Paris to Marseille. Avignon is another major city in Provence. The major city landmarks include: 1  Le Pont Saint-Benezet is a ruined bridge built in the Middle Ages.