Spy Shots: Mercedes Viano goes through another round of testing. The upcoming Mercedes Viano has been caught testing again in the snowy condition of North Sweden, but this time the prototype has switched from a white exterior paint finish to a black one. The first generation Viano has been on the market since 2004 and was due for a new look. At first glance, these first spy images of the Viano look to be a hot AMG version with a raised hood and a bigger grille marking the most grandiose of changes.
Tweet. |. The new Mercedes-Benz Viano Avantgarde Edition 125 embodies three terms like no other large-capacity vehicle, dynamism, comfort and sportiness. It combines an unmistakeable exterior style with select equipment and appointments as well as a dynamic drive system, making it the top model in its class. With its extrovert appearance the avant-garde vehicle in its class. The look of the Viano Avantgarde’s Edition 125 is certainly nothing for wallflowers; it symbolises the avant-gard
Picture constantly jittery after a few months. 2 out of 5, reviewed on Aug 24, 2015. TV worked fine for 4 months, but it now takes 20 minutes to turn on and the picture quality is constantly jittery. I have to bring it back to Big W to send away for a repair/replacement. Sorry to hear your bad and now I'm about to give you some more. (You can't)but I also have some GOOD news that may help you out, if you go on to eBay and look for a seller who ID is one2home he has a Viano TV remote out for sale but check with the seller first to see if it is compatible with your TV.
V-Class Models and Colours. Our V-Class come in Black and Silver. They are all well equipped models with those little extras that can make a big difference to a chauffeur driven journey like free Wifi on the move. The high specification of the chauffeur-driven Viano ensures that it is no ordinary people carrier. 
Mercedes is prepping its lineup for a complete overhaul in the next few years, even for its less than spectacular Viano, which is the passenger version of the Vito commercial panel van. The first generation Viano has been on the market since 2004 and was due for a new look. At first glance, these first spy images of the Viano look to be a hot AMG version with a raised hood and a bigger grille marking the most grandiose of changes.
I have a viano 40 led lcd tv but I lost my tv remote. MD SUMON asked on Oct 05, 2015. Answer this. Sorry to hear your bad and now I'm about to give you some more. (You can't)but I also have some GOOD news that may help you out, if you go on to eBay and look for a seller who ID is one2home he has a Viano TV remote out for sale but check with the seller first to see if it is compatible with your TV.
The Mercedes Viano will also be offered in a new Vito version-the transporter version. Some rumors even say that the new Viano/Vito will be offered in the US, joining the Sprinter that is already sold here. The first generation Viano has been on the market since 2004 and was due for a new look. At first glance, these first spy images of the Viano look to be a hot AMG version with a raised hood and a bigger grille marking the most grandiose of changes.
The Mercedes-Benz Vito is a light van produced by Mercedes-Benz. It is available as a standard panel van for cargo (called Vito), or with passenger accommodations substituted for part or all of the load area (called V-Class or Viano). The first generation Mercedes-Benz Vito was produced between 1996 and 2003. It is powered either by a diesel engine with up to 120 bhp (89 kW; 122 PS) or a gasoline engine with up to 140 bhp (104 kW; 142 PS) and a front-wheel drive drivetrain.
The Mercedes Viano is essentially a van with more seats, so there's loads of interior space.. Crash tested in 2008 by Euro NCAP the Viano scored four stars for adult safety and three for children. The mechanical build quality of the Viano is very high as it shares a platform with Mercedes' highly dependable commercial van, the Vito.
Viano. JamesEdition makes it easy to find the Mercedes-Benz Viano you're looking for, we feature Mercedes-Benz Viano for sale by dealerships around the world. 