It is the initial component of many compound names, names made of two words. For example, عبد الحميد, ʿAbd el-Ḥamīd, usually spelled Abdel Hamid, Abdelhamid, Abd El Hamid or Abdul Hamid, which means servant of The Praised (God). The most common use for Abdul by far, is as part of a male given name, written in English. When written in English, Abdul is subject to variable spacing, spelling, and hyphenation. The meaning of Abdul literally and normally means Slave of the, but English translations also often translate it to: Servant of the. Therefore Abdul is not always used as the opening part of the name; if the second part starts with a sun letter, it may become forms including Abdun, Abdur, Abdus, or Abdush, the vowel in each name, similarly with Abdul, is also open to differing transliterations.
Arabic Meaning: The name Abdul is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Abdul is: Servant of God. American Meaning: The name Abdul is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Abdul is: Servant of God. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Abdul and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Abdul and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Abdul is fascinating, learn more about it.
Find Abdul-basit meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Abdul-basit name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Abdul-basit. 
Essentially there is no Abdul, without the second part when written in Arabic, thus it appears as a component of many Arabic and specifically Muslim names, where it is the opening of a religiously based name, meaning: Servant of God. Therefore Abdul is not always used as the opening part of the name; if the second part starts with a sun letter, it may become forms including Abdun, Abdur, Abdus, or Abdush, the vowel in each name, similarly with Abdul, is also open to differing transliterations.
Abdul /ab-dul/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Abdul is servant. Commonly used in combination with another name, as in Abdullah, or servant of God. As such, the name indicates religious service and devotion. Basketball celebrity Kareem Abdul-Jabar. 
Abdel /ab-del/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Abdel is servant. Abdel is an alternate form of Abdul (Arabic). Abdool is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Abdelaeo, Aldel. 
Form of: Itself (Abdul). The meaning of the name “Abdul” is: “The servant; the servant of”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Abdul and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Abdul is fascinating, learn more about it.
Arabic Meaning: The name Abdul Rahman is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Abdul Rahman is: Servant of the merciful. Muslim Meaning: The name Abdul Rahman is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Abdul Rahman is: Servant of the Mercifully Gracious. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Abdul Name Meaning. The meaning of Abdul is “The servant; the servant of”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Abdul and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Abdul is fascinating, learn more about it.