-DOPA can be manufactured and in its pure form is sold as a psychoactive drug with the INN levodopa; trade names include Sinemet, Parcopa, Atamet, Stalevo, Madopar, and Prolopa. As a drug, it is used in the clinical treatment of Parkinson's disease and dopamine-responsive dystonia. -DOPA is used to increase dopamine concentrations in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and dopamine-responsive dystonia. This treatment was made practical and proven clinically by George Cotzias and his coworkers, for which they won the 1969 Lasker Prize.
L-DOPA (/ˌɛlˈdoʊpə/ or /ˌlɛvoʊˈdoʊpə/) (alt., L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) is a chemical that is made and used as part of the normal biology of humans, some animals and plants. Some animals and humans make it via biosynthesis from the amino acid L-tyrosine. -DOPA is used to increase dopamine concentrations in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and dopamine-responsive dystonia. This treatment was made practical and proven clinically by George Cotzias and his coworkers, for which they won the 1969 Lasker Prize.
What MADOPAR is used for. The name of your medicine is MADOPAR. It contains two active ingredients called levodopa and benserazide. MADOPAR belongs to a group of medicines called antiparkinsonian agents and is used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Antiparkinsonian agents are used to treat Parkinson's disease and work on the central nervous system. MADOPAR does not, however, cure the disease, since the cause of the dopamine deficiency within the brain is not removed. Your doctor, however, may have prescribed MADOPAR for another purpose. Ask your doctor if you have any questions why MADOPAR has been prescribed for you.
MADOPAR helps most people with Parkinson's Disease but it may have unwanted side effects in some people. All medicines can have side effects. Sometimes they are serious, most of the time they are not. You may need medical attention if you get some of the side effects. diarrhoea. confusion. These may be serious side effects and your doctor may need to change your MADOPAR dose. This is not a complete list of all possible side effects. Others may occur in some people and there may be some side effects not yet known.
1. What MADOPAR is used for: The name of your medicine is MADOPAR. It contains two active ingredients called levodopa and benserazide. MADOPAR belongs to a group of medicines called antiparkinsonian agents. Antiparkinsonian agents are used to treat Parkinson's disease and work on the central nervous system. Madopar medicine is made up of benserazide and madopar levodopa and is used basically for treatment of Parkinson’s disease. This medicine acts as a substitute for the required content in the nervous system which is lessen down due to the disease hence improving movement activities and muscle control in body.
What Madopar is and what it is used for. Madopar dispersible tablets contain two medicines called levodopa and benserazide. They are used to treat Parkinson’s disease. People with Parkinson’s disease do not have enough dopamine in certain parts of their brains. 
Generic Name: Levodopa-Benserazide. Madopar HBS is an international brand of Levodopa, the precursor molecule to dopamine, an important neurotransmitter implicated in the underlying cause of Parkinson's disease. Benserazide, an additive which allows the levodopa to continue circulating in the body for longer. See patients taking Madopar HBS.
What MADOPAR is used for. The name of your medicine is MADOPAR. It contains two active ingredients called levodopa and benserazide. MADOPAR belongs to a group of medicines called antiparkinsonian agents and is used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Antiparkinsonian agents are used to treat Parkinson's disease and work on the central nervous system. These may be serious side effects and your doctor may need to change your MADOPAR dose. This is not a complete list of all possible side effects. Others may occur in some people and there may be some side effects not yet known.
See also: Madopar dispersible. Madopar is an international brand name for the combination of levodopa and benserazide. Levodopa, a precursor molecule to dopamine, is an important neurotransmitter implicated in the underlying cause of Parkinson's disease. Benserazide allows levodopa to continue circulating in the body longer. 