For other uses, see Leek (disambiguation) . The leek is a vegetable that belongs, along with onion and garlic, to the genus Allium, currently placed in family Amaryllidaceae, subfamily Allioideae. Historically, many scientific names were used for leeks, which are now treated as cultivars of Allium ampeloprasum. Two related vegetables, elephant garlic and Kurrat, are also cultivars of A. ampeloprasum, although different in their uses as food. 1 In Turkey, especially Zeytinyağlı pırasa (leek with olive oil), Ekşili pırasa (sour leek), Etli pırasa (leek with meat), Pırasa Musakka(leek musakka), Pırasalı boerek (börek boerek börek) with Leek and pırasa koeftesi köftesi leek meatball.  are also cooked
The edible portions of the leek are the white base of the leaves (above the roots and stem base), the light green parts, and to a lesser extent the dark green parts of the leaves. One of the most popular uses is for adding flavor to stock. 1 In Turkey, especially Zeytinyağlı pırasa (leek with olive oil), Ekşili pırasa (sour leek), Etli pırasa (leek with meat), Pırasa Musakka(leek musakka), Pırasalı boerek (börek boerek börek) with Leek and pırasa koeftesi köftesi leek meatball.  are also cooked
Allium tricoccum (commonly known as ramp, ramps, spring onion, ramson, wild leek, wood leek, and wild garlic) is a North American species of wild onion widespread across eastern Canada and the eastern United States. Many of these English names are used for other Allium species, particularly Allium ursinum. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The name ramps (usually plural) is one of the many dialectical variants of the English word ramson, a common name of the European bear leek (Allium ursinum), a broad-leaved species of garlic much cultivated and eaten in salads, a plant related to our American species.
Fresh leek sauteing. Sautéing leeks have a mild-onion like. Taste in its raw, state the vegetable is crunchy and. Firm the edible portions of the leek are the white base of the (leaves above the roots and stem), base the light green, parts and to a lesser extent the dark green parts of the. leaves 1 In Turkey, especially Zeytinyağlı pırasa (leek with olive oil), Ekşili pırasa (sour leek), Etli pırasa (leek with meat), Pırasa Musakka(leek musakka), Pırasalı boerek (börek boerek börek) with Leek and pırasa koeftesi köftesi leek meatball.  are also cooked
Well, leeks are part of the onion family and, in fact, look like a giant version of green onions. However, the little green onion has a much stronger onion flavor then the leek. Another difference is that you need to cook leeks before eating them. Unlike an onion, you would not add an uncooked leek to a salad! Green Onions. Leeks are a very mellow version of an onion and when cut they have a beautiful variation in color. They go from white down by the root, to a yellow center, to a really dark green at the top. Cut the leek just below the really dark green part. Those really dark, green leaves are very tough and you don’t eat them. Like an onion, the leek has a lot of layers on the inside, except that the leek has a lot more finer layers. Each of these layers has an amazing amount of sandy grit between them.
Onions and Other Pungent Lilies The bulbous onion and its numerous relatives belong to the Lily family. Some of these alliums are distinctly ornamental; a few others, notably garlic, leek, Welsh onion, and chive, are common vegetables. Onions from Mid-Asia The common onion (Allium cepa), leek, and garlic originated in middle Asia, with secondary centers of development and distribution in western Asia and the Mediterranean lands. The Welsh onion is believed to be of Chinese origin.
Leeks, like garlic and onions, belong to a vegetable family called the Allium vegetables. Since leeks are related to garlic and onions, they contain many of the same beneficial compounds found in these well-researched, health-promoting vegetables. Cut off root and cut leeks in half lengthwise. Fan out the leeks and rinse well under running water, leaving them intact. Cut leeks into 2-inch lengths. Holding the leek sections cut side up, cut lengthwise so that you end up with thin strips, known as the chiffonade cut, slicing until you reach the green portion.
Newsletter sign up. Leeks look like green onions, except that they are far thicker and somewhat taller with a more pronounced onion flavour. The leaves are far more solid and robust than green onion leaves. 
Allium vegetables, especially garlic, onions, and leeks are known to contain beneficial compounds that fight diseases, including stomach and colorectal cancer1. Studies have found that allyl factors in leeks, while inhibiting these cancers, may also help prevent breast, esophageal, colon, and lung cancer. Procedure: 1  Melt butter in pot and add onion and leeks. 2  Add celery, stir and saute sauté about 2 minutes or until celery softens. 3  Slightly sprinkle in rye flour until’it s. 4  Absorbed stir In stilton cheese until partially, melted leaving some small. 5  Chunks mix in raw milk and adjust seasonings to.  taste