The Clydesdale's coat color can be bay, black, brown, chestnut or roan. They usually sport a wide blaze and four white socks, or stockings, that extend from hoof to knee. Belgians can be sorrel, chestnut, bay or gray, but the preferred color is a very light chestnut or sorrel color with creamy white mane and tail. Both Clydesdale and Belgian draft horses are popular breeds for both pleasure and farm work. They're strong enough to plow a field or pull a heavily laden wagon, yet gentle enough that anyone can work safely around them. Although the two breeds are similar in personality, they differ in many ways.
What horse is the same size as a Clydesdale? Many of the draft breeds are of a comparable size. You can find easily a Clydesdale, Shire, Percheron all 16.3 HH. as an example. But in the last 25 years the 'sport horse' ha … s gained new popularity and has been bred much taller than ever before.
Compare Reviews Shire Horse Clydesdale. By: Sean Parkin1 | voted for Shire Horse | 5 months ago. No favorite, but the Shire is larger, stronger and hardier than the Clydesdale, and therefore more useful as both a battle horse and a draft horse. By: Marcy Pfirsch1 | voted for Clydesdale | 8 months ago. Both are beautiful! I also feel that both breeds have tall and short horses
Clydesdale-Clydesdales are typically larger than both the Belgian and Percheron breeds, with a mature height of over 18 hands being common. Clydesdales come in a range of colors, with bay, brown, chestnut or sorrel, and black being common. White hairs scattered throughout the body (roan) are common, as are very wide blazes, tall white socks or stockings, and white spots on the body.
The Belgian draft horse is currently the most common breed of draft horse in the United States. Clydesdale-Clydesdale are typically larger than both the Belgian and Percheron breeds, with a mature height of over 18 hands being common. Feathering and spats are a common characteristic of draft horses, though some breeds have them more than others. A beautiful Clydesdale pulling a cart. Clydesdales in a range of colors with tall socks or stockings and spots like the one on this horse
The Clydesdale is a breed of draught horse derived from the farm horses of Clydesdale, Scotland, and named after that region. Although originally one of the smaller breeds of draught horses, it is now a tall breed. Often bay in colour, they show significant white markings due to the presence of sabino genetics. The breed was developed from Flemish stallions imported to Scotland and crossed with local mares. The first recorded use of the name Clydesdale for the breed was in 1826, and by 1830 a system of hiring stallions had begun that resulted in the spread of Clydesdale horses throughout Scotland and into northern England.