Medical Definition of SOCIAL WORK. : any of various professional services, activities, or methods concretely concerned with the investigation, treatment, and material aid of the economically, physically, mentally, or socially disadvantaged. : any of various professional activities or methods concretely concerned with providing social services and especially with the investigation, treatment, and material aid of the economically, physically, mentally, or socially disadvantaged. — social worker noun.
SOCIAL WORKER. Graduates of schools of social work (in the U.S.A. with either bachelor’s, master’s or doctoral degrees) who use their knowledge and skills to provide social services for clients (who may be individuals, families, groups, communities, organizations, or society in general). “Para-social workers” and social support workers are defined as receiving anything from a few days of training up to 6 months of training. There is no exclusion for unpaid workers.
Full Definition of SOCIAL WORK. : any of various professional activities or methods concretely concerned with providing social services and especially with the investigation, treatment, and material aid of the economically, physically, mentally, or socially disadvantaged. — social worker noun. See social work defined for English-language learners
Organized work intended to advance the social conditions of a community, and especially of the disadvantaged, by providing psychological counseling, guidance, and assistance, especially in the form of social services. social worker n. Thesaurus AntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend: 
Social work is a broad profession that encompasses its activities in fields like Health and Mental Health, Social Service Administration, Children and Their Families, Social Work Policy Analysis, Social Justice and Diversity, Forensic and Traumatology, Gerontology...etc. Principles of social justice, human rights, collective responsibility and respect for diversities are central to social work. Underpinned by theories of social work, social sciences, humanities and indigenous knowledge, social work engages people and structures to address life challenges and enhance wellbeing.
Global Definition of the Social Work Profession. “Social work is a practice-based profession and an academic discipline that promotes social change and development, social cohesion, and the empowerment and liberation of people.
Global Definition of the Social Work Profession. “Social work is a practice-based profession and an academic discipline that promotes social change and development, social cohesion, and the empowerment and liberation of people. “As the definition of social work is the key element for establishing the identity of an occupational group, a future revision of this definition has to be initiated only after precise evaluation of the implementation process and the need for change.
Definitions. This glossary of definitions has been compiled to assist in discussions of international social work and social welfare, bringing together a list of terms often used in international development and humanitarian aid circles. “Para-social workers” and social support workers are defined as receiving anything from a few days of training up to 6 months of training. There is no exclusion for unpaid workers.
Social work is a profession that is centred around people-from babies through to older people. The BASW Code of Ethics defines social work using the international definition of social work. Social workers work with individuals and families to help improve outcomes in their lives. 
social work is a practice-based profession and an academic discipline that promotes social change and development, social cohesion, and the empowerment and liberation of people. Principles of social justice, human rights, collective responsibility and respect for diversities are central to social work. Underpinned by theories of social work, social sciences, humanities and indigenous knowledge, social work engages people and structures to address life challenges and enhance wellbeing.