Lloyd's is regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Lloyd's managing agents are also dual-regulated by the FCA and the PRA. Members' agents and Lloyd's brokers are regulated by the FCA. The FCA, the PRA and Lloyd's have common objectives in ensuring that the Lloyd's market is appropriately regulated. To minimise duplication, there are arrangements with Lloyd's for co-operation on supervision and enforcement
The authority is structured as a limited company wholly owned by the Bank of England and is responsible for the prudential regulation and supervision of banks, building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment firms. The PRA's most significant supervisory decisions will be taken by its Board – comprising the Governor of the Bank of England, the Deputy Governor for Financial Stability, the chief executive officer of the PRA (and Deputy Governor for Prudential Regulation), and independent non-executive members.
The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) is a United Kingdom financial services regulatory body, formed as one of the successors to the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The PRA's most significant supervisory decisions will be taken by its Board – comprising the Governor of the Bank of England, the Deputy Governor for Financial Stability, the chief executive officer of the PRA (and Deputy Governor for Prudential Regulation), and independent non-executive members.
This test measures levels of the hormones aldosterone and renin in your blood. Aldosterone and renin play important roles in the body. Aldosterone regulates your levels of potassium, sodium, and overall blood volume. High levels of aldosterone can result from a condition called primary aldosteronism (PA), which causes high blood pressure. PA can then lead to a variety of other health conditions. 
The PRA's role is defined in terms of two statutory objectives: to promote the safety and soundness of these firms and, specifically for insurers, to contribute to the securing of an appropriate degree of protection for policyholders (sections 2B and 2C of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended)). The PRA's most significant supervisory decisions will be taken by its Board – comprising the Governor of the Bank of England, the Deputy Governor for Financial Stability, the chief executive officer of the PRA (and Deputy Governor for Prudential Regulation), and independent non-executive members.
Page Content. The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) is responsible for the prudential regulation and supervision of around 1,700 banks, building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment firms. It sets standards and supervises financial institutions at the level of the individual firm. Information for the UK insurance industry on preparing for the new regime is available in this section of the website. More ». ​The Capital Requirements Directive and Capital Requirements Regulation (collectively ‘CRD IV’) came into effect on 1 January 2014 for banks, building societies and
But the FCA will also regulate the conduct of those firms that are prudentially regulated by the PRA. Groups containing both dual-regulated and FCA-regulated firms are likely to be affected as if they were dual-regulated. Lloyd's (the Society of Lloyd’s and Lloyd’s managing agents) will also be dual-regulated. In the case of UK subsidiaries of overseas insurers, PRA supervision will mirror that for UK insurers. But it will have only limited prudential powers over branches of EEA insurers operating in the UK. In such cases, the most it can do is seek to influence the supervisory approach of the home state regulator.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is a financial regulatory body in the United Kingdom, but operates independently of the UK government, and is financed by charging fees to members of the financial services industry. Specifically, the Act gave the Bank of England responsibility for financial stability, bringing together macro and micro prudential regulation, created a new regulatory structure consisting of the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
The FCA regulates financial firms providing services to consumers and maintains the integrity of the UK’s financial markets. It focuses on the regulation of conduct by both retail and wholesale financial services firms. Specifically, the Act gave the Bank of England responsibility for financial stability, bringing together macro and micro prudential regulation, created a new regulatory structure consisting of the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.