This has not been the case with the Quechua language. Quechua is a language that has been spoken in the Andes region of South America since before the days of the Inca Empire. Speakers of this ancient Andean language can be found in Colombia, Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, as well as Argentina. 
You may have heard of Quechua as the language of the Incas. You may not know, until you finish this sentence, that it's the most widely spoken Amerindian language, with over 8 million speakers. In Peru, a quarter of the population speaks Quechua, and about a third of the Quechua speakers speak no Spanish. 
Answer by NUCLEARxWARFARE. Confidence votes 42. The language the Incas spoke was called Quechua, pronounced like 'catch-wa'. Quechua still exists as a language today in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru with 10.4 million speakers. --. some of them also spoke a language known as Aymara which is similar to Quechua.
Quechua was very distinctive language. Inca were very accurate in their language. The only imperfection that the Inca language had was that it did not have a written language. This would have really affected many of the Inca citizens. Quechua was under a certain procedure of only oral communication.
Yes, the Incas spoke Quechua, and yes, they spoke a form of Quechua very similar to modern Cuzco Quechua. But no, the Incas did not speak the Original Quechua, and they only took their particular form of Quechua to a few of the regions in the Andes where it was spoken today. Most regions had long had their own Quechua, every bit as original, indigenous and true as the Quechua spoken today in Cuzco. Quechua was the official language of the Inca Empire, who ruled much of the Andes region from the mid-1400s until the arrival of Spanish conquistadors in 1532. The Spanish banned the Quechua language and culture from politics and education.
The language the Incas spoke was called Quechua, pronounced like 'catch-wa'. Quechua still exists as a language today in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru … with 10.4 million speakers. -- some of them also spoke a language known as Aymara which is similar to Quechua. 23 people found this useful. 
Quechua had already expanded across wide ranges of the central Andes long before the expansion of the Inca Empire. The Inca were just one among many peoples in present-day Peru who already spoke forms of Quechua. In the Cuzco region, Quechua was influenced by local languages such as Aymara. The Cuzco variety of Quechua developed as quite distinct.
It is indeed a great pity that the Incas never had the opportunity, as did the Greeks and Romans, to come in contact with a people like the Phoenicians who were clever enough to invent an alphabet. The language of the Incas was the Quichua or Quechua tongue. Originally it was used only in a small area around Cuzco where the Inca dynasty originated, possibly in the tenth or eleventh century. During the next five hundred years, when the Incas succeeded in subduing the native races as far north as Ecuador and as far south as Argentina, they carried the Quechua language with them and insisted in its being learned by the conquered peoples so that it had a wide distribution by the end of the sixte
The Inca kings of Cuzco made Quechua their official language. With the Inca conquest of Peru in the 14th century, Quechua became Peru’s lingua franca. The Inca Empire flourished in what is today’s Peru from 1438 to 1533 AD. Although the empire lasted only about 100 years, the Incas spread Quechua to areas that today are Ecuador, Bolivia, and Chile. When the Spanish conquistadors arrived in the 16th century AD, Quechua had already spread throughout a large portion of the South American continent. The languages continued to spread into areas that were not part of the Inca empire such as Colombia, Brazil, and Argentina.