Re: How long does it take for credit bureaus to update info from creditors? ‎01-28-2010 08:57 AM. I have found that they generally update 7-14 days after they cut their statements. If you want the $0 to post, make sure not to use those credit cards until after the statement cuts showing the $0 balance due.
Charging cards up to the limit will kill a score in record time. And depending on how long it takes the credit card issuers to send updates to the credit reporting agencies, it could take 60 days for your cards to show a zero balance. He should have told you to charge something small, gas or dinner, to show some activity and then pay off the balance in full each month. The good news about inquiries is that even though they remain on your credit report for 2 years, they’re only calculated in your credit score for the first 12 months. Jack – Paying a debt does not make it come off your credit reports.
The typical credit reporting cycle is 90 days, or quarterly — so even if they update your record within 14 days, it is likely that it will not show up on your credit report until the next cycle (or several months in the future). Whether a debt appears on a credit report does not establish legal liability for the debt. The opposite is also true: You may have legal liability for a debt not reported to the credit reporting agencies. Credit reports are not legal records of every debt a person owes.
How long does it take to update credit information? While Score Plus is unable to guarantee a completion date, turnaround time to update credit information is typically 5-7 business days from the time your request is received. If the bureau rejects the documents, you will be promptly notified. 
Some larger banks and creditors report every month, while smaller financiers report on a quarterly basis. It can take as long as 90 days for your resolved debt to show up on your credit report and reflect on your credit score. Keep in mind though that there is no guarantee that the actions you take, like paying off debt, will immediately improve your credit score because there are so many factors affecting your score. If you wait it could take several months. i paid off all my credit cards, about 50,000, and after several months nothing. after contacting the bureaus within 10 days my rating went from 720 to 800.
If you do not see your credit report updated after 90 days, contact the creditor because there may have been an inaccuracy when reporting your actions which will impact your credit score. If you have written proof of a discrepancy, you can go directly to the credit bureaus and attempt to get them to update the report. If you wait it could take several months. i paid off all my credit cards, about 50,000, and after several months nothing. after contacting the bureaus within 10 days my rating went from 720 to 800.
John Ulzheimer Credit Expert Witness 1-866-985-8884. One of the most common questions consumers ask regarding the credit report dispute process is how long it will take for a credit report to be corrected of incorrect information. There are several answers to this fairly simple and straightforward question…. 1. 
Confidence votes 6. My understanding is that bureaus update monthly. It can take 30 days from that date as well. If the reporting agency sends the update, on July 8, 2008, the agency receives and updates the credit file July 31, 2008, but the change may not show up until August 31, 2008. 
It depends how often your creditors update them. Some creditors do it every 30 days some do it every 90 days. So whenever they get an update from your creditors they update your score, i would give it a couple days though obviously, nothing is immediate. 
How long does it take for a company to report to a bureau, how often do creditors report to bureaus, and when should I expect to see teh impact of the zero balances on my credit score? Also, if I go to a bank and a loan officer runs my report, will they see a different updated score or the same thing I see? I have found that they generally update 7-14 days after they cut their statements. If you want the $0 to post, make sure not to use those credit cards until after the statement cuts showing the $0 balance due.