Driving distance from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC. The total driving distance from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC is 32 miles or 51 kilometers. Your trip begins at Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport in Baltimore, Maryland. It ends in Capitol Hill, District of Columbia. 
Map of driving directions from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC. Click here to show map. Drag the line on the map to calculate the driving distance for a different route. If you want to verify these driving directions or look for another possible route, you can try. Google Maps, Bing Maps, or MapQuest. It ends in Capitol Hill, District of Columbia. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC. You can also calculate the cost to drive from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage.
To the east of Capitol Hill lies the Anacostia River, to the north is the H Street corridor, to the south are the Southeast/Southwest Freeway and the Washington Navy Yard, and to the west are the National Mall and the city's central business district. It is one of the oldest residential neighborhoods in Washington, D.C. , and with roughly 35,000 people in just under 2 square miles (5 km 2), it is also one of the most densely populated. As a geographic feature, Capitol Hill rises near the center of the District of Columbia and extends eastward.
This is an online tool to calculate the Distance and Driving Directions between two addresses, places, cities, villages, towns or airports in Maryland (US). This distance and driving directions will also be displayed on google map labeled as Distance Map and Driving Directions Maryland (US). The distance between cities of Maryland (US) is calculated in kilometers(kms), miles and nautical miles. [ Note: The distance between cities in Maryland (US) distance chart below is straight line distance (may be called as flying or air distance) between the two locations in Maryland (US) calculated based on their latitudes and longitudes. This distance may be very much different from the actual travel distance.].
As of December 2013, the MARC also now runs on the weekends. Amtrak Train. Amtrak also has a train that runs from the BWI Marshall Rail Station to Union Station in DC. Free shuttle service is provided between the airport and the BWI Rail Station. The cost of the train ticket into Union Station varies depending on the time of your travel, but expect to pay between $15-$45 for a one-way ticket. Visit the Amtrak website to book tickets in advance. Another option is to take the Metrobus service that operates between Greenbelt (the metro stop furthest north) and BWI Airport. The fee for transport is $6 each way. Passengers can then ride the metro from Greenbelt into the city.
Washington DC. Washington, DC to BWI 32.3 mi-about 48 mins (up to 1 hour 10 mins in traffic). 1. Head north on 14th St NW/US-1 toward Madison Dr NW 0.1 mi. 2. Turn right at Constitution Ave NW/US-1 0.6 mi. 3. Turn left at 6th St NW/US-1 0.8 mi. 4. Turn right at New York Ave NW/US-50 E. Entering Maryland 4.6 mi. 5. Take the Balt-Wash
The total driving time is 40 minutes. Your trip begins at Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport in Baltimore, Maryland. It ends in Capitol Hill, District of Columbia. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC. You can also calculate the cost to drive from BWI to Capitol Hill, DC based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage.
Capitol Hill, in addition to being a metonym for the United States Congress, is the largest historic residential neighborhood in Washington, D.C. , stretching easterly in front of the United States Capitol along wide avenues. It is one of the oldest residential neighborhoods in Washington, D.C. , and with roughly 35,000 people in just under 2 square miles (5 km 2), it is also one of the most densely populated. As a geographic feature, Capitol Hill rises near the center of the District of Columbia and extends eastward.