For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Mortgage Underwriter I in the United States is $48,840 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Mortgage Underwriter I in the United States are expected to make less than $48,840. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $48,840. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on limited experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.
Mortgage Underwriter I Job Description The following is a full job description for Mortgage Underwriter I. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Mortgage Underwriter I along with statistics. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on limited experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Mortgage Underwriter III may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Mortgage Underwriter III in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Mortgage loan underwriters are responsible for approving or rejecting mortgages. To make this decision, the mortgage underwriter must generate a risk report and demonstrate how the contents of the report are within the lender's guidelines for approval, or how the contents of the report fail to meet the guidelines. In either situation, the underwriters may need to explain the basis of their decisions to the clients, support staff or superiors. Excellent interpersonal skills are necessary to convince individuals who have a different tolerance for risk and who disagree with the mortgage underwriters' decisions.
Certifications. Professional certifications for mortgage underwriters often increase salaries by 5 percent to 10 percent. With an underwriting certificate, mortgage underwriters can earn $40,000 to $61,000 per year. The National Association of Mortgage Underwriters offers two certifications. As of 2012, mortgage underwriters are more likely to make between $38,000 and $55,000 per year, according to Robert Half Finance & Accounting, one of nation’s largest financial-recruitment agencies. Professional certifications for mortgage underwriters often increase salaries by 5 percent to 10 percent.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Mortgage Underwriter III in the United States is $68,218 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Mortgage Underwriter III in the United States are expected to make less than $68,218. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $68,218. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Mortgage Underwriter III in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). In either situation, the underwriters may need to explain the basis of their decisions to the clients, support staff or superiors. Excellent interpersonal skills are necessary to convince individuals who have a different tolerance for risk and who disagree with the mortgage underwriters' decisions.
Average Mortgage Underwriter salaries for job postings nationwide are 3% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
As with any vocation, location affects salaries. Mortgage underwriters in San Jose, Calif., for example, earn 33 percent more than average, bringing salaries up to $53,000 to $81,000 for anyone with a professional certificate. As of 2012, mortgage underwriters are more likely to make between $38,000 and $55,000 per year, according to Robert Half Finance & Accounting, one of nation’s largest financial-recruitment agencies. Professional certifications for mortgage underwriters often increase salaries by 5 percent to 10 percent. With an underwriting certificate, mortgage underwriters can earn $40,000 to $61,000 per year. The National Association of Mortgage Underwriters offers two certifications