Maldives Map and Location of Islands. Detailed information and maps show where is Maldives located on world map. Map of Maldives shows local islands, resorts, airports etc. Maldive is chain of 1190 islands located south-west of Sri Lanka and India in the Indian Ocean. The islands are so tiny that many world maps do not show Maldives. It is an independent country of about 350,000 in population.
The Maldives are a collection of Islands in the Indian Ocean. The Maldives are about 400 Miles (643 kilometers) southwest of India. Where are the Maldives Located? 
Maldives is a country of South Asia, situated in the Indian Ocean, south-southwest of India. 
One glance at the atlas will answer your question-Where is Maldive. Right on the Equator, you will find that situated in the southwest of Sri Lanka, Maldives stretches 823 km from North to South and 130 km from east to west. Only 202 islands are inhabited and only 87 islands have resorts in them. 
There are two maps below, one shows where is Maldives located on the world map and other shows the islands of Maldives. Airports are marked with flight symbol. To quickly locate the main international airport scroll down and see mid-section of the Maldives map where there is double flight-symbol. Maldive is chain of 1190 islands located south-west of Sri Lanka and India in the Indian Ocean. The islands are so tiny that many world maps do not show Maldives. It is an independent country of about 350,000 in population.
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. Ocean it is located southwest Of india And Sri lanka in The Laccadive. sea The Maldives is a founding member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and it hosted the 17th SAARC summit in 2011. It is also a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and the Non-Aligned Movement.
If you are wondering about the location of Maldives, then here is an article to give you the exact location. The Republic of Maldives is a group of coral islands situated at the north of the equator in the Indian Ocean. It is located to the southwest of India and Sri Lanka. Out of the 1200 islands, the Maldivians inhabit only 200 of them. The Maldives lies between latitudes 4 degree-17 North and longitudes 73 degree- 50 East. So the exact location of Maldives is in Southern Asia, as a group of atolls in the Indian Ocean, south-southwest of India.
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. ocean The Maldives is a founding member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and it hosted the 17th SAARC summit in 2011. It is also a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and the Non-Aligned Movement.
Where is the Maldives located south east of Sri Lanka in the blue waters of the indian Ocean. Everything about the maldives is beautiful, above and below sea level. With its abundant marine life and white sandy beaches, the Maldives is many people's idea of paradise on earth. 
Maldives Location. Talking about the Maldives location, this island is situated towards the southwest of India and Sri Lanka. The Republic of Maldives is basically a cluster of nearly 1190 coral islands, out of which only 200 are inhabited. Read on to know more about the Maldives geography. The geographical location of Maldives Island is such that if you view from the top, these coral islands make spectacular patterns as against the depth of the Indian Ocean. Most of its islands are located at a walking distance of maximum 10 minutes.