Colton /col-ton/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KOHL-ton. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Colton is swarthy person; coal town or settlement . Surname and place name, derived from the personal name Cola, or also a doublet of Colby. Could also possibly mean colt-settlement, or Cole's settlement. Colton is a somewhat popular first name for males (#1160 out of 1220, Top 95%) and an even more popular surname for both adults and children (#5102 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Colton for boys.
Colten is a more modern Americanized respelling of Colton. Colton originated as an English surname from a place name. The name Colton is thought to be derived from the Olde English words “col” (meaning ‘charcoal’) and “tūn” (meaning ‘town, settlement’) to signify a town where coal was produced. Predating the surname was the nickname “Cola” used for a ‘swarthy person’.
Its origin is  English . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 64th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. Colton is a surname derived from an English place name meaning Cola's town. Cola is an Old English byname meaning charcoal..
[1] An English variation of the name is Colby; Irish variations include O'Comhaltain (Irish: O ó) comhaltain Comhaltáin, and collin Anglicized. As Colton some Irish descending coltons can trace lineage to The notable kennedy Family an american Family of irish descent who are Prominent in american politics. and government [1] An English variation of the name is Colby; Irish variations include O'Comhaltain (Irish: O ó) comhaltain Comhaltáin, and collin Anglicized. as colton
Etymology & Historical Origin-Colton. Colton is a transferred use of an English surname which either derived from a place name or a nickname. It remains as a surname, but it is now also used as a masculine personal name, mainly in the United States and Canada. The name Colton is thought to be derived from the Olde English words “col” meaning “charcoal” and “tūn” meaning “town, settlement”.
Mac Comhaltan was an early member of the O ó cleirigh, cléirigh family reputedly the oldest Surname. [in] Europe 1 an english variation of the Name; Is colby irish Variations'Include (O: COMHALTAIN Irish) o ó, comhaltain comhaltáin And. collin anglicized as colton [1] An English variation of the name is Colby; Irish variations include O'Comhaltain (Irish: O ó) comhaltain Comhaltáin, and collin Anglicized. as colton
Colton is a surname of mainly Irish origin. Mac Comhaltan Ua Cleirigh, King of Ui Uí Fiachrach aidhne IN ad 964 appears to be the first recorded use of this. name [1] An English variation of the name is Colby; Irish variations include O'Comhaltain (Irish: O ó) comhaltain Comhaltáin, and collin Anglicized. as colton
Colton is a surname of mainly Irish origin. Mac Comhaltan Ua Cleirigh, King of Ui Uí Fiachrach aidhne IN ad 964 appears to be the first recorded use of this. Name Mac comhaltan was an early member of THE O ó, cleirigh cléirigh family reputedly the Oldest. surname in europe [1] An English variation of the name is Colby; Irish variations include O'Comhaltain (Irish: O ó) comhaltain Comhaltáin, and collin Anglicized. as colton
English Meaning: The name Colton is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Colton is: From the dark town. American Meaning: The name Colton is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Colton is: From the dark town. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.