The body cavity of the human body (and other animal bodies) protected by the thoracic walls, and located below the diaphragm and above the neck. Supplement. The thoracic cavity is that part of the ventral body cavity containing the following body structures: 1  heart and the great vessels. 2  lungs, bronchi, and trachea. 3  a part of the esophagus. 4  thymus gland. 5  the paired vagus nerves and the paired sympathetic chains. 6  thoracic duct. 
Definition. noun. The body cavity made up of the abdominal cavity and the pelvic cavity. Supplement. The ventral body cavity is composed of thoracic cavity and abdominopelvic cavity separated to one another by the diaphragm. The abdominopelvic cavity is one large cavity composed of the abdominal cavity and the pelvic cavity in which no muscle or membrane is physically separating the two cavities. 
The abdominopelvic cavity is a body cavity that consists of the abdominal cavity and the pelvic cavity. It contains the stomach, liver, pancreas, spleen, gallbladder, kidneys, and most of the small and large intestines. 
The abdominopelvic cavity includes the pelvic cavity and the abdominal cavity and includes the stomach, pancreas, liver, bladder, kidneys, intestines, and reproductive organs. The abdominopelvic cavity is lined by the peritoneum. 
These are the general organs that lie within the abdominal cavity. The stomach, small intestine, large intestine, spleen, live, gallbladder. In the retroperitoneal area of the … abdominal cavity, pancreas, kidneys, and adrenal glands. The major organs located in the abdominal cavity include; the stomach, kidneys, liver, spleen, pancreas, small intestine, and large intestine (colon). It also contains many sm … aller organs such as the adrenal glands, and gall bladder. 8 people found this useful. Valentin Popov. 21,056 Contributions.
The stomach, liver, spleen, gallbladder, and most of the small and large intestines are in the abdominal cavity. Many of the organs of the abdominopelvic cavity are covered by the visceral peritoneum, while the wall of the abdominal cavity is lined with the parietal peritoneum. The liver, which is the largest organ in the abdominal cavity, lies mainly in the upper right section of the abdominal cavity, just inferior to the diaphragm. Liver Structure The liver has two main lobes, the right lobe and the smaller left lobe, separated by a ligament.
The inferior division of the ventral body cavity is called the “ abdominopelvic cavity ” and is separated from the thoracic cavity by the diaphragm. The abdominopelvic cavity is also separated into two subdivisions, the “ abdominal cavity ” and “ pelvic cavity “. Like the dorsal cavity, the ventral cavity has two subdivisions. The superior division is called the thoracic cavity. The thoracic cavity is surrounded by the ribs and muscles in the chest. It’s further su divided into lateral pleural cavities (each pleural cavity envelopes a lung) and the mediastinum.
Thoracic Cavity-A subdivision of the ventral cavity which is located in the chest and encases the mediastinum, pleural cavity, and pericardial cavity. Ventral Cavity-A cavity that encases the thoracic cavity, the diaphragm, and the abdominopelvic cavity. Epigastic Region-One of the six regions the abdominopelvic cavity can be divided into. It is located in the center of the upper abdomen just below the sternum. It icludes a partial views of the liver, stomach, pancreas, duodenum, and transverse colon.
It is located below (inferior to) the thoracic cavity, and above the pelvic cavity. Its dome-shaped roof is the thoracic diaphragm (a thin sheet of muscle under the lungs), and its oblique floor is the pelvic inlet (the superior opening of the pelvis). The kidneys are located in the abdominal cavity behind the peritoneum, in the retroperitoneum. The viscera are also covered by visceral peritoneum. Between the visceral and parietal peritoneum is the peritoneal cavity, which is a potential space. It contains serous fluid that allows motion.