About Employment Tribunals. If you’ve never attended an employment tribunal before, you’ll want to know what to expect before you get in the hearing room before the judge. The simplest & best advice for anyone due to attend a hearing is to go to a hearing in advance, and watch the proceedings as a member of the public.
From 6 April, in most cases, you can contact Acas (the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service) to try to resolve your dispute. From 6 May, you must do so before you can make a claim to an employment tribunal. You will be asked if you want to take part in early conciliation to try to resolve your dispute without the need to go to a tribunal. You do not have to take part, the only thing you have to do is notify Acas of your possible claim.
Going to a tribunal hearing. Cases are normally held at the employment tribunal office closest to where you worked. You must take the documents you’re using to support your case. You can take a colleague or someone else with you if you want.
About employment tribunal hearings. If you've got a problem at work that you can't sort out, you may be able to make a claim to an employment tribunal. This page tells you what happens at a tribunal hearing, including what to do when you get there, and what to wear.
More guidance & information can be found on the Tribunals Website, which now includes two videos that briefly cover the process. If your business is in the process of defending an employment tribunal and you require assistance in defending the claim, contact Employment Law Clinic now for a no-obligation quote. Sorry, due to anti-spam measures, this contact form requires that javascript be enabled on your browser.
The latest on employment tribunals from the XpertHR legal team. We provide a weekly round-up of the latest tribunal cases to hit the headlines, with links to in-depth analyses on XpertHR and key articles from national and regional press coverage.
It's also possible to appeal to the Employment Appeals Tribunal (EAT), which only looks at points of law (so you can't appeal if you think the Employment Tribunal just got the facts wrong). There is an issue fee of £400 and a hearing fee of £1,200 for all EAT appeals.