It can be a great time of making some of life’s greatest memories, or it can turn into an unrelaxing, stressful disaster. There are some ways to make sure things go as smooth as possible before you head off on your adventure. Specific Things to Look For: First, I think the main thing to look for at a campground would be some kind of body of water. Whether it be a pool, lake, or otherwise is up to you. Personally, I would check to see if they had a beach near the lake on the grounds.
Here are some reasons why full-time RVing can be more expensive than you thought during your first year on the road. 1  The newness is so exhilarating! 2  You want to start crossing destinations off your bucket list to prove that you’re actually living the fabulous RV lifestyle you’ve always dreamed about. When Jim and I were about eight months into our year-long road trip, we knew that we wanted to keep on full-time RVing indefinitely, but we realized the savings we put aside for our sabbatical wouldn’t last more than a year.
These RV and camping tips are all sort of hints to make RV life and travel and camping easier, less expensive, and just simply more fun. Working RVers Work Full-time, Have Part-time Jobs, Work Camp, and Volunteer. Working RVers can earn a decent living while RVing. They can also do part-time or volunteer jobs. Find what's new on RV-Life-and-Travel.com ... full-time RVing, info about RVs, recreational vehicle industry news, and tips for campers and RVers.
They also sell used trailers, fifth-wheels, and motorhomes. RVing, Traveling, and Camping with Pets. RVing, traveling, and camping with pets is part of life. For full-time RVers who live in their recreational vehicles, the RV is the pet’s home. Dogs routinely join campers and vacationers on trips. Find what's new on RV-Life-and-Travel.com ... full-time RVing, info about RVs, recreational vehicle industry news, and tips for campers and RVers.
For tax purposes your RV is considered a second home and can offer tax saving advantages. eXtreme sports-Bring all your grown-up toys on an eXtreme sports adventure. Play anywhere the roads take you, from Telluride to Maine. Youth activities-Kids love RVing. Oceans-Take your beach house with you as you hit the shores of your choice. Partying-Grill, eat, drink, talk and laugh-and spend the night. Campgrounds are great places to enjoy get-togethers without having to travel far. Quality time-Family togetherness is one of the main reasons people go RVing.
When you’re just in for a week, and have a full plate of work to get through – you have to prioritize your time and energy. Our primary reason for being in Portland this time around is to catch up with some dear friends. We spent some wonderful time in the gorge on our way in tho. 
This site is worthwhile if we are able to help people change their lives and pursue their dreams. But first we have to determine if this lifestyle change, living 365 days a year in an RV, is right for you. Many people have dreamed of RVing full-time for years and years. On the other hand, many folks, like us, never even considered living in an RV. But it just might be that this lifestyle is what unlocks the door to the pursuit of the passions and dreams that are in the recesses of your mind. 
Frugal RVing can be among the least costly ways to live and travel. Living in an RV full-time can be very economical. Here are ten assorted ways to cut your RVing costs. 1. Frugal RVers spend their money on the gift, not on the packaging and shipping. Consider presents that can be sent in a regular envelope. Prescriptions and health care items may be considerably less costly in some states than others. Check prices on items closest to their point of origin, whether it is produce, other foods, or manufactured goods. 4. Start RVing in an inexpensive, used rig. This is perhaps the number one tip for frugal RVing.
My husband and I lived full-time in an RV for fourteen years. We’ve traveled by RV from California to Maryland, from Wyoming to Florida, from the southern tip of Texas to Alaska. We now enjoy RVing with a home base in Alaska. Find what's new on RV-Life-and-Travel.com ... full-time RVing, info about RVs, recreational vehicle industry news, and tips for campers and RVers.
Skiing-After a day of skiing head back to the RV. There, hot cocoa, warm slippers and all the comforts of home await you in your own personal ski lodge. Tailgating-Whether for football games, NASCAR or concerts, tailgating is America's new community social. Oceans-Take your beach house with you as you hit the shores of your choice. Partying-Grill, eat, drink, talk and laugh-and spend the night. Campgrounds are great places to enjoy get-togethers without having to travel far. Quality time-Family togetherness is one of the main reasons people go RVing.