Collagen is the main component of connective tissue, and is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. An atomic-force-microscopy image of collagen fibrils in a collagen fiber. Collagen is a protein made up of amino-acids, which are in turn built of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Collagen contains specific amino acids – Glycine, Proline, Hydroxyproline and Arginine. Collagen makes up approximately 30% of the proteins within the body
Collagen /ˈkɒlədʒɨn/ is the main structural protein in the extracellular space in the various connective tissues in animals. As the main component of connective tissue, it is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up from 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. Gelatin, which is used in food and industry, is collagen that has been irreversibly hydrolyzed. Collagen also has many medical uses in treating complications of the bones and skin. The name collagen comes from the Greek κόλλα (kolla), kólla  meaning , glue and -suffix, -γέν, gen denoting. producing
In nature, collagen is found exclusively in animals, especially in the flesh and connective tissues of mammals. Collagen is a part of the connective tissue that in the skin helps in firmness, suppleness and constant renewal of skin cells. Collagen is a protein made up of amino-acids, which are in turn built of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Collagen contains specific amino acids – Glycine, Proline, Hydroxyproline and Arginine. Collagen makes up approximately 30% of the proteins within the body
Gelatin is a mixture of peptides and proteins produced by partial hydrolysis of collagen extracted from the skin, bones, and connective tissues of animals such as domesticated cattle, chicken, pigs, horses and fish. 
Collagens are a family of proteins that strengthen and support many tissues in the body, including cartilage, bone, tendon, skin, and the white part of the eye (the sclera). Type I collagen is the most abundant form of collagen in the human body. Tissues that are rich in type I collagen, such as the skin, bones, and tendons, are most affected by this change. A mutation in the COL1A1 gene has also been shown to cause the classic type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.
Animal Collagen. Collagen is a group of basic body proteins in animals. The family includes over 20 kinds of proteins of different structures, properties, tissue localisations and functions in the body. These proteins dominate in connective tissue building, e.g. skin, cartilages and bones, and also all important organs. 
Collagen is the most abundant animal protein and was previously known only in animals. Collagen is now known to exist in fungi where it composes the fimbriae which function in cell to cell communication. In general, the animals of the Cambrian Period are stouter than those which preceded them in the Ediacaran fauna. The tendons and ligaments involved in this change of body structure would have involved collagen. Collagen is the major structural protein in animals and more than 16 types are known.
Collagen, in the form of elongated fibrils, is mostly found in fibrous tissues such as tendons, ligaments and skin. It is also abundant in corneas, cartilage, bones, blood vessels, the gut, intervertebral discs and the dentin in teeth. In muscle tissue, it serves as a major component of the endomysium. Gelatin, which is used in food and industry, is collagen that has been irreversibly hydrolyzed. Collagen also has many medical uses in treating complications of the bones and skin. The name collagen comes from the Greek κόλλα (kolla), kólla  meaning , glue and -suffix, -γέν, gen denoting. producing
Collagen is a family of proteins; in animals these proteins play critical roles in tissue architecture, tissue strength, and cell to cell relationships. The major component of all connective tissue matrixes, collagen is found in tissues such as skin, blood vessels, bone, tendon, and ligament, and is characterized by tremendous strength. A scanning electronic micrograph of a fibroblast and collages fibers.