You will have to except the fact a narcissist left in the first place bec … ause, they have already replaced you. The only reason why the come back to you, is because you except them for what they are. They will never respect you, and will always cheat on you with the worst people. My best guess, based on experience, is that the N will always attempt to keep a source close by. The N will, at least, attempt to ensure they can call upon the source when needed. By this I mean the N will keep some type of contact with a good source.
A Narcissist Always Returns (The Hoovering). A narcissist will always return to an ex-lover to ensure that his narcissistic supply still pines for him and that she never moves on from the pain he has caused her. No matter what he tells you, this is the only reason. A narcissist’s intention, after all, is to always keep you in the queue, ready and waiting alongside all the others (and there are always others). Hoovers are stuffed with lies and future-fakery and downright bullshit.
Yes, they come back. When they do, the abuse is many times worse than the first time and the devaluing/control begins from day 1. You will never be happy with a narcissist. Th … ey do not get better, they only get worse. Especially if they know they can always come back to you when they have no other supply available. My best guess, based on experience, is that the N will always attempt to keep a source close by. The N will, at least, attempt to ensure they can call upon the source when needed. By this I mean the N will keep some type of contact with a good source.
Yes, they come back. When they do, the abuse is many times worse than the first time and the devaluing/control begins from day 1. You will never be happy with a narcissist. Th … ey do not get better, they only get worse. Especially if they know they can always come back to you when they have no other supply available. You will have to except the fact a narcissist left in the first place bec … ause, they have already replaced you. The only reason why the come back to you, is because you except them for what they are. They will never respect you, and will always cheat on you with the worst people.
The narcissist believes that, no matter what he does, he will always be forgiven, always prevail and triumph, always come on top. The narcissist is, therefore, fearless in a manner perceived by others to be both admirable and insane. 
In fact, anyone who has taken a Narcissist back can attest to these cycles of abuse! Anyone who has painfully been through the motions of having to get over a break up with a Narcissist, will tell you that when they come back, they always revert afterwards. It’s all a GAME, you don’t want to play.
In addition, in the event a Narcissist is experiencing ‘withdrawal’ from not having enough ‘Narcissistic Supply’, he will immediately swing back into pursuit mode, with the goal of winning you over. After all, a Narcissist does not want to be alone, and he constantly needs someone to validate him. Anyone who has painfully been through the motions of having to get over a break up with a Narcissist, will tell you that when they come back, they always revert afterwards. It’s all a GAME, you don’t want to play.
Please Do NOT feed his addiction. When dealing with a narcissist, and going through the motions of a break up with a Narcissist, “No Contact” is the way to go! Refuse to react to him, and refuse to validate him! Also, you must realize he will not change, nor will these patterns. Anyone who has painfully been through the motions of having to get over a break up with a Narcissist, will tell you that when they come back, they always revert afterwards. It’s all a GAME, you don’t want to play.
If the narcissist keeps coming back – he does so because he is convinced that there is Narcissistic Supply to be obtained – or because he has yet to secure an alternative source of supply. Let him get his fix somewhere else. The only way to deal with a narcissist is to go “No Contact” and refuse to react to him. 