Add the Halibut and sear for 5 to 7 minutes. Flip the fish and add 2 tablespoons of butter, spoon the butter over the Halibut as they cook for another 5 to 7 minutes. Your time might very depending on the thickness of the steak or fillet. Pan searing and finish cooking in the oven. Pre heat your oven to 350 degrees. In a saute sauté pan that is oven safe heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium high, heat sear steaks or fillets for about 3 minutes on each. Side transfer the pan to the oven and finish cooking for about another 5 to 6. minutes Place the broiler pan about 3 to 4 inches away from the top and broil for about 10 minutes. I like to turn my halibut after 5 minutes and baste with more olive oil or butter. Halibut makes some great fish and chips. You can use a beer batter, or a seasoned flour mix for deep frying.
1 In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 2  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 3  Season with salt and pepper. 4  Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until halibut flakes easily when tested with a fork. 5  Drizzle with remaining lemon juice and serve. INSTRUCTIONS: 1  Preheat oven to 400ºF. 2  In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 3  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until halibut flakes easily when tested with a fork
1 Put the fish in a baking dish, cover about 2/3 with milk, a small pat of butter on each piece, and bake for 1 1/2 hour at 350°F. 2  Cook as above, but cover with a can of Mushroom Soup. 3  This is the first way I ever baked halibut and it isn't bad and it is certainly easy. 4  As above, but cover 2/3 with chicken broth. From my experience, by lowering the temperature to 325°F or so, this increases the cooking time to 1 1/2 hours. 1 
Baking halibut is probably the easiest way you will find to cook halibut. Pre-oil a casserole dish (oven safe) with olive oil or butter. Seasoned your fish and apply a generous amount of olive oil to the top side or just add a pat of butter to the top. In a preheated 400 degree oven, bake for approximately 15 minutes. Place the broiler pan about 3 to 4 inches away from the top and broil for about 10 minutes. I like to turn my halibut after 5 minutes and baste with more olive oil or butter. Halibut makes some great fish and chips. You can use a beer batter, or a seasoned flour mix for deep frying.
Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). 2  Heat olive oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat and stir in zucchini, onion, and garlic. 3  Arrange halibut steaks in a single layer in the prepared baking dish. 4  Bake 15 minutes in the preheated oven, or until fish is easily flaked with a fork. 1 Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). 2  Lightly grease a shallow baking dish. 3  Heat olive oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat and stir in zucchini, onion, and garlic. 4  Cook and stir 5 minutes or until tender. 5  Remove saucepan from heat and mix in tomatoes, basil, salt, and pepper.
1 Bake for 10 minutes in the preheated oven, then remove the dish, and cover the fillets with a layer of sliced tomato. 2  Return to the oven, and bake for an additional 10 minutes, or until fish flakes easily with a fork. 1 Place halibut steaks into a shallow baking dish, and top with the sauteed vegetables. 2  Season with basil, salt and pepper. 3 
1 Preheat oven to 400ºF. 2  In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 3  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until halibut flakes easily when tested with a fork. INSTRUCTIONS: 1  Preheat oven to 400ºF. 2  In a large nonstick baking dish, add halibut skin side down and drizzle with oil. 3  Top with garlic, lemon zest and 2 tbsp juice and parsley, dividing evenly. 4  Season with salt and pepper.
Cut the fish into 8-ounce pieces or two pieces per pound. Marinate in lemon in glass baking dish for 20-30 minutes. Drizzle olive oil and sprinkle paprika over all. Bake 10-15 minutes at 450 degrees F. Courtesy of Ike Green, Personal Chef. 