2. Graphic representation of the surface features of a place or region on a map, indicating their relative positions and elevations. 3. A description or an analysis of a structured entity, showing the relations among its components: In the topography of the economy, several depressed areas are revealed. 4. topography. 1. the detailed mapping or description of the features of a relatively small area, district, or locality. 2. the relief features or surface configuration of an area. — topographer, n.
Report Abuse. Topography (from greek τόπος topo-, place, and γράφω graphia, writing) is the study of Earth's surface shape and features or those of planets, moons, and asteroids. It is also the description of such surface shapes and features (especially their depiction in maps). In a broader sense, topography is concerned with local detail in general, including not only relief but also vegetative and human-made features, and even local history and culture. This meaning is less common in America, where topographic maps with elevation contours have made topography synonymous with relief.
The topography of an area can also mean the surface shape and features themselves. In a broader sense, topography is concerned with local detail in general, including not only relief but also vegetative and human-made features, and even local history and culture. This meaning is less common in America, where topographic maps with elevation contours have made topography synonymous with relief.
The original answer, shown below, is incorrect. Topography is a land term. It has nothing whatever to do with water. The dictionary defines topography as: 1  the detailed mapping or charting of the features of a relatively small area, district, or locality. 2  the detailed description, esp. by means of surveying, of particular localities, as cities, towns, or estates.
The topography of an area can also mean the surface shape and features themselves. In a broader sense, topography is concerned with local detail in general, including not only relief but also natural and artificial features, and even local history and culture. Wiktionary (3.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: topography (Noun). a precise description of a place. topography (Noun). a detailed graphic representation of the surface features of a place or object. topography (Noun). the features themselves (the terrain)
Topography is a field of planetary science comprising the study of surface shape and features of the Earth and other observable astronomical objects including planets, moons, and asteroids. It is also the description of such surface shapes and features. Wiktionary (3.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: topography (Noun). a precise description of a place. topography (Noun). a detailed graphic representation of the surface features of a place or object. topography (Noun). the features themselves (the terrain)
In general, topography is concerned with local detail in general, including not only relief but also natural and artificial features, and even local history and culture. This meaning is less common in America, where topographic maps with elevation contours have made topography synonymous with relief. Topography in a narrow sense involves the recording of relief or terrain, the three-dimensional quality of the surface, and the identification of specific landforms. This is also known as geomorphometry. In modern usage, this involves generation of elevation data in digital form (DEM).
Nouns denoting cognitive processes and contents. Hypernyms (topography is a kind of...): geographics; geography (study of the earth's surface; includes people's responses to topography and climate and soil and vegetation). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of topography): 1. the configuration of a surface and the relations among its man-made and natural features. 2. precise detailed study of the surface features of a region. Familiarity information: TOPOGRAPHY used as a noun is rare.
Best Answer: Topography (from greek τόπος topo-, place, and γράφω graphia, writing) is the study of Earth's surface shape and features or those of planets, moons, and asteroids. It is also the description of such surface shapes and features (especially their depiction in maps). In a broader sense, topography is concerned with local detail in general, including not only relief but also vegetative and human-made features, and even local history and culture. This meaning is less common in America, where topographic maps with elevation contours have made topography synonymous with relief.