Withdrawals of earnings from a Roth IRA before age 59½ may not be subject to the 10% federal penalty tax (or any other taxes) if the IRA has been held for at least 5 years and one of the following applies: 1  The IRA owner is totally and permanently disabled. Withdrawals of both contributions and earnings received from a traditional IRA before age 59½ may not be subject to the 10% federal penalty tax if they occur because: 1  The IRA owner is totally and permanently disabled. 2  The withdrawal is made to a beneficiary or the IRA owner's estate after the owner's death.
Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. With a Roth IRA, contributions are not tax-deductible, but earnings can grow tax-free. Roth IRA withdrawal and penalty rules vary depending on your age. Age 59½ to 70. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you haven’t met the five-year holding requirement, your earnings will be subject to taxes but not penalties. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had more
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. 
However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. Age 59½ to 70. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you haven’t met the five-year holding requirement, your earnings will be subject to taxes but not penalties. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had more
Roth IRA 5 year rule. Withdrawals from your Roth IRA will only be classified as qualified distributions if it has been at least 5 years since you first opened and contributed to your Roth IRA, regardless of your age when you opened it. In general, you can make tax and penalty free withdrawals of the principal (contributions) at any time. However, the earnings from your principal cannot normally be withdrawn under age 59½ without paying the 10% early withdrawal penalty.
Withdrawals of Roth IRA contributions are always both tax-free and penalty-free. But if you’re under age 59½ and your withdrawal dips into your earnings—in other words, if you withdraw more than you've contributed in total—you could be subject to both taxes and penalties on the earnings portion of the withdrawal. Withdrawals of both contributions and earnings received from a traditional IRA before age 59½ may not be subject to the 10% federal penalty tax if they occur because: 1  The IRA owner is totally and permanently disabled. 2  The withdrawal is made to a beneficiary or the IRA owner's estate after the owner's death.
Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. The whole point of an IRA (Roth or otherwise) is to save for retirement. Unfortunately, things don’t always go as planned, and you may find yourself needing to withdraw money from your Roth IRA before age 59½. Example: During 2011, you contribute $5,000 to a Roth IRA. You also convert $20,000 from a traditional IRA into your Roth IRA. Of that $20,000, $13,000 was taxable upon the conversion, and $7,000 was not because it came from nondeductible IRA contributions.
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution. Penalties on Conversions From a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. The penalty rules regarding conversions are a bit different than those for annual contributions, which may be taken at any time for any purpose free of income taxes and penalty.
It is normally subject to taxes and a 10% early-withdrawal penalty if you’re under age 59½ when you take the money. If you’re a first-time home buyer, however, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings from your Roth IRA without the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, even if you’re under age 59½. The tax and penalty situation is based on order-of-withdrawal rules. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings.
Roth IRA withdrawal Rules. Don’t treat your Roth IRA like an ATM! In general, you can make tax and penalty free withdrawals of the principal (contributions) at any time. However, the earnings from your principal cannot normally be withdrawn under age 59½ without paying the 10% early withdrawal penalty.