Full Definition of PELVIC. : of, relating to, or located in or near the pelvis. — pelvic noun. See pelvic defined for English-language learners. See pelvic defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
pelvis. n, pl-vises or-ves (-viːz). 1. (Anatomy) the large funnel-shaped structure at the lower end of the trunk of most vertebrates: in man it is formed by the hipbones and sacrum. 2. (Anatomy) the bones that form this structure. 3. (Anatomy) any anatomical cavity or structure shaped like a funnel or cup. 4. (Anatomy) short for renal pelvis. 2. pelvis-a structure shaped like a funnel in the outlet of the kidney into which urine is discharged before passing into the ureter. renal pelvis. bodily cavity, cavum, cavity - (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body.
The pelvic region of the trunk is the lower part of the trunk, between the abdomen and the thighs. It includes several structures: 1  the bony pelvis (or pelvic skeleton), which is the part of the skeleton embedded in the pelvic region of the trunk, subdivided into: 1 the bony pelvis (or pelvic skeleton), which is the part of the skeleton embedded in the pelvic region of the trunk, subdivided into: 2  the pelvic girdle (i.e., the two hip bones, which are part of the appendicular skeleton), which connects the spine to the lower limbs, and.
In human anatomy, the pelvis (plural pelvises) is either the lower part of the trunk, between the abdomen and the thighs (sometimes also called pelvic region of the trunk) or the skeleton embedded in it (sometimes also called bony pelvis, or pelvic skeleton). 1 the bony pelvis (or pelvic skeleton), which is the part of the skeleton embedded in the pelvic region of the trunk, subdivided into: 2  the pelvic girdle (i.e., the two hip bones, which are part of the appendicular skeleton), which connects the spine to the lower limbs, and.
Female pelvis: The lower part of the abdomen that is located between the hip bones in a female. The female pelvis is usually more delicate than, wider than, and not as high as the male pelvis. The angle of the female pubic arch is wide and round. The female sacrum is wider than the male's, and the iliac bone is flatter. The pelvic basin of the female is more spacious and less funnel-shaped than the male's. From a purely anatomic viewpoint, the female pelvis is better suited than the male pelvis to accommodate a fetus during pregnancy and permit the baby to be born.
Pelvic cancer refers to a variety of cancers involving the structures and organs in the pelvis. Your pelvic area is the lower portion of the trunk of your body. It contains the pelvic bones, bladder, rectum, and reproductive organs. Pelvic cancers that can affect both sexes include bladder cancer, anal cancer, rectal cancer, chondrosarcoma (cancer of the cartilage), and osteosarcoma (cancer of the bone). Because the pelvic area contains the reproductive organs, there are pelvic cancers that can affect men and women separately. For men, this includes prostate and testicular cancer. For women, pelvic cancer can include cervical, ovarian, uterine or endometrial, vaginal, and vulvar cancer.
The pelvic region of the trunk includes the bony pelvis, the pelvic cavity (the space enclosed by the bony pelvis), the pelvic floor, below the pelvic cavity, and the perineum, below the pelvic floor. 1 the bony pelvis (or pelvic skeleton), which is the part of the skeleton embedded in the pelvic region of the trunk, subdivided into: 2  the pelvic girdle (i.e., the two hip bones, which are part of the appendicular skeleton), which connects the spine to the lower limbs, and.
The pelvis is the lowest part of your tummy (abdomen). Organs in your pelvis include your bowel, bladder, womb (uterus) and ovaries. Pelvic pain usually means pain that starts from one of these organs. In some cases the pain comes from your pelvic bones that lie next to these organs, or from nearby muscles, nerves, blood vessels or joints. 
Pelvic pain: : Pain perceived in the area of the pelvis, the lower part of the abdomen located between the hip bones. The term pelvic pain is most commonly used to refer to pain arising from reproductive organs (uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, vagina) in women. 