Some people call the years leading up to a woman's last period menopause, but that time actually is the menopausal transition, or perimenopause (PER-ee-MEN-oh-pawz). During the time of the menopausal transition (perimenopause), your periods can stop for a while and then start again.
It's the time when the ovaries gradually begin to make less estrogen. It usually starts in a woman's 40s, but can start in her 30s or even earlier. Perimenopause lasts up until menopause, the point when the ovaries stop releasing eggs. In the last 1 to 2 years of perimenopause, this drop in estrogen speeds up. At this stage, many women have menopause symptoms.
The average length of perimenopause is 4 years, but for some women this stage may last only a few months or continue for 10 years. Perimenopause ends when a woman has gone 12 months without having her period.
This stage is generally considered part of the menopause period and can last anywhere from 10 months to four years as the ovaries gradually decrease in estrogen production. However, menopause is not considered to have officially begun until a woman misses her period for 12 straight months.
For example: statistically, the average length of time that women are in perimenopause is said to be about four years. However, perimenopause can actually last as long as 12 to 15 years for some women, and as little as 2 to 3 years for others. All experiences on either side of the average and all points in between are normal. I am one of those women who experienced perimenopause over a time period of close to 15 years.
● The menopausal transition (also called “perimenopause”) is the time when your periods start to change (usually becoming less frequent). This phase lasts an average of four years and ends when you have your final period. ● Menopause is complete when it has been 12 months since your last menstrual period. ● “Postmenopause” is the time after menopause (a woman who has been through menopause can be described as “postmenopausal”). The average age of menopause is 51 years, although the age range can vary between about 45 and 55 years.
In some cases, changes in the body that lead to the menopause can start as early as 10 years before a final period. On average, a menstrual cycle lasts about 28 days, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days may be considered normal.