If the extinction coefficient is known, it can be used to determine the concentration of a protein in solution. Another measure of the extinction coefficient is E 1% which gives the mass extinction coefficient. E1% is the absorbance of a 1% solution by mass and has the units g -1 L cm -1.
Beer’s Law states that molar absorptivity is constant (and the absorbance is proportional to concentration) for a given. substance dissolved in a given solute and measured at a given wavelength. 2 For this reason, molar absorptivities are called molar absorption coefficients or molar extinction coefficients. 
How to Calculate Molar Absorptivity. Molar absorptivity, also known as the molar extinction coefficient, is a measure of how well a chemical species (chemically identical molecules) absorbs a given wavelength of light. It is commonly used in chemistry and should not be confused with the extinction coefficient, which is used more often in physics. 
From the data in Figure 1, the extinction coefficient at any desired wavelength can be calculated. Figure 1 Visible absorption spectrum of [Co(NH3)5 H2O]3+ Sample concentration is 6.6 x 10-3 M and path length is 1.0 cm. The blank is water. Example. Calculate the extinction coefficient, , for (Co(NH3)5 H2O)3+ at the long wavelength absorption maximum, 493 nm. A493 complex = 0.32 (read from the graph) = c L Beer's Law is useful in the analysis of solutions containing colored compounds, like your cobalt complex.
Beer's Law Example. Here is an example of directly using the Beer's Law Equation (Absorbance = e L c) when you were given the molar absorptivity constant (or molar extinction coefficient). In this equation, e is the molar extinction coefficient. L is the path length of the cell holder. c is the concentration of the solution. Note: In reality, molar absorptivity constant is normally not given.
The molar extinction coefficient is a physical constant that is unique for each sequence and describes the amount of absorbance at 260 nm (A 260) of 1 mole/L DNA solution measured in 1 cm path-length cuvette. This definition is derived from the Beer-Lambert law, A = log(IO/I) = ε * c * p. The extinction coefficient (ε 260) describes the relationship between concentration and UV absorbance and can be calculated for any sequence. Greatest accuracy is therefore achieved when the exact value of ε 260 is calculated for each oligo.
1 In chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology, or microbiology, the mass extinction coefficient and the molar extinction coefficient (also called molar absorptivity) are parameters defining how strongly a substance absorbs light at a given wavelength, per mass density or per molar concentration, respectively. Extinction coefficient refers to several different measures of the absorption of light in a medium:
The units of ε are usually in M -1 cm -1 or L mol -1 cm -1. In biochemistry, the extinction coefficient of a protein at 280 nm depends almost exclusively on the number of aromatic residues, particuarly tryptophan, and can be predicted from the sequence of amino acids. Another measure of the extinction coefficient is E 1% which gives the mass extinction coefficient. E1% is the absorbance of a 1% solution by mass and has the units g -1 L cm -1.
In practice these units are the same, with the difference being expression of volume in either cm 3 or in L. The molar attenuation coefficient is also known as the molar extinction coefficient and molar absorptivity, but the use of these alternative terms has been discouraged by the IUPAC. It is an intrinsic property of the species. The SI unit of molar attenuation coefficient is the square metre per mole (m2/mol), but in practice, it is usually taken as the M −1 ⋅cm −1 or the L⋅mol −1 ⋅cm −1. In older literature, the cm 2 /mol is sometimes used with corresponding values 1,000 times larger.