If you have grub worms in your lawn, you'll want to get rid of them before they do serious damage. Grubs are actually several kinds of beetle larvae, such as the Japanese beetle and June bug, that feed on the roots of your grass. This feeding results in brown patches, bare dirt and in extreme cases, a completely dead yard.
Why You Should Get Rid of Grub Worms. Grub worms feed on the roots of plants and the other things planted in your garden. Such actions severely affect them and eventually lead to wilting, or the death of these plants. Roots of plants are very important organs. If you have grub worm issues in the lawn, then you most likely will have them in the vegetable garden as well. Here are some of the common signs of grub worm infestation of plants or lawn: 1  Droopy leaves. 2  Green-gray or brown patches on your lawn. 3  Grass easily “peels” off. 4  Ground feels spongy to the feet.
However, when there are more than 15 to 20 grub worms per square foot in your vegetable garden, then that is a real problem. You surely will notice that you have a grub worm problem when the condition of your lawn or garden radically deteriorates. If you have grub worm issues in the lawn, then you most likely will have them in the vegetable garden as well. Here are some of the common signs of grub worm infestation of plants or lawn: 1  Droopy leaves. 2  Green-gray or brown patches on your lawn. 3  Grass easily “peels” off. 4  Ground feels spongy to the feet.
What is normally called a grub worm is actually the larval stage of a beetle. There are several beetles that produce grub worm larvae. The grub worm or larvae cause serious damage to your lawn and ornamental plantings because they live by feeding on the root systems of your grass and plants. This results in yellow or brown patches in your lawn. If the infestation is bad enough you can actually roll back the turf in the infested area like carpet.
Grub Worms or more specifically; white grubs are the larvae of scarab beetles. The grubs of economic importance in Texas are those of the Japanese beetle, the green June beetle (June Bug), the southern masked chafer, the northern masked chafer, and the Asiatic garden beetle. The Japanese beetle is consistently the most damaging grub worm in this state, Texas. Imidicloprid, or the brand name Merit. All these grubs have cream colored bodies with yellow to brownish heads, brownish hind parts, and six legs. Mature grubs vary in length from 1/4 to 1-1/2 inches, depending on the species.
How to kill grub worms and prevent grub damage in Kansas City lawns. Grub controls White grubs can be one of the most damaging insects to your turf and unfortunately, the better the turf, the more likely the grubs are to attack. Grubs are the larval stage of several large beetles – June Bugs, May Beetles, Masked Chafer Beetles and Japanese Beetles.
Shares & Saves. Save. Grub worms are the larvae of the May or June Beetle.The worms are commonly found in the topsoil of gardens and lawns and feed on the roots of grass, weeds, or vegetables often destroying crops and lawns. Other People Are Reading. 
The best time to treat your lawn for grub worms is in the fall when the grubs are still small and close to the surface of the ground. You can choose either a chemical insecticide created for grub removal or an organic method of grub removal such as nematodes. The organic method is safer for your lawn and family. The grub worm or larvae cause serious damage to your lawn and ornamental plantings because they live by feeding on the root systems of your grass and plants. This results in yellow or brown patches in your lawn. If the infestation is bad enough you can actually roll back the turf in the infested area like carpet.
Grub worms are Japanese Beetle larvae, or the babies of those beetles. Unlike earthworms that fertilize your soil to make your plants and flowers healthy, grub worms ruin them by munching on the roots of your plants, flowers, and grass in your lawn or garden. If you have grub worm issues in the lawn, then you most likely will have them in the vegetable garden as well. Here are some of the common signs of grub worm infestation of plants or lawn: 1  Droopy leaves. 2  Green-gray or brown patches on your lawn. 3  Grass easily “peels” off. 4  Ground feels spongy to the feet.