1 The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 2  These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 3  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 4  Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat. 1 The earth's greenhouse effect is what makes this planet suitable for life as we know it. 2  The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 3
Confidence votes 80. The greenhouse effect was made to have a positive effect, but human activities have made it a negative one. a) The greenhouse effect was made to keep the Earth's average temperature (14oC or 57oF) the same. The atmosphere has small amounts of greenhouse gases to trap heat and warm the Earth. Without this greenhouse effect, the Earth's temperature could be as low as -18oC (-0.4oF). 
See this link below for a diagram: Global warming is the increase of the average temperature of the earths atmosphere due to the greenhouse effect. The greenhouse effect is caused by high concentrations of methane, co2 and water vapour in the earth's atmosphere. The greenhouse effect refers to the way the sun's heat radiates up  from the warmed surface of the earth, where it is absorbed by the  greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Th … e more gases there are, the  more heat is absorbed.    The natural greenhouse effect is supported by the  water and carbon cycles.
For example, methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. Over a 100 year period, a molecule of methane (CH4) has 21 times the warming effect as a molecule of carbon dioxide (CO2), even though it stays in the atmosphere for only about 12 years of the 100 year period. 
If the amount of energy from the sun and the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere remain the same, then the average temperature on Earth will also be constant. But this is no longer the case. The amount of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere is the highest it has been in the last 3 million years. Greenhouse gases that are in the atmosphere absorb and then redirect some of this heat back towards the Earth. The greenhouse effect is a major factor in keeping the Earth warm because it keeps some of the planet's heat that would otherwise escape from the atmosphere out to space.
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. 
The negative effects of greenhouse effect is very well known among people as global warming. Global warming is a recent phenomena of the 20th and the 21st century. The adverse effects of global warming start from temperature rise to melting of polar ice caps and submerging of the islands and coastal areas under water. The greenhouse effect refers to the way the sun's heat radiates up  from the warmed surface of the earth, where it is absorbed by the  greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Th … e more gases there are, the  more heat is absorbed.    The natural greenhouse effect is supported by the  water and carbon cycles.
The greenhouse effect was made to have a positive effect, but human activities have made it a negative one. a) The greenhouse effect was made to keep the Earth's average tem … perature (14oC or 57oF) the same. The atmosphere has small amounts of greenhouse gases to trap heat and warm the Earth. The greenhouse effect refers to the way the sun's heat radiates up  from the warmed surface of the earth, where it is absorbed by the  greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Th … e more gases there are, the  more heat is absorbed.    The natural greenhouse effect is supported by the  water and carbon cycles.
The greenhouse effect increases the temperature of the Earth by trapping heat in our atmosphere. This keeps the temperature of the Earth higher than it would be if direct heating by the Sun was the only source of warming. Greenhouse gases that are in the atmosphere absorb and then redirect some of this heat back towards the Earth. The greenhouse effect is a major factor in keeping the Earth warm because it keeps some of the planet's heat that would otherwise escape from the atmosphere out to space.
The greenhouse effect is caused by the interaction of the sun's energy with greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases in the Earth's atmosphere. The ability of these gases to trap heat is what causes the greenhouse effect. Greenhouse gases that are in the atmosphere absorb and then redirect some of this heat back towards the Earth. The greenhouse effect is a major factor in keeping the Earth warm because it keeps some of the planet's heat that would otherwise escape from the atmosphere out to space.