Tasting Notes: Our hojicha (or houjicha) is roasted fresh as noted by it's outstanding aroma. A traditional Japanese green tea, hojicha is naturally lower in caffeine yet more robust in flavor than most other green teas due to its roasted character. This brews into a clean, amber liquor with a warm nutty aroma. It's both soothing to drink this on cold winter days and refreshing to drink it iced.
Hojicha is often made from Bancha (common tea), tea from the last harvest of the season, however other varieties of Hojicha also exist, including a variety made from sencha. Hojicha is set apart from other Japanese green teas because it is roasted in a porcelain pot over charcoal. The roasting process used to make Hojicha lowers the amount of caffeine in the tea. Kukicha. Kukicha, or twig tea, also known as bocha, is a Japanese blend of green tea made of stems, stalks, and twigs.
Hojicha green tea is made of bancha tea, a mixture of pan-fired and slow roasted green tea leaves that yield a rich, nutty brew. Within the green tea category, Hojicha contains lower levels of caffeine. organic roasted green tea leaves. China. 
The Japanese are a thrifty lot. Hojicha is another creative use of tea by-products. Hojicha was commercialized when mechanical harvesters were used in Japan (there is a labor shortage there). The tea plant was shorn of everything, and the mess was separated later. The best leaves became Sencha, the larger leaves became Yanagi, and the stems Hojicha. Tea terms in Japan have several meanings, and Hojicha can mean several types of tea. For us, it is roasted twigs.
What is Hojicha. Hojicha (sometimes spelled houjicha) is a Japanese green tea that has been roasted at a high temperature. It is usually made of bancha, but it can also be composed of sencha or kukicha. The process of making hojicha first came about in Kyoto, during the 1920s. If you brew hojicha in an unglazed teapot that you usually use for sencha, you run the risk of having the hojicha leave an impression on the teapot, and altering the taste of future brews. Hojicha can be brewed within a kyusu, or a gaiwan. The leaves are large, making them unlikely to pass or clog a filter.
Hōjicha (Houjicha) (ほうじ茶) is a Japanese green tea. It is distinctive from other Japanese green teas because it is roasted in a porcelain pot over charcoal, whereas most Japanese teas are steamed. The tea is fired at a high temperature, altering the leaf color tints from green to reddish-brown. Hōjicha is often made from bancha (番茶, common tea), tea from the last harvest of the season; however, other varieties of Hōjicha also exist, including a variety made from sencha, and Kukicha, tea made from the twigs of the tea plant rather than the leaves.
Kukicha (茎茶), or twig tea, also known as bōcha (棒茶), is a Japanese blend made of stems, stalks, and twigs. It is available as a green tea or in more oxidised processing. Kukicha has a unique flavour and aroma among teas, due to its being composed of parts of the tea plant that are excluded from most other teas.
Organic Hojicha green tea is made of organic bancha tea, a mixture of pan-fired and slow roasted loose leaf green tea leaves that yield a rich, nutty brew. 