The Annual Academy Awards today will not be the first time that phenomenal actors walk away empty handed. In fact, there are many actors that have never held the coveted gold man. Let’s take a look at the top 5 actors who have surprisingly never won an Oscar.
Shared with: The news team reassembles for an epic battle between Will Ferrell, Paul Rudd, David Koechner and ... More.
Surprisingly, Johnny Depp is among the list of actors who have yet to take home the gold man. The last decade has been filled with Oscar nods for Depp as his roles in Sweeney Todd, Finding Neverland and Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl have lead to three nominations.
This article is an incomplete list of the award nominations and wins by American rapper and actor Will Smith. Smith has been nominated for four Golden Globe Awards and two Academy Awards and has won four Grammy Awards.
Although he has received Oscar nods for his roles in The Aviator, What’s Eating Gilbert Grape and Blood Diamond, he still has never received an Academy Award. Tom Cruise (Flickr). Tom Cruise. Tom Cruise was nominated twice in 1989 and 1997 for his performances in Born on the Fourth of July and Jerry Maguire.
Tom Hanks has been nominated for Academy Awards five times, all in the Best Actor category. The roles and movies are as follows (Oscar wins in bold): Josh Baskin in Big (19 … 88).Andrew Beckett in Philadelphia (1993).Forrest Gump in Forrest Gump (1994).Capt.
The news team reassembles for an epic battle between Will Ferrell, Paul Rudd, David Koechner and Steve Carell vs. James Marsden vs. Sacha Baron Cohen vs. Kanye West vs. Tina Fey and Amy Poehler vs. Jim Carrey and Marion Cotillard vs. Will Smith vs. Liam Neeson and John C. Reilly vs. Greg Kinnear.
Willard Carroll Smith, Jr. was born in West Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the second of four children of Caroline (Bright), a school board employee, and Willard Carroll Smith, Sr., who owned a refrigeration company. He grew up in a middle class area in West Philadelphia called Wynnefield.