Amacrine cells are neurons found in the retina. Illustrations of various rabbit amacrine cells; shows the diversity in amacrine morphologies. [1]. Dendritic impulse collisions and shifting sites of action potential initiation contract and extend the receptive field of an amacrine cell. They are part of the inner plexiform layer, a section of the retina in which bipolar neurons communicate with amacrine cells and ganglion cells [2].
1 Its pathogenesis is thought to involve cone and amacrine cell dysfunction in the retina. 2  The best-studied amacrine cell synapses are those made onto ganglion cells and the feedback synapses made onto bipolar cells. 
Amacrine Cells. Amacrine cells are interneurons found in the retina [1]. They are part of the inner plexiform layer, a section of the retina in which bipolar neurons communicate with amacrine cells and ganglion cells [2]. Amacrine cells serve to integrate for ganglion cells the signals coming from bipolar neurons
a totally different cohort of neurons inside the retina which build side to side relationships between retinal ganglion and retinal bipolar cells, as well as other amacrine cells, which make contributions to the central area concerning antagonism of retinal ganglion cell receptive areas. 
Overview [edit]. Amacrine cells operate at the inner plexiform layer (IPL), the second synaptic retinal layer where bipolar cells and retinal ganglion cells form synapses. There are at least 33 different subtypes of amacrine cells based just on their dendrite morphology and stratification. Amacrine cells are inhibitory neurons, and project their dendritic arbors to the inner plexiform layer (IPL), there interacting with retinal ganglion cells and/or bipolar cells.
: a unipolar nerve cell found in the retina, in the olfactory bulb, and in close connection with the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. What made you want to look up amacrine cell? 
GABAergic amacrine cells are usually wide field amacrine cells and are found in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) and the inner nuclear layer (INL). One type of GABAergic amacrine cell that is fairly well studied is the starburst amacrine cell. Amacrine cells are inhibitory neurons, and project their dendritic arbors to the inner plexiform layer (IPL), there interacting with retinal ganglion cells and/or bipolar cells.
Amacrine cells seem to have several different functions, many of them unknown: one type of amacrine seems to play a part in specific responses to moving objects found in retinas of frogs and rabbits; another type is interposed in the path that links ganglion cells to those bipolar cells that receive rod input. We have seen that the main features of the ganglion-cell receptive fields are to be found already in the bipolar cells. This leaves open the question of what transformations of information occur between bipolars and ganglion cells.