Step 4. Exercise the muscles in your back and rotator cuff with an upward row. Stand up and bend over at the waist, bending your knees slightly. Hold a dumbbell in one hand by your side. Place the other hand on a stool or bench to steady your body. On your pulling arm, these muscles help you pull the string back from the bow. Perform bicep curls with dumbbells, starting with light ones and working up to heavier ones -- do two sets of 10 repetitions per arm. Do dips on parallel bars or chin-ups to help build your triceps.
Shoulder exercises for archery focus primarily on the muscles that move and stabilize the shoulder joint. Archers are at particular risk of rotator cuff injuries. The rotator cuffs in each shoulder consist of the infraspinatus and teres muscles. The rotator cuff helps pull the arm outward. Rotator cuff strains and tears can occur in archery due to the pressure applied to this muscle group during the draw on the bow.
hunting Aproperly executed archery shot recruits many muscles of theupper and lower body. The muscles of the shoulders and back arethe primary draw muscles. The muscles of the arms and chest areaccessory muscles. The muscles of the abdomen, lower back, andlegs provide stability throughout the draw sequence. The archery muscles ofthe upper back are the latissimus dorsi, the trapezius, and the rhomboids. Accessory muscles are the teres major and minor, the scapularis, the spinatus, and the serratus. The majoropposing muscles are the pectoralis (the muscles of thechest)
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Shoulder exercises for archery focus primarily on the muscles that move and stabilize the shoulder joint. Archers are at particular risk of rotator cuff injuries. Sport specific strength training can help to reduce the risk of shoulder injuries associated with pulling a bow. The rotator cuffs in each shoulder consist of the infraspinatus and teres muscles. The rotator cuff helps pull the arm outward. Rotator cuff strains and tears can occur in archery due to the pressure applied to this muscle group during the draw on the bow.
Stronger archery muscles allow you to use a more powerful bow, which means you can shoot arrows farther and with more punch. Archery engages your back and shoulders as much as your arms, so work your entire upper body to strengthen the muscles you need for archery. On your pulling arm, these muscles help you pull the string back from the bow. Perform bicep curls with dumbbells, starting with light ones and working up to heavier ones -- do two sets of 10 repetitions per arm. Do dips on parallel bars or chin-ups to help build your triceps.
9 - shoulder outward rotation in Bowfit brochure). Accessory archery muscles of the shoulder and upper body are the biceps and triceps (see figs. 10 & 11). The biceps group is responsible for flexing or bending the elbow as well as helping to lift the arm forward. They assist the posterior deltoid in pulling the drawing arm backward during the draw phase. (Editor's note: The other muscle groups will be covered in upcoming articles.). The archery muscles of the shoulder and upper back are the most obvious and often the most overlooked muscles. They are not necessarily the same muscles you use every day or the ones that you might work out regularly in the gym.
The actions in archery utilize several main muscle groups in the body, including the triceps, which sit at the back of your upper arm, the deltoid muscles in your shoulders and the latissimus dorsi muscles in the lower back. Row, Row, Row Your Muscles. Spending time on the rowing machine is well worth it if you want to improve muscles for archery, because it works all of the primary muscles used in the sport including the deltoids, latissimus dorsi and triceps. Sit on the seat with your feet strapped in securely.
Training all of these archery muscles to work together to produce a smooth clean shot is the goal of practice. In addition to strength training, we teach athletes to perform activities that are specific to their sport. This is called sport-specific training. (Editor's note: The other muscle groups will be covered in upcoming articles.). The archery muscles of the shoulder and upper back are the most obvious and often the most overlooked muscles. They are not necessarily the same muscles you use every day or the ones that you might work out regularly in the gym.
BOWFIT is a unique, compact exercise product designed to strengthen the upper body archery muscles. The BOWFIT simulates pulling a bow, so you can practice anywhere, anytime to increase your draw weight and hold longer and steadier on target. 