First-Person-Shooter (or FPS): This is an example of a sub-genre that has grown enough to become its own genre. In fact, because of the prevalence of these games, many people use the term shooter to refer to first-person-shooters. Fighting: These titles pit player against player (usually 2 players head-to-head) and involve one triumphing over the other. Many of these games include a single player mode, but the real draw to this genre is the ability to demonstrate one's gaming prowess against a friend.
A video game genre is defined by a set of gameplay challenges. They are classified independent of their setting or game-world content, unlike other works of fiction such as films or books. For example, a shooter game is still a shooter game, regardless of whether it takes place in a fantasy world or in outer space. The first action-adventure game was the Atari 2600 game Adventure (1979). It was directly inspired by the original text adventure, Colossal Cave Adventure. In the process of adapting a text game to a console with only a joystick for control, designer Warren Robinett created a new genre.
History [edit]. The first attempt to classify different genres of video games was made by Chris Crawford in his book The Art of Computer Game Design in 1984. In this book, Crawford primarily focused on the player's experience and activities required for gameplay. The term subgenre may be used to refer to a category within a genre to further specify the genre of the game under discussion. Whereas  shooter game  is a genre name, first-person shooter and  third-person shooter  are common subgenres of the shooter genre.
It is an integral part of the Wii remote. action (noun). Game genre that requires the player to have quick reflexes. adventure (noun). Game genre in which the player follows a story, solves puzzles, interacts with non-player characters, and explores the world. advergame (noun). Type of game that has been created solely to promote a product, such as a movie. A perspective in which the events in a game are viewed as if seen through the eyes of the main character. gamer (noun). a person who plays games. genre (noun). a category characterized by a particular style, form, or content. Common genres are action, adventure, role-play, strategy, and so on. G.U.I.
Adventure games: Adventure games are mainly single player games set in a fantasy or adventure world where the main challenges involve completing puzzles. The adventure genre normally involves a back story of the main character and will include a specific rescue mission or objective to reach the end of the adventure. Genre basically means a group of things of a certain type. Although you could say Fifa 2013 is a sports game could also be seen as a simulation game as the game simulates playing a real life sport. So it can be said that most games can be categorised under a number of different genres.
Below is a list of some of the most common video game genres with a brief description and some examples of games that fit within that category. This list is not comprehensive and is limited to larger classifications. Fighting: These titles pit player against player (usually 2 players head-to-head) and involve one triumphing over the other. Many of these games include a single player mode, but the real draw to this genre is the ability to demonstrate one's gaming prowess against a friend.
Video games may have aspects that don't fall within the genre the game is classified in. However, Aberrations are tolerated to some degree. For example, one of the weapons in a shooter game might be something other than a gun, which may be seen as a breach in the game's rules. The term subgenre may be used to refer to a category within a genre to further specify the genre of the game under discussion. Whereas  shooter game  is a genre name, first-person shooter and  third-person shooter  are common subgenres of the shooter genre.
Platform: It is believed that the platform genre began in 1981 with the release of the games Donkey Kong and Space Panic. Games within this genre are usually identified by navigating environments that require timing and jumping in order to reach a desitination while avoiding and/or disposing of enemies. Fighting: These titles pit player against player (usually 2 players head-to-head) and involve one triumphing over the other. Many of these games include a single player mode, but the real draw to this genre is the ability to demonstrate one's gaming prowess against a friend.
Video game genres are used to organize video games based on their gameplay interaction rather than visual or narrative differences. A video game genre is defined by a set of gameplay challenges and are classified independent of their setting or game-world content, unlike other works of fiction such as films or books. For example, a shooter game is still a shooter game, regardless of whether it takes place in a fantasy world or in outer space. The term subgenre may be used to refer to a category within a genre to further specify the genre of the game under discussion. Whereas  shooter game  is a genre name, first-person shooter and  third-person shooter  are common subgenres of the shooter genre.