Full Definition of PSYCHOLOGY. 1. : the science of mind and behavior. 2. a: the mental or behavioral characteristics of an individual or group b: the study of mind and behavior in relation to a particular field of knowledge or activity. 3. — psy·chol·o·gist \-jist\ noun. See psychology defined for English-language learners
psy•chol•o•gy. 1. the science of the mind or of mental states and processes. 2. the science of human and animal behavior. 3. the sum of the mental states and processes characteristic of a person or class of persons. 4. mental ploys or strategy: He used psychology to get a promotion. behaviour, behavior - (psychology) the aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements made by an organism in any situation. extraversion, extroversion - (psychology) an extroverted disposition; concern with what is outside the self.
The phrase Gangnam Style is a Korean neologism that refers to a lifestyle associated with the Gangnam District of Seoul. The song and its accompanying music video went viral in August 2012 and have influenced popular culture worldwide since then. The success of Gangnam Style is a result of the build-up of South Korea's music industry that has been in the works for over 20 years, and it has led to other K-pop artists positioning themselves for a similar breakthrough in the U.S. music industry.
About Psy. South Korean singer and rapper PSY became an international sensation with the outrageously silly video for his 2012 hit Gangnam Style.. The artist, born Park Jae-Sang, is a graduate of Boston University and Berklee College of Music and began his music career in 2001 with the album PSY from the PSYcho World! 
Both PhD and PsyD degrees are doctoral degrees in psychology. They differ in history, emphasis, and logistics. PsyD: Emphasis on Practice. The PhD in Psychology has been around for well-over a hundred years, but the PsyD (Doctor of Psychology) degree is much newer. The PsyD became popular in the early 1970s, as create a professional degree, much like that for a lawyer, that trains graduates for applied work -- therapy. The rationale was that the PhD is a research degree, yet many students seek a doctoral degree in psychology to practice and do not plan to conduct research.
Psy was subsequently recognized by the media as the King of YouTube. On May 31, 2014, the video for Psy's Gangnam Style hit two billion views. On November 12, 2012, Psy became the second South Korean music artist to appear at the MTV Europe Music Awards where he performed Gangnam Style and held off competition from Rihanna, Katy Perry and Lady Gaga to win the  Best Video  award.
On December 31, 2012, Psy performed in a globally televised New Year's Eve celebration with American rapper MC Hammer on-stage in front of a live audience of over a million people in Times Square, New York City. On November 12, 2012, Psy became the second South Korean music artist to appear at the MTV Europe Music Awards where he performed Gangnam Style and held off competition from Rihanna, Katy Perry and Lady Gaga to win the  Best Video  award.
Psy. Park Jae-sang, better known by his stage name Psy, stylized PSY, is a South Korean singer, songwriter, rapper, dancer, record producer and television personality. Psy is known domestically for his humorous videos and stage performances, and internationally for his hit single Gangnam Style.. The song's refrain Oppan Gangnam Style was entered into The Yale Book of Quotations as one of the most famous quotes of 2012.
Psychology is a multifaceted discipline and includes many sub-fields of study such areas as human development, sports, health, clinical, social behavior and cognitive processes. Psychology is really a very new science, with most advances happening over the past 150 years or so. However, it's origins can be traced back to ancient Greece, 400 – 500 years BC. The emphasis was a philosophical one, with great thinkers such as Socrates influencing Plato, who in turn influenced Aristotle.
Gangnam Style is a Korean neologism that refers to a lifestyle associated with the Gangnam District of Seoul, where people are trendy, hip and exude a certain supposed class. The term was listed in Time' s weekly vocabulary list as a manner associated with lavish lifestyles in Seoul's Gangnam district. The success of Gangnam Style is a result of the build-up of South Korea's music industry that has been in the works for over 20 years, and it has led to other K-pop artists positioning themselves for a similar breakthrough in the U.S. music industry.