SIDE EFFECTS. Use of PROAIR HFA (albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol) may be associated with the following: 1  Paradoxical bronchospasm [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 2  ]. Cardiovascular Effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 3  ]. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with PROAIR HFA (albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol) Inhalation Aerosol.
Albuterol is the generic form of the brand-name drugs Proventil, ProAir, and Ventolin, which are used to treat lung diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Albuterol can quickly relieve shortness of breath, coughing, wheezing, and chest tightness. Never use your inhaler to inhale any other type of medication. Your inhaler is designed for an albuterol canister only. You should clean your inhaler or nebulizer on a regular basis. If you don't care for your inhaler properly, it can become blocked.
When they are used, the albuterol use should only be when needed. It is important to get COPD or asthma under control, as COPD is the fourth-leading cause of death in the United States. It is the term used to describe two lung conditions, bronchitis and emphysema, which are commonly caused from smoking. Never use your inhaler to inhale any other type of medication. Your inhaler is designed for an albuterol canister only. You should clean your inhaler or nebulizer on a regular basis. If you don't care for your inhaler properly, it can become blocked.
Q: I am using a Ventolin inhaler 4 times a day now. A: Ventolin HFA (albuterol) is a short acting bronchodilator which helps open the airways to improve breathing in patients with asthma or COPD. Ventolin can be used as a rescue inhaler since it works quickly to open the airways. Never use your inhaler to inhale any other type of medication. Your inhaler is designed for an albuterol canister only. You should clean your inhaler or nebulizer on a regular basis. If you don't care for your inhaler properly, it can become blocked.
Dilute 0.5 mL of the solution to 3 mL with sterile normal saline solution prior to administration. Each 0.5 mL unit-of-use vial contains 2.5 mg of albuterol (as 3.0 mg of albuterol sulfate, USP) in a sterile, aqueous solution; sulfuric acid is used to adjust the pH to between 3 and 5. Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution contains no sulfiting agents or preservatives. It is supplied in 0.5 mL unit-of-use vials. While you are using Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by your physician. Common adverse effects include palpitations, chest pain, rapid heart rate, tremor or nervousness.
By breathing. Albuterol is used to treat or prevent bronchospasm in patients with asthma, bronchitis, emphysema, and other lung diseases. This medicine is also used… Read more. Brand names include: Accuneb, Alti-Salbutamol Inhalation Aerosol. By mouth. Albuterol is used to treat bronchospasm or wheezing in patients with reversible obstructive airway disease, such as asthma. Albuterol belongs to the family… Read more. Brand names include: Apo-Salvent Inhaler, Proventil.
Descriptions. Albuterol is used to treat or prevent bronchospasm in patients with asthma, bronchitis, emphysema, and other lung diseases. This medicine is also used to prevent wheezing caused by exercise (exercise-induced bronchospasm). Albuterol belongs to the family of medicines known as adrenergic bronchodilators. 
Beta-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as PROAIR HFA (albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol) Inhalation Aerosol, but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with PROAIR HFA (albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol) Inhalation Aerosol.
To do so may increase the chance for breathing problems. The albuterol inhalation solution (eg, Accuneb®) should be used with a jet nebulizer that is connected to an air compressor with good air flow. The inhalation solution and nebulizer will come with patient instructions. Read and follow these instructions carefully. 