Report Abuse. It stays on your record forever. Most employers only so back 7 to 10 years in their initial check, but it always stays with you. Learn a trade or apply at McDonalds, because life with a felony sucks. No matter what the charge is. 
Even with an expungement, it is not necessarily the case that the record would be sealed. In short, a criminal conviction will most likely stay on your record forever. If you have a criminal record, it might be worth speaking with an attorney about possible expungement just in case your situation is the rare exception.
www.flikr.com *cdogstar*. A person who has committed a felony will have a record that will stay with them for an extended period of time. A felony conviction, however, does not necessarily mean a life of hopelessness and inability to carry on. On most applications, they will ask you whether you have been convicted of a felony within a certain period of time. You have the right to answer whatever you wish, but keep in mind that they may run a criminal background check, and they will find your record.
1 After 10 years, the courts and DMV cannot use that DUI against you. 2  A felony DUI is on your record for 10 years. 3  The ten year time period begins on your arrest date. WARNING-presently a DUI conviction will be on your record for 10 years starting from your arrest date. However, there are efforts in the California legislature to make a DUI stay on your record for a lifetime and to be used against you for your whole life.
A felony charge will stay on your record for life. The only way to remove a felony from your record is through a strict process called expungement (more on expungement below). Felonies aren't doled out lightly. When someone is convicted of a felony, the crime is deemed serious enough (and the trial thorough enough) that all felonies stay on your record permanently. This means landlords, employers, banks, and law enforcement can see any felony you've ever been convicted of.
Unless a person gets a pardon from the governor, a felony stays on  their record forever in Wisconsin. If a person commits a felony as  a minor, they may be able to have the … record sealed at a later  date, but the record will always exist. Answered. In Criminal Law. In some instances, … depending on the outcome on the felony, the record may be sealed from public view even for adults. Even a sealed adult record, however, may be used for lawful governmental purposes.
1 A misdemeanor DUI is on your criminal record and California DMV record for 10 years. 2  After 10 years, the courts and DMV cannot use that DUI against you. 3  A felony DUI is on your record for 10 years. WARNING-presently a DUI conviction will be on your record for 10 years starting from your arrest date. However, there are efforts in the California legislature to make a DUI stay on your record for a lifetime and to be used against you for your whole life.
Being convicted of a felony is a long process that requires arraignments, pre-trial conferences, motion hearings, and a trial. Felonies aren't doled out lightly. When someone is convicted of a felony, the crime is deemed serious enough (and the trial thorough enough) that all felonies stay on your record permanently. This means landlords, employers, banks, and law enforcement can see any felony you've ever been convicted of.
Unless a person gets a pardon from the governor, a felony stays on  their record forever in Wisconsin. If a person commits a felony as  a minor, they may be able to have the … record sealed at a later  date, but the record will always exist. Answered. In some instances, … depending on the outcome on the felony, the record may be sealed from public view even for adults. Even a sealed adult record, however, may be used for lawful governmental purposes.