Fluoxetine is used for the treatment of major depressive disorder (including pediatric depression), obsessive–compulsive disorder (in both adults and children), bulimia nervosa, panic disorder, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder. The effectiveness of fluoxetine and other antidepressants in the treatment of mild-to-moderate depression is controversial. A meta-analysis published by Kirsch in 2008 suggests, in those with mild or moderate symptoms, the efficacy of fluoxetine and other SSRIs is clinically insignificant.
The Pulvule and PROZAC Weekly capsule dosage forms of fluoxetine are bioequivalent. Food does not appear to affect the systemic bioavailability of fluoxetine, although it may delay its absorption by 1 to 2 hours, which is probably not clinically significant. In contrast, when the first 90 mg once-weekly dose and the last 20 mg once-daily dose were separated by 1 week, Cmax values were similar. Also, there was a transient increase in the average steady-state concentrations of fluoxetine observed following transition the next day to the once-weekly regimen.
The same antidepressants can have opposite side effects in different people, i.e., in the end it's a matter of trial and error. That said, most psychiatrists prescribe an adjunct stimulant to counteract SSRI's somnolence and fatigue. 
1 Methadone can make drowsiness worse with fluoxetine. 2  The fluoxetine could increase the concentration of methadone in your body. 3  Fluoxetine could raise the level of cocaine in your body, giving you a bigger reaction. 4  Taking fluoxetine with cocaine or ecstasy or amphetamines could bring on serotonin syndrome. 1 Cannabis can make drowsiness worse with fluoxetine and give you a fast heartbeat. 2  Methadone can make drowsiness worse with fluoxetine. 3  The fluoxetine could increase the concentration of methadone in your body. 4
Peak concentrations from once-weekly doses of PROZAC Weekly capsules of fluoxetine are in the range of the average concentration for 20 mg once-daily dosing. Average trough concentrations are 76% lower for fluoxetine and 47% lower for norfluoxetine than the concentrations maintained by 20 mg once-daily dosing. In contrast, when the first 90 mg once-weekly dose and the last 20 mg once-daily dose were separated by 1 week, Cmax values were similar. Also, there was a transient increase in the average steady-state concentrations of fluoxetine observed following transition the next day to the once-weekly regimen.
Uses. Fluoxetine is used to treat depression, panic attacks, obsessive compulsive disorder, a certain eating disorder (bulimia), and a severe form of premenstrual syndrome (premenstrual dysphoric disorder). To reduce your risk of side effects, your doctor may direct you to start this medication at a low dose and gradually increase your dose. Follow your doctor's instructions carefully. Take this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.
If you’re being treated for depression, taking an antidepressant may be part of your treatment plan. Antidepressants work by balancing chemicals in your brain called neurotransmitters that affect mood and emotions. These depression medicines can help improve your mood, help you sleep better, and increase your appetite and concentration. “ Antidepressants can help jump-start mood and give people the boost they need to get over the symptoms of their depression ,” says Eric Endlich, PhD, a clinical psychologist based in Boston. While many people find that antidepressants work well to help reduce the symptoms of depression, you might not feel better right away. It usually takes at least three to four weeks before you notice a change in your mood. Sometimes it can take even longer.
Antidepressants. All antidepressants† work in a similar way, though there are various types of antidepressants—often called “families”—that each work a bit differently. They all, however, increase the brain’s concentration of various neurotransmitters. Bupropion is an antidepressant that doesn’t increase serotonin concentrations, but does increase levels of norepinephrine and dopamine. Lastly, the anti­depressant mirtazapine enhances neurotransmission by increasing the concentrations of both serotonin and norepinephrine.
Antidepressants are the most prescribed therapy for depression. The exact mechanism of action of antidepressants is unknown. The prevailing theory is that antidepressants increase the concentration of one or more brain chemicals (neurotransmitters) that nerves in the brain use to communicate with one another. The neurotransmitters affected by antidepressants are norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine. 
If you are taking this medication twice a day, your doctor may direct you to take it in the morning and at noon. If you are taking fluoxetine for premenstrual problems, your doctor may direct you to take it every day of the month or just for the 2 weeks before your period through the first full day of your period. To reduce your risk of side effects, your doctor may direct you to start this medication at a low dose and gradually increase your dose. Follow your doctor's instructions carefully. Take this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, take it at the same time each day.