In this article. People with proteinuria have urine containing an abnormal amount of protein. The condition is often a sign of kidney disease. Healthy kidneys do not allow a significant amount of protein to pass through their filters. Both diabetes and high blood pressure can cause damage to the kidneys, which leads to proteinuria. Other types of kidney disease unrelated to diabetes or high blood pressure can also cause protein to leak into the urine.
Trace of protein: You need to have a 24 h hour urine collection to see how much protein in your urine/day. Protein excretion by a diseased kidney is not constant, rather it is sporadic over 24 hours. That is why a 24 hour collection will tell you if your proteinuria is a problem or not. Proteinuria: presence of protein in the urine is usually suggestive of underlying kidney disease. When the kidney filters get damaged the protein from blood tends to leak into the urine and causes further damage. most common causes are diabetes and high blood pressure.
Protein in urine (proteinuria). Protein in the urine, also called proteinuria, is often a sign of kidney problems, or an overproduction of proteins by the body. Healthy kidneys only pass a small amount of protein through their filters. There may be no symptoms of protein in the urine until it is picked up during medical tests. However, in some cases a person's urine may seem frothy.
Proteinuria is when protein is found in the urine. As blood moves through the kidneys, the kidneys filter out waste, excess fluid and salt. These wastes leave the body in urine. Usually, no protein is found in urine because most proteins are too big to go through the kidneys. If a lot of protein is found in your child's urine, a more serious kidney disease might be the problem. Proteinuria doesn't cause pain. But when a lot of protein is in the urine, the level of protein in the blood may go down. This can cause swelling in your child's eyelids, ankles and legs. High blood pressure is another sign of this problem
Proteins that should stay in your blood leak into your urine, causing proteinuria. If your urine sample contains high levels of protein, and your blood pressure is raised, your midwife may take a blood sample. This will check your blood count, clotting, kidney and liver function. Your midwife be especially vigilant about protein in your urine if you are in the second half of your pregnancy. At this stage, it may be a sign that you're developing pre-eclampsia, a potentially serious condition.
If your doctor finds protein in your child's urine, it means your child's kidneys may not be working as they should--possibly because of inflammation (swelling). Sometimes infection or chemicals damage the kidneys, and this makes protein show up in the urine. If a lot of protein is found in your child's urine, a more serious kidney disease might be the problem. Proteinuria doesn't cause pain. But when a lot of protein is in the urine, the level of protein in the blood may go down. This can cause swelling in your child's eyelids, ankles and legs. High blood pressure is another sign of this problem
Protein in urine — known as proteinuria (pro-tee-NU-ree-uh) — is any excess amount of protein found in a urine sample. Protein is one of the substances identified during urinalysis, a test to analyze the content of your urine. Temporarily high levels of protein in urine aren't unusual either, particularly in younger people after exercise or during an illness. If a urinalysis shows you have protein in your urine, you might have a follow-up test that determines how much protein is present and whether it's a cause for concern.
Proteinuria is the name of a medical condition. It means protein is in the urine. As blood moves through the kidneys, the kidneys filter out waste products, excess fluid and salts. The clean blood cycles back through the body. Most proteins are too big to go through the kidneys, so usually no protein is found in urine. Proteinuria doesn't cause pain. But when a lot of protein is in the urine, the level of protein in the blood may go down. This can cause swelling in your child's eyelids, ankles and legs. High blood pressure is another sign of this problem.
What is proteinuria? 1  Proteinuria means you have protein in your urine. 2  The kidneys act as filters and keep protein in your body. 3  Protein in the urine may be an early sign that the kidney's filters have been damaged by disease, allowing protein to leak into the urine. 