1 If you purchase at one of HGVC's Club Resorts, you'll be enrolled in the HGVC program automatically (HGVC is essentially an exchange network that allows you to use your points to book at other resorts that are not your Home Resort). If you don't use all your Hilton Grand Vacations points, you can convert these to HHonors points. HHonors points are good for a number of fun perks like air travel and other extras. Click here to learn more about this program. HGVC is affiliated with RCI for external exchanges
U.S. Hotels. You can journey to anywhere in the U.S. from the east coast to the west coast and all along our borders with Canada and Mexico and of course over land and sea to Alaska and Hawaii. But wherever your travels take you, Travelocity can help make planning for the right hotel easy and convenient.
Hilton Grand Vacations Club Resales. Hilton has been a global leader in the hospitality/travel industry for over 85 years. Hilton Grand Vacations Club (HGVC) is one of the highest-regarded vacation clubs in the industry. HGVC combines innovation and ease to create a seamless process for acquiring vacation timeshare property. TimeshareBrokerServices.com is an HGVC reseller. Through our years of experience with Hilton, we have become experts in buying and selling Hilton timeshare. Working with an authorized reseller will offer both the buyer and seller expert guidance and a stress-free experience.
Whether you want to book the very thing on your deed, a different HGVC resort or a resort affiliated with RCI, you'll be dealing with HGVC to do so, and that's a good thing: by and large, all accounts seem to suggest that HGVC representatives are some of the best travel personnel around. From this point on, the process is governed by the Reservation Period (see below) you're working with; the Home Week Season, Club Season, or Open Season reservation period, if you're looking to go to an HGVC Club resort.
This article is intended to provide a potential HGVC owner with a general understanding of the Hilton Grand Vacation Club (HGVClub) system. Within this article, one will find benefits and rules that can be found inside of the Hilton Grand Vacation Club's annual member guide. These include club rules, points charts, season charts and current fees to date.
1 If your home resort is instead a Club Eligible resort, you'll have the option to join HGVC, but you'll have to do so before you can enjoy booking privileges at other Hilton resorts. 2  For a full list of both types of resorts, visit our Hilton timeshare resorts page. If you don't use all your Hilton Grand Vacations points, you can convert these to HHonors points. HHonors points are good for a number of fun perks like air travel and other extras. Click here to learn more about this program. HGVC is affiliated with RCI for external exchanges
You can book a free night for as few as 5,000 HHonors Points. To find out how many HHonors Points you need to get the room you want, book online or refer to the standard room hotel categories below. POINTS & MONEY REWARDS™. You can also book standard rooms using a combination of HHonors Points and money. HOW TO BOOK A REWARD STAY ExpandCollapse. To book your hotel reward stay, follow these simple steps. RESERVE YOUR REWARD STAY ONLINE. 1  In the reservations form above, check the box labeled “Use HHonors Points.”. 2  Fill in all the required fields. 3  Click the “Find” button to view hotel availability.
Note: The amount of HHonors Points required to redeem hotel rewards varies by hotel, room, booking date and length of stay. Availability of rewards varies by hotel and stay dates at the time of booking. Room Upgrade Rewards are not available for rooms booked with advanced purchase discounts. HOW TO BOOK A REWARD STAY ExpandCollapse. To book your hotel reward stay, follow these simple steps. RESERVE YOUR REWARD STAY ONLINE. 1  In the reservations form above, check the box labeled “Use HHonors Points.”. 2  Fill in all the required fields. 3  Click the “Find” button to view hotel availability.
1 You can still cancel your reservation at this time, but cancellation fees will apply (see below). 2  Changes can be made to your unit size/type, duration of stay, and the actual location/resort. 3  The fee for making changes is $49 if done online and $89 if done on the phone. From this point on, the process is governed by the Reservation Period (see below) you're working with; the Home Week Season, Club Season, or Open Season reservation period, if you're looking to go to an HGVC Club resort.