Directions. 1  Place okra in a sause pan and cover with water, and add lemon juice. 2  Add salt and pepper to taste. 3  Bring to boil. 4  Simmer for 8-10 minutes. 5  No longer! 6  The taste is great! 7  Not mushy, but not crisp at all. 8  I used the frozen, cut okra.
What To Do: 1  In a large saucepan, combine the water, okra, and salt; bring to a boil over high heat. 2  Allow to boil for 3 to 4 minutes, or until the okra is tender. 3  Drain then return the okra to the saucepan. 4  Add the butter and cook over low heat until the butter melts and coats the okra, stirring frequently.
Best Answer: You can cook it on high in the microwave for about 4 minutes, or boil it as suggested by the previous answer. But the best way to cook okra is to wash it, slice it, toss it in flour or corn meal, and then fry in peanut oil until it's golden-brown.
Cooking Times. The cooking times for fresh whole okra vary depending on the cooking method and type of dish you are making. As part of a stir-fry, whole okra takes between six and 12 minutes to cook. Steaming whole okra takes about five minutes, and it takes two to three minutes per side to grill it.
1 Place the okra and 2 tablespoons water in a microwave-safe casserole. 2  Cover the casserole and microwave on 100 percent power (high) for 4 to 6 minutes or until tender, stirring once. 3  Drain well and toss with a little butter, if desired. 4  Season to taste with salt and pepper.
1 Place okra in a sause pan and cover with water, and add lemon juice. 2  Add salt and pepper to taste. 3  Bring to boil. 4  Simmer for 8-10 minutes. 5  No longer! 6  The taste is great! 7  Not mushy, but not crisp at all.
2. Microwave the Okra. 1  Place the okra and 2 tablespoons water in a microwave-safe casserole. 2  Cover the casserole and microwave on 100 percent power (high) for 4 to 6 minutes or until tender, stirring once. 3  Drain well and toss with a little butter, if desired.
2. Cook the Okra. 1  Bring a small amount of lightly salted water to boiling in a saucepan. 2  Add the okra. 3  Cover the pan and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until tender. 4  Drain well and toss with a little butter, if desired. 5  Season to taste with salt and pepper.