1 Concealment (Ex): Synx have a +5 to all Hide checks. 2  Parasite Skin (Ex): Contact with a synx's skin will both eliminate all perception of pain and cause soft flesh to be eaten away. 3  Synx use this both in combat and to worm their way inside their hosts. 4  Extreme Flexibility (Ex): Synx can bend any way they please. 1 Synx take 1d4 damage per turn every turn that they are in direct contact with sunlight, decaying flesh, or plant matter. 2  Flesh Cloak (Ex): Synx can eat a creature, then regurgitate its remains, wearing it as protection against the sun or accidental contact with plants.
This article needs to be cleaned up to conform to WikiFur style and standards. Chimera Synx. Chimera Synx (or just Synx) is an artist whose fursona is a white, genderless parasitic creature called a foetus fortiscoda. Synx is mated to chimerabred. 
Much to the dismay of the more curious, the slightest bit of investigation or contact with a synx reveals none of that prior assessment to be true. At the center of their body extends two thick tentacles that have the proportions of legs, an illusion made more convincing when synx try and stand upon them. Most species have no idea how these animals breed, and if they did they would do everything they could to put a stop to it to circumvent the inevitable infestations. To casual observers, synx appear to be large, unnaturally white humanoids with low mobility.
~{Synx }~. A cold blooded, genderless, parasitic eel from the more distant and stranger areas of the cosmos. Plain, white, perpetually grinning and possessing a hunger as enthusiastic and endless as humanity's sense of exploration, these lovely animals are seen as a blight on all worlds they're found.
Originally coming from Morrowind, the Synx are an embattled race with royal blood pouring through their veins. Only a few remember when-or why-they went to Cyrodiil. Some people even say that they're descendants of Julianos, but that's probably just gossipry. The only thing that is written down about their prehistory is that the Synx once ruled their own territory in the southwest of Morrowind. 10/1/2011 uploaded a complete package and some optional eyes, there's a sample in the image section if you're interested. 9/19/2011 uploaded Update 2.2, which includes the hotfix and 17 new hairstyles (Cazy package). Thanks Cazy and ziitch! 9/12/2011 uploaded hotfix for the Ren_Head version.
And the complete disaster is auto sync, you connect ur phone or tablet to the computer and yeah it starts syncing ,you dont know syncing what files or where to. all that you wanted is to recharge the battery of ur device, now u r wondering whats the ... has just happened..... Thanks for the help. I just had one more quick question I am not currently receiving any email notifications for some reason even though I have them activated and it updates every 5 minutes and my auto-sync is on.
Re: Can someone give me an understanding of what Sync does. Thanks for the help. I just had one more quick question I am not currently receiving any email notifications for some reason even though I have them activated and it updates every 5 minutes and my auto-sync is on.
1 Nihilingual (Ex): Synx cannot learn languages. 2  Concealment (Ex): Synx have a +5 to all Hide checks. 3  Parasite Skin (Ex): Contact with a synx's skin will both eliminate all perception of pain and cause soft flesh to be eaten away. 4  Synx use this both in combat and to worm their way inside their hosts. 1 Synx take 1d4 damage per turn every turn that they are in direct contact with sunlight, decaying flesh, or plant matter. 2  Flesh Cloak (Ex): Synx can eat a creature, then regurgitate its remains, wearing it as protection against the sun or accidental contact with plants.
1 A synx's base land speed is 10 feet. 2  Natural Weapons: Synx have two claw attacks, dealing 1d6 damage each, as their primary natural weapon, and one bite, dealing 1d8, as their secondary. 3  Synx take 1d4 damage per turn every turn that they are in direct contact with sunlight, decaying flesh, or plant matter. 1 Synx take 1d4 damage per turn every turn that they are in direct contact with sunlight, decaying flesh, or plant matter. 2  Flesh Cloak (Ex): Synx can eat a creature, then regurgitate its remains, wearing it as protection against the sun or accidental contact with plants.