“I am so glad that there is now a Secretariat.com where everyone can learn all there is to know about my hero and share each others’ memories and recollections. The Secretariat legacy is an amazing gift to horse lovers of every kind. Helen (Penny) Chenery, renowned for the last four decades as the key owner of the great horse Secretariat, has been selected Honor Guest of the Thoroughbred Club of America’s 81st annual Testimonial Dinner, Club president Julie Cauthen announced today.
Content preferences. If American Pharoah takes Saturday's Belmont Stakes and win horse racing's Triple Crown, he won't measure up to the likes of Affirmed, War Admiral or Secretariat – so says Penny Chenery, owner of Secretariat. View photo. Penny Chenery reacts after Secretariat won the Triple Crown in 1973.
I have known Penny Chenery for almost 40 years, not as far back as the Kentucky Derby year of Riva Ridge, but all the way back to the early days of Secretariat as a 3-year-old. I know Chenery well enough to know that chamber music is one of her favorite sounds. 
As Penny Chenery's youngest son, I am fascinated by Secretariat's reception by critics, and the dialogue between Ebert and O'Hehir is to me the most interesting so far. But Ebert is right that there is something more -- and something better -- at work in the movie than simply airbrushing over painful truth. My mother has always known that the Secretariat story, and her role in it, filled a deep cultural need.
She also gained national attention when Secretariat became the first Triple Crown winner in 25 years in 1973. Penny Chenery has received several awards along with Martha F. Gery and Allaire du Pont, the three women who were first admitted to The Jockey Club in 1983. From 1976 to 1984, she served as the President of the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association.
Please try again later. Penny Chenery, the 91-year-old owner of Secretariat, granted an exclusive interview last week to Arapahoe Park, the racetrack near where she lives in Boulder, Colorado, in honor of the 40th anniversary of Secretariat's Triple Crown.
Penny Chenery's net worth is $10 million dollars. Born in New Rochelle, New York, Penny Chenery, also known as Helen Bates Chenery Tweedy, was raised in Virginia, and grew up around horses. Her family owned the celebrated Meadow Farm, a thoroughbred racing and horse-breeding farm. 
I understand O'Hehir's perception of something relentlessly, indeed forcedly, upbeat about the story, perhaps masking a troubling reality underneath. The movie does, indeed, glamorize and improve on my family's situation in the early 1970s, as it sanitizes the cultural context of that era. But Ebert is right that there is something more -- and something better -- at work in the movie than simply airbrushing over painful truth. My mother has always known that the Secretariat story, and her role in it, filled a deep cultural need.