Hazardous radioactive waste is produced by nuclear power generation in the US, and no accepted permanent storage solution for this waste currently exists. High-level waste is currently in temporary storage that is designed to be effective for only a small percentage of the radioactive lifetime of said waste.
Plans to store the majority of our nation’s spent nuclear fuel and other highly radioactive waste at a central repository underneath Yucca Mountain in the Nevada desert 80 miles from Las Vegas were first hatched in the mid-1980s.
In fact, only 8 of the nuclear waste elements have isotopes which are of radioactive concern after 50 years.Of those, only 3 of the 15 Rare Earths in nuclear waste are detectably radioactive after 50 years (Promethium, Gadolinium, and Terbium).
The commission is charged with recommending safe, long-term options for storage, processing, and disposal of civilian and military spent nuclear fuel from power plants and high-level radioactive waste. The focus is on finding an alternative to Yucca Mountain, which would have stored 70,000 metric tons of nuclear waste.
Spent nuclear fuel was only intended to be stored at the reactor site for 3-5 years while it was cooled in storage pools. The U.S. follows a once-through nuclear fuel cycle strategy which creates a constantly increasing inventory of spent nuclear fuel in wet storage at reactor sites.
Radioactive (or nuclear) waste is a byproduct from nuclear reactors, fuel processing plants, hospitals and research facilities. Radioactive waste is also generated while decommissioning and dismantling nuclear reactors and other nuclear facilities. There are two broad classifications: high-level or low-level waste.
Used Nuclear Fuel Storage. Used nuclear fuel is stored at the nation's nuclear power plants in steel-lined, concrete pools or basins filled with water or in massive, airtight steel or concrete-and-steel canisters.
High-level radioactive waste primarily is uranium fuel that has been used in a nuclear power reactor and is spent, or no longer efficient in producing electricity. Spent fuel is thermally hot as well as highly radioactive and requires remote handling and shielding.
High-level waste is full of highly radioactive fission products, most of which are relatively short-lived. This is a concern since if the waste is stored, perhaps in deep geological storage, over many years the fission products decay, decreasing the radioactivity of the waste and making the plutonium easier to access.