What does the word “woe” mean? It is a judgment or an emotional response to something? What’s the biblical definition of what the “woe” mentioned is Scripture.
The Term “Woe”. The word “woe” is often used to express grief, regret, misfortune or grievous distress stated from such a great affliction of some sort or being in such trouble that an escape out of it seems impossible.
The medieval word betide, meaning ‘to happen’, comes from the same source as tide, and these days is mainly found in the phrase woe betide, a light-hearted warning that a person will be in trouble if they do a particular thing.
Woe is my crew. It stands for 'working on excellence.' It's just my whole brand and my whole movement and my way of life for everyone. I want everyone to work on excellence. So, all my friends are my Woes and I feel anybody working on excellence in life is a Woe in life as well..
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: woe (Noun). grief; sorrow; misery; heavy calamity. Origin: From wo, wei, wa, from wa, from wai, whence also German weh, Old High German wē, Old Norse vei.
The context is always king when this word is used. The Hebrew word for woe is “howy” and essentially means the very same thing as it does when used in the New Testament. Jesus used the word woe more than anyone else in the Bible.
By Zara Golden. Drake is not shy about exercising his heartache and despair in his music. Accordingly, the hook from Know Yourself— running through the 6 with my woes— might well conjour an image of Sad Aubrey riding through his hometown at 5 AM, replaying old voicemails, or something of that sort.
The word “woe” in the Greek is “ouai” and is more than just an expression of a feeling. Woe is a judgment as we read in the Book of Revelation (chapters 8. 9, 11, and 12).
sorrow implies a sense of loss or a sense of guilt and remorse. grief implies poignant sorrow for an immediate cause. anguish suggests torturing grief or dread. woe is deep or inconsolable grief or misery. regret implies pain caused by deep disappointment, fruitless longing, or unavailing remorse.