Add marigolds to sunny beds and borders. Plant marigolds with both sun-loving annuals and perennials in your garden. Marigolds combine well with lavenders, salvias or sages, cosmos, daylilies, coreopsis, and nasturtium. Marigolds are incredibly easy-going and reliable under a wide range of growing conditions.
The marigold is an annual flower that blooms so well over a long season that they're a mainstay of gardeners everywhere. Annuals Image Gallery. Description: American marigolds (T. erecta) can be tall plants, growing up to 36 inches high, though breeding has produced shorter heights. Marigold is an annual flower that blooms well over a long season. American marigolds can be tall, up to 36 inches. French marigolds, or triploids, are bushier and more compact.
Marigolds (Tagetes spp.) include both hardy annuals and perennials that require little care. These flowers range in size from 6 inches to 6 feet tall with flower color ranging from pale yellow to orange, gold and a brownish-maroon. Marigolds are easily propagated from seed that germinate within a few days in warm soil. You can start seeds indoors and transplant them outdoors after danger of frost if you want earlier-blooming flowers. You can grow marigolds as perennials in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 9 through 11.
Bright yellow, gold and orange-red blooms of marigolds (Tagetes spp.) populate gardens from Mexico to India and across the United States. Marigolds are subtropical plants known for their hardiness, and are used in garden beds, cut flower arrangements and container plantings. Definitions. Annuals are plants with a life cycle that completes within one growing season, typically less than one year, and ending with fall's first frost. Conversely, perennials complete multiple life cycles over many years. Common garden marigolds are annuals, but because they self-sow, sometimes they are mistakenly identified as perennials. Even in regions with mild winters free of frost, marigolds grow as annuals, with bloom development fading in fall. Of the perennial marigolds, you're only likely to find three species available
Marigold Life Span. Marigolds are annuals, returning to seed at the end of the growing season when temperatures begin to dip. Often, the seeds left behind will begin to grow again the next season, making the flower appear to be perennial, but there is no guarantee this will happen. The French marigold is generally around or under 1 foot tall with flowers that are about 2 inches across. These two groups have been cross-bred to create a third group called the triploids. Triploids can grow a little taller than 1 foot high and have flowers
Owning a landscaping company I get people who have conflicting information all of the time. The last one was Marigolds are a perennial. A perennial is a plant that comes back after a winter dormancy. Annuals return from seeds. I told them I don't know of any perennial Marigolds. They insisted that their father planted them and they came back every year. I haven't looked to see if I could find a perennial. I thought I would bring the issue to MyLot first to see what results that I get.
Annual, Tagetas Ercta, Tagetas Patula. Marigold plants are a very prolific, easy to grow annual flower. Kids love 'em and adults love 'em. Marigold flowers are available in a variety of colors, including white, yellow, orange, red and mixed colors. Marigold Flowers will bloom from mid-summer all the way until frost. 
Types of Marigolds. There are numerous varieties of marigolds, but most can be broken down into three major groups. The African marigold varieties can grow up to 3 feet tall and have flowers that are 3 1/2 inches across. The French marigold is generally around or under 1 foot tall with flowers that are about 2 inches across. These two groups have been cross-bred to create a third group called the triploids. Triploids can grow a little taller than 1 foot high and have flowers about 2 inches across.
Mexican tarragon (Tagetes lucida), Lemmon's marigold (Tagetes lemmonii) and mountain marigold (Tagetes palmeri) are three species of perennial marigolds, which generally grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 and above. Definitions. Annuals are plants with a life cycle that completes within one growing season, typically less than one year, and ending with fall's first frost. Conversely, perennials complete multiple life cycles over many years. Common garden marigolds are annuals, but because they self-sow, sometimes they are mistakenly identified as perennials. Even in regions with mild winters free of frost, marigolds grow as annuals, with bloom development fading in fall. Of the perennial marigolds, you're only likely to find three species availabl