On Location. The movie was filmed on location in California and Oregon. Locations used include Goat Rock State Beach, CA; Astoria, OR and Cannon Beach, OR. One Eyed Willy s cave and the Fratelli s restaurant were movie sets, not real places.
Data (Jonathan Ke Quan) lives a mere zipwire away, next door at 304 38th Street. These are private homes so please be respectful of residents. The Goonies location: Mikey’s dad works at ‘Astoria Historical Museum’: Flavel House Museum, 8th Street, Astoria. Photograph: wikimedia / Visitor7. Mikey’s dad works in Astoria itself at the Flavel House Museum, 441 8th Street, at Duane Street. 
The Goonies is a 1985 American adventure comedy film directed by Richard Donner. The screenplay was written by Chris Columbus from a story by executive producer Steven Spielberg. The film's premise features a band of pre-teens who live in the Goon Docks neighborhood of Astoria, Oregon attempting to save their homes from demolition, and in doing so, discover an old Spanish map that leads them on an adventure to unearth the long-lost fortune of One-Eyed Willy, a legendary 17th-century pirate.
The movie is set in Astoria, Oregon, a city about 2 hours northwest of Portland. Astoria is beautiful, with its bluffs overlooking the mouth of the Columbia River, charming streets and a historic Column. The city is definitely worth a visit, but when you add the Goonies film locations, the city becomes more of a pilgrimage than a day trip.
Results 1 to 5 of 6... Page of 2 [Next 1 items]. Astoria, Oregon-Goonies in the Boonies Goonies Movie Location: Astoria, Oregon is not only the former canning capital of the world but also has a claim to fame as a movie location for many scenes in the 80's kid adventure film The Goonies. [05/26/2010] Complete Story... 
This classic adventure movie from the mid-1980s has reached cult status among those who were kids at the time of its original release. Consequently, Warner Bros. is currently working on The Goonies 2, a sequel that reunites the movie's cast for another adventure fifteen years later. The original movie was shot in northwestern Oregon, Northern California, and Southern California. 
Goonies Day is recognized every year on June 7 in Astoria, Oregon!Celebrate beloved film, The Goonies, in the town it was filmed – Astoria, Oregon! As a part of the Goonies 25th Anniversary Celebration in 2010, Mayor Willis Van Dusen declared June 7 to be officially recognized as Goonies Day. June 7, 2015 marks the 30th Anniversary of The Goonies movie release, and Warner Brothers and the community of Astoria have partnered to make this year the biggest and best celebration yet. Filmed in 1985 before studio sets and green screens were the standard, the beloved cult-classic made iconic la.
(The building was later converted into the Oregon Film Museum, which opened on the 25th anniversary of The Goonies with memorabilia from this and other local films.) The museum where Mikey's father works is, in reality, the Captain George Flavel House Museum. The Walsh family home is a real home at 368 38th Street. The film's premise features a band of pre-teens who live in the Goon Docks neighborhood of Astoria, Oregon attempting to save their homes from demolition, and in doing so, discover an old Spanish map that leads them on an adventure to unearth the long-lost fortune of One-Eyed Willy, a legendary 17th-century pirate.
+ Pee-Wee Herman and Michael Jackson visited the set. The Goonies set was apparently the hottest place in town. Pee-wee Herman, Dan Aykroyd, Harrison Ford, and Michael Jackson (“He was basically part of the cast,” Feldman said) were among the big stars to visit the set during filming. “It was like we had the coolest set on the lot,” remembered Feldman.