This is a list of culinary herbs and spices. Specifically these are food or drink additives of mostly botanical origin used in nutritionally insignificant quantities for flavoring or coloring. 
Types of Herbs. It can seem overwhelming when looking at all the herbs there are to choose from to grow. A simple way to narrow them down is to categorize the herbs based on their uses. Culinary, medicinal and ornamental herbs all have their place in herb garden
Herbs are items used to make potions with the Herblore skill. There are many herbs, each of which have a clean and grimy form. Herbs must be clean to be used in potions. Players can clean grimy herbs, provided that they have the minimum required Herblore level. The required Herblore level to clean herbs varies from one type of herb to another.
Herbs and Pregnancy. Although medicine has replaced most natural supplements with a synthetic substitute, there are many who still look to natural herbs and vitamins to provide essential nutrition and relief of common discomforts for pregnant women. Here we examine herbs in relation to pregnancy. Some herbal products may contain agents that are contraindicated in pregnancy. Herbs may contain substances that can cause miscarriage, premature birth, uterine contractions, or injury to the fetus. Few studies have been done to measure the effects of various herbs on pregnant women or fetuses.
Herbs and Spices – their Uses and Benefits. Get familiar with the different types of herbs and spices. Discover how you can benefit from them in your daily life. Herbs and spices are nature’s precious gift to mankind. Herbal plants have also been highly valued for the natural remedies they provide. Many have faith in herbal health benefits and use them knowingly.
Herbs are widely used today, in teas, vitamins and natural supplements. While the benefits of herbal medicine are vast, it is important to understand the basis of herbal medicine and to recognize that some herbs can have negative impacts on health. Herbs have played a major part in medicine for thousands of years. Every culture and every medicinal system, from Ayurveda to Traditional Chinese Medicine, have used herbs for therapeutic purposes. There are thousands of herbs with thousands of different uses, many of which are used in conventional medicine as well as for natural remedies
In general use, herbs are any plants used for food, flavoring, medicine, or perfume. Culinary use typically distinguishes herbs from spices. Herbs can be perennials such as thyme or lavender, biennials such as parsley, or annuals like basil. Perennial herbs can be shrubs such as rosemary, Rosmarinus officinalis, or trees such as bay laurel, Laurus nobilis – this contrasts with botanical herbs, which by definition cannot be woody plants.
Herbs refer to the leafy green parts of a plant (either fresh or dried), while a  spice  is a product from another part of the plant (usually dried), including seeds, berries, bark, roots and fruits. In American botanical English the word herb is also used as a synonym of  herbaceous plant . Herbs can be perennials such as thyme or lavender, biennials such as parsley, or annuals like basil. Perennial herbs can be shrubs such as rosemary, Rosmarinus officinalis, or trees such as bay laurel, Laurus nobilis – this contrasts with botanical herbs, which by definition cannot be woody plants.
Culinary herbs are distinguished from vegetables in that, like spices, they are used in small amounts and provide flavor rather than substance to food. Herbs can be perennials such as thyme or lavender, biennials such as parsley, or annuals like basil. Perennial herbs can be shrubs such as rosemary, Rosmarinus officinalis, or trees such as bay laurel, Laurus nobilis – this contrasts with botanical herbs, which by definition cannot be woody plants.