Alkali feldspar granite-a granitoid in which at least 90% of the total feldspar is in the form of alkali feldspar. Anorthosite-an intrusive igneous felsic rock composed predominantly of plagioclase. Aplite-a very fine grained intrusive igneous rock composed of quartz and feldspar. Basalt-a volcanic rock of mafic composition. Adakite-a class of basaltic rocks containing low amounts of yttrium and ytterbium. Hawaiite-a class of basalts formed from ocean island (hot spot) magmatism.
Granite is a coarse-grained, light-colored igneous rock composed mainly of feldspars and quartz with minor amounts of mica and amphibole minerals. This simple definition enables students to easily identify the rock based upon a visual inspection. This chart illustrates the generalized mineral composition of igneous rocks. Granites and rhyolites (compositionally equivalent to granite but of a fine grain size) are composed mainly of orthoclase feldspar, quartz, plagioclase feldspar, mica and amphibole.
Granite is a light-colored igneous rock with grains large enough to be visible with the unaided eye. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals. This mineral composition usually gives granite a red, pink, gray or white color with dark mineral grains visible throughout the rock. Granite is the best-known igneous rock. This chart illustrates the generalized mineral composition of igneous rocks. Granites and rhyolites (compositionally equivalent to granite but of a fine grain size) are composed mainly of orthoclase feldspar, quartz, plagioclase feldspar, mica and amphibole.
Granite consists of quartz (gray), plagioclase feldspar (white) and alkali feldspar (beige) plus dark minerals, in this case biotite and hornblende. (more below). Granite is used by the public as a catch-all name for any light-colored, coarse-grained igneous rock. The geologist examines these in the field and calls them granitoids pending laboratory tests. The key to true granite is that it contains sizable amounts of quartz and both kinds of feldspar
Gabbro is a coarse-grained, dark colored, intrusive igneous rock that contains feldspar, pyroxene and sometimes olivine. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Obsidian is a dark-colored volcanic glass that forms from the very rapid cooling of molten rock material. Igneous rocks are formed from the solidification of molten rock material. There are two basic types. Intrusive igneous rocks crystallize below Earth's surface and the slow cooling that occurs there allows large crystals to form. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite. Extrusive igneous rocks erupt onto the surface where they cool quickly to form small crystals. Some cool so quickly that they form an amorphous glass
Granite differs from granodiorite in that at least 35% of the feldspar in granite is alkali feldspar as opposed to plagioclase; it is the potassium feldspar that gives many granites a distinctive pink color. A granite containing both muscovite and biotite micas is called a binary or two-mica granite. Two-mica granites are typically high in potassium and low in plagioclase, and are usually S-type granites or A-type granites.
These rocks include andesite, basalt, obsidian, pumice, rhyolite, scoria, and tuff. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common igneous rock types are shown on this page. Diorite is a coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock that contains a mixture of feldspar, pyroxene, hornblende and sometimes quartz. Igneous rocks are formed from the solidification of molten rock material. There are two basic types. Intrusive igneous rocks crystallize below Earth's surface and the slow cooling that occurs there allows large crystals to form. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite. Extrusive igneous rocks erupt onto the surface where they cool quickly to form small crystals. Some cool so quickly that they form an amorphous glass
On the other hand an Intrusive igneous rock cools very slowly beneath the surface and is created by magma. Since the cooling process is very slow intrusive igneous rocks have very large crystals (coarse grained). In some instances there is also a third type of igneous rock. Technically it is an extrusive rock, but it resembles glass. This glass type of igneous rock forms when magma/lava is instantly cooled. An Igneous rock is the product of cooled solidified magma/lava. As magma/lava cools it goes through the process of crystallization which turns it into an igneous rock. The amount of time it takes for an igneous rock to form depends on its location and its composition.
Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy A granite containing both muscovite and biotite micas is called a binary or two-mica granite. Two-mica granites are typically high in potassium and low in plagioclase, and are usually S-type granites or A-type granites.