The first step is to open the iPad's settings. This is accomplished through the Settings app, which is the app icon that looks like gears turning. On the left-hand side of the settings, choose the General settings and scroll down the page until you see Reset. This is the last option in the general settings. 
How to restore your iPhone or iPad to new with iTunes. 1  Plug in your iPhone or iPad and launch iTunes. 2  Click on the iPhone or iPad icon if you aren't there already. 3  Click on Restore iPhone... or Restore iPad... in the Summary section. 4  Choose whether or not you'd like to back up settings before restoring. 1 Click on Restore iPhone... or Restore iPad... in the Summary section. 2  Choose whether or not you'd like to back up settings before restoring. 3  If you're backing up to iCloud already, you can choose note to. 4  If you're syncing to iTunes, absolutely choose to back up your settings.
iPad recovery mode. With the iPad powered off, press and hold the Home button, connect the USB cable from PC/Mac to iPad. Continue holding the Home button until you see the Connect to iTunes screen, then release the Home button. Open up iTunes to see iPad in recovery mode. You can use iTunes to update or restore iPad software. If you update, the iPad software is updated. Your downloaded applications, settings, and data aren't affected. Note: In some cases, an update may also include restoring iPad.
How to restart. 1  Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears. 2  Drag the slider to turn your device completely off. 3  After the device turns off, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo. How to force restart. You should force restart your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch as a last resort, and only if it's not responding. To force restart your device, press and hold both the Sleep/Wake and Home buttons for at least ten seconds,
1 Select your iPhone, iPad, or iPod when it appears in iTunes. 2  In the Summary panel, click Restore. 3  Click Restore again to confirm that you want to restore your device to factory settings and delete all data and content. iTunes will download the device software file and restore your device. Use iTunes to restore your iPhone, iPad, or iPod to factory settings. When you restore your iOS device or iPod to factory settings, you'll also install the latest version of software.
Follow these instructions to restore: 1. Open iTunes on your computer. 2. Connect the iPad to your computer with the USB cable. 3. Your iPad should appear in iTunes in the left menu under DEVICES. Select the iPad. 4. Click the Summary tab in the main window of iTunes. 5. If you wish, backup data on the iPad before restoring by clicking the Sync button.
Step 3. Connect the iPad to the computer while holding down the Home button to turn on the iPad. Step 4. Release the Home button when you see a message that says, Connect to iTunes.. Step 5. Launch iTunes. iTunes will alert you that it detects a device in Recovery Mode. Step 6. Click OK and click Restore to reset the iPad.
Reboot Your IPad. To reset an iPad, hold the Sleep/Wake button for several seconds until the power slider appears on the screen. Drag the slider across the screen to shut the iPad off. After the screen goes dark, hold Sleep/Wake for several seconds to restart your tablet. If your iPad is frozen and won't display the power slider, hold both the Sleep/Wake and Home buttons for 10 seconds to force the system to restart.
Reset to Factory Settings. When you run into major system glitches on iOS 7 or iOS 8, or want to clear your data before selling an iPad, open the Settings app, tap Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings.. Alternatively, click Restore on the iPad's information page in iTunes. Drag the slider across the screen to shut the iPad off. After the screen goes dark, hold Sleep/Wake for several seconds to restart your tablet. If your iPad is frozen and won't display the power slider, hold both the Sleep/Wake and Home buttons for 10 seconds to force the system to restart.
Restore your device. 1  Connect your device to your computer using the cable that came with it. 2  Select your iPhone, iPad, or iPod when it appears in iTunes. 3  In the Summary panel, click Restore. Use iTunes to restore your iPhone, iPad, or iPod to factory settings. When you restore your iOS device or iPod to factory settings, you'll also install the latest version of software.