answer: When you are pressure canning you put about 3 quarts water in before your jars. When you place your jars the water will come about half way up your jars or possibly to the shoulders. For some items that have a really long processing time (corn and meats) I will start with 4 quarts of water instead of 3.
1 Put the filled jars, with lids and rings on, onto the canner rack and use the handles to lower the rack into the water. 2  Or you may fill the canner, one jar at a time, with a jar lifter. 3  Obviously, you'd need to be quick, or the first jar could be in the bath for substantially longer than the last jar you add.
The jars sit in the danger temperature zone for too long. You want them to cool off so they can get a good vacuum seal, too. Also, some people get the lids of the pressure canner stuck on and it will not come off ! If you reheat the canner to do it, then the jars come unsealed and you have lost your food, anyway.
You can do a search for yourself if you want to see it. .....remove jars from canner and place on cooling racks. When jars have sealed and are cool, remove rings and store in a cool, dark place. Never leave processed jars in pressure canner overnight.
Remove the jars from the canner and place them on a kitchen towel. If you’ve boiled out most of your water from the bottom of the pot, pour the contents of the jars back into the canner. If your water level looks good, dump the water from the jars out into the sink. Fill the jars with the prepared beans.
When done, turn off heat and remove lid from canner. Use your jar lifter to remove the jars and place them on a towel without tipping or tilting them. If there is water on the lid leave it there. It will evaporate or you can gently wipe it with the paper towel once the jars have cooled.
Water Bath Processing When you are ready to fill the jars you will set up your area. Remove the hot jars from the canner or dishwasher and set them on your towel. Using your jar lifter pour out any water in the jar. Place your funnel on the jar and fill with the recipe.
Now you will return your jars to the water bath using your jar lifter. The water will be at a simmer but not boiling. Place the jars, without tilting them in the canner making sure that the rack is on the bottom.
1 TURN off the heat once the time is up, remove canner lid but leave jars inside canner for a further 5 minutes. 2  REMOVE jars from canner using the jar lifter/tongs, and place immediately onto a clean towel-covered bench overnight to seal.
1 After the canner is depressurized, remove the weight from the vent port. 2  Wait 2 minutes, unfasten the lid, and remove it carefully. 3  Lift the lid away from you so that the steam does not burn your face. 4  Leave jars in canner for 10 minutes. 5  Remove jars with a lifter, and place on towel or cooling rack, if desired.