Netafim Drip Irrigation is simply another method of applying water to your garden. In terms of its purpose, it is no different to the conventional way of irrigation or overhead sprinklers. Netafim Techline pipe is not simply just a pipe with lots of holes in. It is ongoing technology being developed by Netafim over the past 50 years. Each hole in the pipe has a pressure compensating dripper specifically and sonically welded into place at accurate intervals.
(April 2014). An Emitter or dripper in action. ' Drip irrigation, is an irrigation method that saves water and fertilizer by allowing water to drip slowly to the roots of plants, either onto the soil surface or directly onto the root zone, through a network of valves, pipes, tubing, and emitters. 
This Division Entire Site. With more than 40 years of experience in drip irrigation for demanding agricultural applications, Netafim has also been pioneering innovations in drip irrigation for the landscape industry. 
Below is an illustration of how Netafim Drip Irrigation overcomes these problems and can feed the plants their necessary water requirements without wasting any. The Netafim Techline pipes are laid in a grid format on the ground of the landscaped area, and apply the water directly to the root zone of the plants. From here nature does the rest of the work by moving the applied water throughout the soil by means of gravity and capillary action. Netafim Techline pipe is not simply just a pipe with lots of holes in. It is ongoing technology being developed by Netafim over the past 50 years. Each hole in the pipe has a pressure compensating dripper specifically and sonically welded into place at accurate intervals.
Netafim™ is an Israeli pioneer of drip and micro-irrigation products for agriculture, greenhouse, landscape and mining applications. Concurrently, Netafim is launching a low pressure irrigation system that offers a solution for areas where water pressure and/or electrical infrastructure do not permit using high pressure systems. This development will facilitate introduction of the drip irrigation systems into additional agricultural area
Netafim holds an over-30% share of the global drip irrigation market, and is recognized as the world-leading provider of drippers and dripperlines. The company recorded revenues of over $800 million in 2014. Concurrently, Netafim is launching a low pressure irrigation system that offers a solution for areas where water pressure and/or electrical infrastructure do not permit using high pressure systems. This development will facilitate introduction of the drip irrigation systems into additional agricultural areas
Benefits of a Netafim drip/micro irrigation watering system include: 1  The superior performance of Netafim products mean traditional sprinklers can no longer compete. 2  Our products apply a slow, steady application of water to your plants ensuring vigorous growth. Netafim USA's Greenhouse and Nursery Division offers a comprehensive line of quality products for all your Greenhouse and Nursery applications.
We stock a full array of Netafim drip and micro irrigation parts for low-volume irrigation systems. Find a large drip selection from techline tubing, filters, low volume control zone kits, and micro irrigation emitters. Netafim drip irrigation has more than 45 years of experience in agricultural drip irrigation and 20 years of pioneering new innovations in the landscape drip industry. You can trust Netafim to be the drip irrigation authority with high quality products. 
Dragon-Line products utilize Netafim™ brand drip products for Precision Mobile Drip Irrigation (PMDI™). The efficiency of drip irrgation with the economics of pivot irrigation, a set of placement of drip tubing that drags behind the pivot, in precise row placement. 