How Much Lysine Do Horses Need? The NRC estimates that the daily lysine needs of mature 1,100 pound horses range from 23 grams for idle horses to 46 grams for horses in intense work. Growing horses have the greatest need for quality protein. For foals and weanlings up to one year, feed 2 scoops (6 grams l-lysine) per day. Feed mature horses 1 to 3 scoops daily, depending upon activity. Broodmares, breeding stallions, horses in heavy training or competition: 2 to 3 scoops daily.
Lysine, methionine, and threonine are the most important amino acids that must be provided in equine rations. Diets for young horses need to include sufficient lysine to support growth and development. The protein in mare's milk is a rich source of lysine, as is the soybean meal included in some concentrates. 
Location: SAN DIEGO, California. L-Lysine is an amino acid. Amino acids are the building blocks of protein. L-Lysine is important in metabolism, a healthy nervous system and proper immune function. A well functioning immune system can prevent disease and boost overall health. Protein forms the skin and hair coat, builds muscle and strengthens bones and ligaments
L-Lysine is a necessary building block for all protein in the body. L-Lysine plays a major role in calcium absorption; building muscle protein; recovering from surgery or sports injuries; and the body's production of hormones, enzymes, and antibodies. 04-18-2013, 01:49 PM. 
If you need Lysine really depends on the horses diet. I was told that you need roughly 30g, not in work, and maybe about 35gm, in work. So how much you give all depends on how much is in your guys diet already. Check the bag and test the hay. I am feeding Tri-Amino (Lysine, Methionine, Threonine) to two horses. One horse has had no diet changes except adding Tri-Amino and the other horse has had the quantity of concentrate reduced but is being treated for ulcers.
Lysine is one of the 20 amino acids essential to horses, but often is the most deficient in their diets due to its inadequate levels in commonly-fed cereal grains. Amino acids are the building blocks of protein, which form muscle, enzymes, and hormones throughout the body. Horses can only use them if all essential amino acids are present at sufficient levels. If one amino acid, such as lysin.
Pure Lysine contains only pure l-lysine HCl, a super-concentrated source of the essential amino acid most often deficient in horses’ diets. According to the National Research Council, “Inadequate protein or lysine intake results in decreased growth and development of young animals. 
Lysine is an essential amino acid for horses. In cats and humans, lysine supplementation has been prescribed for the treatment of herpesvirus infections, which can cause keratitis (inflammation of the cornea of the eye) or dermatitis. L-lysine supplementation may be beneficial for at-risk horses that have been exposed during an EHV-1 outbreak. The replacement of arginine by lysine in cells is gradual, and lysine supplementation is less likely to be effective in horses that are already showing clinical signs of neurologic disease. References:
As you may know, proteins are substances constructed of amino acids. Your horse is actually made up of different protein compounds, especially in the hair, hooves, muscle tissue, and blood. While your horse is not only made up of proteins, it also needs proteins to live a healthy life. Some amino acids the animal can make on its own while others need to be ingested via the horse s feed. Obviously you do not want to completely base your horse s nutrition on soybean meal alone, yet as a part of a balanced nutritional regimen it is a most valuable ingredient. Of course, your job of providing a good nutritional protocol has been made considerably easier by the ability to supplement amino acids to the feed.
In horses, a dose of 15 grams of L-lysine by mouth every 12 hours has been suggested for EHV-1 infections. L-lysine supplementation may be beneficial for at-risk horses that have been exposed during an EHV-1 outbreak. The replacement of arginine by lysine in cells is gradual, and lysine supplementation is less likely to be effective in horses that are already showing clinical signs of neurologic disease. References: