Size. The average body length of adult rats is 9 to 11 inches, plus a tail of 7 to 9 inches, according to the American Fancy Rat and Mouse Association. Your pet rat could grow to be up to 20 inches long from nose tip to tail tip. In rare instances, an adult male pet rat might grow to weigh 2 lbs. The rat's body can compress to allow it to access small spaces -- an opening the size of a quarter in your wall or near a pipe will allow a rat to enter your home.
Rats are typically distinguished from mice by their size. Generally, when someone discovers a large muroid rodent, its common name includes the term rat, while if it is smaller, the name includes the term mouse. The muroid family is broad and complex, and the common terms rat and mouse are not taxonomically specific. 
A giant rat recently spotted in Dublin was estimated to be two feet long (600mm) from head to tail! Most scientists, however, measure the length of rats using the head and body, excluding the tail. Under that measurement we reckon that “monster” rats are about 307mm long. 
The brown rat is a rather large true murid and can weigh twice as much as a black rat and many times more than a house mouse. The length is commonly in the range of 20 to 25 cm (8 to 10 in), with the tail a further 18 to 25 cm (7 to 10 in), thus being roughly the same length as the body. The brown rat, also referred to as common rat, street rat, sewer rat, Hanover rat, Norway rat, brown Norway rat, Norwegian rat, or wharf rat (Rattus norvegicus) is one of the best known and most common rats.
rats can get pretty big my weighed around twelve ounces and was about 17 inches long full grown so and it depends on what kinda of rat. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: ThePrism Group. 283,332 Contributions. WE WILL MEET AGAIN IN A PLACE WHERE THERE IS NO DARKNESS. 1 How to Get Rid of Rats in the Home Discovering the presence of rats in the home can be very upsetting, especially in homes with children or elderly individuals who might be more susceptible to the diseases tha…. 2  The Big Steel Keg: Looks Cool, Stays Hot Picture a standard grill.
Giant rats the size of sheep could walk the earth according to scientists [GETTY]. Giant rodents that can grow to 12-and-a-half stone could walk the earth as they take advantage of larger mammals becoming extinct. Experts have said that the terrifying vision can already be seen on “rat islands” - isolated regions of the earth where rats introduced by humans are now the dominant species. RATS that are bigger than sheep and weigh as much as the average Briton could happen, according to a terrifying vision unveiled by scientists today.
Pet rats come in many different types, if it is a fancy rat, the most common one that is at most pet stores, they can get to be fairly big, but mostly they will only get to 1 … foot. However, if you get a blue, dumbo, or bluedunbo rat, they will grow to be half the size of a fancy rat. 1 How to Get Rid of Rats in the Home Discovering the presence of rats in the home can be very upsetting, especially in homes with children or elderly individuals who might be more susceptible to the diseases tha…. 2  The Big Steel Keg: Looks Cool, Stays Hot Picture a standard grill.
A quarter is just under an inch in diameter (0.96 inches). Not all rats can fit through a hole the size of a quarter. Large rats and overweight rats are too big. But some rats are small enough to fit through -- especially juvenile rats. The smallest diameter hole a small rat might fit through is an important consideration when rat-proofing an outdoor structure against wild rats, and when choosing a cage which will house baby rats. These myths may come from the observation that rats can fit through some surprisingly small holes, and that a fleeing rat moves with an extraordinarily fast, fluid gait. A rat may appear to swarm along the bottom of a wall and wriggle like an eel through a small hole.
How are rats getting into the restaurant-Rats get into restaurants the same way they get into any other building-via open holes on the outside of the building. How are rats getting into the shed-Most sheds aren't terribly well sealed, and clearly so of they can get into the shed easily. How are rats getting into the walls-They get into walls very easily, as they can squirm though any tight spot in a building. 
Rats grow to be much larger than mice, and their tails can be nearly as long as their bodies. Rats include a great number of both domesticated and wild species. The rat's species affects the ultimate size of a rat. Your pet rat could grow to be up to 20 inches long from nose tip to tail tip. In rare instances, an adult male pet rat might grow to weigh 2 lbs. The rat's body can compress to allow it to access small spaces -- an opening the size of a quarter in your wall or near a pipe will allow a rat to enter your home.