LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a maiden name is the surname or birth name a woman has before she marries and takes her husband's last name. An example of maiden name is Jones for a woman who was named Sarah Jones before she married and became Sarah Stein.
The mother's maiden name is her surname by birth (the last name of her parents.) Example: A woman's name would be 'Jane Mary Doe' when born and she keeps that name until she m … arries and then she changes her last name to that of her husbands who is John Smith and her name would be Jane Mary Smith.
The definition of a maiden name is the surname or birth name a woman has before she marries and takes her husband's last name. An example of maiden name is Jones for a woman who was named Sarah Jones before she married and became Sarah Stein.
Also traditionally, when a woman marries, she takes the family name of her husband. At … that point the family name she used to use, the family name of her father, is called her maiden name because it was her name when she was a maiden. Your mother's maiden name is usually the surname (or family name) of your maternal grandfather.
The mother's maiden name is her surname by birth (the last name of her parents.) Example: A woman's name would be 'Jane Mary Doe' when born and she keeps that name until she m … arries and then she changes her last name to that of her husbands who is John Smith and her name would be Jane Mary Smith.
A maiden name is the last name used by a woman before changing her name upon marriage. Some people prefer to use the term “birth name.” As a general rule, a woman's maiden name is her father's last name, reflecting the patrilineal system of descent which dominates many cultures.
Traditionally in the English-speaking world, a child uses the family name of the father. Also traditionally, when a woman marries, she takes the family name of her husband. At that point the family name she used to use, the family name of her father, is called her maiden name because it was her name when she was a maiden.