Kincardineshire Scotland Mailing ListThe Kincardineshire Scotland Mailing List is hosted by RootsWeb and is for anyone with a genealogical interest in Kincardineshire. To subscribe, send an email to: SCT-KINCARDINE-L-request@rootsweb.com with the word subscribe in the body of the email for mail mode. The Kincardineshire Scotland Mailing List is hosted by RootsWeb and is for anyone with a genealogical interest in Kincardineshire.
About Kincardineshire, Scotland, Extracted Parish Records. This database is a collection of historical parish registers from Kincardineshire, Scotland. The 51,100 records in this collection can range in date from the early 1500s to the mid-to late-1800s. Some non-parish records may be included from as early as the twelfth century. Parish records--primarily baptisms, marriages, and burials--provide the best source of vital record information in the centuries before civil registration.
Kincardineshire Scotland Welcome to the Kincardineshire Scotland webpage for the ScotlandGenWeb Project, in conjunction with the BritishIslesGenWeb Project. My name is Peggy Tebbetts, and I am the county coordinator. If you have any suggestions for, or comments about, this site, please feel free to contact me. The Kincardineshire Scotland Mailing List is hosted by RootsWeb and is for anyone with a genealogical interest in Kincardineshire.
Kincardineshire, also known as The Mearns (from A' Mhaoirne meaning The Stewartry), is a former county on the coast of northeast Scotland. There was a Kincardineshire constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain from 1708 to 1801 and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1918, representing the county of Kincardineshire, minus the parliamentary burgh of Inverbervie.
It is bounded by Aberdeenshire on the north and west, and by Angus on the south. The name Kincardineshire is also used for a lieutenancy area, a registration county and in the name of Kincardine and Mearns, a committee area of the Aberdeenshire Council. There was a Kincardineshire constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain from 1708 to 1801 and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1918, representing the county of Kincardineshire, minus the parliamentary burgh of Inverbervie.
KINCARDINESHIRE, or The Mearns, a maritime county, in the east of Scotland, bounded on the north-west by the river Dee and part of Aberdeenshire, on the east and south-east by the German Ocean, and on the south-west by the county of Forfar. 
In 1296, King John Balliol wrote a letter of surrender from the castle to Edward I of England after a short war which marked the beginning of the wars of Scottish independence. In 1600 Parliament caused the government of Kincardineshire to be conducted at the Stonehaven Tolbooth. The county extended to Hill of Fare north of the River Dee, but in 1891 the Royal Burgh of Torry on the south bank of the Dee was incorporated into Aberdeen. There was a Kincardineshire constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain from 1708 to 1801 and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1918, representing the county of Kincardineshire, minus the parliamentary burgh of Inverbervie.