Closest Airport to Vail, CO. The closest airport is Eagle County Regional Airport (EGE). Distance from Eagle County Regional Airport to Vail is 46,6 kilometers (29,0 miles). Eagle County Regional Airport is located approximately 145,3 kilometers (90,3 miles) northeast of Clifton and about 145,9 kilometers (90,6 miles) west of Golden. Eagle County Regional Airport IATA code is EGE
Major airports near Vail, Colorado: The nearest major airport is Eagle County Regional Airport (EGE / KEGE). This airport has domestic flights from Eagle, Colorado and is 36 miles from the center of Vail, CO. Another major airport is Aspen-Pitkin County Airport (ASE / KASE), which has domestic flights from Aspen, Colorado and is 98 miles from Vail, CO. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Vail, CO, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports
1 Denver is the capital city of Colorado and the major connection point for out-of-state visitors. 2  Eagle County-is the home of Vail and Beaver Creek Resorts and is approximately 90 miles west of Denver on I-70 and 110 miles west of Denver International Airport (DIA). 1
During the ski season, EGE is the second busiest airport in Colorado after the Denver International Airport. Eagle serves as a good alternative to Denver for skiers in the Vail Valley because of its close proximity to the major international ski resorts of Vail, Beaver Creek, Copper Mountain, Keystone, and Breckenridge. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Eagle County Regional Airport (IATA: EGE, ICAO: KEGE, FAA LID: EGE), sometimes referred to as Vail/Eagle Airport or the Eagle Vail Airport, is a public airport located four miles (6 km) west of Eagle, Colorado, United States.
Eagle County Airport. The Eagle County Aiport is conveniently close to our four Colorado Resorts: 1  Vail: 35 miles east. 2  Beaver Creek: 25 miles east. 3  Breckenridge: 60 miles east. 4  Keystone: 65 miles eas
Eagle County Regional Airport. The nearest airport to Vail, Colorado, is Eagle County Regional Airport (EGE). Located approximately 40 minutes West by car (35 miles), EGE offers winter flights to 13 major domestic destinations. The summer flight schedule at EGE includes daily, non-stops flights to Dallas/Ft. Denver International Airport. The largest airport near Vail, Colorado, is Denver International Airport (DEN). A little over two hours East by car (125 miles), DEN offers travelers heading to Vail, extensive air carrier options and provides service to 130 domestic and international
Another airport near Vail, Colorado, is Yampa Valley Regional Airport (HDN). Less than 100 miles North (two and a half hours by car), HDN is the largest airport in northwestern Colorado and offers service on six major airlines to multiple major U.S. destinations, including Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/Ft. Denver International Airport. The largest airport near Vail, Colorado, is Denver International Airport (DEN). A little over two hours East by car (125 miles), DEN offers travelers heading to Vail, extensive air carrier options and provides service to 130 domestic and international destinations.
The closest major airport to Silverthorne, Colorado is Eagle County Regional Airport (EGE / KEGE). This airport is in Eagle, Colorado and is about 46 miles from the center of … Silverthorne, CO. The nearest major airport is Colorado Springs Airport (COS / KCOS). This airport has domestic flights and is about 9 road miles from Peterson AFB.The closest international air … port is Denver International Airport-Denver, CO (DEN / KDEN), which is 87 driving miles distance
1 Denver International Airport (DIA) - is just off I-70 northeast of Denver so plan on a minimum of two hours (in good weather) to drive from DIA to Vail, Beaver Creek is 15 minutes further west and Eagle is another 30 minutes west. 2  It is served by all major US airlines and several commuters. 1 Eagle County-is the home of Vail and Beaver Creek Resorts and is approximately 90 miles west of Denver on I-70 and 110 miles west of Denver International Airport (DIA).