Launch Adobe Acrobat and open the file that you want to save with the altered initial view settings. Step 2. Click File and select Properties.. Click the Initial View tab and select 100% from the Magnification drop-down menu. Related Reading: How to Scan & Save a File As a PDF. Step 3. Click OK and click the Save File icon at the top of the screen. 
Save a document or book as Adobe PDF. Open the document or book you want to save as Adobe PDF. To ensure that links work properly, open those book files that the document or book references. In the original document or book file, do one of the following: Click Set to generate PDF with the default settings in the PDF Setup dialog box. 
Work around a PDF page-opening and zoom level issue. Authored by: M-3 on Oct 29, '08 10:21:17AM. I've solved this in the same way that I solve a QuickTime movie opening at the wrong volume level: I open the file, set everything (page #, zoom) the way I want it and then hit command-S to save it. Works every time. Work around a PDF page-opening and zoom level issue. Authored by: RussellK on Oct 29, '08 08:25:34AM. Maybe I'm missing something here...but if you have Acrobat (not necessarily Pro, but any full version instead of Reader), this is a simple setting within the Document Properties.
Open the document or template that you want to save with a particular zoom setting. On the View tab, in the Zoom group, click Zoom. Choose the setting that you want. Add and delete a single space in the document or template. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Save. Save a zoom setting in PowerPoint or Excel. Open the presentation or worksheet that you want to save with a particular zoom setting. On the View tab, in the Zoom group, click Zoom. Choose the setting that you want
However, the links change the zoom level of the PDF to Fit Page, as shown in the following dialog box (the screenshot is taken in Adobe Acrobat): I don't like this behavior, and prefer that the zoom level does not change. To this end, there's an option called Inherit Zoom. 
2. When I open few PDF files in Foxit Reader or Adobe Reader 9.3, it is opening in a higher zoom level. So every time I want to zoom in to view the document properly
Click Edit and Preferences.. A new window pops open. Click Page Display in the left task pane. Click the Zoom drop-down box and select a new default percentage from the available options. Click OK to save your preferences. All future PDF files will open with the selected default zoom percentage. Open the PDF in Adobe Reader. Click the current zoom percentage near the top of the Adobe Reader window. When you click the percentage, the entire number is highlighted. Press your keyboard's Backspace key. Type in your desired zoom percentage. Hit the Enter key to apply the change.
To set the default magnification, you need Adobe Acrobat. or Professional not Reader to have the ability to edit pdfs. Then when you open the document, click File | Properties. Click the Initial View tab and enter 72% in the magnification text box and click ok. Save your pdf and reopen it. It should default to 72% magnification when it is opened. Note: I am unsure if other open source pdf editors provide this type of functionality. Update: Standard doesn't work for saving magnifications.
﻿. You can zoom in to get a close-up view of your file or zoom out to see more of the page at a reduced size. You can also save a particular zoom setting with a document or template, presentation, or worksheet. Quickly zoom in or out of a document, presentation, or worksheet. Choose a particular zoom setting. Save a zoom setting in PowerPoint or Excel. Open the presentation or worksheet that you want to save with a particular zoom setting. On the View tab, in the Zoom group, click Zoom. Choose the setting that you want. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Save.