- global climate change. #69 (2006). In many ways, all organism in a food web can be said to be solar-powered. The producer level of the food web is responsible for the transformation of the solar energy into a form that can be used by other living organisms. Discuss the structural adaptations that function in oxygen exchange between each of the following organisms and its envrironment: a plant, an insect, a fish. c. Trace a molecule of O2 from the environment to a muscle cell in a vertebrate of your choice. #13 (1995). Energy transfer occurs in all cellular activities.
(a) structure, and. (b) role in a cell or organism. 2001 All Questions Scoring Guidelines Scoring Commentary Sample Responses Q4 2001 #4 Proteins-large complex molecules-are major building blocks of all living organisms. Discuss the following in relation to proteins. (a) Describe THREE types of chemical bonds/interactions found in proteins. For each type, describe its role in determining protein structure. (b) Discuss how the structure of a protein affects the function of TWO of the following.
All cells arise from other cells through cell division. In multicellular organisms, every cell in the organism's body derives ultimately from a single cell in a fertilized egg. The cell is also considered to be the basic unit in many pathological processes. Genes are the primary units of inheritance in all organisms. A gene is a unit of heredity and corresponds to a region of DNA that influences the form or function of an organism in specific ways. All organisms, from bacteria to animals, share the same basic machinery that copies and translates DNA into proteins.
Mendel studied 'trait inheritance', patterns in the way traits were handed down from parents to offspring. He observed that organisms (pea plants) inherit traits by way of discrete units of inheritance. This term, still used today, is a somewhat ambiguous definition of what is referred to as a gene. Proteins carry out many of the functions needed for cells to live. A change to the DNA in a gene can alter a protein's amino acid sequence, thereby changing its shape and function and rendering the protein ineffective or even malignant (e.g. sickle cell anemia).
The physical structure of a protein often reflects and affects its function. (a) Describe THREE types of chemical bonds/interactions found in proteins. For each type, describe its role in determining protein structure. (b) Discuss how the structure of a protein affects the function of TWO of the following. Muscle contraction Regulation of enzyme activity Cell signaling. 2006 All Questions Scoring Guidelines Student Performance Q&A Sample Responses Q3 2006 #3 The movement of water through vascular plants is important to their survival
A phenotype (from Greek phainein, meaning to show, and typos, meaning type) is the composite of an organism 's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, phenology, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). Although a phenotype is the ensemble of observable characteristics displayed by an organism, the word phenome is sometimes used to refer to a collection of traits, while the simultaneous study of such a collection is referred to as phenomics.
Name _____________________________ AP Biology 3 of 4 Developed by Kim B. Foglia • www.ExploreBiology.com • ©2010 B. Sample Free Response Questions Make an outline of the information you would include in each of these essays 1. 2003B:3 Water is important for all living organisms. The bonding of two amino acid molecules to form a larger molecule requires a. the release of a water molecule b. the release of a carbon dioxide molecule c. the addition of a nitrogen atom d. the addition of a water molecule e. an increase in activation energy 9.
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. 
A phenotype results from the expression of an organism's genes as well as the influence of environmental factors and the interactions between the two. When two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species, the species is called polymorph. Although a phenotype is the ensemble of observable characteristics displayed by an organism, the word phenome is sometimes used to refer to a collection of traits, while the simultaneous study of such a collection is referred to as phenomics.
Water serves as a reactant and a product in the carbon cycle. Discuss the role of water in the carbon cycle. c. Discuss the impact of one human activity on the water cycle. 2. 2002B:3 The physical form of cells and organisms is often influenced by special structural polymers. The bonding of two amino acid molecules to form a larger molecule requires a. the release of a water molecule b. the release of a carbon dioxide molecule c. the addition of a nitrogen atom d. the addition of a water molecule e. an increase in activation energy 9.