: if you do NOT believe these questions of ideology, ethics, and morality are important, or do not believe that they should guide our lives, then you are a nihilist!!! : you can be a libertarian, left-liberal, right-conservative, or communitarian, while adopting any of the forms of universalism or relativism. 8. 
Freedom is defined as being your own strict father -- with individual not social responsibility, and without any government authority telling you what you can and cannot do. To defend that freedom as an individual, you will of course need a gun. This is the America that conservatives really want. No one can be free without these, and without a commitment to care and act on that care by one's fellow citizens. The conservative worldview rejects all of that. Conservatives believe in individual responsibility alone, not social responsibility. They don't think government should help its citizens.
They are also more likely to vote Republican. However, not all Conservative Christians are consistently pro-life; in fact, the majority of them are not. And, while the majority still believe that homosexuality is always wrong, the proportion with that conviction declined rapidly in the 1990s. Finally, the additional vote of Conservative Protestants for Republican candidates, over and above that of Mainline American Protestants, is meager—about seven percentage points.
4. Liberals believe 'we the people' are the governors and not the subjects of government, and that government must treat each person with that in mind.'. One of the rights that he asserts are supported primarily by liberals is the right of individuals to reproductive freedom. 
NOTE: The terms “left” and “right” define opposite ends of the political spectrum. In the United States, liberals are referred to as the left or left-wing and conservatives are referred to as the right or right-wing. The decision to have an abortion is a personal choice of a woman regarding her own body and the government must protect this right. Women have the right to affordable, safe and legal abortions, including partial birth abortion. Conservative Human life begins at conception. Abortion is the murder of a human being.
Liberals are opposed to the death penalty because they believe all the people on death row are poor. Conservatives are more physically attractive than Liberals, but Liberals are sexier. Liberals have a better personality than Conservatives, but they're condescending about it... which is an ugly personality trait. Liberals believe in some elements of socialism. Conservatives hate socialism and they only believe in some elements of it. Conservatives have a problem with women. Liberals have a problem with Conservative women.
Catholics tend not to be conservative in general. Conservatives believe you should not have a family larger than you can support. Due to the close ties between birth control and sexuality, they also believe it is a VERY personal matter, not appropriate for public discussion or funding. Conservatives: Most conservatives believe same-sex marriage is against what the Bible defines marriage as. If conservatives had their way, millions of gay Americans would lose their right to marry whomever they love based on the religious views of other people.
Conservatives like to make fun of liberals, claiming that liberals just don't speak their language. Again, the conservatives are right. There is a language of conservatism, and it's not just words. The words are familiar enough, but not what they mean. For example, big government does not just refer to the size of government or the amount spent by it. The liberals have just misused the term. I have heard a conservative talk of freedom and a liberal attempt a rebuttal by pointing out that denying a woman access to abortion limits her freedom to choose. Again, the liberal has used a word that has a different meaning in the conservative lexicon.
However, what conservatives dislike about religious freedom is the right not to practice or give a crap about a diety. There are two points here that are missing the issue pretty significantly, one of which is an outright lie. 1) People who oppose abortion do so because they believe that abortion is killing a child. Conservatives: Most conservatives believe same-sex marriage is against what the Bible defines marriage as. If conservatives had their way, millions of gay Americans would lose their right to marry whomever they love based on the religious views of other people.
Liberals love having sex. Conservatives hate when other people have sex. Conservatives try to get their Liberal Facebook friends to see the light. Liberals try to find out which of their Facebook friends is Conservative so that they can de-friend them. Conservatives are disappointed with President Obama because he's too liberal. Liberals are disappointed with President Obama because he's not liberal enough. Liberals believe in some elements of socialism. Conservatives hate socialism and they only believe in some elements of it. Conservatives have a problem with women. Liberals have a problem with Conservative women.