In English it most commonly refers to a 17th-or 18th-century orchestral piece used as an introduction, interlude, or postlude to an opera, oratorio, cantata, or suite (Abate 1999, who gives the origin of the word as Italian). The word is also found in other Romance languages such as Spanish or Portuguese. Examples of such sinfonias composed after the classical era include: 1  Vincent d'Indy wrote a Sinfonia brevis de bello Gallico, Latin for: Short Symphony about the War in Gaul. 2  Igor Stravinsky titled the first movement of his 1923 Octet Sinfonia.
Sinfonia is a movement for the betterment of mankind. In ancient tradition, the indescribable sensation one feels when deeply moved by music was considered a real and direct experience of transcendent Truth, perceived through the forms of expressiveness, power, and beauty. Today it is Sinfonia’s official philanthropy, and the only ongoing, large-scale service project in the Fraternity’s history. Through this grassroots project, Sinfonians nationwide perform annually for tens of thousands of nursing home and hospital patients.
Definition of SINFONIA. 1. : an orchestral prelude to a vocal work (as an opera) especially in the 18th century: overture. 2. : ritornello 1, symphony 2c. ADVERTISEMENT
Each year The Minnesota Sinfonia hosts a competition for young string players in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, North Dakota, and South Dakota. The Minnesota Sinfonia is proud to announce the 2015 Minnesota Sinfonia/McKnight Foundation composition award recipients. The award is given by the Sinfonia to Minnesota-based composers for new chamber orchestra compositions.
About Sinfonia. The Bach Sinfonia is a Maryland-based organization dedicated to excellence in performance and public education of Baroque and Classical music. Now in its 20th season, Sinfonia presents an annual series of unique concerts, open dress rehearsals, and listening lectures of music from the eighteenth century
Sinfonia. Sinfonia is the Italian word for symphony. In English it most commonly refers to a 17th-or 18th-century orchestral piece used as an introduction, interlude, or postlude to an opera, oratorio, cantata, or suite. It has also sometimes been used for other types of music.
Sinfonia (. [s̪iɱfoˈn̺iːae]) s̪iɱfoˈn̺iːä is The italian word for, symphony from The latin, symphonia in turn derived From Ancient greek συμφωνία (sumphōnia agreement or concord of), sound from the prefix (σύν) together and (ϕωνή). sound Examples of such sinfonias composed after the classical era include: 1  Vincent d'Indy wrote a Sinfonia brevis de bello Gallico, Latin for: Short Symphony about the War in Gaul. 2  Igor Stravinsky titled the first movement of his 1923 Octet Sinfonia.
LEGACY AND VALUES. Sinfonia’s chief purpose is to develop Fraternity in music. At the dawn of the twentieth century an American musician could not advance unless he was European-trained, and music in America was held back by intense rivalry and distrust between musicians and schools of music. Today it is Sinfonia’s official philanthropy, and the only ongoing, large-scale service project in the Fraternity’s history. Through this grassroots project, Sinfonians nationwide perform annually for tens of thousands of nursing home and hospital patients.
MSC Sinfonia Cruise Bookings. In the 2015/16/17 seasons the new enhanced MSC Sinfonia returns to South Africa (she is inthe dry dock getting extended, new cabins being added and new facilities). The new lengthier Sinfonia will arrive at our shores on the 19th November 2015 (in the 2014/2015 season it was only the MSC Opera cruising our shores). We are taking bookings for the 2015/16/17 cruise seasons.