1 Make sure you know if you're an inpatient or outpatient because what you pay may be different. 2  Check with any other insurance you may have (like a Medicare Supplement Insurance (Medigap) policy, Medicaid, or coverage from your or your spouse's employer) to see what it will pay. 1 Check your Part A deductible if you expect to be admitted to the hospital. 2  Check your Part B deductible for a doctor's visit and other outpatient care. 3  You'll need to pay the deductible amounts before Medicare will start to pay.
1 Medicare covers knee replacement surgery. 2  For patients with insurance, out-of-pocket expenses can vary from hundreds to several thousand dollars, depending on deductible, and copay or coinsurance. 1 And at the Kapiolani Medical Center in Aiea, Hawaii, where the full price is about $33,000, an uninsured patient would pay a discounted rate of $20,212 to $23,581. 2  Knee replacement surgery usually is covered by health insurance if ordered by a doctor.
If you don’t have insurance and will be paying for your knee replacement, it’s wise to research knee replacement costs. The United States is known for wide variation in healthcare costs. The average national price for a knee replacement in 2012 was about $20,000 plus the cost of the implant. Out-of-Pocket Payments. The amount you will pay out-of-pocket for knee replacement surgery depends on insurance coverage. Even if your insurance covers knee replacement, you will likely need to pay part of the cost. Ask your insurance provider about your costs—copays, deductibles and co-insurance—for your surgery
Insurance Coverage for a Knee Replacement. Most health insurance plans—including Medicare and Medicaid—cover knee replacement surgery. If your insurance plan covers it, your doctor will need to establish that it is medically necessary. It can help to know exactly what your doctor must document to show this. Out-of-Pocket Payments. The amount you will pay out-of-pocket for knee replacement surgery depends on insurance coverage. Even if your insurance covers knee replacement, you will likely need to pay part of the cost. Ask your insurance provider about your costs—copays, deductibles and co-insurance—for your surgery
Total Knee Replacement Cost. The United States has among the highest costs in the world for knee replacement surgery. An American with no health insurance can expect to pay $45,000 – $70,000 at a typical hospital. Those with insurance will, barring a few exceptions, be covered by their provider. When determined to be necessary by a doctor, knee replacement surgery is usually covered by a patient’s health insurance. Most health plans cover any necessary surgery, including orthopedic surgery, as long as it is not specifically excluded (as is common in the case of weight loss procedures).
Total knee replacement surgery —also known as knee arthroplasty —is a procedure performed when a patient’s knee has degraded to the point where it no longer functions or causes severe pain. Usually, knee replacement surgery is necessary for patients who suffer from severe osteoarthritis and have impeded mobility. When determined to be necessary by a doctor, knee replacement surgery is usually covered by a patient’s health insurance. Most health plans cover any necessary surgery, including orthopedic surgery, as long as it is not specifically excluded (as is common in the case of weight loss procedures).
Even if your surgery is approved, you may have to pay the Part A and/or the Part B deductibles before Medicare will pay, plus you may have copayments due. Before scheduling any surgical procedure, it’s a good idea to get an estimate of costs and find out what your coverage options are. 
Owner, Better Benefits, Medicare is very comprehensive health coverage for those that qualify. Medicare will cover a Total Knee Replacement as long as the Physician, Hospital, and any other healthcare providers are deemed as providers. You can check each provider out on the Medicare.gov website. Medicare Part A would cover the hospital expenses and if a Skilled Nursing Facility is needed for rehabilitation.
The average hospital charge for a total knee replacement (TKR) in the United States is $49,500. A partial knee replacement (PKR) typically costs about 10 to 20 percent less than a TKR. The main reason is that the operation requires a shorter hospital stay. For example: an average of 2.3 days, compared to 3.4 days. Keep in mind that hospital charges don’t reflect the amount you pay out of pocket