The cost of the medical exam can range from $150 to $300, however, required vaccinations to enter the U.S. easily can add $500 to the exam cost. Applicants also will pay $80 for a biometrics (fingerprinting) fee before they have their interview. If the interview is successful, then applicants can enter the U.S. legally. The approval usually is valid for one year, meaning applicants must enter within a year or lose their status. The cost of entering varies significantly, such as $100 by bus from Mexico to $1,000 by plane from India.
Form I-130. To enter the U.S. as a legal immigrant based on a family petition (not employer sponsored), then you must first file a Form I-130. The I-130 establishes the relationship between the petitioner and applicant. The approval usually is valid for one year, meaning applicants must enter within a year or lose their status. The cost of entering varies significantly, such as $100 by bus from Mexico to $1,000 by plane from India.
Arizona's Gateway For Illegal Immigrants. States usually bear the brunt of the burden. Arizona state treasurer Dean Martin says his state loses between $1.3 billion and $2.5 billion each year on illegal immigrants. That's what it seems to come down to in the most recent flare-up of the immigration debate. Policy makers and pundits who want tougher policies against illegal immigrants argue that they cost American taxpayers billions of dollars.
Table 11 shows the lifetime costs. During the interim phase, the former unlawful immigrant households would generate a net fiscal cost (benefits received minus tax paid) of $550 billion. During the full phase of amnesty (but prior to retirement), the net fiscal deficit would be $1.99 trillion. Most discussions of the fiscal consequences of unlawful immigration and amnesty focus on the next five to 10 years, but amnesty, by definition, entitles each unlawful immigrant with lifetime eligibility for the full array of government benefits.
In a recent year in Colorado, the state's emergency Medicaid program paid an estimated $30 million in hospital and physician delivery costs for about 6,000 illegal immigrant mothers-average of $5,000 per baby. Those 6,000 births to illegal aliens represent 40% of the births paid for by Medicaid in Colorado. 3. As noted above, i
(Hint: for an immigrant, think permanent). A non-immigrant is a foreign national permitted to enter the U.S. for a limited duration for purposes such as travel, school, temporary employment, and business investment (See below for a complete list of the non-immigrant visa categories.). 
Does anyone know the amount of Money it costs to legally immigrate to the US? how much time does it take? how about lawyer fees? interviews, petitions, application forms? Is the cost in $1000s or 10,000s? 
1 By September 2011, the number of removed illegal immigrants from the United States during the Obama administration exceeded the number of removals during the entire George W. Bush administration. 2  It would be difficult, if not impossible, for the government to round up and deport every illegal immigrant. 1 Moreover, the ratio between immigrant use of public benefits and the amount of taxes they pay is consistently favorable to the U.S., unless the “study” was undertaken by an anti-immigrant group. 2  One study estimates that immigrants earn nearly $240 billion a year.
In 2010, the average unlawful immigrant household received around $24,721 in government benefits and services while paying some $10,334 in taxes. This generated an average annual fiscal deficit (benefits received minus taxes paid) of around $14,387 per household. This cost had to be borne by U.S. taxpayers. Most discussions of the fiscal consequences of unlawful immigration and amnesty focus on the next five to 10 years, but amnesty, by definition, entitles each unlawful immigrant with lifetime eligibility for the full array of government benefits.