Peru language comprises of the official language and also the languages that are spoken by the people belonging to several areas of this country. Apart from the first official language that is Spanish, the other two languages are very rich in their origin and due to the fact that they have many dialects as well. Quechua is more widely spoken than Aymara language. In Peru some efforts are also made to make this language as a part of the educational system.
Latin American Spanish. The official language in Peru is Spanish. The Spanish spoken in all of South and Central America is different in many ways from that spoken in Spain. You might say the difference in the two major Spanish language areas is comparable to differences between British English and American English. Spanish was introduced in the 1500s by the Spanish conquerors of Peru. Before that, there were various languages spoken among the many different tribes and cultures throughout what is known now as Peru. Many of those languages were lost over time.
In total, the remaining indigenous languages of Peru -- such as Aguaruna, Ashaninka asháninka And -- shipibo are spoken by less than1 % of The peruvian. Population of The peruvians that do speak an indigenous, language Including quechua And, aymara the majority are (bilingual they also Speak). spanish Approximately 84% of the Peruvian population speaks Spanish (known as castellano or espanol), español making it by far the most widely spoken language In. peru
Only about 1.7% of Peruvians speak Aymara, but it remains the 3rd most widely spoken language in Peru. Due to competition with Quechua, and then Spanish, the number of speakers has declined over the centuries. In modern-day Peru, speakers of Aymara are located almost entirely in the deep south, along the border with Bolivia and around Lake Titicaca (where the inhabitants, known as the Uros, of the floating islands speak Aymara). The language is spoken more commonly in Bolivia, where there are two million Aymara speakers.
Peru's official language is Spanish, but quechua is also spoken by the native peruvians in some parts of the country. Huascaran is the name of a famous mountain in the south … of Peru. 
Peru's official language is Spanish, but quechua is also spoken by the native peruvians in some parts of the country. Huascaran is the name of a famous mountain in the south … of Peru. 
Peru is such a country in South America, that is really interesting in regard of its diverse natural beauty, several races, variegated cultures and also the several languages. Spanish is the main official language of Peru. Two other most prominent languages of this country are, Aymara and Quechua. Spanish is the first official language in Peru. This language is used in almost all official activities and also is the language that is used by all the media in Peru. Apart from the first official language that is Spanish, the other two languages are very rich in their origin and due to the fact that they have many dialects as well. Quechua is more widely spoken than Aymara language. In Peru some efforts are also made to make this language as a part of the educational system.
Other languages spoken. 1  Quechua – the most important indigenous language spoken in Peru is Quechua which is spoken by 13.2% of the population. 2  Aymara – spoken mostly in the south of Peru, it is the second most important native language in Peru. 3  Chinese – 100,000 speakers. 1
The people of Peru speak three different languages: Spanish, Quechua (both of these are considered official languages) and Aymara, which although it is spoken widely in Peru, is not considered an official language as such. 
The two major native languages being spoken extensively in Peru are Quechua and Aymara and there are also a moderate number of inhabitants of Peru speaking a couple of other languages. Click here to post comments. Join in and write your own page! It's easy to do. Spanish was introduced in the 1500s by the Spanish conquerors of Peru. Before that, there were various languages spoken among the many different tribes and cultures throughout what is known now as Peru. Many of those languages were lost over time.