As we discussed in a previous lecture, the relative abundance of elements in the Earth's crust determines what minerals will form and what minerals will be common. Because Oxygen and Silicon are the most abundant elements, the silicate minerals are the most common. 
The silicate minerals are rock-forming minerals, constituting approximately 90 percent of the crust of the Earth. They are classified based on the structure of their silicate group which contain different ratios of silicon and oxygen. They make up the largest and most important class of rock-forming minerals. 
Silicates are minerals that contain silicon atoms bonded to oxygen atoms. The basic building block for all silicate minerals is called a tetrahedron, where one silicon atom is bonded to 4 oxygen atoms (Figure 3.6). Silicate minerals also often contain other elements, such as calcium, iron, and magnesium. Phosphates have a tetrahedron building block that is similar to that of the silicates. But, instead of silicon, phosphates have an atom of phosphorus, arsenic, or vanadium bonded to oxygen. Although there are many minerals in this group, most of the minerals are rare.
Silicate tetrahedron. A silicon–oxygen tetrahedron is the Si O 4 anionic group, or a silicon atom with four surrounding oxygen atoms arranged to define the corners of a tetrahedron. This is a fundamental component of most silicates in the Earth's crust
Building Blocks of The Earth’s Crust. Silicates are the most widespread of the minerals. They are made up of oxygen and silicon the number one and number two most abundant elements in the earth's crust. By themselves they make up over 90% of the weight of the earth’s crust. Most rocks are composed mainly of this class of minerals. There are two forms of silicate when looking at their chemistry:
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Silicate is the largest mineral group because it is the most plentiful and least expensive and they put the minerals in everything. It is the largest group of rock forming minerals, and not the  smallest, that is mainly composed of silicates. Almost 90% of the  rocks on Earth are made of silicate mineral … s.
Silicates. The most abundant elements in the Earth's crust are oxygen (46.6%) and silicon (27.7%). Minerals which combine these two elements are called silicates, and combined they are the most abundant minerals on the Earth.
Earth's crust contains a lot of oxygen, which combines with many other elements. Oxides are minerals that contain one or two metal elements combined with oxygen. Oxides are different from silicates because oxides do not contain silicon. Phosphates have a tetrahedron building block that is similar to that of the silicates. But, instead of silicon, phosphates have an atom of phosphorus, arsenic, or vanadium bonded to oxygen. Although there are many minerals in this group, most of the minerals are rare.
As we discussed in a previous lecture, the relative abundance of elements in the Earth's crust determines what minerals will form and what minerals will be common. Because Oxygen and Silicon are the most abundant elements, the silicate minerals are the most common. 1 Why are the silicate minerals the most common minerals in the earth's crust? 2  Give an alternative name for each of the following groups of silicates (a) nesosilicates, (b) double island silicates, (c) cyclo-silicates, (d) inosilicates, (e) sheet silicates.