Blue Heelers, like most herders, can be one-person dogs. They also have a unique independence, not requiring much in the way of cuddling or affection. Though tough and resolute, they will definitely appreciate positive feedback and good treatment. Sometimes their herding instincts can suddenly come into play. The Look of a Blue Heeler. Blue Heelers are solid, sturdy and compact dogs with an alert, ready-to-work stance. Slightly longer than tall with curved, hanging tails, they have muscular legs and strong necks and broad, somewhat rounded heads with pointy ears.
The blue heeler or Australian cattle dog descends from the Australian dingo and the smooth collie. Blue heelers were recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1980. While every individual pup has unique and totally lovable characteristics, there are many classic traits and behaviors of blue heeler pups. 
The Lancashire Heeler is a small breed of dog developed for use as a drover and herder of cattle. 
The Texas Heeler is not a purebred dog. It is a cross between the Australian Cattle Dog and the Australian Shepherd Dog. The best way to determine the temperament of a mixed breed is to look up all breeds in the cross and know you can get any combination of any of the characteristics found in either breed. (Note: the Australian Cattle Dog is also called Australian Heeler, Hall's Heeler, Queensland Heeler, Blue Heeler, Australian Cattledog and Australischer Treibhund.). Blue the Texas Heeler (Australian Cattle Dog / Australian Shepherd Dog hybrid) is a working Texas Heeler and an excellent herder!
Australian cattle dogs are often called red heeler or blue heeler dogs. These cattle herding pooches first came into existence Down Under during the 1800s, a result of breeding together blue merle collies, Australian kelpies and dalmatians. 
The Australian Cattle Dog (ACD), or simply Cattle Dog, is a breed of herding dog originally developed in Australia for droving cattle over long distances across rough terrain. The Australian Cattle Dog is a medium-sized, short-coated dog that occurs in two main colour forms. It has either brown or black hair distributed fairly evenly through a white coat, which gives the appearance of a red or blue dog. The Australian Cattle Dog is a breed distinct from the Australian Stumpy Tail Cattle Dog, a square-bodied dog born with a naturally bobbed tail. The Stumpy Tail resembles the Australian Cattle Dog, but has a taller, leaner conformation.
Description. The Australian Cattle Dog, also known as the Australian Heeler, Hall's Heeler, Queensland Heeler and Blue Heeler, is a courageous, tireless, robust, compact working dog. The dog is agile, well-muscled, powerful and determined while working. The length of the body is a little longer than it is tall. Dually the Australian Cattle Dog at 1 year old. Dually the Australian Cattle Dog as a puppy. Ladue the Red Heeler at 6 months old— Ladue is the same as a Blue Heeler except that she is red. Ladue loves to play with other dogs. She also loves to swim in my creek.
A blue heeler holds a newspaper. The blue heeler is a type of Australian cattle dog. He is intelligent, loyal and protective. The breed derives from the Australian dingo, which was bred with smooth-coated blue-merle collies. The resulting dog was bred with black and tan kelpies and dalmatians to produce blue heeler dogs. The blue heeler is a medium-sized dog, weighing 35 to 45 pounds. He's blue speckled or mottled, often having black or tan markings. The blue heeler has a short, dense double coat that sheds. He is a powerful, muscular dog with wide-set, erect ears.