3. Use regulation of normal blood pressure to illustrate how the nervous system and the endocrine systems are both involved in maintaining homeostasis. 4. Use the regulation of blood pH to illustrate that there are short-term and long-term mechanisms for maintaining homeostasis. 5.
The skeletal system provides structural support to maintain the human body form. The skeletal system also serves as an important source of immune system stem cells. It serves as a source of minerals for electrolyte, and acid-base balance.
1 The excretory system helps maintain homeostasis by removing all waste material from the body; the skin sweats (which also helps to cool the body); the kidneys filter chemicals in the blood; the liver filters toxins and acids from the blood; and the colon allows solid waste to pass from the body.
1 To help maintain homeostasis, the circulatory system regulates and maintains the correct levels nutrients, oxygen, and waste products needed by cells. 2  Similar to the circulatory system in animals, the vascular tissue system regulates and maintains correct levels of nutrients and waste products needed by plant cells.
1 The nervous system helps maintain homeostasis by sending chemical messages to the brain that tell the status of pain, temperature, hunger, etc. so that the body can make adjustments using other systems. 2  Sensory organs include the skin, eyes, ears, nose, tongue.
1 The muscular system helps maintain homeostasis by allowing movement and the body to return back into place after changing position; many involuntary muscles constantly regulate body functions such as breathing and heartbeat.
answered by anonymous edited by Lifeeasy Biology. The skeletal system of human helps maintain homeostasis by producing new red bloods cells where the old ones just die off. It also helps maintain the level of calcium in the blood stream.
A year ago. The skeletal system provides structural support to maintain the human body form. The skeletal system also serves as an important source of immune system stem cells. It serves as a source of minerals for electrolyte, and acid-base balance.