About SODIUM PCA: Sodium PCA is a derivative of naturally occurring amino acid proline; it is used as a conditioning agent. Function(s): Hair Conditioning Agent; Humectant; Skin-Conditioning Agent-Humectant; ANTISTATIC; SKIN CONDITIONING. 
Sodium PCA. Sodium PCA (sodium salt of pyro glutamic acid) is another natural ly occurring humectant that active ly draws moisture from the air and then binds it to the skin. Sodium PCA. Function: Moisturizing. Description: also used as a Hair Conditioning & Skin-Conditioning Agent-Humectant. Sodium Phytate ..
Special Sections. Sodium PCA Sodium PCA, otherwise known as the sodium salt of pyrrolidone carbonic acid, is a humectant that is naturally occurring in the skin. It is a derivative of amino acids that is very water absorbing. It is also hygroscopic, meaning that it absorbs moisture from the air. 
PCA, which stands for sodium salt of pyrrolidone carbonic acid, is an ingredient in many cosmetic products. This humectant is naturally found in the skin. Amino acids contain sodium PCA and it is known as a hygroscopic. 
What is Sodium PCA. Technically: It is the sodium salt of Pyroglutamic Acid, a naturally occurring Amino Acid known as Proline, that is found in proteins. The potassium salts or sodium, is what makes the molecule water soluble and an effective humectant
Sodium PCA is derived from a naturally existing amino acid proline in human skin. PCA means pyrolidone carbonic acid, an ingredient in numerous cosmetic products. PCA also contains antioxidants that can fight free radicals, which cause skin aging. Sodium PCA is used as an emollient or humectants in hair and skin conditioning agents, skin-conditioning and moisturizers, and antistatic-skin conditioning. It is also used as an ingredient in hair sprays, shampoos, skin fresheners, permanent waves, and other hair and skin care products.
Sodium PCA 50% CAS No. 28874-51-3 Sodium PCA is the sodium salt of pyroglutamic acid (also known as PCA). PCA is a naturally occurring component of human skin and a part of the natural moisturizing factors (NMF) that maintain a healthy epidermis. Sodium PCA is very hygroscopic, attracting moisture from the air. CAS No. 28874-51-3. Sodium PCA is the sodium salt of pyroglutamic acid (also known as PCA). PCA is a naturally occurring component of human skin and a part of the natural moisturizing factors (NMF) that maintain a healthy epidermis.
1. What is it: Sodium PCA is short for sodium pyroglutamic acid. It is the sodium salt of pyroglutamic acid, a derivative of the amino acid proline. Sodium PCA is considered to be a synthetic chemical. It is used as a humectant and skin conditioner in cosmetic formulas. 