Trip Doctor: What is a Resort Fee, and Do I Really Have to Pay It? Facebook Pinterest Twitter Google+ By Amy FarleyHotels + Resorts, Strategies, Travel News Question from Bill Smith, Eagle, Colo.
A resort fee is usually an involuntary nightly surcharge imposed by hotels, nominally to cover the cost of certain amenities.
Some hotels charge a resort fee, an extra per-day charge added to your regular room rate that is payable upon check-in or check-out. Resorts may or may not disclose this fee ahead of time, and it can add hundreds to the cost of your vacation.
The amount of a resort fee is the same if you book directly with the hotel, or through an online travel site. Below is a list of hotel resort fees and what it includes. In addition, there is a 12 percent tax on the fees.
Las Vegas hotel resort fees and what they include. This list and guide of what hotels charge what when it comes to unavoidable resort fees was put together by the editors of Las Vegas Direct, your source for getting the absolute lowest hotel rates in Vegas.
Certain hotels charge a resort fee for the use of formerly standard amenities, such as a fitness center, swimming pool, newspaper, business center, Internet access, shuttle service or in-room phone use.
A: Good question. And one you should ask of your hotel, too. Resort fees, which can add a full 30 percent onto a hotel bill, may cover everything from wireless Internet and gym access to faxing and use of a notary (huh?)—services and amenities that you may have no interest in using.
A resort fee is a (usually unadvertised) mandatory fee tacked onto a nightly room rate. Fees can be as low as $3.50 per night at the Clarion Inn & Suites at International Drive, Orlando (they call this one a safe fee), to as much as $60 per night for the St. Regis Bahia Beach Resort, Puerto Rico.
By charging a resort fee, the hotel is able to advertise an arbitrarily lower nightly rate, which may give an advantage over competitors not charging the fee who must then advertise a higher nightly rate in order to realise the same income.
The fees are also explained by the resorts as a way to cover the cost of free self-parking, lounge entertainment, energy, pool access and pool towels. Below is a comprehensive list of the hotels in Las Vegas that charge resort fees.