Education. Medical diagnostic sonographers need a formal post-secondary education to enter their profession. For those who already have at least an associate's degree in a healthcare field, such as nurses, a one-year program is sufficient to learn the technical skills. 
If you would like to become a diagnostic medical sonographer or ultrasound technician, ultimately your goal is to complete and pass the ARDMS exam. While not all states require such certification, the majority of clinics and hospitals prefer candidates to hold this professional credential. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
Don't waste your time or money on a NON-accredited program. Upon completion and graduation from a NON-accredited program, you must work in the field of sonography for a full year prior to taking your licensing examinations. But, you will have a hard time finding an employer to hire you, unless you are licensed. There are links provided for each program, which will give you additional information (including course duration, prerequisites): http://www.caahep.org/Find_An_Accredited... Many people, myself included, go to school to become a radiologic technologist, before continuing to ultrasound school.
Answers. Best Answer: When thinking about entering an ultrasound program, you need not be concerned so much about certificate vs. degree. What is important is that you go to an ACCREDITED program, whether it is college or hospital based. An accredited program allows you to take your registry (licensing) exams upon graduation. 
An associate or bachelor's degree is typically required to pursue employment as a diagnostic medical sonographer. Students also have the option to graduate with a degree in a related field, pursue a certificate program in diagnostic medical sonography and then receive on-the-job training. How to Become a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer. Learn how to become a diagnostic medical sonographer. Research the job description, education and licensing requirements to find out how to start a career in medical sonography.
Through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), sonographers can also pursue certification, such as the registered diagnostic medical sonographer (RDMS), registered diagnostic cardiac sonographer (RDCS), registered vascular technologist (RVT) or registered in musculoskeletal (RMSK). How to Become a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer. Learn how to become a diagnostic medical sonographer. Research the job description, education and licensing requirements to find out how to start a career in medical sonography.
The following is by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for a diagnostic medical sonographer. Diagnostic medical sonography is an occupation where there is no preferred level of education and several avenues of education are widely accepted by employers. You need to go to a 4 year school and get your bachelor's degree in either premed or biology. While in school you will need to take the DAT. Then, once you graduate, you will … need to go to professional school. After 4 years of professional school, you become a general dentist.
Answers. Best Answer: When thinking about entering an ultrasound program, you need not be concerned so much about certificate vs. degree. What is important is that you go to an ACCREDITED program, whether it is college or hospital based. An accredited program allows you to take your registry (licensing) exams upon graduation. There are links provided for each program, which will give you additional information (including course duration, prerequisites): http://www.caahep.org/Find_An_Accredited... Many people, myself included, go to school to become a radiologic technologist, before continuing to ultrasound school.
Work Environment. Most sonographers (about 60 percent) work in hospitals. Often, hospital-based sonographers will get rotations of being on-call, which means they will have to be ready to return to the hospital at any hour of the night, weekend, or holiday if an emergency ultrasound is needed. Training. To become a sonographer, both classroom and clinical training is required. Students take general courses in anatomy and physiology as well as ultrasound-specific imaging. Students are also required to take ultrasound physics courses, which can be quite challenging.