vs. McAfee Web Protection. 1) A trigraph is a three-character replacement for a special or nonstandard character in a text file. A trigraph can be used in place of a symbol that is not present on a keyboard or in a character set. However, some programs cannot properly interpret them.
A trigraph is a single sound that is represented by three letters, for example: In the word 'match', the three letters 'tch' at the end make only one sound. Other examples of trigraphs are: igh as in sigh. 
Definition. A digraph is a group of two successive letters that represent a single sound (or phoneme). Common vowel digraphs in English include ai (as in rain), ay (day), ea (teach), ea (bread), ea (break), ee (free), ei (eight), ey (key), ie (piece), oa (road), oo (book), oo (room), ow (slow), and ue (true)
trigraph. noun. 1  Three letters spelling one consonant, vowel, or diphthong, such as Sch in Schiller or igh in high or thigh. 2  A group of three letters, especially of frequent occurrence in a given language, as the or ing in English or gli in Italian. 3  Any combination of three letters of an alphabet. 4  Also called trigram. 
1 If three letters together represent a single sound, they constitute a trigraph, such as tch in catch and sch in schmaltz. 2  Similarly, to take the consonant trigraph t c h, the teacher can explain that in this word the three letters together ‘say’ the sound. 1 Similarly, to take the consonant trigraph t c h, the teacher can explain that in this word the three letters together ‘say’ the sound. 2  Both digraphs and trigraphs in French have their origin in history and phonology.
A trigraph is a phoneme which consists of three letters. However, many people will simply use the term 'digraph' generally to describe both combinations. In digraphs, consonants join together to form a kind of consonant team, which makes a special sound. 
Example sentences. 1  If three letters together represent a single sound, they constitute a trigraph, such as tch in catch and sch in schmaltz. 2  Similarly, to take the consonant trigraph t c h, the teacher can explain that in this word the three letters together ‘say’ the sound. 1 Similarly, to take the consonant trigraph t c h, the teacher can explain that in this word the three letters together ‘say’ the sound. 2  Both digraphs and trigraphs in French have their origin in history and phonology.
Definition of DIGRAPH. 1. : a group of two successive letters whose phonetic value is a single sound (as ea in bread or ng in sing) or whose value is not the sum of a value borne by each in other occurrences (as ch in chin where the value is \t\ + \sh\). 2. : a group of two successive letters. 3. : ligature 4. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2010). A trigraph (from the Greek: τρεῖς, treis, treîs three and, γράφω, graphō) gráphō write is a group of three letters used to represent a single sound or a combination of sounds that does not correspond to the written. letters combined Further information: List of Latin-script trigraphs. For example, in the word schilling, the trigraph sch represents the voiceless postalveolar fricative /ʃ/ , rather than the consonant cluster */skh/ . In the word beautiful, the sequence eau is pronounced /juː/ , and in the French word chateau château it is /pronounced/ . o