Interop's solution fully complies with the RCS-e, RCS v5.1, RCS Joyn Blackbird specifications and will remain compliant with future versions of RCS as they evolve, ensuring that our solution provides interoperability across devices and networks. Once a device is registered, the IMS core routes all RCS messages to the RCS Messaging Server and other IMS networks. For operators without IMS, the IMS functionality built into Interop's server handles these functions.
With RCS, operators can combat increasingly popular “over-the-top” (OTT) services like Skype and Facebook Messenger. OTT services are provided by third parties and carried “over the top” of operators' networks, resulting in little to no revenue for the operator. Once a device is registered, the IMS core routes all RCS messages to the RCS Messaging Server and other IMS networks. For operators without IMS, the IMS functionality built into Interop's server handles these functions.
The Reaction Control System, or RCS, is a set of monopropellant-fuelled (with the exception of the Vernor Engine) thrusters primarily intended for vessel orientation in a vacuum. It is toggled on and off by pressing the R key (default key binding). Unlike jet and liquid fuel engines, there is no need to place RCS thrusters on RCS fuel tanks or manually run fuel lines to them. The thruster block can provide full rotation control, whereas the linear port can only provide thrust in one direction.
The Rich Communication Suite (RCS) industry initiative was formed by a group of leading industry players in 2007. The Rich Communication Services program is a GSM Association (GSMA) program for the creation of inter-operator communication services based on IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). It is marketed by the GSMA under the brand name joyn. Key features of RCS include:
RCS Group. The RCS Group (RCS) is a consumer finance business that offers its customers a range of financial services products under its own brand name and in association with a number of retailers in South Africa, Namibia and Botswana. The two primary business areas are cards and loans
Rich Communication Services (RCS) is backed by the GSM Association and offers subscribers an innovative set of features that enhance the capabilities of SMS and MMS technologies. Once a device is registered, the IMS core routes all RCS messages to the RCS Messaging Server and other IMS networks. For operators without IMS, the IMS functionality built into Interop's server handles these functions.
RCS has the significant advantage of working across networks and devices, unlike siloed OTT services that typically can be used only by those subscribers who have downloaded the relevant app to their device. Once a device is registered, the IMS core routes all RCS messages to the RCS Messaging Server and other IMS networks. For operators without IMS, the IMS functionality built into Interop's server handles these functions.
History [edit]. The Rich Communication Suite (RCS) industry initiative was formed by a group of leading industry players in 2007. In February 2008 the GSMA officially became the project ‘home’ of RCS and an RCS Steering Committee was established by the organisation. The scope of the RCS Steering Committee’s work was to entail the definition, testing and integration of the diverse services in the application suite known as RCS. The Rich Communication Services program is a GSM Association (GSMA) program for the creation of inter-operator communication services based on IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). It is marketed by the GSMA under the brand name joyn. Key features of RCS include: