But money's low and my suit's out of style, But it's all right if my clothes aren't new. Out of sight because my heart is true. She says baby everything is alright, uptight, out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, yeah, uptight, Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics.
Can't give her the things that money can buy But I'll never, never, never make my baby cry, And it's all right, what I can't do, Out of sight because my heart is true, She says baby everything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, yeah, uptight, Baby, everything is all right, uptight,
But it's all right if my clothes aren't new. Out of sight because my heart is true. She says baby ev'rything is alright, uptight, out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Out of sight because my heart is true, She says baby ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, ah ah ah ah, Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight.
Submit Corrections Cancel. Baby, everything's alright. Uptight, out of sight. Baby, everything's alright. Uptight, out of sight. I'm a poor man's son, from across the railroad tracks. The only shirt I own is hangin' on my back
Out of sight because my heart is true, She says baby everything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, way out of sight. Baby, yeah, uptight, Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics.
But it's all right if my clothes aren't new. Out of sight because my heart is true. She says baby ev'rything is alright, uptight, out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, ah ah ah ah, Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight.
But it's all right if my clothes aren't new. Out of sight because my heart is true. She says baby ev'rything is alright, uptight, out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. 
Uptight (Everything's Alright) Song Lyrics Baby, ev'rything is all right, uptight, out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is all right, uptight, out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, ah ah ah ah, Baby, ev'rything is alright, uptight, clean
Baby, everything is alright, uptight, ah ah ah ah. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight. Baby, everything is alright, uptight, clean out of sight Writer/s: COSBY, HENRY / MOY, SYLVIA / WONDER, STEVIE Publisher: Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLCLyrics licensed and provided by LyricFind. 1  More songs from Stevie Wonder