To discuss the role that ancestors play in the life of the living tribe. To explain how customs, religion, and the daily necessities of life determined the characteristics of African art. To discuss the major functions of African art, sculpture, and masks in African society. To explain this statement: In many ways, African art is closer to modern art than it is to traditional Western art. 1  To identify and describe the climate and geography of the FIVE major regions of Africa. 2  To explain how geographic features affected Africa's contact with other regions. 3  To identify the climatic zones of Africa in which the change ... 
The same is true for African sculpture and other art forms: it is essential to discover whether a mask or a sculptured figure is made to entertain, frighten, promote fertility, or merely to be art for art's sake. The Art of the African Kingdoms. Art is universally a means of glorifying persons of rank. The presence of objects elaborately carved in such precious materials as gold, silver, or ivory usually indicates the presence of a ruling class, surplus wealth, and the wherewithal to employ specialized craftsmen.
African art is a term typically used for the art of Sub-Saharan Africa. Often, casual observers tend to generalize traditional. African art, but the continent is full of people, societies and civilizations, each with a unique visual culture. The definition may also include the art of the African Diasporas, such as the art of African Americans. African art takes many forms and is made from many different materials. Jewellry is a popular art form and is used to indicate rank, affiliation with a group, or purely for aesthetics. African jewelry is made from such diverse materials as Tiger's eye stone, haematite, sisal, coconut shell, beads and ebony wood.
Characteristics Of African Art. May 26, 2013 by Andrew Keet. While African art is one of the most all-encompassing and non-definitive art forms in the world, there remain some aspects of it that have been common denominators throughout the continent and over extended spans of time. Many African artists inter-morphed figures of humans and animals to create a kind of hybrid being. African Mask from Mali, made of wood and embellished with hammered brass. The second common denominator is that of YOUTHFULNESS. A young, healthy figure, whether male or female, represents vitality, health and fertility.
Most African sculpture was historically in wood and other natural materials that have not survived from earlier than, at most, a few centuries ago; older pottery figures can be found from a number of areas. Masks are important elements in the art of many peoples, along with human figures, often highly stylized. African art takes many forms and is made from many different materials. Jewellry is a popular art form and is used to indicate rank, affiliation with a group, or purely for aesthetics. African jewelry is made from such diverse materials as Tiger's eye stone, haematite, sisal, coconut shell, beads and ebony wood.
African art is multi-functional: it serves as a handmaiden of government, religion, and even economics. It also serves to entertain. West African masquerades, in particular, belie the generalization that in traditional African cultures there is no such thing as art for art's sake. The Art of the African Kingdoms. Art is universally a means of glorifying persons of rank. The presence of objects elaborately carved in such precious materials as gold, silver, or ivory usually indicates the presence of a ruling class, surplus wealth, and the wherewithal to employ specialized craftsmen.
These characteristics signify the artists’ priorities, ideals and values, as well as that of the society that has moulded him or her. The first characteristic that occurs in most sculptures and paintings is that the subject RESEMBLES A HUMAN BEING. This is significant as not all subjects are actually human. Many African artists inter-morphed figures of humans and animals to create a kind of hybrid being. African Mask from Mali, made of wood and embellished with hammered brass. The second common denominator is that of YOUTHFULNESS. A young, healthy figure, whether male or female, represents vitality, health and fertility.
The Art of Ethiopia, with a long Christian tradition, is also different from that of most of Africa, where Traditional African religion (with Islam in the north) was dominant until relatively recently. African art takes many forms and is made from many different materials. Jewellry is a popular art form and is used to indicate rank, affiliation with a group, or purely for aesthetics. African jewelry is made from such diverse materials as Tiger's eye stone, haematite, sisal, coconut shell, beads and ebony wood.
Illustration of texts was also seen. A major artist who was influenced by folk art, is Natalia Goncharova (1881-1962), one of the most valuable Russian artists in history. She and her husband Mikhail Larionov created a number of traditional Russian designs for Sergei Diaghilev and his ballet company. 