Learn what the 5 types of hepatitis are. Shilpa explains the transmission, prevention and treatment of the different types of hepatitis, including Hepatitis A, B, C, D and E. New video every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Hepatitis A symptoms take about 2-3 weeks to show up and almost never fatal. Hepatitis B symptoms take an average of 2.5 months to show up.
There are two types of hepatitis B, acute (short-lived) and chronic (long-lived). Acute hepatitis B symptoms can last from a few days up to six months. Most symptoms of acute hepatitis are mild. It's possible to have acute or chronic hepatitis without feeling ill or having any symptoms. Chronic hepatitis B is more severe than its acute form. Chronic inflammation of the liver can lead to scarring of liver tissue, liver failure, and liver cancer.
The most common hepatitis viruses are types A, B, and C. Reference to the hepatitis viruses often occurs in an abbreviated form (for example, HAV, HBV, HCV represent hepatitis viruses A, B, and C, respectively.) The focus of this article is on these viruses that cause the majority of human viral hepatitis. 1 Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 4  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic
There are 5 main hepatitis viruses, referred to as types A, B, C, D and E. These 5 types are of greatest concern because of the burden of illness and death they cause and the potential for outbreaks and epidemic spread.
There are three major types of hepatitis, and all of them affect your liver. Some of the symptoms are similar, but they have different treatments. Hepatitis A. This type won't lead to long-term infection and usually doesn't cause any complications. Your liver heals in about 2 months. You can prevent it with a vaccine. You won't catch it if you get a vaccine. Hepatitis C. Many people with this type don't have any symptoms. About 80% of those with the disease get a long-term infection. It can sometimes lead to cirrhosis, a scarring of the liver.
Viral hepatitis symptoms are similar no matter which type of hepatitis you have. If symptoms occur, you might experience any or all of the following: jaundice (yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes), fever, loss of appetite, fatigue, dark urine, joint pain, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Note: For all types of viral hepatitis, symptoms are less common in children than in adults, and for people of any age with HCV infection, they are less likely to experience symptoms. Incubation period: 15 to 50 days, aver-age 28 daysThere is no chronic infection.
1 Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis.4  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis.
Hepatitis C. You get this type if you have contact with contaminated blood or needles used to inject illegal drugs or draw tattoos. Sometimes you don't get any symptoms, or just mild ones. But in some cases hepatitis C leads to cirrhosis, a risky scarring of your liver. The type of virus that's causing your hepatitis affects how severe your disease is and how long it lasts. Hepatitis A. You usually get it when you eat or drink something that's got the virus in it.
1 Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 2  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized. 1 Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 4 
1 All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 2  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 3  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized. Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 4