What was hyssop used for in the Bible?. Answer: Since people in the biblical era did not have access to the products we do today, they often relied on naturally occurring resources such as plants, animal byproducts, and minerals for cleaning, cooking, food, medicine, and more. 
Hyssop is a plant. The parts that grow above ground are used to make medicine. Hyssop is used for digestive and intestinal problems including liver and gallbladder conditions, intestinal pain, intestinal gas, colic, and loss of appetite. It is also used for respiratory problems including coughs, the common cold, respiratory infections, sore throat, and asthma. Hyssop is considered safe for most people in the amounts commonly found in foods and in medicinal amounts. However, do not use the oil product because it has caused seizures in some people.
The plant called the hyssop is a perennial shrub like herb and belongs to the plant family Lamiaceae-the mint family of plants. The hyssop is characterized by possessing slender and stiff stems, it grows to about a yard in height when mature. The hyssop is rich in its content of highly aromatic and volatile oils that can be found in the leaves, the stems, and the flowers-this is similar to the presence of such aromatic oils in all other plants belonging to the mint family.
Definition of HYSSOP. 1. : a plant used in purificatory sprinkling rites by the ancient Hebrews. 2. : a European mint (Hyssopus officinalis) that has highly aromatic and pungent leaves and is sometimes used as a potherb. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Hyssop (Hyssopus) is a genus of about 10-12 species of herbaceous or semi-woody plants in the family Lamiaceae, native from the east Mediterranean to central Asia. They are aromatic, with upright branched stems up to 60 cm long covered with fine hairs at the tips. The leaves are narrow ovals, 2–5 cm long. 
Hyssop. Hyssop is one of the better-known plants of the Bible referred to in ten places in the Old Testament and two in the New, of which one is a reference to the Old. It is also one of the most puzzling verses dealing with hyssop. This is the crux in the study of hyssop. This study deals with the botanical identity of the plant known as hyssop and the two problematical verses, I Kings 4:33 and John 19:29.
Hyssopus officinalis or hyssop is a herbaceous plant of the genus Hyssopus native to Southern Europe, the Middle East, and the region surrounding the Caspian Sea. This article is about the species of plant usually known as hyssop. For other species in the same genus, sometimes called hyssop, see Hyssopus (plant) . For the plant in the Hebrew Bible usually called hyssop, see Ezov.
Characteristics [edit]. Hyssop is a brightly coloured shrub or subshrub that ranges from 30 to 60 cm (12 to 24 in) in height. The stem is woody at the base, from which grow a number of straight branches. Its leaves are lanceolate, dark green in colour, and from 2 to 2.5 cm (0.79 to 0.98 in) long. This article is about the species of plant usually known as hyssop. For other species in the same genus, sometimes called hyssop, see Hyssopus (plant) . For the plant in the Hebrew Bible usually called hyssop, see Ezov.
Hyssopus (Hyssop) is a genus of herbaceous or semi-woody plants in the family Lamiaceae, native from the east Mediterranean to central Asia as far east as Mongolia. They are aromatic, with erect branched stems up to 60 cm long covered with fine hairs at the tips. 