Swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, often referred to as swollen glands, can be an indication of infection, inflammation or cancer. They can become swollen in reaction to bacterial infections such as strep throat, tonsillitis, or infections of the mouth, skin or ears.
Lymph nodes become swollen in response to illness, infection, or stress. Swollen lymph nodes are one sign that your lymphatic system is working to rid your body of the responsible agents. Swollen lymph glands in the head and neck are normally caused by illnesses such as: 1  ear infection.
Swollen lymph nodes in the neck are not typically treated on their own. Instead, a physician looks for the cause of the swelling and treats that instead. For instance, if a lymph node is swollen due to tonsillitis, treating the tonsillitis causes the lymph node swelling to subside.
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes in the neck is a viral infection such as the common cold. Bacterial infections that can cause swollen neck lymph nodes include an infected tooth and strep throat. Immune system disorders and some types of cancer can also lead to swollen neck lymph nodes.
Lymph nodes often swell in one location when a problem such as an injury, infection, or tumor develops in or near the lymph node. Which lymph nodes are swollen can help identify the problem. 1  The glands on either side of the neck, under the jaw, or behind the ears commonly swell when you have a cold or sore throat.
Swollen neck lymph nodes can occur in any age group or population, but generally occur most often in children. Your body relies on the lymphatic system to fight off germs, infections, and abnormal substances such as cancer cells. Lymph nodes are an important part of your body’s immune system. Swollen neck lymph nodes can result from infection, malignancy and autoimmune disorders. Swollen neck lymph nodes are also known as lymphadenitis, lymphadenopathy, swollen nodes, or swollen glands.
1 Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand. 2  A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 3  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals.
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include: