In the eukaryotic cell, the cytosol is within the cell membrane and is part of the cytoplasm, which also comprises the mitochondria, plastids, and other organelles (but not their internal fluids and structures); the cell nucleus is separate. The cytosol consists mostly of water, dissolved ions, small molecules, and large water-soluble molecules (such as proteins). The majority of these non-protein molecules have a molecular mass of less than 300 Da.
The cytosol is a complex mixture of substances dissolved in water. Although water forms the large majority of the cytosol, its structure and properties within cells is not well understood. The cytosol consists mostly of water, dissolved ions, small molecules, and large water-soluble molecules (such as proteins). The majority of these non-protein molecules have a molecular mass of less than 300 Da.
If the DNA within a cell is not separated from the cytoplasm, then that cell is a prokaryote. All known prokaryotes, such as bacteria and archaea, are single cells. In contrast, if the DNA is partitioned off in its own membrane-bound room called the nucleus, then that cell is a eukaryote. That's because all cells are surrounded by a structure called the cell membrane — which, much like the walls of a house, serves as a clear boundary between the cell's internal and external environments. The cell membrane is sometimes also referred to as the plasma membrane.
The hydrophilic (water loving) polar heads ofthe phospholipid molecules face the outside and inside ofthe cell where water is found, and the hydrophobic (waterfearing) nonpolar tails face each other (Fig. 4.1). Inaddition to phospholipids, there are two other types oflipids in the plasma membrane. 
Protein molecules that do not bind to cell membranes or the cytoskeleton are dissolved in the cytosol. The amount of protein in cells is extremely high, and approaches 200 mg/ml, occupying about 20-30% of the volume of the cytosol. The cytosol consists mostly of water, dissolved ions, small molecules, and large water-soluble molecules (such as proteins). The majority of these non-protein molecules have a molecular mass of less than 300 Da.
The lipid bilayers that are found in cell membranes have two important characteristics. One of them is that most polar molecules cannot go across the membrane. Polar molecules are attracted to the water inside the cell or to the water outside the cell. However, they cannot interact with the nonpolar tails of the phospholipids within the lipid bilayer. The result is that the interior part of the cell membrane forms a non polar zone that acts as a barrier to polar molecules. Phospholipids are molecules that make up the framework of the cell membrane..Phospholipids are lipids in which the long chains or tails are joined to a short polar head that contains phosphorus. The long tails are nonpolar, so water molecules will tend to push them away.
1 Many proteins are found in the membrane, or else are attached to lipids in the membrane. 2  The lipids, proteins, and other molecules found in biological membranes can freely move laterally (sideways). 3  The proteins can move from one side of the cell to another (like driftwood floating in a lipid sea). 1 The hydrophobic ends face each other on the inside, and the hydrophilic ends are on the outsides of the membrane. 2  That way, the hydrophobic regions do not interact with water, and the hydrophilic regions do. 3  Both parts of each phospholipid molecule are happy.. 4  Other molecules are also found
Water is found on the outside but NOT on the inside. Both parts of the molecule are in the right chemical environment. Phospholipid bilayers are a stable structure that can form spontaneously when water is added to phospholipids. 1 The hydrophobic ends face each other on the inside, and the hydrophilic ends are on the outsides of the membrane. 2  That way, the hydrophobic regions do not interact with water, and the hydrophilic regions do. 3  Both parts of each phospholipid molecule are happy.. 4  Other molecules are also found in
1 Other molecules are also found in the membrane. 2  For example, other lipids, such as cholesterol, may be present. 3  Many proteins are found in the membrane, or else are attached to lipids in the membrane. 4  The lipids, proteins, and other molecules found in biological membranes can freely move laterally (sideways). 1 The hydrophobic ends face each other on the inside, and the hydrophilic ends are on the outsides of the membrane. 2  That way, the hydrophobic regions do not interact with water, and the hydrophilic regions do. 3  Both parts of each phospholipid molecule are happy.. 4 
An organelle is a generic term for a specialized structure in the  cell. The majority of a cell's DNA is located in the nucleus, but a  small amount is found in the mitochon … dria, and is referred to as  mitochondrial DNA. 1 person found this useful. The heads go towards the outside of the membrane, and the tails tend toward the fatty centre. Therefore, in the inside of cell membrane you would find lipids, or fats, and the tails of the phospholipids. 1 person found this useful. Answered.