Consistent connection handling. To determine Internet connectivity and captive portal status when a client first connects to a network, Windows performs a series of network tests. The destination site of these tests is msftncsi.com, which is a reserved domain that is used exclusively for connectivity testing. When a captive portal is detected, these tests are periodically repeated until the captive portal is released. To avoid false positive or false negative test results, your captive portal should not do the following: 1  Allow access to www.msftncsi.com when the user does not have access to the Internet.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A captive portal is a method of authentication used to verify that a user has permission to access the Internet connection. This method of authentication requires the user to open a web browser. A captive portal is often used to force a user to agree to the network's terms of use before being able to access the
Captive Portal. Captive portal is one of the methods of authentication supported by ArubaOS. A captive portal presents a web page which requires action on the part of the user before network access is granted. The required action can be simply viewing and agreeing to an acceptable use policy, or entering a user ID and password which must be validated against a database of authorized users. When you create a captive portal profile in the base operating system, an implicit user role is automatically created with same name as the captive portal profile. This implicit user role allows only DNS and DHCP traffic between the client and network and directs all HTTP or HTTPS requests to the captive portal.
Even when a simple captive portal is used in a free public-access network, certain people may repeatedly connect, using the network on an almost continuous basis to download music, videos, or other large files. This activity, called bandwidth hogging, can be minimized by additional programming in the captive portal. A simple captive portal forces the user to at least look at (if not read) an acceptable use policy (AUP) page, and then click on a button indicating agreement to the terms of the policy.
A captive portal is a special web page that is shown before using the Internet normally. The portal is often used to present a login page. This is done by intercepting most packets, regardless of address or port, until the user opens a browser and tries to access the web.
Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 supports captive portal networks by immediately opening the web browser if a captive portal is detected. The user sees your branded web page in the foreground of their device, which helps them to understand what actions they should take to authenticate by using the captive portal. When a captive portal is detected, these tests are periodically repeated until the captive portal is released. To avoid false positive or false negative test results, your captive portal should not do the following: 1  Allow access to www.msftncsi.com when the user does not have access to the Internet.
A captive portal is a Web page that the user of a public-access network is obliged to view and interact with before access is granted. Captive portal s are typically used by business centers, airports, hotel lobbies, coffee shops, and other venues that offer free Wi-Fi hot spot s for Internet users. A simple captive portal forces the user to at least look at (if not read) an acceptable use policy (AUP) page, and then click on a button indicating agreement to the terms of the policy.
Captive Portal. The Captive Portal function in pfSense allows securing a network by requiring a username and password (or only a click through), entered on a portal page. If authentication is used, this can be performed using pfSense's built-in user management, or an external authentication server such as a RADIUS server. From PFSenseDocs. The Captive Portal function in pfSense allows securing a network by requiring a username and password (or only a click through), entered on a portal page.