For adults, the recommended dosage of Chyawanprash is half a teaspoon; for over five years old children – 1/4 tsp; for 1-5 years old children – from 1/6 up to 1/4 tsp once a day. It is best to drink Chyawanprash with milk as it contributes to the delivery of all its components to each cell in the body. 
IS Chyawanprash good for kids in this season. 5 replies [ Last post ]. laliseth posted on Wed, 09/08/2010 - 10:39. My kids have been suffering with cough and cold due to change of season and I am really not into giving them antibiotics every now and then. Wondering if I can give them Chyawanprash in this raining season. 
This is responsible for the rising instances of heart disease among young people. Chyawanprash is extremely good for your heart as the many herbs present in it flush the toxins out of your system and promote blood circulation. Here are some foods you can eat to beat cholesterol. 
Chyawanprash can be given to a child from 5 year old onwards, to be on the safer side. the dosage for children will be quarter to half spoon with a glass of milk. for a child of this age, chyawanprash can be given only if needed, for example in case of repeated respiratory tract infection, stomach infection, etc. 
Chyawanprash is also known as ‘’Chyawanprash Rasayana’’ which means medicine or tonic. This ayurvedic mixture, which has the appearance of a jam, is prepared using Ayurvedic herbs and is in common use in India. It is brown in color and has a sticky consistency. Chyawanprash or Chavanprasha is a herbal tonic commonly utilized in India for well being and health. It is made by using an age-old Ayurvedic formula and comprises of herbs which are said to possess potent immune-boosting and energizing capacities.
Patanjali Special Chyawanprash. Patanjali Special Chyawanprash, ‘Rasayana’ in nature is an excellent ayurvedic formulation which is very good for longevity and helps in maintaining quality life. The Indian gooseberry, also known as Amla is the main ingredient of this formulation. Chyawanprash or Chavanprasha is a herbal tonic commonly utilized in India for well being and health. It is made by using an age-old Ayurvedic formula and comprises of herbs which are said to possess potent immune-boosting and energizing capacities.
Too young and too old – Chyawanprash can be given in very minute dose to kids above 3 years of age. It helps immensely in keeping the cold, cough, anorexia away. Similarly, it is more suited in very elderly people who are weak due to severe degeneration. Wound care – Again, Chyawanprash is helpful, but Triphala is more helpful in non healing wounds. It is useful internally, in the form of powder / capsule / Kashaya. Triphala Kashaya is also used externally for washing wounds, to do sitz bath in piles, fistula, etc.
Chyawanprash (also spelled chyavanaprasha, chyavanaprash, chyavanaprasam and chyawanaprash) is a jam-like cooked mixture of sugar, honey, Triphala, ghee, sesame oil, berries and other herbs and spices. 
Chyawanprash is a delicious nutritive jam that has been used in Ayurveda for thousands of years, offering a wide range of health benefits. In Sanskrit, the word, ‘prash’ refers to a specially prepared food. 4, 2 Chyawanprash can be taken on a long-term basis as part of a program designed to support overall strength and immunity, even supporting the natural systems of the body after a bout of stress or illness. For others, it is more appropriately used seasonally, as a tonic in the winter months.
Banyan's product is very good!! Copyright by Ingrid Naiman 2002. Chyavanprash, organic, 250 g. This product is the first Chyawanprash to be offered in the West that contains only certified organic herbs. The daily recommended dosage for adults is 1-2 teaspoons. Chyawanprash is the most famous tonic jam from India. It is an excellent antioxidant, and it kindles digestive fire without aggravating the pitta dosha. As such, it is considered tridoshic and suitable for use by anyone. 