Absorption in the Stomach. The stomach absorbs very few substances, although small amounts of certain lipid-soluble compounds can be taken up, including aspirin, other non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs, and ethanol. Glossary. The stomach absorbs very few substances, although small amounts of certain lipid-soluble compounds can be taken up, including aspirin, other non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs, and ethanol.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: most nutrient absoprtion occurs in the small intestine. the stomach and large intestine participate in minor extent. The small intestine can absorb about 95% of the food energy it receives in the form of protein, carbohydrates, fat, and alcohol. The remaining 5% would be for stomach and large intestine.
The small intestine is the location in the body where the majority of the nutrients from ingested food are absorbed. Whereas the stomach is responsible for the churning and mechanical breakdown of food, the small intestine is very important for absorption. The parts of the small intestine include the duodenum, jejunum and the ileum. The duodenum is a segment of intestine between the stomach and the jejunum that is very active in digestion where many different enzymes mix from the stomach, liver, gallbladder and pancreas.
In most vertebrates, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called proteases and gastric acid to aid in food digestion, through smooth muscular contractions before sending partially digested food (chyme) to the small intestines. 
Nutrients enter the bloodstream through fingerlike projections called villi that are along the inner wall of the small intestine. Your body absorbs most of the nutrients during the process of moving the food from the stomach to the small intestine, but the large intestine does absorb some nutrients. 
In fact, almost all nutrients are absorbed outside the stomach. The stomach functions mostly in the preparation of eaten food for absorption, rather than in the absorpti … on itself. Some notable exceptions to this rule: water, alcohol, and aspirin are all absorbed in the stomach.   Almost all nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine. The stomach is actually a precursor to the bloodstream. Nutrients are are broken down in the stomach, most are then sent to the intestines to be broken down further, and absor … bed into the bloodstream and lymphatic systems.
Ibuprofen is mostly absorbed in the duodenum (small intestine). It cannot be absorbed through the lining of the stomach due to its low solubility in water and the low pH of st … omach acid (since ibuprofen dissolves in water better at higher pH's). Yes, the stomach does absorb water, especially when a large amount of water is consumed. However, most of the water that is consumed is still absorbed by the ileum … (the last part of the small intestine) as well as the in the colon. 15 people found this useful.
Small intestines The small intestine   The intestines are a canal that goes from the stomach to the anus and allows for the digestion and absorption of food. The small int … estine comes right after the stomach and primarily is for digesting food with enzymes. The stomach is actually a precursor to the bloodstream. Nutrients are are broken down in the stomach, most are then sent to the intestines to be broken down further, and absor … bed into the bloodstream and lymphatic systems.
The functions of the stomach are to (1) store food, (2) to initiate protein digestion, (3) to kill bacteria with gastric juice and (4) to move chyme into the duodenum. Very little nutrient absorption occurs in the stomach because this isn't really a gastric function. The stomach is actually a precursor to the bloodstream. Nutrients are are broken down in the stomach, most are then sent to the intestines to be broken down further, and absor … bed into the bloodstream and lymphatic systems.