This only needs to be done ONCE, and will be in place throughout your time as a full-time postsecondary student. The other change you will notice is that once your OSAP application and MSFAA are submitted, funding will be deposited directly into your bank account after your school confirms your enrolment. For your second term funding, we only ask that you update your estimated income. Follow these 4 steps to get your OSAP funding. The process of lining up at your school’s financial aid office to get your OSAP loan document before each term is ending. Canada and Ontario are implementing a lifetime loan agreement that will cover you for all the time you are in full-time postsecondary studies.
No OSAP funding will be directed to your bank account. In summary, if you have sufficient OSAP funding to cover your balance owing to the University, the deferral of your fee payment is AUTOMATIC and there is NO ACTION required by you with the exception of you agreeing to fee redirection when you apply for OSAP funding. Example #2: August 15, fees are due. Your Account Summary Balance indicates that you currently owe $5000 (Actual Fees are $7000-$2000 in scholarships) and you are due to receive $4500 in OSAP funding. A payment is required by you in the amount of $500 by the fee deadline date.
There should be two deposits into my bank account but I only see one. Generally, if you have a Canada Student Loan and an Ontario Student Loan and a Canada Student Grant OSAP disbursement, you may see up to 3 deposits into your bank account. Each deposit may be made within 2 - 3 business days of one another. Example #2: August 15, fees are due. Your Account Summary Balance indicates that you currently owe $5000 (Actual Fees are $7000-$2000 in scholarships) and you are due to receive $4500 in OSAP funding. A payment is required by you in the amount of $500 by the fee deadline date.
Location: Toronto, ON. From what OSAP reps told me, only RESP funds you have access to are reported. Also, if you have savings, that will affect the amount OSAP lends/grants you. What I recommend is if your account is student account under your parents, you do not claim is as your own. After all, it's under your parents name, right?
If your OSAP funding consists of both federal and provincial loans and/or grants, there will be more than one deposit on separate days to your bank account. Please check your OSAP account on the OSAP website to confirm the breakdown of your OSAP funding. Your OSAP funding is released to you in two installments. 
Best Answer: (a) OSAP does not check your bank account. However at the end of the year, you will have earned interest on that money and you will be expected to report that interest on your tax form. 
Originally Posted by wnhan1 Hey guys, I have recently applied for OSAP for the academic year of 2011-12 and it was estimated that I would not receive any money. Apparently, my income from January 2011 to August 2011 will be too high for any type of funding.
1 OSAP: Check OSAP funding entitlement by logging into your OSAP account. 2  Bank Account: At the beginning of the term, confirm OSAP funding has been deposited to your personal bank account. 3  Funds are usually deposited at the beginning of the study period if the application process is completed by the appropriate due dates. If you already have an OSAP account and have forgotten your Ontario Access Number (OAN) or password please visit the financial aid office of any Ontario college or university for assistance. Be sure to have your government issued photo identification and your SIN card when inquiring about
They care about how much is in your bank account as OSAP is need based-meaning that if you have money that is sitting there unused, it has to go towards school. $10-15k is a lot of money-you'll probably be denied OSAP or given a very limited amount. By the time i go back to school after a year, I'll have around 10~15k saved up and I was just wondering if I had this money seating in my bank account, could I be declined of my osap? or my grant for that matter?