Best Answer: The girl's name Zoe \zoe\ is pronounced ZOH-ee, ZOH. It is of Greek origin, and its meaning is life Zoe is Phos, Eos or Lucifer. In the garden of Eden she was a singing and harp-playing prostitute. In Genesis Eve is ZOE in Greek. 
Origin and meaning of Zoe. 4-5 5. The meaning of Zoe is  Life . Its origin is  Greek . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 31st in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.
Greek Meaning: The name Zoe is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Zoe is: Life; alive. American Meaning: The name Zoe is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zoe is: Life; alive. SoulUrge Number: 11.
Meanings and history of the name Zoe : | Edit. Zoe is Greek for life - meaning intellectual or spiritual life rather than animal/plant life, which was called bios (the root of the word biology). 
Zoe /zoe/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ZOH-ee, ZOH. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Zoe is life. Zooey is a variant from JD Salinger's novel Franny and Zooey, although the character Zooey is a young man named Zachery. Popular in Greece. Actresses Zoe Caldwell, Zooey Deschanel.
Zoe is a Greek word name meaning life.. It is often spelled Zoe, zoë with an umlaut over 'the' e to emphasize the second the. Syllable zoe first came into use as a given name Among Hellenistic, jews who took it from a translation Of. eve 4-5 5. The meaning of Zoe is  Life . Its origin is  Greek . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 31st in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.
Look up Zoe in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Zoe (and its variants) is a female first name, originally from the Greek word for life (ζωή). It is a calque of the Biblical Hava / Even (חַוָּה), which is derived from the Hebrew word for life. In Japanese culture, it is also a family name
Origin and meaning of Zoe. 5 5. The meaning of Zoe is  Life . Its origin is  Greek . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 31st in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. 4-
It is pronounced in English as Z OW-iy †. Zoe has its origins in the Old Greek language. It is used largely in English, German, Greek, and Polish. It is derived literally from the word zoe which is of the meaning 'life'. The name was adopted by Greek speakers as a form of Eve, due to the similarity in meaning. It appeared in place of Eve in versions of the Bible translated by the Alexandrian Jews. 