An epistolary novel is a novel written as a series of documents. The usual form is letters, although diary entries, newspaper clippings and other documents are sometimes used. 1 John Updike 's S. (1988) is an epistolary novel consisting of the heroine's letters and transcribed audio recordings. 2  Avi used this style of constructing a story in Nothing But the Truth (1991), where the plot is told using only documents, letters, and scripts.
1 While the novel draws on the epistolary form, by the end of the story it reduces it, along with other media, to a monstrous mass of typewriting. 2  Jean Webster 's Daddy-Long-Legs (1912). 3  Dorothy L. Sayers and Robert Eustace 's The Documents in the Case (1930). 1 John Updike 's S. (1988) is an epistolary novel consisting of the heroine's letters and transcribed audio recordings. 2  Avi used this style of constructing a story in Nothing But the Truth (1991), where the plot is told using only documents, letters, and scripts.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. An epistolary novel is also called a novel of letters, because the narration takes place in the form of letters, possibly journal entries, and occasionally newspaper reports. An epistle is an archaic term for a letter. An epistle is an old term meaning a letter, and an epistolary novel is one told through letters or journal entries. Epistolary novels occasionally contain newspaper reports. The narration of epistolary novels takes place in the form of letters, journal entries, and newspaper reports. View slideshow of images above
The epistolary novel was a dominant form of novel writing in the early times. It was used in notable works of fiction such as  The Moonstone by Wilkie Collins, Possession by A.S. Byatt in which a major portion of the story is narrated through letters. The word epistolary is derived from the Latin epistola which means a letter. The word epistle is an ancient term used to mean a letter. Aphra Behn’s Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and his Sister, is considered as the first epistolary novel of the 17th century.
epistolary. adj. 1. relating to, denoting, conducted by, or contained in letters. 2. (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) (of a novel or other work) constructed in the form of a series of letters. e·pis·to·lar·y. adj. 1. Of or associated with letters or the writing of letters. 2. Being in the form of a letter: epistolary exchanges.
1.1 (Of a literary work) in the form of letters: an epistolary novel. More example sentences. 1  In one sense it is an epistolary novel, replete with plot and characters, scenes and backdrops. 2  Shklovsky's second literary book-Zoo, or Letters Not about Love-takes the form of an epistolary novel. 1 Relating to the writing of letters. Example sentences. 1  One method used by writers of young adult literature to express these themes has been the epistolary, or letter writing form. 2  And the epistolary appearance of Lord Peter's mother-the apparently fluttery but always acute duchess, is certainly a Sayers highlight.
An epistolary narrative tells a story or novel through letters, diaries or other personal documents. Famous examples include Bram Stoker's Dracula and Helen Fielding's Bridget Jones's Diary. The first step to writing an epistolary narrative is to develop your plot structure and characters. 
A genre of fiction which first gained popularity in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the epistolary novel is a form in which most or all of the plot is advanced by the letters or journal entries of one or more of its characters, and which marked the beginning of the novel as a literary form. 
Epistolary is a literary genre pertaining to letters, in which writers use letters, journals and diary entries in their works, or they tell their stories or deliver messages through a series of letters. Bram Stoker has employed epistolary format in his successful and widely recognized novel, Dracula, in late nineteenth century. Author has compiled the entire novel in the form of letters, newspaper clippings, diary entries, doctor’s notes, telegrams, and ship’s logs, etc.