Cyclic aliphatic /non-aromatic compounds(Cyclobutane). In organic chemistry, compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen are divided into two classes: aromatic compounds and aliphatic compounds (/ˌaelɨˈfaetɨk/ ; ˌælɨˈfætɨk. g, aleiphar, fat) oil also known as-non aromatic. compounds Aliphatic compounds can be saturated, joined by single bonds (alkanes), or unsaturated, with double bonds (alkenes) or triple bonds (alkynes). Besides hydrogen, other elements can be bound to the carbon chain, the most common being oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and chlorine.
aliphatic compounds are hydrocarbon chains-strings of carbon atoms connected to each other with hydrogen atoms hanging off the sides of the chain. aromatic compounds are rin … gs-so take the chain and connect the two ends together to form a continuous loop. hexane is a carbon chain of 6 carbon atoms. aliphatic means that there is no double or triple bonds, only single bonds between the carbon atoms. like this:   CH3-CH2- … CH2-CH2-CH2-CH3. 1 person found this useful. Answered.
Organic chemists divide all the organic compounds into two groups as aliphatic and aromatic compounds. This separation is based on the way carbon atoms are arranged in the molecule. Aliphatic. Aliphatic compounds in organic chemistry are the non aromatic compounds. They can be either cyclic or acyclic. Organic molecules are molecules consist of carbons. Organic molecules are the most abundant molecule in living things on this planet. Therefore, organic molecules are associated with nearly every aspect of our lives. Therefore, a separate subject as organic chemistry has evolved to learn about these
aliphatic. straight chain of carbon atoms of a propane molecule. aliphatic. Describes organic compounds composed of carbon atoms in straight or branched chains.
(ăl′ə-făt′ĭk). aliphatic. straight chain of carbon atoms of a propane molecule.
aliphatic compound. (ăl'əfăt`ĭk) , any of a large class of organic compounds whose carbon atoms are joined together in straight or branched open chains rather than in rings. The hydrocarbons of the alkane alkane, any of a group of aliphatic hydrocarbons whose molecules contain only single bonds (see chemical bond). Alkanes have the general chemical formula CnH2n+2...... series are aliphatic compounds, as are fatty acids fatty acid,any of the organic carboxylic acids present in fats and oils as esters of glycerol. Molecular weights of fatty acids vary over a wide range.
Aliphatic compounds are typically comprised of carbon and hydrogen  atoms joined together straight chains, branched chains, or  non-aromatic rings. They can also contain oth … er elements such as  oxygen, sulfur, chlorine, or nitrogen and are often flammable.  Methane is the simplest aliphatic compound. hexane is a carbon chain of 6 carbon atoms. aliphatic means that there is no double or triple bonds, only single bonds between the carbon atoms. like this:   CH3-CH2- … CH2-CH2-CH2-CH3. 1 person found this useful. Answered.
Structure [edit]. Aliphatic compounds can be saturated, joined by single bonds (alkanes), or unsaturated, with double bonds (alkenes) or triple bonds (alkynes). Besides hydrogen, other elements can be bound to the carbon chain, the most common being oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and chlorine
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Aliphatic Hydrocarbon Definition: An aliphatic compound is a hydrocarbon compound containing carbon and hydrogen joined together in straight chains, branched trains or non-aromatic rings. Also Known As: aliphatic compound. Examples: ethylene, isooctane, acetylene. 