Soundtrack | Composer | Music Department. Bob Marley was born on February 6, 1945, in Nine Miles, Saint Ann, Jamaica, to Norval Marley and Cedella Booker. His father was a Jamaican of English descent. His mother was a black teenager. The couple planned to get married but Norval left Kingston before this could happen.
With hits such as Get Up Stand Up and I Shot The Sheriff”, it was Eric Clapton’s cover of “I Shot The Sheriff” in 1974 that gave Clapton his first number one hit and brought reggae and the music of Bob Marley to a wider audience. Me deh pon God's side, the one who create me and cause me to come from black and white. Bob Marley (Macdonald, 2012) After his father’s death in 1957, 12-year-old Bob and his mother moved from the mountainous country of St. Ann to the city of Trench Town, Kingston in search for a better life.
Robert Nesta Marley, known as Bob Marley, was a Jamaican reggae singer, musician and songwriter born on February 6, 1945, in St. Ann Parish, Jamaica. Marley’s best known and most respected performer of reggae music and one of the most responsible for popularizing the genre outside of Jamaica. 
Many of Marley s most loyal fans and the vast majority of reggae enthusiasts are unaware that he was, indeed, born to a white father, Captain Norval Marely, and a black mother, Cedella Booker. Bob Marley grew up angry with his father who he felt had mistreated him and his mother. The black Jamaicans were still suspicious of browns and the whites did not view them as equals (Stephens 168). Bob Marley was regularly exposed to this anti-mulatto prejudice during his youth in Kingston. Marley often expressed this memory of the hostility he encountered because of his biraciality (Stephens 167).
Bob Marley quotes (showing 1-30 of 145). “Only once in your life, I truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. You tell them things that you’ve never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. 
He told me he loved me, and I believe that he did. He was always honest with me in that time. He told me he was the black sheep of his family, because the Marley s did not like black people, but Norval liked them very much. The black Jamaicans were still suspicious of browns and the whites did not view them as equals (Stephens 168). Bob Marley was regularly exposed to this anti-mulatto prejudice during his youth in Kingston. Marley often expressed this memory of the hostility he encountered because of his biraciality (Stephens 167).
Confidence votes 57. Marley said that his chain was forged in life. This means that all of the bad things he did in the course of his life came back to haunt him, in the form of this chain, which will cause eternal agony for him while he walks around Earth in ghost form. Every ghost has a chain of some sort. 
Prejudice is a chain, it can hold you. If you prejudice, you can't move, you keep prejudice for years. Never get nowhere with that. Bob Marley. Move, Hold, Nowhere. Prejudice is a learned trait. You're not born prejudiced; you're taught it. Prejudice Quotes. We must become bigger than we have been: more courageous, greater in spirit, larger in outlook. We must become members of a new race, overcoming petty prejudice, owing our ultimate allegiance not to nations but to our fellow men within the human community.
As a result of Norval Marley s absence from his son s life, Marley was forced to look elsewhere for male role models to guide him. Each of these role models would influence the boy in different ways that would help carve the incredible man Bob Marley became. The black Jamaicans were still suspicious of browns and the whites did not view them as equals (Stephens 168). Bob Marley was regularly exposed to this anti-mulatto prejudice during his youth in Kingston. Marley often expressed this memory of the hostility he encountered because of his biraciality (Stephens 167).