Biomass fuels come from things that once lived: wood products, dried vegetation, crop residues, aquatic plants and even garbage. It is known as 'Natural Material' . Plants used up a lot of the sun's energy to make their own food (photosysnthesis). They stored the foods in the plants in the form of chemical energy.
Biomass is living or recently dead biological matter that can be used for fuel or industrial production. Courtesy DOE/NREL Warren Gretz. Biomass energy can be used in many ways, and made from many sources. Historically in the United States, it has come from three primary sources: wood, waste, and alcohol fuels.
Biomass is a renewable source of fuel to produce energy because: 1  waste residues will always exist – in terms of scrap wood, mill residuals and forest resources; and. 2  properly managed forests will always have more trees, and we will always have crops and the residual biological matter from those crops.
Many of the biomass fuels used today come in the form of wood products, dried vegetation, crop residues, and aquatic plants. Biomass has become one of the most commonly used renewable sources of energy in the last two decades, second only to hydropower in the generation of electricity.
Biomass is one of the most plentiful and well-utilised sources of renewable energy in the world. Broadly speaking, it is organic material produced by the photosynthesis of light. The chemical material (organic compounds of carbons) are stored and can then be used to generate energy.
Biomass is fuel that is developed from organic materials, a renewable and sustainable source of energy used to create electricity or other forms of power. Some examples of materials that make up biomass fuels are: 1  scrap lumber; 2  forest debris; 3  certain crops; 4  manure; and. 5  some types of waste residues.
When biomass is burned, this stored energy is released as heat. Burning biomass releases carbon dioxide. However, plants also take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and use it to grow their leaves, flowers, branches, and stems. That same carbon dioxide is returned to the air when the plants are burned.