When it's a small bulbous member of the cabbage family called kohlrabi, that's when. For all intents and purposes, kohlrabi appears to be a root vegetable in the same company as turnips, radishes and rutabagas. However, the bulbous shape is caused by a swelling of the plant's stem near the ground. In that sense, it is more of a tightly packed version of its cousin, cabbage. I try to use kohlrabi whenever I can find it because of the valuable kohlrabi nutrition. As a member of the cabbage family it contains some of the same nutrients that appear to protect us against colon cancer and prostate cancer.
Kohlrabi (German turnip or turnip cabbage; Brassica oleracea Gongylodes Group) is an annual vegetable, and is a low, stout cultivar of cabbage. Kohlrabi can be eaten raw as well as cooked. The taste and texture of kohlrabi are similar to those of a broccoli stem or cabbage heart, but milder and sweeter, with a higher ratio of flesh to skin. The young stem in particular can be as crisp and juicy as an apple, although much less sweet.
You've probably spotted knobby purple or green kohlrabi at the farmers market recently and wondered what the heck this odd-shaped thing with the weird name is! Well, it's a fantastically versatile vegetable with a taste and texture somewhere between cabbage and broccoli stems. This is a great way to get kids to eat their kohlrabi! Shred it and mix with an egg and a few tablespoons of flour or breadcrumbs. Heat oil or butter in a flat skillet, drop on small mounds, and flatten slightly with the back of your spatula. Turn after a few minutes, and serve when both sides are crispy.
Kohlrabi is a rather versatile vegetable when it comes to how to prepare. We usually eat them raw—peeled, sliced and added to a salad or used for serving with a dip. You can also steam, boil, bake, grill, or roast them. Just peel away the outside thick skin first. These little sputnik-shaped vegetables come in green or purple, can be eaten raw or cooked, and taste a bit like broccoli stems, but milder and slightly sweeter. The word kohlrabi is German for “cabbage turnip” (kohl as in cole-slaw, and ruebe rübe for) turnip though kohlrabi is not a root vegetable at. all
The word kohlrabi is German for “cabbage turnip” (kohl as in cole-slaw, and ruebe rübe for) turnip though kohlrabi is not a root vegetable at. All’it s a—brassica like, cabbage, broccoli and—cauliflower and those cute bulbous shapes grow above, ground not. below These little sputnik-shaped vegetables come in green or purple, can be eaten raw or cooked, and taste a bit like broccoli stems, but milder and slightly sweeter. The word kohlrabi is German for “cabbage turnip” (kohl as in cole-slaw, and ruebe rübe for) turnip though kohlrabi is not a root vegetable at. all
Kohlrabi nutrition facts. Kohlrabi, also known as knol-khol or German Turnip, is a stout, round, tuberous vegetable in the Brassica family, the family that also includes cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, kale, collard greens, and brussels sprouts. This stem vegetable is native to Europe. Scientific name: Brassica oleracea (Gongylodes Group).
Kohlrabi is a member of the cabbage family, and as such, comes with this family's signature sweet-but-peppery flavor profile. We usually eat the bulbous bottom, but the entire kohlrabi plant is actually edible. The skin has the rubbery texture of broccoli stems and can be white, light green, or bright purple. The kohlrabi turns sweet and a bit caramelized in the high heat of the oven, making a great side dish for steak, grilled fish, or almost any main course dinner. You can also stir fry bite-sized pieces, add them to soups, or steam them. In all cases, the kohlrabi is ready to eat when it is tender.
Pronounce it: cole-rah-bee. Looking something like a Sputnik in vegetable form, with a squat bulb and antennae-like shoots, kohlrabi is part of the cabbage family. The name translates as 'turnip cabbage' and the mild, sweet flavour is somewhere between a turnip and a waterchestnut, with a crisp, crunchy textur
Although kohlrabi (Brassica oleracea gongylodes) looks like no other vegetable you've ever seen, it's actually a variety (breed or race) of the species Brassica oleracea, to which cabbage, kale, collards, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and cauliflower also belong. 