Like PANS, children with Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorder Associated with Streptococcal Infections (PANDAS) have an acute onset – within 2 to 3 days – of neuropsychiatric symptoms, specifically OCD or tics (involuntary, purposeless movements). They are often diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) or an eating disorder, but the sudden onset of symptoms separates PANS from these other disorders. In addition, they may have symptoms of depression, irritability, anxiety, and have difficulty with schoolwork.
To accomplish this goal, the PANDAS criteria were modified to describe PANS – Pediatric Acute-onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome. PANS encompasses the whole group of acute-onset cases of OCD while PANDAS describes those cases of PANS that have a documented association with streptococcal infections. PANS and PANDAS are comparable to cancer and leukemia (respectively) as PANS is the large class of disorders and PANDAS is one specific type. The term is used to describe a subset of children and adolescents who have Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) and/or tic disorders, and in whom symptoms worsen following strep. infections such as Strep throat and Scarlet Fever. PANS is a newer term used to describe the larger class of acute-onset OCD cases. PANS stands for P ediatric A cute-onset N europsychiatric S yndrome and includes all cases of abrupt onset OCD, not just those associated with streptococcal infections
Treatment of OCD or Tourette possibly caused by PANS is generally the same as the standard therapies for OCD and Tourettes (symptomatic treatment). It has, however, been observed that children with PANS appear to be unusually sensitive to the side-effects of SSRIs. This portion of the brain is responsible for mediating cognition, emotion, and movement. Research into the etiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder has identified dysfunctions of the basal ganglia as a key factor for the onset of OCD. A similar syndrome in adults is known as Post-inflammatory Brain Syndrome (PIBS).
Pediatric Acute-onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome (PANS) is a clinical diagnosis given to children who have a dramatic – sometimes overnight – onset of neuropsychiatric symptoms including obsessions/compulsions or food restriction. They are often diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) or an eating disorder, but the sudden onset of symptoms separates PANS from these other disorders. In addition, they may have symptoms of depression, irritability, anxiety, and have difficulty with schoolwork.
Like PANS, children with Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorder Associated with Streptococcal Infections (PANDAS) have an acute onset – within 2 to 3 days – of neuropsychiatric symptoms, specifically OCD or tics (involuntary, purposeless movements). Although PANDAS was identified as a medical syndrome more than a decade before PANS, it has been classified as a subset of PANS. To date, PANDAS is the only known subset of PANS, but we may discover more causes in the future.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS) is a neuropsychiatric syndrome still under research, leading to rapid onset Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and/or tics in children and adolescents. This portion of the brain is responsible for mediating cognition, emotion, and movement. Research into the etiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder has identified dysfunctions of the basal ganglia as a key factor for the onset of OCD. A similar syndrome in adults is known as Post-inflammatory Brain Syndrome (PIBS).
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a rare disease that results from blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis) causing injury to organ systems. The areas most commonly affected by PAN include the nerves, intestinal tract, heart, and joints. 
PANS is the acronym for P ediatric A cute-onset N europsychiatric S yndrome, a more recently defined disorder which encompasses the more familiar medical condition, PAN DAS or P ediatric A utoimmune N europsychiatric D isorder A ssociated with S treptococcal infections. There is a growing number of publications on PANS, with the Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychopharmacology (JCAP) publishing a special edition on the syndrome in February 2015.
Pediatric Acute-onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome (PANS) is a clinical diagnosis given to children who have a dramatic – sometimes overnight – onset of neuropsychiatric symptoms including obsessions/compulsions or food restriction. Although PANDAS was identified as a medical syndrome more than a decade before PANS, it has been classified as a subset of PANS. To date, PANDAS is the only known subset of PANS, but we may discover more causes in the future.