0200400600800100012000 5 10 15 20 25 30 Range of Projectile (m)Ratio of Counterweight to Projectile mass Figure 8: The effect of mass ratio on projectile range From calculations using the Perfect Engine model, it was expected that the range would simply be a linear relation with the mass ratio. It is these values that will be used to calculate a specific trebuchet’s efficiency with Equation 7. maxWhere the efficiency of an engine, ε, is proportional to the range calculated by that trebuchet complexity level, R calc, and inversely proportional to the range of those masses in the perfect engine, R max.
• The length of the sling is equal to the length of the long arm of the beam (on the payload side). Furthermore, he recommends using a counterweight that has a mass 100 times greater than the mass of the payload. However, it is certainly possible to achieve a good design with a much lighter counterweight than this. Thus, the physics of a trebuchet is very similar to the physics of a golf swing. The optimal trebuchet design is one that launches the payload the farthest horizontal distance. This makes sense intuitively since range is a key factor when staging an attack on an enemy.
A trebuchet (French trebuchet) trébuchet is a type of catapult that was used as a siege engine in The Middle. Ages it is sometimes called a counterweight trebuchet or counterpoise, trebuchet to distinguish it from an earlier weapon called the traction, trebuchet where men pulling ropes provided the. power In 1421 the future Charles VII of France commissioned a trebuchet (coyllar) that could shoot a stone of 800 kg, while in 1188 at Ashyun, rocks up to 1,500 kg were used. Average mass of the projectiles was probably around 50–100 kg, with a range of c. 300 meters.
It considers several models of varying complexity and finds a maximum range efficiency of 83% for a 100 pound counterweight, 1 pound projectile, a 5 foot long beam pivoted 1 foot from the point of attachment of the counterweight, and a 3.25 foot long sling. @Marek: a trebuchet has basically a parameter which is the ratio of the sling to the beam. I would assume the OP means what ratio provides the maximum efficiency. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trebuchet – Sklivvz♦ Dec 26 '10 at 23:21. @Sklivvz: thanks.
We assume we have a take off angle of 45 degrees above the horizon. This solution is based on the classic max range ballistics problem - 45 degree take off angle. It also assumes converting all the potential energy of the counter weight to kinetic energy of the projectile. That is why the efficiency issue comes up as a lot of energy is lost due to friction in the moving trebuchet. They have a simple formula for calculating theoretical max range that depends only on the mass of the projectile, the mass of the counterweight, and one angle. I'd keep it simple and focus on the basic physics -- projectile motion, principles of work and energy, and maybe efficiency.
The arm is 10 feet in length so the rads/s^2 can be multiplied by this to get a f/s^2. a = 10*100 rads/s^2 = 1000 f/s^2 Now: s = (1/2)a t^2 For s we will use the arc distance and that is 10A where A (in radians) is the angle the arm is rotated through before the projectile is released. The arm of the catapult is R=10ft long, http://www.knightsedge.com/medieval-weap... and starting from initial horizontal position it acclerates projectile at the rate s=100 rad/s².
How it works. 1  The projectile of a trebuchet travels in a Parabola. 2  To attain the optimum amount of the transfer of energy the counterweight should be allowed to fall as vertically as possible to gain the most momentum from g (9.80 m/s squared). 3  To attain maximum range the release point should be between 40 and 45 degrees. The maximum range ballast/projectile weight ratio is 133:1 (2000 kg./15 kg.). Interestingly, Warwolf had the exact same ratio (40,000 lbs./300 lbs.). This is a Storm The Castle Project. Trebuchet Home. Trebuchet Projects and stuff. Catapults! 1  Popsicle Stick Trebuchet.
General advice is that the optimal ratio is 133:1. A golf ball projectile (1.62 oz) should fire best with 13.46 lbs of counterweight – and a 14 lb bowling ball should have 1862 lbs pulling on the other side of the arm to reach maximum distance. 
The trebuchet was preferred over a catapult due to its greater range capability and greater accuracy. A trebuchet works by using the energy of a falling (and hinged) counterweight to launch a projectile (the payload), using mechanical advantage to achieve a high launch speed. For maximum launch speed the counterweight must be much heavier than the payload, since this means that it will fall quickly. Thus, the physics of a trebuchet is very similar to the physics of a golf swing. The optimal trebuchet design is one that launches the payload the farthest horizontal distance. This makes sense intuitively since range is a key factor when staging an attack on an enemy.
There are many different factors that can affect the range of a trebuchet; for example, the mass of the counterweight or the length of the lever arm. While designers of the Middle Ages had to rely largely on intuition or trial and error to build their trebuchets, modern builders have many helpful tools available. 