First, Second and Third Degree Relative. A first-degree relative is defined as a close blood relative which includes the individual's parents, full siblings, or children. A second-degree relative is defined as a blood relative which includes the individual's grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces or half-siblings. A third-degree relative is defined as a blood relative which includes the individual’s first-cousins, great-grandparents or great grand
It is common to distinguish first-degree cousins, second-degree cousins, and often also third-degree cousins. Since comparatively few people can trace their full family tree for more than four generations, the identity of fourth-degree cousins often cannot be established. Consanguinity of the kings of France as shown in Arbor genealogiae regum Francorum (Bernard Gui, early 14th century). Consanguinity (blood relation, from the Latin consanguinitas) is the property of being from the same kinship as another person. In that aspect, consanguinity is the quality of being descended from the same ancestor as another person
For all first-degree relatives, the risk of MGUS was significantly (P Table 3; Figures 1, 2). Among first-degree relatives of MM probands only, the age-adjusted rate of MGUS was twice that of the Olmsted County population (risk ratio, 2.0; 95% CI, 1.4 to 2.8). In this study, we describe for the first time a clinically and statistically significant increase in the prevalence of MGUS among first-degree relatives of patients with MGUS or MM compared with a reference population, using identical screening and diagnostic techniques.
The term incest is defined differently in biological and legal settings. Incest usually refers to relationships between first-degree relatives, for example parent-child or sibling-sibling, but may include relationships between grandparent-grandchild or uncle-niece and aunt-nephew relationships.
Our finding of an increased risk of MGUS in first-degree relatives adds to the limited number of risk factors that have been identified so far for MGUS, namely age, sex, and race. In this study, we describe for the first time a clinically and statistically significant increase in the prevalence of MGUS among first-degree relatives of patients with MGUS or MM compared with a reference population, using identical screening and diagnostic techniques.
A first degree relative is a family member who shares about 50 percent of their genes with a particular individual in a family. First degree relatives include parents, offspring, and siblings. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute. 
People who have second-degree relatives (aunts, uncles, grandparents, or cousins) with the disease also develop schizophrenia more often than the general population. The risk is highest for an identical twin of a person with schizophrenia. He or she has a 40 to 65 percent chance of developing the disorder. Scientists have long known that schizophrenia runs in families. The illness occurs in 1 percent of the general population, but it occurs in 10 percent of people who have a first-degree relative with the disorder, such as a parent, brother, or sister.
(First-degree relatives are siblings, parents or children. Second-degree relatives are grandparents, aunts, uncles or grandchildren.) Even though family history is important, other factors can also lead to rupture.  Age and gender – Most (55%) SAH victims are women. The risk for having an SAH increases with age. If a person has a family history of two or more first-degree relatives with aneurysms, doctors may recommend a 15-20 minute, non-invasive scan called Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA).  Cigarette smoking – increases the risk of an aneurysm rupture.
The degree of relative consanguinity can be illustrated with a consanguinity table, in which each level of lineal consanguinity (i.e. , generation or meiosis) appears as a row, and individuals with a collaterally consanguineous relationship share the same row. Consanguinity of the kings of France as shown in Arbor genealogiae regum Francorum (Bernard Gui, early 14th century). Consanguinity (blood relation, from the Latin consanguinitas) is the property of being from the same kinship as another person. In that aspect, consanguinity is the quality of being descended from the same ancestor as another person