The student will demonstrate knowledge of how life changed after the Civil War by. a) identifying the reasons for westward expansion, including its impact on American Indians. Impact of Westward Expansion on Native Americans. 
Impact of Westward Expansion on Native Americans and the Role of Government Document HLone Dog Winter CountCredit: Lone Dog Winter Count, National Museum of the American Indian, Cultural Resource Center, Catalog # 21/8701. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Westward Expansion made Native Americans move to another place that they did not like. Several hundred books could be written on this one subject alone, and in fact there have been several hundred books written on it.
The California Gold Rush was a major factor in expansion west of the Mississippi. That westward expansion was greatly aided by the completion of the Transcontinental Railroad in 1869, and passage of the Homestead Act in 1862. Westward Expansion summary: The story of the United States has always been one of westward expansion, beginning along the East Coast and continuing, often by leaps and bounds, until it reached the Pacific—what Theodore Roosevelt described as the great leap Westward..
Explain the Native American response to westward expansion between 1790 and 1815. The Native Americans attempted to preserve their homelands from westward expansion, but would not succeed because there was a lack of unity, lack of leadership, and a diminish … ing culture.
Best Answer: The Native Americans were ignored and pushed farther to the West also, resulting with them having less land. Before expansion, Native Americans never fought with each other because there was so much open land for them to settle on so when they got a little too close borders, they simply moved elsewhere.
Westward Expansion: The Effects on Native Americans. These sites are about the effect of the westward movement on Native Americans. Learn about the changes in relationships between emigrants and Native Americans as well as Native Americans’ lives before and after the westward movement. 
Westward expansion had a negative impact on Native Americans. Their  whole way of life was taken away from them, along with the freedoms  they had always known. The Native Americans attempted to preserve their homelands from westward expansion, but would not succeed because there was a lack of unity, lack of leadership, and a diminish … ing culture.
SS5H3 The student will describe how life changed in America at the turn of the century. e. Describe the impact of westward expansion on Native Americans; include the Battle of the Little Bighorn and the relocation of Native Americans to reservations. Diane Tyner Why did people move west? After the Civil War, for a $10 fee, American citizens, 21 years or older, could purchase 160 acres of land. Some of the results of the Westward movement included the Native Americans having to give up their land, for the white man, and their way of life. The whites insisted on civilizing the Native American savages. Many Native American tribes were wiped out or removed to reservations far away from their home land.
Westward expansion had a negative impact on Native Americans. Their  whole way of life was taken away from them, along with the freedoms  they had always known. They were re … moved from their land and placed  on small reservations. Westward Expansion made Native Americans move to another place that they did not like. Several hundred books could be written on this one subject alone, and in fact there have been several hundred books written on it.