(AP Photo/Casa Casuarina). This undated photo made available by Casa Casuarina shows a bedroom of Casa Casuarina in Miami Beach, Fla. The South Beach mansion once owned by Italian designer Gianni Versace is back on the market for $125 million according to a listing posted on Friday, June 8, 2012. (AP Photo/Casa Casuarina). This undated photo made available by Casa Casuarina shows the exterior
Casuarina species, native to Australia and neighboring areas, have been introduced into many countries. In the United States, three species have been established, primarily in Hawaii, California, and Florida: C. equisetifolia L. ex J. R. & G. Forst., C. cunninghamiana Miq. and C. glauca Sieber ex K. Spreng. Killing lightning strikes are common to casuarina that are dominant in the south Florida landscape. Freezing temperatures can damage well-established trees; temperatures of approximately -8° C (18° F) kill trees less than 0.5 m (1.6 ft) in height.
Casuarina is a suburb of Perth within the City of Kwinana. Casuarina is one of the Kwinana suburbs named after a ship. The Casuarina, under the command of Louis De Freycinet, was a 30-ton cutter used in the French exploration of the WA coast in 1802-03. The suburb name was also chosen because a type of casuarina tree is found in the area. Casuarina Prison is located in the suburb. Opened in June 1991, it is the main maximum-security prison for male prisoners, particularly long-term prisoners, in Western Australia. It replaced the 130-year-old Fremantle Prison as the State's main maximum-security prison
n. Any of various trees or shrubs of the genus Casuarina native to Australia, Southeast Asia, and neighboring islands, having jointed needlelike branchlets, scalelike whorled leaves, and small fruits grouped in woody conelike structures. Also called Australian pine. 1. casuarina-any of various trees and shrubs of the genus Casuarina having jointed stems and whorls of scalelike leaves; some yield heavy hardwood. genus Casuarina-genus of trees and shrubs widely naturalized in southern United States and West Indies; coextensive with the family Casuarinaceae and order Casuarinales.
All of our properties are located directly on the ocean at Casuarina Point on the island of Great Abaco in the Bahamas. Casuarina Point is approximately 16 miles south of Marsh Harbor, the third largest settlement in the Bahamas. 
n. Any of various trees or shrubs of the genus Casuarina native to Australia, Southeast Asia, and neighboring islands, having jointed needlelike branchlets, scalelike whorled leaves, and small fruits grouped in woody conelike structures. Also called Australian pine. 
Casuarina is a genus of 17 species in the family Casuarinaceae, native to Australia, the Indian Subcontinent, southeast Asia, and islands of the western Pacific Ocean. It was once treated as the sole genus in the family, but has been split into three genera (see Casuarinaceae). Gardeners in Bermuda can appreciate that all parts of the casuarina tree (needles, sawdust, bark, and prepared mulch) can be useful in lowering the soil pH, as Bermuda's topography consists of naturally high pH limestone rock, and perhaps only a foot of red or sandy soil.
Casuarina species are a food source of the larvae of hepialid moths; members of the genus Aenetus, including A. lewinii and A. splendens, burrow horizontally into the trunk then vertically down. Endoclita malabaricus also feeds on Casuarina. The noctuid Turnip Moth is also recorded feeding on Casuarina. Gardeners in Bermuda can appreciate that all parts of the casuarina tree (needles, sawdust, bark, and prepared mulch) can be useful in lowering the soil pH, as Bermuda's topography consists of naturally high pH limestone rock, and perhaps only a foot of red or sandy soil.
Casuarina Prison is the main maximum-security prison for male prisoners-particularly long-term prisoners-in Western Australia. Surrounded by a range of state-of-the-art security devices, the prison has a special unit for intensive, high-security supervision of offenders. 
This undated photo made available by Casa Casuarina shows a bedroom at Casa Casuarina in Miami Beach, Fla. The South Beach mansion once owned by Italian designer Gianni Versace is back on the market for $125 million according to a listing posted on Friday, June 8, 2012. (AP Photo/Casa Casuarina). This undated photo made available by Casa Casuarina shows the exterior of