Your doctor will give you instructions on how to care for your stitches or staples. Be sure to follow those instructions. Check with your doctor about how long you need to keep your wound dry. In some cases the bandage can be removed after 24 to 48 hours, and the wound can then be gently washed to remove the crust. Do not scrub or soak the wound during the first 48 hours. When deciding how long to leave your stitches or staples in place, your doctor will consider several factors, such as the location, depth, and size of your wound and your general health. Be sure to follow his or her instructions. Most of the time, stitches are removed: 1  From the face in 4 to 5 days. 2  From the hands and arms in 5 to 10 days. 3  From the feet, legs, chest, abdomen, and back in 7 to 14 days. 4  Over a joint in 7 to 14 day
If your dog's incision has non-dissolving skin stitches, stainless steel sutures, or stent sutures, they should usually be removed seven to fourteen days after the operation; the actual time depends on the type of surgery performed. Your veterinarian will tell you when the sutures can be removed from your dog. Under no circumstances should a dog with a fresh surgical incision be allowed to run off leash. Restrict your dog's activity for a period of 7-14 days, to allow the incision to begin healing. When you do take your dog outdoors, keep him or her on a short leash, and avoid long walks.
Report Abuse. Depends if they are dissolving or need to be removed. It should be about 10 days. If there is no dressing on the wound it should heal faster but you need to watch it and make sure there is no redness, swelling or smell. 
Best Answer: It depends on what you mean by heal. The stitches will come out in about 1-2 weeks. The ears should stay taped for anywhere from 3 weeks to 6 months depending on the breed and cut. The ears could take a while for them to stand up the way they are supposed to (I've seen it take up to a year)
Your doctor will give you instructions on how to care for your stitches or staples. Be sure to follow those instructions. Check with your doctor about how long you need to keep your wound dry. In some cases the bandage can be removed after 24 to 48 hours, and the wound can then be gently washed to remove the crust. Most of the time, stitches are removed: 1  From the face in 4 to 5 days. 2  From the hands and arms in 5 to 10 days. 3  From the feet, legs, chest, abdomen, and back in 7 to 14 days. 4  Over a joint
If your dog's incision has non-dissolving skin stitches, stainless steel sutures, or stent sutures, they should usually be removed seven to fourteen days after the operation; the actual time depends on the type of surgery performed. Your veterinarian will tell you when the sutures can be removed from your dog. 
Report Abuse. It depends on many factors. If you have to have sutures, the doctor will tell you how long they have to stay in but the average is 5-10 days. Sometimes, it's longer...up to 2 weeks. Do NOT attempt to remove sutures on your own...this is something that needs to be done by a doctor. Faces; stitches must come out in 4-5 days because the skin heals so fast & would grow over the sutures. In the extremities & over joint lines we like 10 days due to the stress on the wound. Most others are 7 days. Some operations are different as deeper structures are involved.
If you cut through the ear cartilage, you should take the dog to the vet for stitches. If the cut starts to become very swollen, red, hot to the touch, painful, ooze any fluids or develops a bad smell, you need to take your dog to the vet for treatment-these are signs of an infection. If you accidentally cut your dog's ear, the first thing to do is get the bleeding stopped. If the cut is shallow, mild pressure (like you would put on one of your own fingers) … for a few minutes should get the bleeding to stop. After that, keep the area clean with saline or tap water (room temperature, preferably) and watch it for the next 3-5 days. It should heal up on it's ow