Diabetes facts. 1  Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with abnormally high levels of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 2  Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 3  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 4  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 
Weight loss. Weight fluctuations also fall under the umbrella of possible diabetes signs and symptoms. When you lose sugar through frequent urination, you also lose calories. Blurred vision. Diabetes symptoms sometimes involve your vision. High levels of blood sugar pull fluid from your tissues, including the lenses of your eyes. This affects your ability to focus.
Diabetes symptoms occur when blood sugar (glucose) levels in the body become abnormally elevated. The most common symptoms of diabetes include: 1  thirst. 2  fatigue. 3  frequent. 4  increased urination. 5  blurry vision. 
Symptoms of Diabetes: Introduction. Symptoms of diabetes can be vague or very dramatic, depending on the individual and the type of diabetes. Both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes can present with excessive thirst, excessive urination, fatigue, weakness, weight loss, and blurred vision. 
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. 
The common symptoms of diabetes. 1  Going to the toilet a lot, especially at night. 2  Being really thirsty. 3  Feeling more tired than usual. 4  Losing weight without trying to. 5  Genital itching or thrush. 6  Cuts and wounds take longer to heal. 7  Blurred vision. 
5. The most common symptoms are related to hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels), especially the classic symptoms of diabetes: frequent urination and thirst. Fatigue related to dehydration and eating problems can also be related to high blood sugars. 
Individuals can experience different signs and symptoms of diabetes, and sometimes there may be no signs. Some of the signs commonly experienced include: 1  Frequent urination. 2  Excessive thirst. 3  Increased hunger. 4  Weight loss. 5  Tiredness. 6  Lack of interest and concentration. 7  A tingling sensation or numbness in the hands or feet. 
Type 1 Diabetes. The symptoms of type 1 diabetes are a bit unique because they tend to manifest themselves rather quickly. Often the symptoms will develop in a matter of months, if not weeks. While the symptoms may develop rapidly, unfortunately the destruction of certain cells may have been occurring for years. 