Pigtail connections are very handy if there is more than one wire to be connected to a device..Making electrical connections to a device in an electrical box is easy if there is only one cable in the box. Pigtails are also very useful in extending the length of a wire that is too short. Never try to stretch an existing circuit. This could result in damage to the circuit wiring. Instead, connect a piece of wire to the existing circuit wire with a pigtail.
For some users, the term pigtails applies only if the hair is braided, but there is not widespread agreement on this (in places where this usage is common, unplaited pairs are called bunches and a single bunch, regardless of position on the head, is called a ponytail). The term pigtail appears in English in the American colonies in the 17th century to describe a twist of chewing tobacco. One of the steps in processing the tobacco was to twist a handful of leaves together to form a compact bunch that would then be cured (dried, either with or without smoking).
There are numerous styles of pigtails in which a person may wear their hair. They may be braided, straightened, beaded, ribboned, in buns, fishtailed, and even French braided. Pigtails can be placed on different parts of a person's head: high, low, or to the side. The term pigtail appears in English in the American colonies in the 17th century to describe a twist of chewing tobacco. One of the steps in processing the tobacco was to twist a handful of leaves together to form a compact bunch that would then be cured (dried, either with or without smoking).
A pigtail catheter is a medical device designed to be inserted into the body for the purpose of drainage or introducing fluids like soluble dyes for medical imaging studies. These catheters are produced by many medical supply companies and are available in a range of lengths and sizes to meet different needs. Another use for the pigtail catheter is in medical imaging studies that use tracer dyes. The catheter can be threaded into place and then used to introduce the dye to the area of interest.
Fiber optic pigtail is a fiber cable end with fiber optic connectors at only one side of the cable while leaving the other side no connectors, so that the connector side can be linked to the equipment and the other side can be melted with optical cable fibers. A fiber pigtail is a single, short, usually unbuffered, optical fiber that has an optical connector pre-installed on one end and a length of exposed fiber at the other end. The end of the pigtail is stripped and fusion spliced to a single fiber of a multi-fiber trunk.
Fan out Fiber Optic Pigtail. Fiber pigtail is a piece of fiber optic cable with only one fiber optic connector on one side of the cable, there are single mode and multimode fiber optic pigtails, which can be with various types of fiber optic terminations such as SC, FC, ST, LC, MU, MT-RJ, MTP, MPO, etc. ST Fiber Optic Pigtail ST fiber optic pigtail connector is with metal outer body and with a long spring loaded ferrule hold the optical fiber. ST Cable can be 9/125 single mode or 50/125 multimode or 62.5/125 multimode. ST fiber pigtails connector ferrule interface can be PC, UPC or APC.
A fiber pigtail is really a single, short, usually unbuffered, optical fiber which has an optical connector pre-installed on one end along with a period of exposed fiber in the other end. The end of the pigtail is stripped and fusion spliced to a single fiber of a multi-fiber trunk. Splicing of pigtails to each fiber within the trunk breaks out the multi-fiber cable into its component fibers for connection to the end equipment. Fiber pigtails can have female or male connectors.
What is Fiber Optic Pigtail. fiber-optic-pigtails. Fiber optic pigtail is a fiber cable end with fiber optic connectors at only either side of the cable while leaving sleep issues no connectors, so the connector side could be from the equipment and the other part can be melted with optical cable fibers. The end of the pigtail is stripped and fusion spliced to a single fiber of a multi-fiber trunk. Splicing of pigtails to each fiber within the trunk breaks out the multi-fiber cable into its component fibers for connection to the end equipment. Fiber pigtails can have female or male connectors.
1. a braid of hair hanging down the back of the head. 2. pigtails, two bunches of hair gathered and fastened on either side of the head, in braids or hanging freely. 3. tobacco in a thin, twisted roll. [1680–90]. - In the 17th century, it was tobacco twisted into a thin rope, which resembled the animal's tail. n. 1. A braid or ponytail, especially one of a pair worn one on each side of the head. 2. A short length of wire used to connect other wires to each other or to an electrical device.
A woman with long pigtails, or braids. In the context of hairstyles, the usage of the term pigtail (or twintail or twin tail) shows considerable variation. The term may refer to a single braid, but when used in the plural it often refers to twin bunches of hair on opposite sides of the head. The term pigtail appears in English in the American colonies in the 17th century to describe a twist of chewing tobacco. One of the steps in processing the tobacco was to twist a handful of leaves together to form a compact bunch that would then be cured (dried, either with or without smoking).