Best Answer: I recommend that you prepare a 12 inch wide drain at least 12 inches deep and at least 20 long to be effective. These are called trench drains, french drains or yard drains. Be sure to use at least a 1 inch washed gravel @ 8 inches deep and then cover it with straw before you put the 4 inches of dirt back over it. The water will go right through your dirt as long as its topsoil and not clay. Of course be sure you have fall, it doesn't take much, just enough to create flow.
How deep should piping be installed on a French drain system? Interior piping should be installed 8 to 10 inches below the top of basement floor Exterior piping should always be installed 8 to 16 inches below the top of the basement floor. 
On this page we will dig into how to install a French drain system to reduce drainage problems in your lawn, yard or garden. Officially a French drain is a gravel drain with no pipe. Digging a drainage system is a big job-be sure to do all you can to make your hard work last as long as possible. The capacity to collect and disperse water is better in a wide French drain. This is a common sense type thing. Think about how much more water can flow through a 10 inch channel compared to a 6 inch channel
It should be about 6 inches wide and a foot deep, and filled with gravel or rocks. I don't think you could put soil and sod over the drain. The soil would just wash down into the rocks and the sod wouldn't grow where there's no soil. One option is to run a yard drain instead of a French drain. Be sure to use at least a 1 inch washed gravel @ 8 inches deep and then cover it with straw before you put the 4 inches of dirt back over it. The water will go right through your dirt as long as its topsoil and not clay. Of course be sure you have fall, it doesn't take much, just enough to create flow.
1 Dig a trench along the outside of your footing. 2  The trench should be at least 2 feet wide, and can be as deep as 6 feet for a basement or as shallow as two feet for a slab-on-grade home. Here's how to do it: 1  Dig a trench along the outside of your footing. 2  The trench should be at least 2 feet wide, and can be as deep as 6 feet for a basement or as shallow as two feet for a slab-on-grade home. 3  Lay the pipe on the virgin soil
“The purpose of a French drain is to effectively drain water, while creating an aesthetically pleasing landscape, says Lunt. You don’t want the pipes to show, so in a typical 12- by 12- by 4-inch system, you’d be digging a trench 12 inches wide by 12 inches deep and using a 4-inch pipe. Lunt emphasizes that your drain should be at least 12 inches below the ground at the ground’s lowest point; depending upon the topography, you may be digging a trench of varying depth.
It is easier to dig and grade a wide French drain, especially when deep, because you can get your digging tools, hands, and even feet into a deep 12 inch trench-but not a 6 inch one. Grading the bottom of trench to obtain the proper slope is also much easier in a wider French drain, especially when digging by hand. Digging a drainage system is a big job-be sure to do all you can to make your hard work last as long as possible. The capacity to collect and disperse water is better in a wide French drain. This is a common sense type thing. Think about how much more water can flow through a 10 inch channel compared to a 6 inch channel
Comments. Submit. French drains should be dug to a depth of 8 to 12 inches, for a 4-inch pipe, with a minimum of 2 inches of gravel on all sides. 