The Maldives is located in South Asia, on the Indian Ocean and situated to the south to southwest of India. It is an archipelago of 1,192 coral islands with 26 atolls over an area of 90,000 sq.km., which makes it one of the most dispersed countries in the world. Out of the islands in the atolls, only about 5 to 10 are inhabited, with about 20-60 uninhabited smaller islands. Polities. The Maldives is a unitary presidential constitutional republic with the President acting as head of state and head of government.
Print this map. The Maldives, a group of about 1,200 islands, separated into a series of coral atolls, is just north of the Equator in the Indian Ocean. Only 200 of the islands are inhabited. It has a population of 393,988 and celebrates their National Day on July 26th
There is no better way to do this than by looking at a map of your destination. This detailed interactive Map of Maldives will show you the atolls, islands, holiday resorts, diving locations, capital island, airports and other useful information. 
Maldives Map and Location of Islands. Detailed information and maps show where is Maldives located on world map. Map of Maldives shows local islands, resorts, airports etc. Maldive is chain of 1190 islands located south-west of Sri Lanka and India in the Indian Ocean. The islands are so tiny that many world maps do not show Maldives. It is an independent country of about 350,000 in population. Maldives is a member of the United Nations (UN), South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), Commonwealth and many other international organisations.
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. Ocean it is located southwest Of india And Sri lanka in The Laccadive. sea Historically linked with the Indian subcontinent, the Maldives is a Muslim-majority country. From the mid-sixteenth century, it was dominated by colonial powers: Portugal, the Netherlands and Britain. The islands gained independence from the British Empire in 1965, becoming a republic in 1968.
The Maldives (/ˈmɔːldaɪvz/ , /ˈmɔːldiːvz/ or /ˈmaeldaɪvz/), ˈmældaɪvz officially The republic Of (Maldives: maldivian ދިވެހިރާއްޖޭގެ ޖުމްހޫރިއްޔާ Dhivehi'raa Jeyge), jumhooriyya is an island country and archipelago in The Indian. ocean Historically linked with the Indian subcontinent, the Maldives is a Muslim-majority country. From the mid-sixteenth century, it was dominated by colonial powers: Portugal, the Netherlands and Britain. The islands gained independence from the British Empire in 1965, becoming a republic in 1968.
Maldives, an Island nation, is also known as Maldive Islands, is located in the Indian Ocean. It is made by two chains of twenty-six atolls that points north-south off India's Lakshadweep Islands, between Minicoy Island and Chagos Archipelago. Print. Out of the islands in the atolls, only about 5 to 10 are inhabited, with about 20-60 uninhabited smaller islands. Polities. The Maldives is a unitary presidential constitutional republic with the President acting as head of state and head of government.
You can check near by islands to your resort, you can plan excursions or just learn more about Maldives islands. You may also try google maps (maps.google.com), with sattelite view the Maldives Map & Islands Locations is amazing, you can see clear images of islands, lagoon and even reef. Its a great way to explore your destination before your arrival. You do not need prior visa to visit Maldives as a tourist. All tourists get visa on arrival at the airport. Another interesting fact you can find on Maldivesfinest.com is the map of equator crossing the Maldives between the island of Fuvahmulah and islands of Gaafu Dhaalhu Atoll in the southern parts of the Maldives.
There are two maps below, one shows where is Maldives located on the world map and other shows the islands of Maldives. Airports are marked with flight symbol. To quickly locate the main international airport scroll down and see mid-section of the Maldives map where there is double flight-symbol. The islands are so tiny that many world maps do not show Maldives. It is an independent country of about 350,000 in population. Maldives is a member of the United Nations (UN), South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), Commonwealth and many other international organisations.
Tweet. This Map of Maldives includes all resorts in the Maldives, airports, local islands and desert islands. You can use this map to plan your holiday. Look for the right atoll and its not difficult to spot your resort. You do not need prior visa to visit Maldives as a tourist. All tourists get visa on arrival at the airport. Another interesting fact you can find on Maldivesfinest.com is the map of equator crossing the Maldives between the island of Fuvahmulah and islands of Gaafu Dhaalhu Atoll in the southern parts of the Maldives.