Natural Remedies for Hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids are enlarged, swollen veins either inside or outside the anal canal. When it occurs inside the anus, it is called internal hemorrhoid, and when it occurs on the outside, it is called external hemorrhoid.
1 Apple Cider Vinegar – Using apple cider vinegar is one of the most popular natural treatments for hemorrhoids. 2  Simply soak a cotton ball or some toilet paper with ACV and apply it to the hemorrhoid area.
1 Bleeding hemorrhoid piles treatment, Painful hemorrhoid, Best natural treatment for hemorrhoids: I am suffering from piles more than 1 month ago. 2  I visited doctor in hospital and used ointment shield. 3  Now bleeding is stopped but anal area is itchy and difficult to pass stool because of pain.
You can often relieve the mild pain, swelling and inflammation of hemorrhoids with home treatments. Often these are the only treatments needed. 1  Use topical treatments. 2  Apply an over-the-counter hemorrhoid cream or suppository containing hydrocortisone, or use pads containing witch hazel or a numbing agent. 3  Soak regularly in a warm bath or sitz bath.
On the other hand, internal hemorrhoids are less noticeable, but straining during a bowel movement can irritate the delicate surface of the hemorrhoid and cause bleeding or pass the hemorrhoid outside the anus; this is called a protruding or prolapsed hemorrhoid and can be very painful.
Fortunately, it is not difficult to treat hemorrhoids and alleviate the pain caused by them with simple natural treatments. In most cases, health experts advise people to first try out simple home remedies and incorporate a few dietary as well as lifestyle changes.
Hemorrhoids are swollen or inflamed veins in the anus and lower rectum that can be itchy, painful, and potentially cause bleeding during bowel movements. There are two types of hemorrhoids, internal and external.
1 Witch Hazel – An astringent and healing tree, witch hazel is one of the oldest known natural remedies for hemorrhoids. 2  Just soak a pad or cotton ball with witch hazel and apply it to the area.