Joints that bear weight -- such as your knees, hips, feet, and spine-are the most common places it affects. It often comes on gradually over months or years. It causes the pain in the affected joint. But people who have it don’t feel sick or have the fatigue that comes with some other types of arthritis. Osteoarthritis. What it is: More people have this condition than any other form of arthritis. It’s the “wear and tear” that happens when your joints are overused. It usually happens with age, but it can also result from joint injuries or obesity (which puts extra stress on your joints).
Arthritis types. There are many different types of arthritis and while the severity, joints affected and the progression of arthritis varies enormously from one person to another, generally the symptoms include pain and stiffness of the joints. The most common forms of arthritis are: 1  osteoarthritis; 2  rheumatoid arthritis; and
In other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis, the joint lining becomes inflamed as part of a disease process that affects the entire body. Some other types of arthritis are: seronegative spondyloarthropathies, crytalline deposition diseases, and septic arthritis. The most common type of arthritis is osteoarthritis. It results from overuse, trauma, or the degeneration of the joint cartilage that takes place with age. Osteoarthritis is often more painful in joints that bear weight, such as the knee, hip, and spine, rather than in the wrist, elbow, and shoulder joints.
Types of Arthritis. There are more than 100 different types of arthritis. Some of the more common types include: 1  Osteoarthritis. 2  This is the most common type of arthritis. 3  It occurs when the cartilage covering the end of the bones gradually wears away. 4  Without the protection of the cartilage, the bones begin to rub against each other and the resulting friction leads to pain and swelling. Some of the more common types include: 1  Osteoarthritis. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis. 3  Gout.
There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. 
Osteoarthritis is the most common type of noninflammatory arthritis.  Arthritis  (which literally means joint inflammation) is not just a word healthcare providers use when they talk about painful, stiff, and swollen joints. In fact, it is a term used to refer to a group of more than 100 rheumatic diseases. There are more than 100 different arthritis types.  Arthritis  (which literally means joint inflammation) is not just a word healthcare providers use when they talk about painful, stiff, and swollen joints. In fact, it is a term used to refer to a group of more than 100 rheumatic diseases.
A few of the more common categories of arthritis include infectious arthritis, noninflammatory arthritis, and inflammatory arthritis.  Arthritis  (which literally means joint inflammation) is not just a word healthcare providers use when they talk about painful, stiff, and swollen joints. There are more than 100 different arthritis types.  Arthritis  (which literally means joint inflammation) is not just a word healthcare providers use when they talk about painful, stiff, and swollen joints. In fact, it is a term used to refer to a group of more than 100 rheumatic diseases.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes inflammation of the joints. Because many symptoms of RA are similar to those of a variety of other diseases, diagnosis can be difficult. A correct diagnosis requires clinical evaluation, X-rays, and a series of laboratory tests. 