Inheritance of Hypospadias refers to whether the condition is inherited from your parents or runs in families. The level of inheritance of a condition depends on how important genetics are to the disease. Genetics of Hypospadias: Hypospadias can be passed down through families, indicating that a genetic trait is responsible for hypospadias. A specific gene for hypospadias has not been identified.
There are thought to be several reasons why hypospadias occurs. In some cases it is passed down from a male relative (often the father) to the son, so it is classified as hereditary. In other families, an uncle or a grandfather may have hypospadias. However, this family occurrence is seldom known or openly discussed so the genetic inheritance cannot be easily established. Chordee is downward bend of the head of the penis at the point where it meets the shaft, sometimes more noticeable on one side of the penis than the other. Sometimes this curve is mild and sometimes it can almost be a 90 degree downward bend.
Hypospadias. Hypospadias is a male birth defect in which the opening of the tube that carries urine from the body (urethra) develops abnormally, usually on the underside of the penis, anywhere from below the end of the penis to the scrotum.
(December 2011). Hypospadias /haɪpoʊˈspeɪdɪəs/ refers to a birth defect of the urethra in the male where the urinary opening is not at the usual location on the head of the penis. It is the second most common birth abnormality in boys, affecting approximately 1 of every 250. In approximately 90% of cases, the opening (meatus) is on or near the head of the penis (glans), referred to as distal hypospadias, while the remainder have proximal hypospadias with a meatus near or within the scrotum.
Hypospadias is a male birth defect in which the opening of the tube that carries urine from the body (urethra) develops abnormally, usually on the underside of the penis. The opening can occur anywhere from just below the end of the penis to the scrotum. 
Risk factors. Though the cause of hypospadias is unknown, both environmental and genetic factors have been associated with the condition, including: 1  Family history. 2  This condition is more common in infants with a family history of hypospadias. 3  Maternal age over 40. 1 This condition is more common in infants with a family history of hypospadias. 2  Maternal age over 40. 3  Some research suggests that there may be an increased risk of hypospadias in infant males born to women of an advanced age. 4  Exposure to smoking and chemicals.
Hypospadias is a malformation that affects the urethral tube and the foreskin on a male's penis. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the body. Hypospadias is a disorder in which the male urethral opening is not located at the tip of the penis. The urethral opening can be located anywhere along the urethra. Most commonly with hypospadias, the opening is located along the underside of the penis, near the tip. According to pediatric neurologists: Hypospadias is a disorder that primarily affects male newborns. Hypospadias also has a genetic component. Some fathers of males with hypospadias also have the condition. Prematurity and low birth weight are also considered risk factors for hypospadias.