Confidence votes 191. The Nuremberg Laws of 1935 should not be confused with the postwar Nuremberg Tribunal. The Nuremberg Laws (1935) were anti-Semitic laws that took away civil rights and (in effect) citizenship from German Jews. 
The Nuremberg Laws (German: Nuernberger Nürnberger) gesetze were antisemitic laws In Nazi. Germany they were introduced on 15 september 1935 by The reichstag at a special meeting convened at the Annual Nuremberg rally of The Nazi (PARTY). nsdap The Nuremberg laws had a serious economic and social impact on the Jewish community. Persons convicted of violating the marriage laws were imprisoned, and (subsequent to 8 March 1938) upon completing their sentences were re-arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Nazi concentration camps.
The first two laws comprising the Nuremberg Race Laws were: The Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honor (regarding Jewish marriage) and The Reich Citizenship Law (designating Jews as subjects). The Nuremberg Race Laws The Nuremberg Race Laws of 1935 deprived German Jews of their rights of citizenship, giving them the status of subjects in Hitler's Reich.
The two Nuremberg Laws were unanimously passed by the Reichstag on 15 September 1935. The Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour prohibited marriages and extramarital intercourse between Jews and Germans, and forbade the employment of German females under 45 in Jewish households. The Nuremberg laws had a serious economic and social impact on the Jewish community. Persons convicted of violating the marriage laws were imprisoned, and (subsequent to 8 March 1938) upon completing their sentences were re-arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Nazi concentration camps.
The Nuremberg Laws were anti-Jewish statutes enacted by Germany on September 15, 1935, marking a major step in clarifying racial policy and removing Jewish influences from Aryan society. These laws, on which the rest of Nazi racial policy hung, were written hastily. issued a supplement to the Nuremberg Laws of September 15, 1935, which created the racial categories of German, Jew, half-Jew (Jewish Mischling first degree), and quarter-Jew (Jewish Mischling second degree), each with its own regulations.
The Nuremberg Laws were actually a set of two laws: the Reich Citizenship Law and the Law for the Protection of German Blood and Honor. Reich Citizenship Law. There were two major components to the Reich Citizenship Law. The first component stated that: 1  Anyone who enjoys the protection of the Reich is considered to be a subject of it and is therefore obligated to the Reich. 2  Nationality is determined by the Reich and state nationality laws.
On September 15, 1935, the Nazi government passed two new racial laws at their annual NSDAP Reich Party Congress in Nuremberg, Germany. These two laws (the Reich Citizenship Law and the Law to Protect German Blood and Honor) became collectively known as the Nuremberg Laws. Reich Citizenship Law. There were two major components to the Reich Citizenship Law. The first component stated that: 1  Anyone who enjoys the protection of the Reich is considered to be a subject of it and is therefore obligated to the Reich. 2  Nationality is determined by the Reich and state nationality laws.
Under the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour (15 September 1935), marriages were forbidden between Jews and Germans; between Mischlinge of the first degree and Germans; between Jews and Mischlinge of the second degree; and between two Mischlinge of the second degree. The Nuremberg laws had a serious economic and social impact on the Jewish community. Persons convicted of violating the marriage laws were imprisoned, and (subsequent to 8 March 1938) upon completing their sentences were re-arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Nazi concentration camps.
On November 14, 1935, the. issued a supplement to the Nuremberg Laws of September 15, 1935, which created the racial categories of German, Jew, half-Jew (Jewish Mischling first degree), and quarter-Jew (Jewish Mischling second degree), each with its own regulations.
So the first law was ...... 'The law of the protection of German Blood and German Honour' The second law was....... 'The Reich Citizenship Law' stripping persons not considered of German Blood of their Citizenship In the 12 years of Nazi rule the Reichstag only passed four laws. The Nuremburg Laws were two of them. Source(s): The Third Reich in Power (How the Nazis won over the Hearts and Minds of a Nation)........