Chocolate agar (CHOC) is a type of blood agar plate in which the blood cells have been lysed by heating the cells to 56 °C. It is used for growing fastidious respiratory bacteria, such as Haemophilus influenzae. No chocolate is actually contained in the plate; it is named for the coloration only. Thus, the plate can be used either to estimate the concentration of organisms in a liquid culture or a suitable dilution of that culture using a colony counter, or to generate genetically pure cultures from a mixed culture of genetically different organisms, using a technique known as  streaking .
Blood Agar Plates (BAP) (Atlas p. 49). Blood agar is actually a couple of related media, all of which are rich formulations containing peptones, yeast extracts, liver or heart extracts (depending on the medium), and blood. The blood is usually sheep's red blood cells (RBC), though horses and other species may be used
An agar plate or Petri dish is used to provide a growth medium using a mix of agar and other nutrients in which microorganisms, including bacteria and fungi, can be cultured and observed under the microscope. The gelling agent in agar is an unbranched polysaccharide obtained from the cell walls of some species of red algae, primarily from the genera Gelidium and Gracilaria.
Starch Agar and the Amylase Test. Starch Agar is basically an all-purpose medium (e.g., Nutrient Agar, Heart Infusion Agar) to which 0.4% soluble starch is added. A plate of this medium is single streaked or spot inoculated with the organism to be tested. After incubation (preferably for several days) the medium is flooded with Gram's iodine. 
Nutrient agar is a general-purpose, nutrient medium used for the cultivation of microbes. It is frequently used for isolation and purification of cultures. As we are using it here, it can also be used as a means for producing the bacterial lawns needed for antibiotic sensitivity tests. Nutrient agar consists of heat-stable digestive products of proteins (called peptones) and beef extract. Both of these provide amino acids, minerals, and other nutrients used by a wide variety of bacteria for growth.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An agar plate is a Petri dish that contains a growth medium (typically agar plus nutrients) used to culture microorganisms or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens. Selective growth compounds may also be added to the media, such as antibiotics. Thus, the plate can be used either to estimate the concentration of organisms in a liquid culture or a suitable dilution of that culture using a colony counter, or to generate genetically pure cultures from a mixed culture of genetically different organisms, using a technique known as  streaking .
Agar plates may also be indicator plates, in which the organisms are not selected on the basis of growth, but are instead distinguished by a color change in some colonies, typically caused by the action of an enzyme on some compound added to the medium. Some commonly used agar plate types are: Thus, the plate can be used either to estimate the concentration of organisms in a liquid culture or a suitable dilution of that culture using a colony counter, or to generate genetically pure cultures from a mixed culture of genetically different organisms, using a technique known as  streaking .
An agar plate is a sterile Petri dish that contains agar plus nutrients, and is used to culture bacteria or fungi. Types of agar plates [edit]. 1  Blood agar-contains blood cells from an animal (e.g. a sheep). 2  Most bacteria will grow on this medium. 3  Chocolate agar-this contains lysed blood cells, and is used for growing fastidious (fussy) respiratory bacteria. 4  Neomycin agar-contains the antibiotic neomycin.
MacConkey Agar. This is an agar upon which only Gram-negative bacteria can grow. What is more is that E.coli will grow into red colonies, as there is a pH indicator present. It should be mentioned that MacConkey agar powder comes in two versions: one with the sugar lactose in it, and one without any added sugars. One might ask why agar, as opposed to regular gelatin (like that found in Jello), is used for culturing bacteria. The answer is agar, unlike gelatin, won't be degraded (eaten) by bacteria. Also, agar is firmer and stronger than gelatin.