Herbicide(s) , also commonly known as weedkillers, are pesticides used to kill unwanted plants. Selective herbicides kill specific targets, while leaving the desired crop relatively unharmed. Some of these act by interfering with the growth of the weed and are often synthetic mimics of natural plant hormones. 1 Fluroxypyr, a systemic, selective herbicide, is used for the control of broad-leaved weeds in small grain cereals, maize, pastures, rangeland and turf. 2  It is a synthetic auxin. 3  In cereal growing, fluroxypyr's key importance is control of cleavers, Galium aparine.
Herbicides are available in two main types: nonselective and selective. The nonselective variety is used to kill all growth and is generally reserved for agricultural use or for clearing large or heavily overgrown areas. On the other hand, a selective herbicide is used to target certain types of plant life. This form works to curb growth, usually through some type of hormone disruption, and should not affect other vegetation.
Chemical Weed Control. Herbicides are chemicals that kill or alter the normal growth of weeds. They can be divided into two main groups: selective and nonselective. Selective herbicides are those that control the target weed(s) without damaging desirable turfgrass species. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. Just as pesticide is used to rid an area of unwanted pests, herbicide is used to get rid of unwanted plant life, like weeds, brush, unproductive bushes or trees, and other growth that takes nutrients away from crops and other useful plants. On the other hand, a selective herbicide is used to target certain types of plant life. This form works to curb growth, usually through some type of hormone disruption, and should not affect other vegetation.
atrazine-a synthetic compound derived from triazine that is widely used as an agricultural herbicide; atrazine is thought to cause cancer and is banned in some European countries. chemical, chemical substance-material produced by or used in a reaction involving changes in atoms or molecules. herbicide. (hur′hûr-bĭ′, sīd′-). ur. ûr n a substance used to destroy or inhibit the growth, of plants. especially′weeds·her′bi (-cid′al) sīd. l adj
1 Linuron is a nonselective herbicide used in the control of grasses and broadleaf weeds. 2  It works by inhibiting photosynthesis. 3  MCPA (2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid) is a phenoxy herbicide selective for broadleaf plants and widely used in cereals and pasture. 1 Fluroxypyr, a systemic, selective herbicide, is used for the control of broad-leaved weeds in small grain cereals, maize, pastures, rangeland and turf. 2  It is a synthetic auxin. 3  In cereal growing, fluroxypyr's key importance is control of cleavers, Galium aparine.
An herbicide is a chemical used to kill or inhibit the growth of weeds and other unwanted plant pests. There are two kinds of herbicides. Species-specific herbicides are designed to kill a specific kind of plant only, leaving other desirable plants unharmed. When should you use an herbicide? An herbicide is appropriate any time that you have pest plants or weeds that are competing with desired plants or crops for space, water, light, and nutrients. They are often used in lawn and garden care to achieve a desired aesthetic effect.
1 2,4-D is a broadleaf herbicide in the phenoxy group used in turf and no-till field crop production. 2  Now, it is mainly used in a blend with other herbicides to allow lower rates of herbicides to be used; it is the most widely used herbicide in the world, and third most commonly used in the United States. 1 Fluroxypyr, a systemic, selective herbicide, is used for the control of broad-leaved weeds in small grain cereals, maize, pastures, rangeland and turf. 2  It is a synthetic auxin. 3  In cereal growing, fluroxypyr's key importance is control of cleavers, Galium aparine.
Glyphosate (N -(phosphonomethyl)glycine) is a broad-spectrum systemic herbicide used to kill weeds, especially annual broadleaf weeds and grasses known to compete with commercial crops grown around the globe. It was discovered to be an herbicide by Monsanto chemist John E. Franz in 1970. Glyphosate's mode of action as an herbicide is to inhibit a plant enzyme involved in the synthesis of the aromatic amino acids: tyrosine, tryptophan, and phenylalanine.