1 Sperm washing, which is always necessary for IUI, can cost about $100. 2  IUI is the more commonly used type of artificial insemination, because it has a higher success rate than placing sperm in the cervix. 3  Ultrasounds, which are almost always used to monitor progress, cost up to $300 each. Comments (31). In artificial insemination, the sperm of either the patient's partner or a donor is injected into the cervix (in which case the procedure is called intracervical insemination, or ICI) or the uterus (in which case it is called intrauterine insemination or IUI) at the time of ovulation.
1 Artificial insemination typically costs between $300 and $500 per attempt. 2  The typical success rate is 10 to 20 percent, so five to ten attempts could be required. 3  However, success can vary widely by individual, age and cause of infertility; some patients never achieve a pregnancy through artificial insemination. Comments (31). In artificial insemination, the sperm of either the patient's partner or a donor is injected into the cervix (in which case the procedure is called intracervical insemination, or ICI) or the uterus (in which case it is called intrauterine insemination or IUI) at the time of ovulation.
If you decide to use donor sperm to get pregnant, you’ll probably pay about $500 for one vial of donated sperm. If you get IUI with it, it will cost about $330, and if you get IVF, it will cost the normal IVF rate (see above). Donor eggs are much more expensive: about $24,000 to $25,000 per cycle. Gestational Carrier. Commonly known as a surrogate, a gestational carrier is a woman who can carry your pregnancy for you. 
1 High cost of living does not equate to high treatment costs. 2  IUI prices ranged from $275 to $2,457—a huge differential. 3  Some prices quoted include medications, blood work and sonograms; others do not—hence the huge price differential. 4  ICSI prices across the country are within $500 of each other—$1,000 to $1,500. 
IUI insemination: In general, anywhere from $200- $600 for each insemination (keep in mind that you may inseminate twice in one cycle, which would double the cost) This definitely varies by region/clinic. For example in Missouri you may be paying $250, while in NY you may be paying closer to $600 per IUI. The cost of clinical insemination will also vary if you decide to use fertility drugs, such as Clomid (relatively inexpensive) or injectibles (more expensive). Note: State mandates for coverage of infertility vary widely, and that’s before you throw anything gay into the mix.
Insurance Coverage. If you are choosing to perform insemination at a doctor’s office or clinic, the cost will depend on your insurance plan and whether you are covered for this type of procedure. Unless you have known fertility issues, you may have trouble getting covered by your insurance carrier. The cost of clinical insemination will also vary if you decide to use fertility drugs, such as Clomid (relatively inexpensive) or injectibles (more expensive). Note: State mandates for coverage of infertility vary widely, and that’s before you throw anything gay into the mix.
Cost of artificial insemination treatment. The cost of intrauterine insemination with partner's sperm, including semen processing is usually between $300 and $800. It varies considerably between fertility clinics. If ultrasound and blood monitoring of follicle development is done there are additional charges
In the United States, the average cost of an IUI cycle using your partner's sperm is about $865. Keep in mind that treatment costs vary depending on how much medicine you need, where you live, and whether your state mandates insurance coverage for infertility. 
Find out if you can afford artificial insemination. One insemination often costs about 300 to 700 dollars (if you live in the United States) and you may need to be inseminated 4 times or more to get pregnant. 6. Go to your doctor or gynecologist. 