Create or sign up your Own Facebook Account. Today Facebook is the World’s Largest Social Community. More than 70 % of the internet users are the members of the facebook. It is the greatest platform for sharing our happiness, sadness, lovely moments, beautiful memories with our friends via photos, videos and stories. Related posts: 5 Steps: How to Create a new Account in LinkedIn How to Create an New Account On Irctc & Book Tickets How to Create a New Gmail Account | How to Become a Gmail User 20 Easy Ways: how to Earn/Make Real money from Facebook (fb).
Step by step guide on how to make a facebook account in 2013: 1. The very first step is to visit facebook and you can visit facebook by directly typing facebook.com directly in the url of your web browser or you google facebook name and you will get the link to fb. 2. Now when you visit fb, you will get two options.
1 You have the option to find your friends using your email address, once you have entered your email address click find friends. 2  You may be prompted to sign in to your email account. 3  You can also click skip this step if you would like to do this later. 
If you don't have a Facebook account, you can sign up for one in a few steps: 1  Go to www.facebook.com. 2  If you see the signup form, fill out your name, email address or phone number, password, birthday and gender. 3  If you don't see the form, click Sign Up, then fill out the form. 4  Click Sign Up. If you already have a Facebook account, you can log into your account from the same page. To log in, enter your email address or phone number and password at the top of the page and click Log In. Learn more about logging in. Permalink · Share · Related articles.
How to create a Facebook account to view other peoples' Facebook profiles and to create your own Facebook profile. Facebook Privacy Shortcuts Tutorial: 
3. Fill in all these details and click the sign up button to create a facebook account. 4. Now as you would click the sign up button, you will be taken to the next 3 step where you will be asked to find your friends from your gmail account, you can skip this step and proceed to the second step. 5. 1. The very first step is to visit facebook and you can visit facebook by directly typing facebook.com directly in the url of your web browser or you google facebook name and you will get the link to fb. 2. Now when you visit fb, you will get two options.