Literary Humanism. In many ways an aspect of Cultural Humanism, Literary Humanism involves the study of the humanities. These include languages, philosophy, history, literature  in short, everything outside of the physical sciences and theology. Cultural Humanism. The label of Cultural Humanism is used to refer to cultural traditions which, originating in ancient Greece and Rome, evolved through European history and have come to be a fundamental basis of Western culture. Aspects of this tradition include law, literature, philosophy, politics, science, and more.
noun. The definition of humanism is a belief that human needs and values are more important than religious beliefs, or the needs and desires of humans. 1  An example of humanism is the belief that the person creates their own set of ethics. 2  An example of humanism is planting vegetables in garden beds. humanism. 1  the quality of being human; human nature. 2  any system of thought or action based on the nature, interests, and ideals of humanity; specif., a modern, nontheistic, rationalist movement that holds that humanity is capable of self-fulfillment, ethical conduct, etc. without recourse to supernaturalism.
1 Humanism is a philosophy for the here and now. 2  Humanists regard human values as making sense only in the context of human life rather than in the promise of a supposed life after death. 3  Humanism is a philosophy of compassion. Renaissance Humanism is the spirit of learning that developed at the end of the middle ages with the revival of classical letters and a renewed confidence in the ability of human beings to determine for themselves truth and falsehood.
Literary Humanism is a devotion to the humanities or literary culture. Renaissance Humanism is the spirit of learning that developed at the end of the middle ages with the revival of classical letters and a renewed confidence in the ability of human beings to determine for themselves truth and falsehood.
Full Definition of HUMANISM. 1. a: devotion to the humanities: literary culture b: the revival of classical letters, individualistic and critical spirit, and emphasis on secular concerns characteristic of the Renaissance. 2. : humanitarianism. 3. 3. : a doctrine, attitude, or way of life centered on human interests or values; especially: a philosophy that usually rejects supernaturalism and stresses an individual's dignity and worth and capacity for self-realization through reason.
1. a. A system of thought that focuses on humans and their values, capacities, and worth. b. Humanism A cultural and intellectual movement of the Renaissance that emphasized human potential to attain excellence and promoted direct study of the literature, art, and civilization of classical Greece and Rome. humanism. 1. any system or mode of thought or action in which human interests, values, and dignity are taken to be of primary importance, as in moral judgments. 2. a devotion to or study of the humanities. 3. a theory of the life of man as a responsible being behaving independently of a revelation or deity
The intellectual and social movement which historians call humanism is what lies at the base of the period we call the Renaissance. Humanism and its ideals came to pervade the art, literature, learning, law, and civic life, first in Italy, then in all of Europe. 