Brahman cattle are unrivaled in their adaptability traits. Their dark skin, serves as a filter for the sun and a barrier for harmful sunlight. Their hair color can range from light grey to red or black, with most animals in a light to medium gray shades. Texas has always been the major breeding center for the cattle. It is not surprising then, that the American Brahman Breeders Association (ABBA) was formed in Houston in 1924. James W Sartwell first proposed the name of Brahman for this breed. Their first officially registered animal was named Sam Houston.
The American Brahman was the first beef cattle breed developed in the United States. It was bred in the early 1900s as a cross of four different Indian cattle breeds: Gyr, Gujarat, Nelore and Krishna Valley. Brahma cattle were produced by cross-breeding Kankrej, Gujarat, Ongole, and the Gir (or Gyr) strains. The Brahman is one of the most popular breeds of cattle intended for meat processing and is widely used in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, United States, Colombia and Australia among many other places.
Breeds of Livestock-Brangus Cattle. Background Information The Brangus breed was developed to utilize the superior traits of Angus and Brahman cattle. Their genetics are stabilized at 3/8 Brahman and 5/8 Angus. The combination results in a breed which unites the traits of two highly successful parent breeds. The Brahman, through rigorous natural selection, developed disease resistance, overall hardiness and outstanding maternal instincts.
The American Brahman is a breed of Bos indicus cattle developed in the United States from Indian and Brazilian cattle, says Sanders. The breed was designed to improve the beef industry of the southern U.S. Thus, muscling, good udders, hardiness and productivity were important criteria in the breeds development. 
The Brangus breed was developed to the superior traits of Angus and Brahman cattle. Their genetics are stabilized at 3/8 Brahman and 5/8 Angus. The combination results in a breed which unites the traits of two highly successful parent breeds. Registered Brangus must be 3/8 Brahman and 5/8 Angus, solid black or red and polled. Both sire and dam must be recorded with the International Brangus Breeders Association. Foundation Angus and Brahman cattle must be registered in their respective breed association prior to being enrolled with the IBBA.
Brangus. The Brangus breed was developed to utilize the superior traits of Angus and Brahman cattle. Their genetics are stabilized at 3/8 Brahman and 5/8 Angus. The combination results in a breed which unites the traits of two highly successful parent breeds. The Brahman, through rigorous natural selection, developed disease resistance, overall hardiness and outstanding maternal instincts.
The American Brahman excels in adding hybrid vigor to their offspring when crossed with other breeds, resulting in more money in your pocket as a beef producer. Hybrid vigor (or “heterosis”) is a animal breeding or genetics term that is achieved by crossing two different straings, varieties, breeds or species. Brahman cross calves are more desirable to feed in many parts of the country during hot, humid months when the feed efficiency of European and British calves and crosses decreases. The ability of these Brahman cross cattle to finish during warm seasons is a definite economic factor in their favor.
Brahman bull in Avare, Avaré. Brazil The brahman Or brahma is a breed Of zebu (Cattle bos taurus) indicus that was first bred In United states from cattle breeds imported From. India brahma cattle were produced by-cross Breeding, Kankrej, Gujarat, ongole and The (gir Or) gyr. strains Brahma cattle were produced by cross-breeding Kankrej, Gujarat, Ongole, and the Gir (or Gyr) strains. The Brahman is one of the most popular breeds of cattle intended for meat processing and is widely used in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, United States, Colombia and Australia among many other places.
The Brahman or Brahma is a breed of Zebu cattle (Bos taurus indicus) that was first bred in United States from cattle breeds imported from India. Brahma cattle were produced by cross-breeding Kankrej, Gujarat, Ongole, and the Gir (or Gyr) strains. The Brahman is one of the most popular breeds of cattle intended for meat processing and is widely used in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, United States, Colombia and Australia among many other places.
Brahman. The Brahman breed originated from Bos indicus cattle originally brought from India. Through centuries of exposure to inadequate food supplies, insect pests, parasites, diseases and the weather extremes of tropical India, the native cattle developed some remarkable adaptations for survival. Probably the greatest tribute to the Brahman breed and its breeders is the rapid growth of the breed outside of the United States. They have constituted a large proportion of our exports of breeding cattle outside continental North America.