The angel Michael was deemed to be Judaism's patron, and the apocryphal writings named three other archangels as leaders of the angelic hierarchy. Chief of these was Raphael, who was supposed to present the prayers of pious Jews to God (1 Tobit 2:15). Reference is also made to the angel of the bottomless pit, who is called \ABADDON\ or \APOLLYON\ (which see), evidently an evil angel (Revelation 9:11 the King James Version, the Revised Version (British and American) abyss).
The term angel has also been expanded to various notions of spirits found in many other religious traditions. The theological study of angels is known as angelology. In art, angels are often depicted with bird-like wings on their back, a halo, robes and various forms of glowing light. An angel is a supernatural being or spirit found in various religions and mythologies.
Angel /an-gel/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Angel) is pronounced AHN-hail, AIN-jel. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Angel is  messenger; messenger of God . Derived from the Church Latin name Angelus, from Greek angelos. Biblical: name for the spirit creatures sent by God to men as His messengers. The original Greek form Angelo is more popular now, as Angel is usually a girl's name.
1. A person's name, originally masculine but now also feminine. In the strictess sense means messenger, but also due to mythology connotes a heavenly creature. 2. Angel can also be used as a term of endearment, meaning someone who is a sweetheart. 
DEFINITION of 'Angel Investor'. An investor who provides financial backing for small startups or entrepreneurs. Angel investors are usually found among an entrepreneur's family and friends. The capital they provide can be a one-time injection of seed money or ongoing support to carry the company through difficult times. Next Up.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: angel (Noun). A divine and supernatural messenger from a deity, or other divine entity. angel (Noun). In Christian angelology, the lowest order of angels, below virtues. angel (Noun). A selfless person. The term angel has also been expanded to various notions of spirits found in many other religious traditions. Other roles of angels include protecting and guiding human beings, and carrying out God's tasks. In art, angels are often depicted with wings on their back, a halo, robes and various forms of glowing light.
In American the meaning of the name Angel is: Angel. Greek Meaning: The name Angel is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Angel is: Messenger or angel. A popular masculine name in Sicily after the 13th-century saint, Angel. Angel Clare is the hero of Thomas Hardy's novel 'Tess of the D'Urbervilles'. Latin Meaning: The name Angel is a Latin baby name
_I. Definition and Scripture Terms._. The word angel is applied in Scripture to an order of supernatural or heavenly beings whose business it is to act as God's messengers to men, and as agents who carry out His will. Reference is also made to the angel of the bottomless pit, who is called \ABADDON\ or \APOLLYON\ (which see), evidently an evil angel (Revelation 9:11 the King James Version, the Revised Version (British and American) abyss).
Angeln, also known as Anglia (German: Angeln, Danish: Angel, Latin: Anglia), is a small peninsula (within the larger Jutland peninsula) in Southern Schleswig in the northern Schleswig-Holstein, Germany, protruding into the Bay of Kiel. 