More than 102 million American Adults (20 years or older) have total cholesterol levels at or above 200 mg/dL, which is above healthy levels. More than 35 million of these people have levels of 240 mg/dL or higher, which puts them at high risk for heart disease. 
Otherwise, 300 mg a day is a good recommendation for a healthy individual, but as long as you get plenty of physical activity, end bad habits, limit saturated fat intake and eat LDL-reducing foods, your blood cholesterol levels should remain healthy. 
Because saturated fats affect your blood cholesterol levels and heart health, there is a limit to the amount you should have each day. Foods that are high in saturated fats raise your total blood cholesterol and unhealthy LDL cholesterol levels. Over time, high total and LDL cholesterol in the blood contributes to clogged arteries and an increased risk of heart disease or stroke.
No more than seven percent of your total daily calories should come from saturated fats, according to the American Heart Association. If you consume approximately 2,000 calories per day, that means your saturated fat limit is 16 grams or 140 calories from saturated fat. If you eat less or more than 2,000 calories, your saturated fat limit is respectively lower and higher than these values. Foods that are high in saturated fats raise your total blood cholesterol and unhealthy LDL cholesterol levels. Over time, high total and LDL cholesterol in the blood contributes to clogged arteries and an increased risk of heart disease or stroke.
The National Cholesterol Education Program recommends that most people eat less than 200 mg of cholesterol a day. Many of us eat more. The average American man eats 360 mg of cholesterol each day. To find out how much you need to change your diet to cut cholesterol, try this. 1  Write down the amount of cholesterol in each of your meals and snacks throughout the day. 2  At the end of the day, add up your total. 3  Repeat this experiment for several days, then look at your totals.
Most of the fat in your diet should come from good fats. Saturated fats and trans fats are best avoided but in any case should make up no more than 10 percent of your total calories. Dietary cholesterol intake should be less than 300 mg a day. If you have high blood cholesterol levels, you should aim for less than 200 mg a day. Refer to the table below to see how much fat you should be consuming per day. 
Saturated fat guidelines. Most people in the UK eat too much saturated fats. The population on average gets 12.6% of their energy (kJ/kcal) from saturated fats, which is slightly above the 11% maximum recommended by the government. 1  The average man should aim to have no more than 30g of saturated fat a day. Like saturated fats, trans fats can raise cholesterol levels in the blood. This is why it's recommended that trans fats should make up no more than 2% of the energy (kJ/kcal) we get from our diet. For adults, this is no more than about 5g a day. However, most people in the UK don't eat a lot of trans fats
As with fat, it's OK to eat more than your cholesterol limit once in a while. But over several days, your cholesterol intake should average no more than 200 mg a day. Or, follow whatever limit your doctor sets for you. To find out how much you need to change your diet to cut cholesterol, try this. 1  Write down the amount of cholesterol in each of your meals and snacks throughout the day. 2  At the end of the day, add up your total. 3  Repeat this experiment for several days, then look at your totals.
Government guidelines advise that total blood cholesterol levels be kept below 200 mg/dL, and that LDL cholesterol be kept below 100 mg/dL. On a day to day basis, this means you should limit your average cholesterol intake to less than 300 milligrams per day. But, if you have been diagnosed with heart disease, this should be reduced further to an intake of less than 200 milligrams per day. Sources of Cholesterol. There are two sources of cholesterol: a) a small amount comes from your food, but most of it is made b) within the body by your liver.