Hashimoto's disease. Goiter can also result from an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism). Like Graves' disease, Hashimoto's disease is an autoimmune disorder. But instead of causing your thyroid to produce too much hormone, Hashimoto's damages your thyroid so that it produces too little. Although a lack of dietary iodine is the main cause of goiter in many parts of the world, this is not often the case in countries where iodine is routinely added to table salt and other foods. 1  Graves' disease. 2  Goiter can sometimes occur when your thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism)
Introduction. A goitre (sometimes spelt  goiter ) is an abnormal swelling of the thyroid gland that causes a lump to form in the neck. There can be many possible causes, including an under-or overactive thyroid gland, iodine deficiency and, rarely, thyroid cancer (see below). 
1 Graves' disease. 2  Goiter can sometimes occur when your thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism). 3  In Graves' disease, antibodies produced by your immune system mistakenly attack your thyroid gland, causing it to produce excess thyroxine. 4  This overstimulation causes the thyroid to swell. Although a lack of dietary iodine is the main cause of goiter in many parts of the world, this is not often the case in countries where iodine is routinely added to table salt and other foods. 1  Graves' disease. 2  Goiter can sometimes occur when your thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism)
A goiter is an enlarged thyroid gland. The thyroid gland, located in the front of your neck, makes thyroid hormones. When your thyroid gland is enlarged, it can produce too much, too little, or just enough thyroid hormone. The most common cause of goiter outside of the U.S. is a lack of iodine in the diet. Iodine is a substance in food (iodized salt and seafood) that the thyroid uses to make thyroid hormones. However, a lack of iodine is not common in the U.S. because iodine is added to salt and many foods.
1 Goiter describes a condition where the thyroid gland, located in the neck, becomes enlarged. 2  Iodine deficiency is the world's leading cause of goiter-but this is rare in North America. 3  In developed countries, goiter is usually caused by an autoimmune disease. 1 Treatment is not necessary unless the goiter is large and causes symptoms (there are often no symptoms). 2  Synthetic thyroid hormone is a treatment for underactive thyroid, while anti-thyroid drugs are options for an overactive gland.
Goitre which is associated with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism may be present with symptoms of the underlying disorder. For hyperthyroidism, the most common symptoms are associated with adrenergic stimulation: tachycardia, palpitations, nervousness, tremor, increased blood pressure and heat intolerance. 
A goiter can occur in a gland that is producing too much hormone (hyperthyroidism), too little hormone (hypothyroidism), or the correct amount of hormone (euthyroidism). A goiter indicates there is a condition present which is causing the thyroid to grow abnormally. 
Goiter is a swelling (hypertrophy) of a gland in the neck called the thyroid gland. 1-3 The thyroid gland is situated in front of the windpipe and is responsible for producing and secreting hormones that regulate growth and metabolism. 1 Treatment is not necessary unless the goiter is large and causes symptoms (there are often no symptoms). 2  Synthetic thyroid hormone is a treatment for underactive thyroid, while anti-thyroid drugs are options for an overactive gland.
1 A simple goiter can occur without a known reason. 2  It can occur when the thyroid gland is not able to make enough thyroid hormone to meet the body's needs. 3  This can be due to, for example, a lack of iodine in a person's diet. 4  To make up for the shortage of thyroid hormone, the thyroid gland grows larger. Back to Top Causes. There are different kinds of goiters. 1 