With all these things going for you, you have the potential for greatness, the potential to be a winner, the potential resources to face and overcome any and every problem or challenge that comes into your life. Besides, there actually is a “trick” to thinking. The “trick” is to think positive thoughts, constructive thoughts, prosperous thoughts, healthy thoughts, and to avoid thinking negative thoughts, destructive thoughts, lack thoughts, sick thoughts! …. Talent or potential number two is the ability to believe.
Possibly, the greatest untapped resource in any organization lies in its employees. These days, giving 100 percent is not enough to get ahead; you need to become more effective in unlocking your staff's potential strengths, creativity, and resourcefulness. The best companies have the best people, and the top people are those who think and act faster and better than others. Allow your staff to think on their own, have trust in them for accomplishing the tasks assigned to them, and in return you will find that managing your employees will help them perform at their optimum level.
Now, ask what percentage of their potential do you think they’re delivering at work: is it 50%, 60% or 70%? Imagine if you could take their performance up a notch or two by giving them the opportunity to do something they enjoy or even love doing. 4 simple steps to unleash employee potential. Biro suggests the following process: 1. Ask what they love about their job and what they dislike about it. 2. See if their body language confirms their engagement level, by looking for signs of excitement in their voice, in their facial expression and general movements.
Friend, there is great untapped potential in you, but past failures have a way of lying to us and telling us we will never thrive, improve or go higher. Then, when we buy into such untruths, we live out that lie, so, in effect, it becomes truth. Not only did Christ come to free you from the curse of sin, but also, from the bondage of wrong, limiting and hindering thoughts. He wants you to see who you are! You are an heir of God and a joint-heir with Jesus Christ. You are royalty, a King’s kid. You can do all things through Christ. Lift your head up.
You are a remarkable person indeed, and you possess untapped spiritual potential. You are created in the image-likeness of God, as Genesis states; God's very own Spirit indwells you, as Paul stated; God is your spiritual Parent, as Jesus taught; and you are God's spiritual child. Besides, there actually is a “trick” to thinking. The “trick” is to think positive thoughts, constructive thoughts, prosperous thoughts, healthy thoughts, and to avoid thinking negative thoughts, destructive thoughts, lack thoughts, sick thoughts! …. Talent or potential number two is the ability to believe.
We might not get it. So, then, if you feel you see untapped potential, your job is not to seek approval or validation—which would be effectively asking others to check your idea against their existing view of reality. Innovation = creating new reality. Instead, you’d want to test it against what actually happens. These are from some notes I made while reading Blue Ocean Strategy. So, they have a bit of the feel of notes, but are interesting. When you see an enormous untapped market potential for something, almost by definition, most people will disagree with you.
Praise and thanksgiving open the lines; they connect you to the universe of good and thereby to the unrestricted activity of God. Praise your home, your job, your children, your co-workers. Praise your body, praise the efforts of others. Praise God! …. The fifth talent or potential is the ability to pray. Besides, there actually is a “trick” to thinking. The “trick” is to think positive thoughts, constructive thoughts, prosperous thoughts, healthy thoughts, and to avoid thinking negative thoughts, destructive thoughts, lack thoughts, sick thoughts! …. Talent or potential number two is the ability to believe.
This is not the end for you. There is untapped potential in you. You’re about to tap into it. There are greater things God has in store for you. But you have to believe it before you can have it. Now let’s pray. God, failures in my past, hurts and disappointments sometimes cause me to feel like I’ll be stuck in the same place forever. Not only did Christ come to free you from the curse of sin, but also, from the bondage of wrong, limiting and hindering thoughts. He wants you to see who you are! You are an heir of God and a joint-heir with Jesus Christ. You are royalty, a King’s kid. You can do all things through Christ. Lift your head up.