Denae is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3732 out of 4276, Top 87%) but an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is a comparison of the usage of Denae and associated names. Dee and Danae are the popular related forms of Denae (outside Top 1000) ranked in the Top 1000. Variants like Danee are seldom used.
Denae /de-nae/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Greek origin. Denae is an alternate form of Danae (Greek). Shown below is a comparison of the usage of Denae and associated names. Dee and Danae are the popular related forms of Denae (outside Top 1000) ranked in the Top 1000. Variants like Danee are seldom used.
there is no word Denae unless you are talking about a word in some other language. technically that is not true. Denae is a name. i know because it is my middle name. it has a couple of meanings. the most found one is vindicated ,or God is my Judge. 
Denae is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced De-nae. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6002 in baby name popularity for girls with 21 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Just for fun, see the name Denae in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Denae in Nautical Flags page.
Greek Meaning: The name Denae is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Denae is: Form of Danae; the mythological mother of Perseus by Zeus. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 2
Denae with her two dogs. Denae works with the TG woman (male to female) on voice, feminine movement, makeup, hair and wigs. Her clientele includes post-op transsexuals, transgendered individuals who are preparing for sexual reassignment surgery (pre-op transsexuals), as well as serious crossdressers. In addition to her participation in the reality TV series “He’s A Lady”, Denae is a guest writer for Girl Talk Magazine, where she shares her vast knowledge with the transgender community. When you are ready for more, order one of Denae’s instructional videos or contact Denae for a private consultation. Denae denaë is recommended By. Dr Mildred, brown author “Of True”, selves and world renown authority in the field of The transgendered in The San Francisco Bay. area
As a baby girl name, Denae is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Denae for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Danae, of which the name Denae is a variant. Meaning. The name Denae has the following meaning: The name of a Greek goddess, Danae was the goddess of music and poetry, and the mother of Perseus. A novel name with a warm ring to it-definitely worth considering. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. The name Denae is very likely a(n) Greek variant of the name Danae. See other suggested Greek girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Danae
Denae. Denae is a true beauty. She is very compassionate, understanding and accepting. Hates drama or any thing of the sort. Beautiful from head-to-toe, soul-to-mind. A Denae is super friendly but is also very selective of who is apart of her circle. Getting into an intimate relationship with a Denae is rare.