Martin Bayfield is the actor who played a young Rubeus Hagrid in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. 
Official Photos ». Robbie Coltrane, one of Britain's most popular comedians who was head of debating society at school and won prizes for his art, is now a film star who played in two James Bond films and in the Harry Potter franchise. 
Robbie Coltrane, the actor who played the character of Rubeus Hagrid in the Harry Potter films, was hospitalized Thursday after he got sick on a flight from London to Orlando. 
Harry Potter actor Robbie Coltrane, who played lovable giant Rubeus Hagrid in the movies, has been hospitalized. Credit: J Carter Rinaldi/FilmMagic. Harry Potter actor Robbie Coltrane, who played lovable giant and loyal Potter protector Rubeus Hagrid in the movies, has been hospitalized. PHOTOS: Harry Potter stars -- then and now!
Mini Bio (1). Robbie Coltrane, one of Britain's most popular comedians who was head of debating society at school and won prizes for his art, is now a film star who played in two James Bond films and in the Harry Potter franchise. 
He got sick on the way to a Harry Potter convention. The actor who played Hagrid in the Harry Potter movies has been rushed to the hospital after experiencing flu-like symptoms on a transatlantic flight. Robbie Coltrane was rushed to a Florida hospital as soon as his flight from London to Orlando landed. He had been traveling to Orlando, home of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter theme park, for a “A Celebration of Harry Potter” event at the park.
Scottish actor Robbie Coltrane is best known for his roles such as Hagrid the Giant in the Harry Potter series and Mr. Hyde in Van Helsing. 
A rep for Coltrane -- who played Rubeus Hagrid -- tells us the actor fell ill during a British Airways flight from London to Orlando. We're told paramedics met Coltrane at the gate, and took him to the hospital ... where he'll remain overnight for treatment. 
Rubeus Hagrid is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series written by J. K. Rowling. Hagrid is introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as a half-giant and half-human who is the gamekeeper and Keeper of Keys and Grounds of Hogwarts, the primary setting for the first six novels. Scottish actor Robbie Coltrane has portrayed Hagrid in all of the film adaptations of the Harry Potter novels. Rowling had Coltrane first in mind for the role and when asked who was the top of her list responded RobbieColtraneforHagrid all in one quick breath.
The actor who played Hagrid in the ‘Harry Potter’ movies was rushed to a hospital after he got off a plane on Thursday, Jan. 29. Robbie Coltrane, 64, was reportedly hospitalized after suffering severe flu-like symptoms, following a flight on Thursday, Jan. 29. 