Arterioles carry the blood to the capillaries, which are not innervated, have no smooth muscle, and are about 5-8 µm in diameter. Blood flows out of the capillaries into the venules, which have little smooth muscle and are 10-200 µm. The blood flows from the venules into the veins. In addition to these blood vessels, the microcirculation also includes lymphatic capillaries and collecting ducts. When the flow of substances goes from the bloodstream or the capillary to the interstitial space or interstitium, the process is called filtration. This kind of movement is favored by blood hydrostatic pressure (BHP) and interstitial fluid osmotic pressure (IFOP).
The total Cross-sectional area of all the Capillaries in the body is much greater than that of any other set of blood vessels. This gives it a very low Pressure, compair … ed to things like the Arteries and the Aorta, meaning the blood is not being forced out of them as much. 
The systemic circulation is made up of the blood vessels that pump blood from the heart to the rest of the body. The pulmonary circulation is made up of the blood vessels that take deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle of the heart to the lung and then return oxygenated blood to the left atrium. The physiology of the systemic circulation is determined by: 1  Dynamics of blood flow.
Muscular, or distributing, arteries deliver blood to specific body organs, and have the greatest proportion of tunica media of all vessels, making them more active in vasoconstriction. Arterioles are the smallest arteries and regulate blood flow into capillary beds through vasoconstriction and vasodilation. Capillaries are the smallest vessels and allow for exchange of substances between the blood and interstitial fluid. Continuous capillaries are most common and allow passage of fluids and small solutes. Fenestrated capillaries are more permeable to fluids and solutes than continuous capillaries. 
This is the precapillary sphincter. It is on the outside of the blood vessel along with the other tissue cells and it is sensitive to low O2, acid, high CO2, and high K+. All of these tend to make the sphincter relax and allow blood flow through the capillary bed. There opposites cause contraction and cut off capillary blood flow. Most of the time capillary beds are shut off; only about one in six is open
Microcirculation deals with the circulation of blood from the heart to arteries, to smaller arterioles, to capillaries, to venules, to veins and back to the heart. The flow of blood in the capillaries is controlled by structures called precapillary sphincters. These structures are located between arterioles and capillaries and contain muscle fibers that allow them to contract. When the sphincters are open, blood flows freely to the capillary beds of body tissue. When the sphincters are closed, blood is not allowed to flow through the capillary beds. Fluid exchange between the capillaries and the body tissues takes place at the capillary bed. Capillaries are so small that red blood cells can only travel through them in single file. Capillaries measure in size from about 5-10 microns in diameter. Capillary walls are thin and are composed of endothelium (a type of simple squamous epithelial tissue).
When blood enters the arteriole end of a capillary, it is still under pressure (about 35 torr) produced by the contraction of the ventricle. As a result of this pressure, a substantial amount of water and some plasma proteins filter through the walls of the capillaries into the tissue space. Control of the Capillary Beds. An adult human has been estimated to have some 60,000 miles (96,560 km) of capillaries with a total surface area of some 800–1000 m 2 (an area greater than three tennis courts). The total volume of this system is roughly 5 liters, the same as the total volume of blood.
Capillary walls allow the free flow of almost every substance in plasma. The plasma proteins are the only exception, as they are too big to pass through. The minimum number of un-absorbable plasma proteins that exit capillaries enter lymphatic circulation for returning later on to those blood vessels. When the flow of substances goes from the bloodstream or the capillary to the interstitial space or interstitium, the process is called filtration. This kind of movement is favored by blood hydrostatic pressure (BHP) and interstitial fluid osmotic pressure (IFOP).
1 Cells where infection or other damage is occurring release substances like histamine that dilate the arterioles and thus increase blood flow in the area. [ 2  Link to discussion of inflammation. ]. 3  In most of the body, the flow of blood through a capillary is controlled by the arteriole supplying it. Control of the Capillary Beds. An adult human has been estimated to have some 60,000 miles (96,560 km) of capillaries with a total surface area of some 800–1000 m 2 (an area greater than three tennis courts). The total volume of this system is roughly 5 liters, the same as the total volume of blood.