Quartzite, a form of metamorphic rock, from the Museum of Geology at University of Tartu collection. Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. However, all minerals are stable only within certain limits, and the presence of some minerals in metamorphic rocks indicates the approximate temperatures and pressures at which they formed. The change in the particle size of the rock during the process of metamorphism is called recrystallization.
Metamorphic Rocks. Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) can become a metamorphic rock. If rocks are buried deep in the Earth at high temperatures and pressures, they form new minerals and textures all without melting. If melting occurs, magma is formed, starting the rock cycle all over again. Geologists can learn the following about the Earth from the study of metamorphic rocks:
Metamorphic rocks can form from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. The sedimentary particles from which a sedimentary rock is formed can be derived from a metamorphic, an igneous, or another sedimentary rock. All three rock types can be melted to form a magma. 
The Rock Cycle is a group of changes. Igneous rock can change into sedimentary rock or into metamorphic rock. Sedimentary rock can change into metamorphic rock or into igneous rock. Metamorphic rock can change into igneous or sedimentary rock. 
But rocks are not unchangeable! Just like the water cycle, rocks undergo changes of form in a rock cycle. A metamorphic rock can become an igneous rock, or a sedimentary rock can become a metamorphic one. Unlike the water cycle, you can't see the process happening on a day-to-day basis. Just like the water cycle, rocks undergo changes of form in a rock cycle. A metamorphic rock can become an igneous rock, or a sedimentary rock can become a metamorphic one.
It's true-rocks change. Geologists like to describe the changes via a rock cycle. They also classify rocks into one of three types: igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. Each of these types can become the other, depending on the process used to break the rock down and reform it. 
Rocks are classified by the processes under which they were formed. The differences in formation account for variations in the appearance of the rocks and, with some practice, you can learn to recognize the different types by sight. Metamorphic Rocks are rocks that have changed form due to heat and pressure. Metamorphic comes from the Greek words meta and morph. Meta means change and morph means form. Metamorphic rocks were once sedimentary, igneous or even other metamorphic rocks that have been changed by
The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks. Metamorphism occurs because rocks undergo changes in temperature and pressure and may be subjected to differential stress and hydrothermal fluids. Metamorphism occurs because some minerals are stable only under certain conditions of pressure and temperature. When pressure and temperature change, chemical reactions occur to cause the minerals in the rock to change to an assemblage that is stable at the new pressure and temperature condition