Listeriosis Causes. Listeriosis is a disease caused by infection with a gram-positive, rod-shaped bacterium called Listeria monocytogenes. 1  Listeria monocytogenes is ubiquitous, and it is usually found in soil, water, and decaying vegetation. 2  Many farm animals and other domestic and wild animals can harbor the bacterium. 1
Listeriosis (Listeria monocytogenes infection) facts. 1  Listeriosis is a disease caused by a gram-positive bacterium named Listeria that can penetrate and replicate inside human cells. 
Listeriosis, a serious infection usually caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes, is an important public health problem in the United States. 
L. monocytogenes is a Gram-positive bacterium, in the division Firmicutes, named after Joseph Lister. Motile via flagella at 30°C and below, but usually not at 37°C, L. monocytogenes can instead move within eukaryotic cells by explosive polymerization of actin filaments (known as comet tails or actin rockets). L. monocytogenes is a Gram-positive, nonspore-forming, motile, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium. It is catalase-positive and oxidase-negative, and expresses a beta hemolysin, which causes destruction of red blood cells.
Listeriosis is a bacterial infection caused by Listeria monocytogenes. While many bacteria generally infect specific locations within the human body, Listeria may infect many different sites, such as the brain or spinal cord membranes or the bloodstream. 
Causes of listeriosis. Listeriosis is caused by a type of bacteria called listeria. It's mainly spread through contaminated food. Listeria is widespread throughout the environment and can be found in soil, wood, decaying vegetation and water. Contaminated food. Most cases of listeriosis are caused by eating food contaminated with listeria. Listeria is most commonly found in unpasteurised milk and dairy products made from unpasteurised milk. Listeria can also be found in food manufacturing environments and can contaminate food products after production
Listeria monocytogenes bacteria are commonly found in soil; dust; water; sewage; unpasteurized cheeses such as brie, mozzarella, and blue cheese; and uncooked vegetables. These bacteria can enter the body through contaminated food or water. Foods contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes can cause outbreaks of meningitis. Meningitis caused by Listeria monocytogenes bacteria occurs most often in newborns, older adults, and people with long-term illnesses or impaired immune systems. 
Listeriosis is an illness that arises from infection caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. Listeriosis has a very low incidence in humans. However, pregnant women are much more likely than the rest of the population to contract it. 
Listeriosis, a serious infection usually caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes, is an important public health problem in the United States. The disease primarily affects older adults, pregnant women, newborns, and adults with weakened immune systems. A person with listeriosis usually has fever and muscle aches, sometimes preceded by diarrhea or other gastrointestinal symptoms. Almost everyone who is diagnosed with listeriosis has invasive infection, in which the bacteria spread beyond the gastrointestinal tract.