Our government says that you should cook a whole chicken until the temperature measured in the thigh is 180°F (82°C). If you cook chicken pieces, the government says, the thigh, wings, and drumsticks should be 180°F, while the breast should reach 170°F (77°C).
If you handle chicken properly, but cook it to a lower temperature, you may be exposing yourself to a very slight risk of food poisoning, but eating consistently tasty chicken. We try never to roast a chicken beyond 160°F in the breast, but that s our choice.
In other words, with whole cuts of meat it is the external temp, not the internal temp, that must exceed 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Normal cooking methods — sauteing, grilling, roasting, braising, etc. — raise surface temperatures far above
Kitchen Fact: The safe internal temperature for cooked chicken is 165° Fahrenheit (75° Celsius). A meat or instant-read thermometer is your best bet for determining the temperature of your chicken, and if you're cooking a whole bird, it should be inserted into the thickest part of the thigh but not touching bone.
Place the pan in the oven and roast the chicken for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the juices run clear. To test this, insert a thermometer in the thickest part of a leg. It should register at 160 degrees internal temperature. Remove the chicken from the oven and allow to cool for 10 to 15 minutes before carving.
I just ignore their inaccurate times and use the following logic: One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes.
A cooking or meat thermometer should not be a sometime thing.. Use it every time you prepare foods like poultry, roasts, hams, casseroles, meat loaves and egg dishes. After desired cooking temperature is reached, remove meat from heat source and let stand 10 to 15 minutes before carving.