Urea. Urea is an organic compound of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and hydrogen, with the formula CON2H4 and the structure. Humans produce urea from carbon dioxide and ammonia in the urea cycle, an anabolic process. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An organic compound is any member of a large class of chemical compounds whose molecules contain carbon. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urea Basically because it contains Carbon as the central atom of the molecule. 
Urea, (NH2)2CO, is an organic chemical compound which essentially is the waste produced when the body metabolizes protein. It is a compound not only produced by humans but also by many other mammals, as well as amphibians and some fish. 
Uera Fertilizer. Urea is a white crystalline substance with the chemical formula CO(NH2)2; it is highly water soluble and contains 46% nitrogen. Urea is considered an organic compound because it contains carbon. It was the first organic compound ever synthesized by chemists; this was accomplished in the early 1800s. 
Urea is an organic compound with the chemical formula (N H 2) 2 C O. Urea is also known as carbamide, especially in the recommended International Nonproprietary Names (rINN) in use in Europe. For example, the medicinal compound hydroxyurea (old British Approved Name) is now hydroxycarbamide. 
Carbamide or more commonly known as urea is an organic chemical compound. This organic chemical compound is the waste product of the body when protein is metabolized. 
Urea or carbamide is an organic compound with the chemical formula C O (N H 2) 2. The molecule has two —NH 2 groups joined by a carbonyl (C=O) functional group. Urea serves an important role in the metabolism of nitrogen-containing compounds by animals, and is the main nitrogen-containing substance in the urine of mammals. It is colorless, odorless solid, highly soluble in water, and practically non-toxic (LD50 is 15 g/kg for rats).
3030 Views / In Science /. / 0 comments. Urea is an organic compound that forms with the chemical formula CO(NH2)2 and can be called as an organic chemical compound. Urea plays an important role in creating our metabolism better by serving carbamide. 
The formula of urea is CO(NH2)2. It is  organic because the formula contains a carbon atom. The only  compounds that contain carbon and are not considered organic are  carb … on dioxide and carbonates such as calcium carbonate. 
Urea and the beginnings of organic chemistry. Urea is one of the most important chemicals in use today-as a fertiliser and industrial raw material. It is also the chemical that gave birth to the science of organic chemistry. Let's see how. 