Elomi is extremely excited to be shortlisted in the British Plus Size Awards 2015 as Best Lingerie Brand. To thank all our amazing fans for embracing their curves in Elomi lingerie and voting for us, we have launched a competition to give away 3 stunning lingerie sets to one lucky winner. 
Elomi bras are some of the best plus size bras available today, such as the Elomi Energize Plus Size Sports Bra, the Smoothing Underwire Bustier and the Cleo Underwire Side Support Bra. Elomi bras are designed specifically with the full figure woman in mind. So you can count on a perfect fit from your Elomi bra -- whether you're a 32GG or a 42JJ cup size. When shopping for Elomi bras, be sure to read all of the customer reviews to help find your perfect fit. 
Follow elomi swim to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow elomi swim to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
Today I want to introduce you to Lazeme who stock Elomi Swimwear. “If you haven’t come across Lazeme, we’re the chill-out specialists and feature sleepwear, swimwear and lingerie designs for a touch of ‘lazy living’. We enjoyed our visit to Moda earlier this week and have plans to introduce new lingerie and swimwear ranges this year. One swimwear brand that we stock is Elomi. We understand that for some people Elomi Swimwear can be a big investment financially because many of the tankini designs fit over the swim bra and briefs.
The elomi Kissimmee Bikini Swim Top ES7052 features crochet-look cup overlays, and four-part, non-stretch cup linings with side support panels to help center breasts. elomi's Kissimmee Bikini Swim Top has covered elastic straps that adjust in back with coated metal hardware. The elomi Orla Underwire Plunge Bra EL8830 features multi-part, seamed underwire cups with side support panels. Styled with a low, wide center panel. Fully adjustable, wide restricted stretch elastic straps adjust in back. elomi's Orla Underwire Plunge Bra is made of polyester/nylon/elastane.
The elomi Essentials Ruched Tankini Swim Top 7603 features ruched, elasticized sides so you can adjust your length. The bodice is specially designed to fit over elomi swim bra top ES7500 (sold separately) without showing! Made of lightweight nylon/spandex for a beautiful drape. The elomi Orla Underwire Plunge Bra EL8830 features multi-part, seamed underwire cups with side support panels. Styled with a low, wide center panel. Fully adjustable, wide restricted stretch elastic straps adjust in back. elomi's Orla Underwire Plunge Bra is made of polyester/nylon/elastane.
July 4, 2013 at 2:59 pm. I’ve been a big fan of Elomi bras since I was first fitted – I’m a fuller figured woman (38 G/40 FF) so I find their fits just about perfect on my frame. I have so many of their bras, it’s crazy. I also have the black Isis convertible swim bra, the hi-waist swim brief, and the bandeau tankini. 
You can find Elomi in a range of stores across the country. To locate your nearest, fill in the fields below, but remember to check with the store before visiting just to be on the safe side. Click reset, to start a new search. The cookie settings on this website are currently set to ‘allow all cookies’ to give you the best experience possible. If you’re happy with this simply click OK below. You can change your settings any time at the bottom of the page.
The briefs fit really well and give me great arse coverage – something that can be a struggle when your butt is the size of mine. I also find that some swimwear pieces are cut in a really odd way over the cheeks that doesn’t let even a hint of booty flesh show. Happily, these are super flattering and a great cut. We enjoyed our visit to Moda earlier this week and have plans to introduce new lingerie and swimwear ranges this year. One swimwear brand that we stock is Elomi. We understand that for some people Elomi Swimwear can be a big investment financially because many of the tankini designs fit over the swim bra and briefs.
However, we have found that once customers have their swim bra and brief they return to update their beach look each season with a new tankini top (and for 2015 new swimsuit styles fit over the swim bras). We currently have a promotion running offering customers 20% off when they buy 3 or more items of Elomi Swimwear. We enjoyed our visit to Moda earlier this week and have plans to introduce new lingerie and swimwear ranges this year. One swimwear brand that we stock is Elomi. We understand that for some people Elomi Swimwear can be a big investment financially because many of the tankini designs fit over the swim bra and briefs.