More than likely, an abnormality in the brain is the cause of Asperger syndrome. Genetic factors may play a role, since the disorder tends to run in families. A specific gene has not been identified. Asperger syndrome is a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) or autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The main difference between Asperger syndrome and autistic disorder is that children with Asperger syndrome do not have speech or cognitive delays. The condition appears to be more common in boys than in girls. 
1 Asperger's syndrome is an autism spectrum disorder that impacts on a person's communication and socialization abilities. 2  A person with Asperger's syndrome has difficulty responding to the body language, facial expressions and tone of voice of others-leading to anxiety and confusion. Asperger's syndrome differs from other ASDs in that the symptoms are less severe and there is no language delay. A child with AS generally has good language and cognitive (thinking, intelligence) skills.
Asperger's syndrome, a developmental disorder, is an ASD (autism spectrum disorder). It impacts on the individual's ability to communicate and socialize, among other things. According to the National Institutes of Health 1, children with Asperger's Syndrome (AS) retain their early language skills. Asperger's syndrome differs from other ASDs in that the symptoms are less severe and there is no language delay. A child with AS generally has good language and cognitive (thinking, intelligence) skills.
Asperger syndrome is a form of autism, which is a lifelong disability that affects how a person makes sense of the world, processes information and relates to other people. Autism is often described as a 'spectrum disorder' because the condition affects people in many different ways and to varying degrees. Here we explain more about Asperger syndrome-a form of autism-including the three main difficulties that people with Asperger syndrome share, how many people have the condition, and what may cause it. As soon as we meet a person we make judgements about them.
Asperger syndrome is an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) considered to be on the “high functioning” end of the spectrum. Affected children and adults have difficulty with social interactions and exhibit a restricted range of interests and/or repetitive behaviors. 
Although there are many possible symptoms of Asperger's syndrome, the main symptom is significant trouble with social situations. Your child may have mild to severe symptoms or have a few or many of these symptoms. Because of the wide variety of symptoms, no two children with Asperger's are alike. 
The symptoms of Asperger's syndrome vary and can range from mild to severe. Common symptoms include: 1  Problems with social skills: Children with Asperger's syndrome generally have difficulty interacting with others and often are awkward in social situations. 2  They generally do not make friends easily. 3  They have difficulty initiating and maintaining conversation. Although Asperger's syndrome is similar in some ways to autism -- another, more severe type of PDD -- there are some important differences.
Asperger syndrome (AS), also known as Asperger's syndrome, Asperger disorder (AD) or simply Asperger's, is an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) that is characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, alongside restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests. The diagnosis of Asperger's was eliminated in the 2013 fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) and replaced by a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder on a severity scale.
Asperger's Syndrome. Asperger's syndrome, also called Asperger's disorder, is a type of pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) . PDDs are a group of conditions that involve delays in the development of many basic skills, most notably the ability to socialize with others, to communicate, and to use imagination. Although Asperger's syndrome is similar in some ways to autism -- another, more severe type of PDD -- there are some important differences.