What we need is a stronger focus on diversity in ageing. A person‟s wellbeing, self-esteem and empowerment are closely linked to their positive feelings of belonging as culturally diverse people in Victoria. It is important for aged care services to provide genuine choices in relation to their cultural preferences.
The Centre for Cultural Diversity in Ageing Conference will host around 50 presentations that highlight better practice initiatives to improve the lives of older Australians from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds.
Cultural and linguistic diversity measures in aged care 5 Legislation, Strategy goals and standards There are legislative requirements, Strategy goals and sector standards that together recognise and seek to provide a framework for supporting improved access and equitable distribution of services.
Page last updated: 08 May 2007. PDF printable version of Cultural Diversity In Aged Care (PDF 786 KB). The Government is providing funding through the 2007-08 Budget to help older people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds to access the full range of aged care services to which they are entitled.
Multicultural Aged Care Services Geelong Inc. (MACS) provides quality care and support for Geelong's frail elderly community. We have been doing so since 1994. Our focus is meeting the special needs of older people from different cultural backgrounds-celebrating diversity, respecting dignity and valuing integrity.
English was the preferred language for the majority of residents in aged care at 30 June 2012 (90% for both permanent and respite residents). The most common other preferred languages were those from Southern and Eastern Europe (around 7% for permanent residents and 8% for
Cultural resistance to formal aged care services in many CALD communities means that many older people from CALD backgrounds are themselves a carer for a family member and many CALD carers face cultural and other barriers in accessing carer support services.
As part of the Aged Care Course, Certificate III in Aged Care, students are required to undertake HLTHIR403C – Work with Culturally Diverse Clients and Co-Workers. This is unit is designed to deal with the cultural awareness required for effective communication and cooperation with people of differing cultures.
Cultural Diversity In Aged Care. The Government is providing funding through the 2007-08 Budget to help older people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds to access the full range of aged care services to which they are entitled.