DNA Polymerase. Just as helicase is responsible for unwinding the DNA strand, DNA polymerase is responsible for replicating the strand once it unwinds and separates. DNA is made up of a sugar-phosphate ladder and a nucleotide base. As the DNA strand separates, the DNA polymerase matches nucleotide bases that are missing when the strand separates. Most DNA polymerase also has the ability to correct errors in the strand. As there is more than one type of helicase, there is also more than one type of polymerase.
Deoxyribonucleic acid is the most basic molecule needed to form life. DNA needs help from enzymes in order to undergo the complicated and time-consuming replication process. Both helicase and DNA polymerase are involved in DNA replication, but the enzymes perform different functions within the replication process. As the DNA strand separates, the DNA polymerase matches nucleotide bases that are missing when the strand separates. Most DNA polymerase also has the ability to correct errors in the strand. As there is more than one type of helicase, there is also more than one type of polymerase.
DNA polymerase III (not DNA polymerase) is an enzyme that works in association with other enzymes during the replication of a DNA molecule. DNA replication begins when the enz … yme, known as helicase unwinds a DNA strand. Helicase unwinds a DNA strand, thus, in the process, separating the two DNA templates. A polymerase is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of free nucleotides into a single strand.   DNA polymerase differs from RNA polymerase in two major respects:   * … Like all enzymes, DNA polymerase is substrate-specific.
Hence, DNA polymerase moves along the template strand in a 3'-5' direction, and the daughter strand is formed in a 5'-3' direction. This difference enables the resultant double-strand DNA formed to be composed of two DNA strands that are antiparallel to each other. The function of DNA polymerase is not quite perfect, with the enzyme making about one mistake for every billion base pairs copied. Error correction is a property of some, but not all, DNA polymerases. This process corrects mistakes in newly synthesized DNA.
Primase is an enzyme that synthesizes short RNA sequences called primers. These primers serve as a starting point for DNA synthesis. Since primase produces RNA molecules, the enzyme is a type of RNA polymerase. Primase functions by synthesizing short RNA sequences that are complementary to a single-stranded piece of DNA, which serves as its template.
Answers. Best Answer: RNA polymerase is used in Transcription while Helicase is used in DNA replication. RNA polymerase is an enzyme that will help to unwind the double stranded DNA by breaking the hydrogen bonds between complementary bases. Basically, RNA polymerase is a wonderful enzyme which does all the work from breaking to adding complementary RNA nucleotides.
Basically, RNA polymerase's role is very similar to that of DNA polymerase. RNA polymerase is an enzyme that is used during transcription in the nucleus. Similar to DNA polyme … rase, RNA polymerase codes for the complementary nucleotides to a DNA strand. DNA polymerase creates a strand of DNA from a template strand of DNA. it is used to create a new copy of the DNA. In order to begin DNA synthesis, a primer is necessary. The primer is a short oligo nucleotide fragment that hybridizes to the template strand of DNA (the strand which is to be copied).
The second two activities of DNA Pol I are important for replication, but DNA Polymerase III (Pol III) is the enzyme that performs the 5'-3' polymerase function. 1  Primase-The requirement for a free 3' hydroxyl group is fulfilled by the RNA primers that are synthesized at the initiation sites by these enzymes. 1 These are removed by the 5' to 3' exonuclease action of Polymerase I. 2  5. 3  The final product does not have any gaps in the DNA that result from the removal of the RNA primer. 4  These are filled in by the action of DNA
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. During this process, DNA polymerase “reads” the existing DNA strands to create two new strands that match the existing ones. The function of DNA polymerase is not quite perfect, with the enzyme making about one mistake for every billion base pairs copied. Error correction is a property of some, but not all, DNA polymerases. This process corrects mistakes in newly synthesized DNA.