Answers. Best Answer: It doesn't depend on ovulation, but implantation, as the hCG hormone, the hormone which is detected by a pregnancy test, is only produced once the embryo has implanted in the womb. Implantation can occur anytime from 5-12 days after ovulation, with 7-10 days being usual. For example, two women have 28 day cycles. they both started their period on the 1st, ovulate on the 14th and conceive. However woman A implants 6 days after ovulation but woman B doesn't implant unitl 9 days
Therefore, the simple answer to the how early can you take a pregnancy test question is between 7 and 10 days after ovulation ...much better than waiting a full two weeks! More Pregnancy Test Articles. 1  Pregnancy Test Strips. 2  Pregnancy Midstream Tests. 3  Pregnancy Test Review and Comparison Chart. 
Generally you can find out as early as 6-14 days after conception. I am currently pregnant and it didn't show up for me until about the 13 day! However with you only missing one does it is highly unlikely as the window to conceive is so small! lookin4hope · 7 years ago. As the hormone hCG is what pregnancy tests look for, the levels will NOT start rising until AT LEAST 6-12 days after fertilistion. This hormone then doubles around every 48-72 hours. It is possible around the time of ovulation to get tender breasts, but most other symptons of pregnancy do not occur until 4-6 weeks
Most doctors recommend that you wait until the first day of your missed period before taking a urine pregnancy test. This is usually about two weeks after conception. However, some tests are more sensitive than others and can be taken earlier. 
Blood tests are done at your doctor's office, but are used less often than urine tests. These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test. Two types of blood pregnancy tests are available: A qualitative hCG test simply checks to see if hCG is present. Doctors often order these tests to confirm pregnancy as early as 10 days after a missed period. However, some of these tests can detect hCG much earlier. A quantitative hCG test (beta hCG) measures the exact amount of hCG in your blood. It can find even very low levels of hCG.
If you are pregnant, the levels of hormone may build up enough by then to be picked up by the test. A blood test can also detect hCG. Blood tests are more sensitive than urine tests and can detect pregnancy from about six to eight days after ovulation. However you will not be offered a blood test for pregnancy until after your period is due, and even then only if there is a medical need
1 Blood test. 2  This type of pregnancy test can only be done at a doctor’s office. 3  It takes longer than a urine test to get results, but it can detect a pregnancy earlier than a urine test (about 10 days after conception, compared to typically 2 weeks or more for a urine test). 
In normal pregnancy, hCG can be detected as early as 6 days following conception with concentrations doubling every 32 to 48 hours. Levels at 25 mIU/mL of hCG (clinically significant pregnancy level) are reportedly present in serum and urin... For most women, it may be possible to determine whether you are pregnant as early as 7-10 days after conception. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-soon-after-conception-can-pregnancy-be-detected ]. More Answers to  How soon after conception can pregnancy be detected .