before anything else, allow me to present the text for the Indestructible ability: Indestructible Destroy effects and lethal damage won't destroy them' so your opponent attacked with a 3/2 creature and you blocked it with a 2/2 indestructible creature. based on the ability text, lethal damage won't destroy it. An indestructible card cannot die due to damage. In addition, effects with the word destroy cannot kill it. In your example, the 3/2 would die and the 2/2 would live.
Rules or effects may cause an indestructible permanent to be sacrificed, put into a graveyard, or exiled. Spells that say Destroy and lethal damage are destruction effects. Anything else isn't, including 0 toughness, sacrificing, spells that say put into the graveyard, and exiling. 700.4. 
Indestructible permanents can still be put into their owner's graveyard by other means, such as by the legend rule , by being sacrificed, or in the case of creatures having zero toughness. 1 Lethal damage is defined as an amount of damage greater than or equal to a creature’s toughness. 2  Even though an indestructible creature isn't destroyed by lethal damage, that definition is still used for things like assigning trample damage.
Darksteel Ingot. Indestructible is a static ability that means that any permanent that has indestructible cannot be destroyed, and cannot be destroyed as a result of lethal damage. Indestructible was recently changed into a keyword, meaning that cards which said CARDNAME is indestructible were changed to simply have Indestructible. Indestructible is a static ability. 702.12b. A permanent with indestructible can't be destroyed. Such permanents aren't destroyed by lethal damage, and they ignore the state-based action that checks for lethal damage. 702.12c. Multiple instances of indestructible on the same permanent are redundant.
It means destroy effects don't work on it. Darksteel Colossus can't be shattered, disenchanted, wrath of God, Seal of doom, etc. However since it can be sacrificed, cards like Chainer's Edict still work. Also reducing it's stats would work, so Mutilate can kill Indestructible creatures. Damage or combat damage destroys creatures, so it wouldn't destroy an indestructible creature. However it does take the damage, but the damage doesn't kill it. Indestructible creatures in Magic: the Gathering cannot be destroyed by lethal damage or destruction effects, but they are put into the graveyard if it has 0 or less toughness … or is sacrificed.
1 If a creature with lethal damage on it stops being indestructible, it's destroyed the next time state-based effects are checked. 2  Being indestructible stops only effects that would destroy the permanent, including destruction due to lethal damage and destruction that doesn't allow regeneration. 1 Lethal damage is defined as an amount of damage greater than or equal to a creature’s toughness. 2  Even though an indestructible creature isn't destroyed by lethal damage, that definition is still used for things like assigning trample damage.
· just now. Report Abuse. Swampwalk means that the creature is unblockable if the defending player controls any swamps. When a creature w/ trample attacks and is blocked any damage it deals in excess of the blockers' toughness is instead dealt directly to the defending player. the b · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
1 Even though an indestructible creature isn't destroyed by lethal damage, that definition is still used for things like assigning trample damage. 2  If a creature with lethal damage on it stops being indestructible, it's destroyed the next time state-based effects are checked. 1 Lethal damage is defined as an amount of damage greater than or equal to a creature’s toughness. 2 
If an effect would simultaneously destroy Indestructibility and the creature it's enchanting, only Indestructibility is destroyed. Lethal damage, damage from a source with deathtouch, and effects that say destroy won't cause a permanent with indestructible to be put into the graveyard. If a creature enchanted by Indestructibility is dealt lethal damage, the creature isn't destroyed, but the damage remains marked on the creature. If Indestructibility stops enchanting that creature later in the turn, the creature will no longer have indestructible and will be