Your body can digest most food in less time it takes hotshot celebrities to get engaged: about 4-12 hours. Fruits are the fastest travelers on the intestinal interstate, with meats driving like an oversized load in the right lane (they can take 2-3 days to be excreted or even longer as it rots inside your intestine). 
Tweet. Food digestion varies depending upon the type of food. I will break down the process into its steps and provide a timeline for each step. First we see the food. This stimulates our brain to ready our stomach to receive food, by increasing gastric secretions. Then, we eat the food. 
Change text size for the story. Print. Report an error. Digestion time varies depending on the individual. For most healthy adults, it's usually between 24 and 72 hours. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion and absorption of water. Elimination of undigested food residue through the large intestine usually begins after a total of 24 hours. 
Since fat takes the longest to digest, you can expect that a fatty meal will be fully digested in closer to 72 hours than 24 hours. You can further estimate that a fatty meal higher in carbs than protein will digest more quickly than a fatty meal higher in protein than carbs. How long your body takes to digest a fatty meal depends on several factors, including the size of the meal and the exact macronutrient makeup.
Of all the time for how long does it take to digest a meal, the meal has now spent about 3 hours through its journey till intestine and about 5 hours in the small intestine where all the nutrients it had are now extracted and only things left now are water sodium. 
Your dog's digestion rate isn't affected by his size as much as by other factors, including the type of food you give him, the amount of exercise he gets, the amount of water he drinks and more. For example, an average dog -- big or small -- takes between four and six hours to digest canned wet food. 
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. The average transit time through just the large intestine (colon) was 40 hours, with significant difference between men and women: 33 hours for men, 47 hours for women. Two British doctors studied digestion time in children.
However for clear understanding, digestion time will solely depend on the type of food consumed by an individual. For example fruit and veggies take 30 minutes to digest, liquids take about 20 minutes, carbohydrates take 3 hours and meat takes 24 hours. This is why it is advisable to drink lots of water, eat lots of fruit and veg, but limit your consumption of meat. Food digestion rates also depend on the gut transit. Food will pass through here slowly if you do not exercise sufficiently,people who exercise frequently will have faster digestion ability. The average time for food to stay in the gut transit is 24 to 56 hours. If food stays here for less than 2 hours it is a sign of very poor digestion.
When it comes to our digestive system, it can take hours or even longer for food to pass through. That's what it takes for the body to get the nutrients and energy it needs from what you ingest. It usually takes from 24 to 72 hours for healthy people to completely digest food and eliminate waste products. The first stop for food is the esophagus, which moves food from the back of the throat to the stomach. About six to eight hours after eating, food passes through the stomach and small intestine. It then moves on to the large intestine for further digestion and absorption of water. The actual amount of time that this process takes depends on the food you're eating. Meat can take two days to fully digest, while vegetables and fruits take a day or less.