Cipralex contains escitalopram and is used to treat depression (major depressive episodes) and anxiety disorders (such as panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, social anxiety disorder, generalised anxiety disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder). It may take a couple of weeks before you start to feel better. The risk is higher, when Cipralex has been used for a long time or in high doses or when the dose is reduced too quickly. Most people find that the symptoms are mild and go away on their own within two weeks. However, in some patients they may be severe in intensity or they may be prolonged (2-3 months or more).
Dosage: 20 mg Daily. Advice & Tips: cipralex was good for my anxiety and depression, and there isn't weight gain with it, so that was a positive... it's just i started to need other medications to help me with my depression and anxiety. An unexpected benefit from taking Cipralex, for me, is weight loss... I think it just helps my body & mind function better, so I just feel better and fitter! (the vits and minerals and enzymes and probiotic probably help with that too).
Uses. Escitalopram is used to treat depression and anxiety. It works by helping to restore the balance of a certain natural substance (serotonin) in the brain. Escitalopram belongs to a class of drugs known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI).
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Escitalopram is an oral drug that is used for treating depression and generalized anxiety disorder. Chemically, escitalopram is similar to citalopram (Celexa). 
Escitalopram is used to treat depression and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). It is an antidepressant that belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
Escitalopram belongs to the group of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). It works by increasing levels of a neurotransmitter called serotonin in the brain. 
Category: Prescription Drugs. Generic Name: Escitalopram. Cipralex is an international brand name for escitalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant used the treatment of major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorders. Off label used for mild dementia-associated agitation in non-psychotic patients. Escitalopram is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Escitalopram affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression or anxiety.
Is cipralex good. My doc said he wants to try this medication out for a month and see if it helps, if it does continue for another 7-8 months. Read More. hi, i've been on cipralex for 2 years, and the good thing abt it is it is not addictive. you can eventually come off the medication. but be sure not to stop it abruptly. need doctor s advice on how to come off it.
Dosage: 10 mg Daily. Advice & Tips: I've found that taking Cipralex (Escitalopram) makes it more difficult for me to think about one thing for prolonged periods of time. This might be a good thing in some instances-once I missed a dose and found myself unable to let a topic go for a good twenty minutes. An unexpected benefit from taking Cipralex, for me, is weight loss... I think it just helps my body & mind function better, so I just feel better and fitter! (the vits and minerals and enzymes and probiotic probably help with that too).