Penalties. The punishments for various offenses involving controlled substances can vary wildly depending on the drug schedules, the quantity possessed, and prior offenses. Conviction of conspiracy carries a maximum 5 year prison sentence, plus fines up to $250,000, and restitution plus forfeiture of property. Conspiracy to Commit a Controlled Substances Offense. When dealing with drug offenses, especially cases involving conspiracy charges, it is essential that you retain legal counsel immediately.
2925.37 Counterfeit controlled substance offenses. (A) No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled substance. (B) No person shall knowingly make, sell, offer to sell, or deliver any substance that the person knows is a counterfeit controlled substance. If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in counterfeit controlled substances is a felony of the fourth degree, and division (C) of section 2929.13 of the Revised Code applies in determining whether to impose a prison term on the offender.
[8]. Avoiding identification in the record of the controlled substance involved, or pleading to a substance not listed in the federal schedules. [9]. Pleading to an offense not related to drug trafficking. [10]. Pleading to a state offense that does not exist under federal law. The vast majority of all criminal cases involve drugs, and controlled substances cases are treated very harshly under immigration laws. Many different types of convictions in drug cases can trigger deportation, inadmissibility, and disqualification from eligibility for many different types of immigration benefits.
(5) Controlled substance means a substance, including a drug, an adulterant, and a dilutant, listed in Schedules I through V or Penalty Groups 1, 1-A, or 2 through 4. The term includes the aggregate weight of any mixture, solution, or other substance containing a controlled substance. (1) converts to the person's own use or benefit a controlled substance property or plant seized under Section 481.152 or 481.153; or. (2) diverts to the unlawful use or benefit of another person a controlled substance property or plant seized under Section 481.152 or 481.153.
First, prior conviction of a crime of moral turpitude (or in some jurisdictions, moral turpitude conduct, even without a conviction) is considered to have a bearing on the honesty of a witness and might be used for purposes of the impeachment of witnesses. Third, this concept is of great importance for immigration purposes in the United States, Canada, and some other countries, since offenses which are defined as involving moral turpitude are considered bars to immigration into the U.S.
(c) An offense under Subsection (a) is a felony of the second degree if the amount of the controlled substance to which the offense applies is, by aggregate weight, including adulterants or dilutants, 28 grams or more but less than 200 grams. (1) converts to the person's own use or benefit a controlled substance property or plant seized under Section 481.152 or 481.153; or. (2) diverts to the unlawful use or benefit of another person a controlled substance property or plant seized under Section 481.152 or 481.153.
The Attorney General shall apply the provisions of this subchapter to the controlled substances listed in the schedules established by section 812 of this title and to any other drug or other substance added to such schedules under this subchapter. 1 (5) Schedule V. -. ( 2 A) The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule IV. ( 3 B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.
Possession of a controlled substance is a serious crime involving the possession of drugs or drug paraphernalia. A controlled substance is defined by federal laws such as the Controlled Substances Act, as well as various state laws. Basically, possession of a controlled substance occurs if a person has the ability and intention to control it. Criminal possession of a controlled substance can be determined by the police in three different ways: 1  Actual Possession: This is where the person physically has control over the substance. 2  In most cases, this means that they are carrying it on their person and have the ability to control it. 1 Amount of Drug: Possessing a higher amount of a controlled substance makes it more likely that the defendant will be charged with a felony. 2  For many state drug laws, possession of a substance over a certain amount will shift the charges from misdemeanor to a felony.
Controlled Substances. A controlled substance can include any drug or precursor to a drug found in the federal drug schedules. The federal drug schedules are a list of drugs, ranging from Schedule I, which can include Heroin, Cocaine, and other narcotics, to Schedule V, which include cough suppressants with codeine. Conspiracy to Commit a Controlled Substances Offense. When dealing with drug offenses, especially cases involving conspiracy charges, it is essential that you retain legal counsel immediately.