There are 46 chromosomes (23 pairs) in a human body cell with the exception of the sex cells. One of each pair is inherited from the mother's egg, the other from the father's sperm. When the sperm and egg unite in fertilization, they create a single cell, or zygote, with 46 chromosomes. There are 46 total chromosomes in a normal human body cell. They pair up, creating 23 pairs of chromosomes. Mutations can occur during cell division, causing human cells to have a varied amount of chromosomes-more or less. There are many genetic diseases caused by chromosomal mutations.
A regular human sex cell (unless something goes wrong) is haploid (meaning that it has half the chromosomes of a normal body cell). Since normal human body cells have a total of 46 chromosomes (23 pairs), a human sex cell (like sperm) has 23 chromosomes. As there are 23 chromosomes, the sex cells do not have pairs of chromosomes. The fact that sex cells only have half the number of chromosomes as regular cells (no pairs) is a very good thing. 
All act in the same way during cell division. Human cells have 23 pairs of chromosomes (22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes), giving a total of 46 per cell. In addition to these, human cells have many hundreds of copies of the mitochondrial genome. However, asexual species can be either haploid or diploid. Sexually reproducing species have somatic cells (body cells), which are diploid [2n] having two sets of chromosomes (23 pairs in humans with one set of 23 chromosomes from each parent), one set from the mother and one from the father. Gametes, reproductive cells, are haploid [n]: They have one set of chromosomes
Body cells have pairs of chromosomes while sex cells have only single sets of chromosomes. The human body cells have 22 pairs of autosomes and 1 pair of sex chromosomes for … a total of 23 pairs or 46 chromosomes. Sex cells for humans will have half of that (because they are not paired) so a total of 23 chromosomes. 46. The cells of the human body, for example in the liver, brain, and muscles, contain two sets of chromosomes, and are called diploid. There are 23 chromosomes in each set, … and we inherit 23 from each parent. 2 people found this useful.
In humans, each cell normally contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46. Twenty-two of these pairs, called autosomes, look the same in both males and females. The 23rd pair, the sex chromosomes, differ between males and females. There are 46 total chromosomes in a normal human body cell. They pair up, creating 23 pairs of chromosomes. Mutations can occur during cell division, causing human cells to have a varied amount of chromosomes-more or less. There are many genetic diseases caused by chromosomal mutations.
Therefore there is a total of 23 pairs of chromosome in a human body cell. However the human gametes formed by meiosis have haploid number of chromosomes i.e. they have only 23 chromosomes instead of 46; so that after fertilization the zygote has 23 pairs of chromosome(23 from the sperm and 23 from the ovum). There are 46 total chromosomes in a normal human body cell. They pair up, creating 23 pairs of chromosomes. Mutations can occur during cell division, causing human cells to have a varied amount of chromosomes-more or less. There are many genetic diseases caused by chromosomal mutations.
Somatic cells (body cells) are haploid cells. They have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Reproductive cells (gametes) have half the normal number i.e. 23. This is because two gametes (one male and one female) have to fuse hence, restoring the original number of 23 pairs. There are 46 total chromosomes in a normal human body cell. They pair up, creating 23 pairs of chromosomes. Mutations can occur during cell division, causing human cells to have a varied amount of chromosomes-more or less. There are many genetic diseases caused by chromosomal mutations.