That is one example of an articulation disorder. Speech therapists often work with people who want to get rid of an accent. A speaker can change a sound, add a sound or distort a sound in an articulation disorder. Language allows us to communicate. Speech and language include not only the ability to talk, but to understand, read and write. Speech therapists diagnose, evaluate and treat individuals with articulation disorders, fluency disorders, voice disorders and language disorders. They also assist individuals with swallowing disorders. They work in a variety of settings with every age group from children to senior citizens
(December 2014). Speech-language pathology is a field of expertise practiced by a clinician known as a Speech-language pathologist (SLP), also called speech and language therapist, or speech therapist, who specializes in the evaluation and treatment of communication disorders and swallowing disorders. 
Speech-language pathologists work with patients who have problems with speech. Their patients may be unable to speak at all or they may speak with difficulty or have rhythm and fluency problems, such as stuttering. The work of speech-language pathologists requires intense concentration because they must closely listen to what patients are able to say and then help them improve their speech. Listening skills. Speech-language pathologists must listen to a patient’s symptoms and problems to decide on a course of treatment.
Speech, Language, and Swallowing. The professionals who are educated to assess speech and language development and to treat speech and language disorders are called speech-language pathologists (sometimes informally referred to as speech therapists). Speech-language pathologists can also help people with swallowing disorders. 
A speech therapist diagnoses and treats children and adults with speech and communication difficulties due to congenital, developmental, or acquired disabilities. Keep reading to learn more about the responsibilities and requirements of this profession. slide 1 of 1. A speech therapist, also called a speech-language pathologist, evaluates, diagnoses, and treats difficulties involving speech, language, voice, fluency, and swallowing.
Speech-language pathologists must be able to listen to and communicate with their patient in order to determine the right course of treatment. Speech-language pathologists (sometimes called speech therapists) assess, diagnose, treat, and help to prevent communication and swallowing disorders in patients. The work of speech-language pathologists requires intense concentration because they must closely listen to what patients are able to say and then help them improve their speech. Listening skills. Speech-language pathologists must listen to a patient’s symptoms and problems to decide on a
How to Become a Speech Therapist. To become a speech therapist you will typically need a master’s degree. Students take speech-language pathology courses that cover anatomy, physiology, and the development of the body parts that produce and understand speech and language and that are involved in swallowing. Keep reading to learn more about the responsibilities and requirements of this profession. slide 1 of 1. A speech therapist, also called a speech-language pathologist, evaluates, diagnoses, and treats difficulties involving speech, language, voice, fluency, and
A Speech Language Pathologist – also referred to as a “Speech Therapist” -provides evaluations and remediation of a variety of disorders and/or delays. Some include: 1  articulation disorders. 2  cognitive impairments or delays. 3  social language use or pragmatic disorders. 4  expressive and receptive language impairments or delays. Often, we come home from the NICU with a list of follow-up appointments to make, screenings to do and specialists to see. Each month Hand to Hold will talk to a different therapist, specialist or provider to learn more about them and what they do. This month we talked with Anne Boon M.S. CCC-SLP.
Speech therapists, also known as 'speech-language pathologists', diagnose and treat disorders that affect speech, such as those that prevent proper production of speech sounds, create fluency or rhythm problems, cause swallowing problems or affect an individual's ability to process speech. Every state's speech therapist licensure requirements include a master's degree. A master's degree program in speech pathology introduces students to concepts such as voice articulation, phonology, literacy and neurological substrates.