Wi-Fi (or WiFi) is a local area wireless computer networking technology that allows electronic devices to network, mainly using the 2.4 gigahertz (12 cm) UHF and 5 gigahertz (6 cm) SHF ISM radio bands. These can connect to a network resource such as the Internet via a wireless network access point. Such an access point (or hotspot) has a range of about 20 meters (66 feet) indoors and a greater range outdoors.
When your device is being used as a Mobile Hotspot, it's similar to Wi-Fi because it creates a wireless Internet signal that multiple devices can use to connect to the Internet. However, the Mobile Hotspot uses the Verizon Wireless network to provide an Internet connection. Most devices will notify you when a Wi-Fi hotspot is available. Depending on your device, you may be able to connect to the Wi-Fi hotspot directly from the notification. You can also open the Wi-Fi settings on your device and select the available Wi-Fi hotspot to connect to it.
The Wi-Fi Alliance defines Wi-Fi as any wireless local area network (WLAN) product based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ' (IEEE) 802.11 standards. However, the term Wi-Fi is used in general English as a synonym for  WLAN  since most modern WLANs are based on these standards. These can connect to a network resource such as the Internet via a wireless network access point. Such an access point (or hotspot) has a range of about 20 meters (66 feet) indoors and a greater range outdoors.
Definition: Wireless (or wi-fi) hotspots are essentially wireless access points providing network and/or Internet access to mobile devices like your laptop or smartphone, typically in public locations. 1 Wi-Fi Hotspot Security-Before You Connect to a Wi-Fi Hotspot. 2  International Wireless Internet Service: Wi-Fi Internet Access On the Go. 3  Mobile Internet Access Comparison: 3G, Wi-Fi, & Other Internet on the Go Options. 4  Wireless Networking FAQs for Mobile Workers.
Mobile hotspots are a recent technology that allows you to connect your Internet-capable devices to the Internet through a wireless, portable device. The hotspot forms an on-the-spot Wi-Fi network, and you can connect a number of computers or gadgets to the network for simple, fast Internet access. To use your hotspot, you will power it on and use your computer's Wi-Fi adapter to find the network, although some providers offer small USB hotspots that connect directly to your computer.
Connecting to a hotspot and using its Internet connection basically works the same as other home or business wireless connection set up steps: Your wireless-equipped laptop or other device, such as an iPod or smartphone, will typically notify you when it is in range of available wireless networks. 1 Wi-Fi Hotspot Security-Before You Connect to a Wi-Fi Hotspot. 2  International Wireless Internet Service: Wi-Fi Internet Access On the Go. 3  Mobile Internet Access Comparison: 3G, Wi-Fi, & Other Internet on the Go Options. 4  Wireless Networking FAQs for Mobile Workers.
WiFi Hotspots. A WiFi hotspot is simply an area with an accessible wireless network. The term is most often used to refer to wireless networks in public areas like airports and coffee shops. Some are free and some require fees for use, but in either case they can be handy when you are on the go. Once you've installed a wireless adapter and the drivers that allow it to operate, your computer should be able to automatically discover existing networks. This means that when you turn your computer on in a WiFi hotspot, the computer will inform you that the network exists and ask whether you want to connect to it.
Also Known As: mobile wi-fi hotspot, wi-fi hotspot, portable hotspot. Alternate Spellings: mobile hot spot. Examples: The MiFi is a mobile hotspot that provides wireless Internet access from Verizon and other cellular providers on up to 5 devices.
Mobile Hotspots: Internet On-the-Go. Hotspots can find Internet connections throughout most of the United States by using the 3G and 4G networks set up by major providers. You can use any Wi-Fi capable device with a mobile hotspot, including most laptop computers, tablets and Smartphones. To use your hotspot, you will power it on and use your computer's Wi-Fi adapter to find the network, although some providers offer small USB hotspots that connect directly to your computer.