Little and often is generally a good approach to exercise. We should all aim to do 30 minutes of exercise that makes us a bit short of breath five times a week. It’s also recommended that we spend 30 minutes a day on our feet – walking, climbing stairs, etc. Try three or four 10-minute sessions throughout the day if it suits you better than doing it in one go
1248. I think for most people 50 minutes may be enough but it also depends on how hard you exercise. I tend to do a good hour and a half per day 5 days a week for sure but that doesn't include all of the walking that I try to get in and I still have to stay within my calories and make sure that I track everything. If you exercise for 50 minutes, but it makes you so hungry that you eat more, it might be doing more harm than good. Healthy eating is more important than how much you exercise; however, if you eat healthy, you will probably have more energy to work out more, whether you start out at 10 minutes or go 50 or more.
A good goal for many people is to work up to exercising 5 times a week for 30 to 60 minutes at a time. If 30 to 60 minutes at a time sounds difficult to fit into a busy schedule, you can split up your physical activity into smaller chunks of time. Try exercising for 10 minutes at a time throughout your day. You should start an exercise session with a warm-up of about 5 to 10 minutes. Start by slowly stretching your muscles and then gradually increase the intensity of your activity. For example, begin walking slowly and gradually pick up the pace.
In 2001, ACSM recommended that overweight and obese adults get at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise per week to improve their health. 200 to 300 minutes per week was recommended for long-term weight loss. If you exercise for 50 minutes, but it makes you so hungry that you eat more, it might be doing more harm than good. Healthy eating is more important than how much you exercise; however, if you eat healthy, you will probably have more energy to work out more, whether you start out at 10 minutes or go 50 or more.
1 Aerobic activity. 2  Get at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes a week of vigorous aerobic activity. 3  You also can do a combination of moderate and vigorous activity. 4  The guidelines suggest that you spread out this exercise during the course of a week. 5  Strength training. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of physical activity every day. If you want to lose weight or meet specific fitness goals, you may need to exercise more. Want to aim even higher? You can achieve more health benefits, including increased weight loss, if you ramp up your exercise to 300 minutes a week.
Yes, I definitely think that for significant weight loss, one needs to exercise 250 minutes or more a week. What you eat is another key factor as no amount of exercise will help if you are consuming 2000+ calories daily. I exercise 150-200 minutes a week at least and eat about 1700 calories. If you exercise for 50 minutes, but it makes you so hungry that you eat more, it might be doing more harm than good. Healthy eating is more important than how much you exercise; however, if you eat healthy, you will probably have more energy to work out more, whether you start out at 10 minutes or go 50 or more.
How much cardio exercise you do depends on your current fitness level, exercise history, current health status, and goals. For general health benefits you should perform 30 minutes of cardio activity, 5-7 days of the week. Any activity that increases your heart rate and breathing rate can be considered cardio exercise. If you find that 30 minutes is a little too challenging, start with 5-10 minutes and gradually work up to 30 minutes. If you are new to increasing your activity, start with 2-4 days per week at 20-30 minutes per bout of cardio. If you are de-conditioned or new to exercise, work out at a “5 out of 10” on an intensity scale with 1 being very easy and 10 being full maximum effort.
Experts explain why some people should try for 30 minutes of exercise a day, while others need up to 90 minutes. In January 2005, the U.S. government released a new set of dietary guidelines essentially telling us that as Americans get bigger, so does the length of time we need to be physically active. 
1 Get at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes a week of vigorous aerobic activity. 2  You also can do a combination of moderate and vigorous activity. 3  The guidelines suggest that you spread out this exercise during the course of a week. 4  Strength training. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of physical activity every day. If you want to lose weight or meet specific fitness goals, you may need to exercise more. Want to aim even higher? You can achieve more health benefits, including increased weight loss, if you ramp up your exercise to 300 minutes a week.