Hypocalcemia has many potential causes, such as a chronic illness (e.g. cirrhosis), burns, sepsis, malignancy, acute pancreatitis, injury to the parathyroid gland during surgery, and certain genetic diseases that lead to parathyroid hormone deficiency.
Hypocalcaemia or hypocalcemia is the presence of low serum calcium levels in the blood.
Hypoparathyroidism is the most common cause of hypocalcemia and often develops because of surgery in the central neck requiring radical resection of head and neck cancers. It develops in 1% to 2% of patients after total thyroidectomy.
Hypocalcemia can be caused by vitamin D deficiency, which can occur in breast-fed babies who are not given vitamin D supplements. Rare causes of hypocalcemia include hyperparathyroidism (a disorder of the pituitary gland) and pseudohypoparathyroidism, a genetic disorder that mimics hypoparathyroidism.
Only the ionized calcium is physiologically active. Normal blood calcium level is between 8.5 to 10.5 mg/dL (2.12 to 2.62 mmol/L) and that of ionized calcium is 4.65 to 5.25 mg/dL (1.16 to 1.31 mmol/L). Common causes of hypocalcemia include hypoparathyroidism, vitamin D deficiency, and chronic kidney disease.
Late hypocalcemia has a number of known causes. It may be connected to calcium and phosphorus levels in the body. It can also be caused by a problem with parathyroid hormone. Parathyroid hormone is made by the parathyroid glands in the neck. It helps regulate the levels of calcium and phosphorus in the blood.
Hypoparathyroidism is characterized by hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia and often causes chronic tetany. Hypoparathyroidism results from deficient parathyroid hormone (PTH), which can occur in autoimmune disorders or after the accidental removal of or damage to several parathyroid glands during thyroidectomy.
Low parathyroid hormone levels can cause the blood calcium to be low. A number of conditions, such as DiGeorge syndrome, may cause low parathyroid hormone levels. Hypocalcemia is more common in premature and low birthweight babies. This is because their parathyroid glands are less mature.