I work for ups freight and do also have friends that work for ups. The difference in pay has to do with the difference in the job. We as upgf have a lower scale because are income ratio to theres in trailer revenue is 100% difference. Also, there is the matter of union and non-union. 
FT salary for drivers depending on the union usually start at $14.10 an hour. Depending on the district: PT supervisor's usually start around $1200-$1400 a month depending on the district, FT supervisor's vary, depending if it's non operation or operational. Usually $48,000 a yr for non operational. What he has learned is that while UPS says P/T employees are eligible to full benefits-you must work 80 hours in the prior month to get those benefits and employees are only guaranteed 3.5 hours a shift so you never meet that 80 hours except during holiday rush.
About: United Parcel Service, Inc. (NYSE: UPS), typically referred to by the acronym UPS, is a package delivery company. Headquartered in Sandy Springs, Georgia, United States, UPS delivers more than 15 million packages a day to 6.1 million customers in more than 220 countries and territories around the world. UPS is well…. Read more from Wikipedia ».
At the end of the day no one, and I mean NO ONE will take care of you and your family like UPS. What other job will get you to $70,000 per year, full medical for your family (with little deductible), a pension, discount cars, etc., etc., etc. What he has learned is that while UPS says P/T employees are eligible to full benefits-you must work 80 hours in the prior month to get those benefits and employees are only guaranteed 3.5 hours a shift so you never meet that 80 hours except during holiday rush.
Well as much as I love my current job, the flexibility (or should I say IN flexibility) for being a lifeguard is really killing my daily schedule. If it’s not enough hours, it’s always not enough days. So I’m thinking of maybe getting a 2nd job and working at UPS. I looked it up on Google and the job benefits are pretty cool (weekly paycheck is something new to me lol). I'm currently a Junior in High School and I'm in the process of getting a driver's license (but I can't legally drive by myself yet). 
The average UPS salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Laborer to $150,000 per year for Fleet Manager. Average UPS hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.50 per hour for Cashier to $35.00 per hour for Quality Assurance Analyst. 
How much do UPS employees make? Glassdoor has salaries, wages, tips, bonuses, and hourly pay submitted anonymously by 34 UPS employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City.
Good Luck As far as starting salary, you will start out at 8.50 an hour. In ninty days it goes up to 9.50 an hour. i applied for a P/T ups package handler... I saw some of the benefits they offer and i got interested. i was curious about Tuition assistance, health and medical insurance. What he has learned is that while UPS says P/T employees are eligible to full benefits-you must work 80 hours in the prior month to get those benefits and employees are only guaranteed 3.5 hours a shift so you never meet that 80 hours except during holiday rush.
During peak season, the pay rate is the same but you will get paid more due to the hours worked. In other words, normally you get anywhere from three and a half hours to as many as 5 to 6 hours worked because of the heavy volume during this time. When you go over 5 hours you will get overtime at 1 1/2 rate of pay. What he has learned is that while UPS says P/T employees are eligible to full benefits-you must work 80 hours in the prior month to get those benefits and employees are only guaranteed 3.5 hours a shift so you never meet that 80 hours except during holiday rush.