With so many forms of raw honey out there, it really is up to the individual how and what to acquire (based on consumption preferences) . Just don’t buy the mass-market honey (from huge companies, they most likely flash-heat and micro-filter during bottling) or labels that say “Grade A” (there’s no such thing).
It's the beneficial enzymes found in raw honey that make it so digestible to humans. Raw honey is filtered, but very minimally and in a manor not to destroy the health promoting enzymes and other nutrients. You'll also notice raw honey is solid at room temperature (like honey should be) and it also looks almost milky. It is not a golden and perfectly clear liquid.
Lately, I’ve been hearing a lot about the benefits of raw honey: it’s great for your immune system, it can help with allergies, it’s chock full of vitamins. But I wasn’t sure exactly what raw honey was, or what the difference was between raw honey and the honey you buy at the grocery store.
Did you know that Raw honey is the healthiest choice amongst the various forms of honey as it has the most nutritional value and it also contains amylase, an enzyme concentrated in flower pollen which helps predigest starchy foods like breads.
Raw honey is honey that has not been filtered or heated in any way. Unfortunately, most of the honey available today has been heavily processed. By this I mean it has had the wonderful compounds such as bee pollen, beeswax and propolis filtered out of it. Most will have been pasteurized or heated as well.
Raw honey is reported to have certain health benefits though it also poses some dangers. Honey is a popular addition to many diets, but it’s been shown to have certain effects beyond the culinary.
Raw honey is honey (nectar from flowers) that is pure, unheated, unpasteurized and unprocessed. This is perhaps one of the most important characteristics and health benefits of the final product, as it preserves all the natural vitamins, enzymes, phytonutrients and other nutritional elements.
Raw Honey vs. Organic Honey. Some people think raw honey is the same as organic honey, but it’s not. “Organic honey” is when the flowers that the bees get the nectar from has not been sprayed with chemicals.