Blood clot in leg vein. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) occurs when a blood clot (thrombus) forms in one or more of the deep veins in your body, usually in your legs. Deep vein thrombosis can cause leg pain or swelling, but may occur without any symptoms. 
A blood clot that forms on the wall of a blood vessel or in the heart when blood platelets, proteins, and cells stick together. A thrombus may block the flow of blood. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute). 
Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart. A clot in the deep veins of legs, arms, abdomen or around the brain is called deep vein thrombosis (also called DVT for short) . If a piece of clot from a leg or arm DVT breaks off it can travel into the lung, causing a pulmonary embolism (PE) . Blood clots are made up of little particles called platelets and a meshwork of protein strands, called fibrin. Clots in arteries have a different composition than clots in veins.
Deep vein thrombosis (throm-BO-sis), or DVT, is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body. Blood clots occur when blood thickens and clumps together. Most deep vein blood clots occur in the lower leg or thigh. They also can occur in other parts of the body. A blood clot in a deep vein can break off and travel through the bloodstream. The loose clot is called an embolus (EM-bo-lus). It can travel to an artery in the lungs and block blood flow. This condition is called pulmonary embolism (PULL-mun-ary EM-bo-lizm), or PE.
Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which blood clot develops in a vein in the lower part of the body, such as the pelvis, thighs, or lower legs. This can seriously restrict the blood flow in the limb and may cause swelling and redness, although some people do not experience any systems. Blood clots are not a normal condition, but they occur when blood coagulates or hardens. They typically form after the body is injured to prevent excessive bleeding. Also called a thrombus, it is made when blood cells lump together with fibrin, a stretchy, thread-like protein.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a blood clot in one of the deep veins in the body. Blood clots that develop in a vein are also known as venous thrombosis. DVT usually occurs in a deep leg vein, a larger vein that runs through the muscles of the calf and the thigh. 
A blood clot, also known as a thrombus, is the result of several blood cells lumping together with fibrin. Blood clots, which form when blood cells stick together, can obstruct blood flow leading to a serious medical emergency. Going on long airplane flights may lead to blood clots. Blood clots are not a normal condition, but they occur when blood coagulates or hardens. They typically form after the body is injured to prevent excessive bleeding. Also called a thrombus, it is made when blood cells lump together with fibrin, a stretchy, thread-like protein.
An abnormal clot that forms in a vein may restrict the return of blood to the heart and can result in pain and swelling as the blood gathers behind the clot. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a type of clot that forms in a major vein of the leg or, less commonly, in the arms, pelvis, or other large veins in the body. Blood clotting, or coagulation, is an important process that prevents excessive bleeding when a blood vessel is injured. Platelets (a type of blood cell) and proteins in your plasma (the liquid part of blood) work together to stop the bleeding by forming a clot over the injury.