Akasha /aka-sha/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Sanskrit origin, and the meaning of Akasha is space, sky. Hindu name from the word meaning  ther. 
In Hinduism, Akasha means the basis and essence of all things in the material world; the first material element created from the astral world, (Akasha (Ether), Earth,Water,Fire,Air,) in sequence). It is one of the Panchamahabhuta, or five elements; its main characteristic is Shabda (sound). Akasha is space in the Jain conception of the cosmos. It falls into the Ajiva category, divided into two parts: Loakasa (the part occupied by the material world) and Aloakasa (the space beyond it which is absolutely void and empty).
Akasha-Meaning of Akasha. Tweet. [ 3 syll. a-kas-ha, ak-a- sha ] The baby boy name Akasha is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is aa-K AA-SHaa-or aa-K AA-SHuw- †. The origin of Akasha is Sanskrit. Akasha is a variant of the name Akash. Akasha is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names
Find out where people with the family name Akasha lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. Using the Social Security Death Index, you can find out how long people with the family name Akasha lived, as well as find information about specific Akasha ancestors. The Social Security Death Index has records for over 70 million names; where you can find birth dates, death dates, addresses, and more.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Akasha. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Akasha, spread the love and share this with your friends. This doesn't mean that the name Akasha is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data.
Akasha's origin is Sanskrit and English-American, and its use, English and Indian. From Sanskrit roots, its meaning is 'open air; sky'. Akasha is a form of the English Akeisha. Forms of Akasha include the name Akacia, the name Akaesha, the name Akaisha, the Indian Akasa, the name Akashah, and the name Akasia. Akasha is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Akasha is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-ka-sha. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5135 in baby name popularity for girls with 26 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Akasha Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Akasha has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Akasha to other names. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Form of: Itself (Akasha). Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Akasha and its name origin or of any other name in our database. This doesn't mean that the name Akasha is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data.
The meaning of Akasha has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Akasha are: 1  Sanskrit meaning: Open air, space. 2  Indian meaning: Open air, space. This doesn't mean that the name Akasha is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data.