Change an Email Account's Password in Mozilla Thunderbird. To update the password Mozilla Thunderbird uses to log on (using POP or IMAP for receiving and SMTP for sending) to an email account: 1  Change the password to your email account in, most typically, the email service's web interface. 2  Close Mozilla Thunderbird. 3  Open Mozilla Thunderbird. 1 Change the password to your email account in, most typically, the email service's web interface. 2  Close Mozilla Thunderbird. 3  Open Mozilla Thunderbird. 4  Now click Get Mail in Mozilla Thunderbird's main toolbar. 5  Click Enter New Password under Login to ___failed.
This document describes how to remove the stored password from Thunderbird and enter a new one. Follow these steps if you have recently changed or reset your WiscMail or WiscMail Plus email account password, and you use Thunderbird to save your email account passwords. To change a WiscMail Plus email account password, see WiscMail Plus-Changing Account Password. Open Thunderbird. 1  On a Windows machine, go to Tools, then Options.
Step 3. Select the account whose password you wish to change. Click the Remove button, followed by the Close button. Step 4. Click the OK button in the Options window. Step 5. Exit and restart Thunderbird. Step 6. Click the Get Mail button. When Thunderbird attempts to access your account, it will prompt you for the password. Step 7. Enter the new password. Check the check box beside Use Password Manager to remember this password if you want Thunderbird to save it and automatically enter it each time you log in.
1 Open the email client Thunderbird. 2  We are using the 3.1 branch in this guide but it works in all newer versions of the program as well. 3  Click on the Saved Passwords button. 4  This displays a list of all email accounts with a saved password, and you may find other accounts listed here as well. thunderbird passwords. saved passwords. And that's how you recover or change passwords in the Thunderbird email software. As you can see, this can also be helpful to remove passwords and email account information that are no longer in use in the email client.
Instructions. Click Tools and Options in the Thunderbird window. Click the Security icon at the top of the Thunderbird options window. Click the Passwords tab. Click the Saved Passwords button. Click Show Passwords.. The Thunderbird email client is developed by Mozilla, which also operates the popular Firefox Web browser. Like other email clients, Thunderbird can remember the passwords for your e-mail accounts so you won't have to type them in every time you log on.
Recovering a lost email password is useful if you have forgotten it and need to access your email. Mozilla Thunderbird, an email application, stores saved passwords in its own cache. Using the Thunderbird cache you can access and view your email passwords. 
Note: These steps will not change the password to your email account, only the password that has been saved in Thunderbird. To change a WiscMail email account password, see the Reset NetID Password section of NetID-Modifying your Account. To change a WiscMail Plus email account password, see WiscMail Plus-Changing Account Password. Open Thunderbird. 1  On a Windows machine, go to Tools, then Options.
By default, Thunderbird does not use master passwords to protect stored credentials. To define a master password: 1  At the top of the Thunderbird window, click on the menu, and select. 2  Click the icon. 3  Click the tab. 4  Check mark Use a master password. 5  The Change Master Password dialog appears. 6  As you enter your master password, the Password quality meter indicates the difficulty of guessing the password