Waffle plant (Hemigraphis) is a genus including approximately 90 species known by colorful names such as red ivy, red flame ivy, silver waffle plant, metallic plant and purple waffle plant. Water your waffle plant whenever the top 2 to 4 inches of soil feels dry to the touch. Water the plant thoroughly, wetting the soil to a depth of 6 to 8 inches, by letting a hose run gently 6 to 12 inches from the base of the plant.
1. Grow purple waffle plants in rich but well-drained soil in a full-sun to partial shade location. It performs best grown in partial shade, as foliage grown in full-sun might not develop the plant's characteristic metallic sheen. Protect containerized waffle plants during winter. 3. Water purple waffle plants when the top 1 to 2 inches of soil begins to dry slightly. Provide garden plants with about 1 inch of water weekly, and water potted plants as needed so the soil remains moist throughout.
Seasonal Watering. Purple waffle plants require moderately moist soil year-round to keep their foliage lush and healthy. In summer, water whenever the soil feels barely damp 1/4 inch below the surface. Water deeply but infrequently, adding water until it trickles from the drainage holes at the base of the pot. Disinfecting the shears prevents the spread of disease. Purple waffle plants require high humidity and may develop leaves with crisp edges if the air is too dry. Daily misting will help correct the problem, as will regular watering. Use demineralized water to prevent white spots from showing up on the leaves.
Waffle plant info says growing waffle plants need evenly moist soil. Consistent watering of well drained soil promotes growth and well-being of the waffle plant. However, do not allow roots of the plant to remain in a soggy soil. Advertisement. Info also indicates high humidity is an integral part of red ivy plant care. Place layers of pebbles in a plant saucer, or any container without drainage holes. Fill three-quarters of the way with water. Set the plants on top of the pebbles, or near the pebble tray. Indoor humidity is usually low, especially in winter. Pebble trays are an easy way to give your houseplants what they need.
Purple Waffle Plant Plant Features. Purple waffle plant is a delightful small houseplant that has colorful foliage, making it a lovely addition to your home or office all year long. In addition to its beauty, purple waffle plant is easy to grow indoors. Water purple waffle plant enough to keep the soil moist, but not wet. Because it's a small houseplant, you typically don't need to prune purple waffle plant, but if stems get too long or scraggly, you can prune it back at any time. Fertilize purple waffle plant a couple of times a year (at minimum) to keep it happy
Growing waffle plants as part of a dish garden or a mixed container provides unusual, cascading foliage with a purple color and metallic tint. Waffle plant info indicates that the plant, also known as red ivy or red flame ivy, grows easily indoors under the right growing conditions. Place layers of pebbles in a plant saucer, or any container without drainage holes. Fill three-quarters of the way with water. Set the plants on top of the pebbles, or near the pebble tray. Indoor humidity is usually low, especially in winter. Pebble trays are an easy way to give your houseplants what they need.
Purple Waffle Plant Growing Instructions. Grow purple waffle plant in medium to bright light indoors. If the plant doesn't get enough light, it may lose some of the rich purple coloring. If it gets too much direct sun as a houseplant, the leaves may bleach and show signs of sunburn. Water purple waffle plant enough to keep the soil moist, but not wet. Because it's a small houseplant, you typically don't need to prune purple waffle plant, but if stems get too long or scraggly, you can prune it back at any time. Fertilize purple waffle plant a couple of times a year (at minimum) to keep it happy