The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is a ligament within the knee. Ligaments are tough bands of tissue that connect bones. The PCL -- similar to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) -- connects the thigh bone (femur) to your shin bone (tibia). Although it is larger and stronger than the ACL, the PCL can be torn. PCL tears make up less than 20% of injuries to knee ligaments. Injuries that tear the PCL often damage some of the other ligaments or cartilage in the knee, as well. In some cases, the ligament can also break loose a piece of underlying bone.
The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is described as the primary stabilizer of the knee by many authors. PCL injuries are less common than anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries, and they often go unrecognized. The PCL is broader and stronger than the ACL and has a tensile strength of 2000 N. Injury most often occurs when a force is applied to the anterior aspect of the proximal tibia when the knee is flexed.
Posterior cruciate ligament injury happens far less often than does injury to the knee's better known counterpart, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). The posterior cruciate ligament and ACL help to hold your knee together. If either ligament is torn, you may experience pain, swelling and a feeling of instability. 
Posterior cruciate ligament. The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is one of four ligaments that hold the knee in place and provide added stability. More specifically, the PCL helps to ensure proper alignment of the femur and tibia, also called the thighbone and shinbone. Ligaments are fibrous tissue that usually connect bones. According to Medline Plus, the PCL is the strongest ligament in the knee. An injury to the posterior cruciate ligament may or may not require surgery, depending upon the severity of the injury, age of the patient, and whether other ligaments and cartilage are involved.
The posterior cruciate ligament is located in the back of the knee. It is one of several ligaments that connect the femur (thighbone) to the tibia (shinbone). The posterior cruciate ligament keeps the tibia from moving backwards too far. An injury to the posterior cruciate ligament requires a powerful force. A common cause of injury is a bent knee hitting a dashboard in a car accident or a football player falling on a knee that is bent. Anatomy. Two bones meet to form your knee joint: your thighbone (femur) and shinbone (tibia). Many times a posterior cruciate ligament injury occurs along with injuries to other structures in the knee such as cartilage, other ligaments, and bone. A complete tear of the posterior cruciate ligament, back view. Injured ligaments are considered sprains and are graded on a severity scale. Grade 1 Sprains.
The PCL is an intracapsular ligament along with the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) because it lies deep within the knee joint. They are both isolated from the fluid-filled synovial cavity, with the synovial membrane wrapped around them. The PCL gets its name by attaching to the posterior portion of the tibia. 
PCL anatomy. The PCL comprised of a bundle of ligament fibers attaching the back of the tibia (shinbone) to the femur (thigh bone) in the knee. It is one of the two cruciate ligaments in the knee (the other being the anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL). The PCL crosses the ACL in an X shaped pattern. The ligaments work together to control the forward and backward motion of the knee. several stabilizing ligaments of the knee.
Posterior cruciate ligament (PCL): The knee joint is surrounded by a joint capsule with ligaments strapping the inside and outside of the joint (collateral ligaments) as well as crossing within the joint (cruciate ligaments). These ligaments provide stability and strength to the knee joint. 