Noun. 1. hepatitis-inflammation of the liver caused by a virus or a toxin. liver disease-a disease affecting the liver. infectious disease-a disease transmitted only by a specific kind of contact. viral hepatitis-hepatitis caused by a virus. delta hepatitis, hepatitis delta-a severe form of hepatitis. 1. Inflammation of the liver, caused by infectious or toxic agents and characterized by jaundice, fever, liver enlargement, and abdominal pain. 2. Any of various types of such inflammation, especially viral
n an inflammation of the liver. hepatitis C (Hep C, non-A, non-B hepatitis), n a type transmitted largely by blood transfusion or percutaneous inoculation, such as with in-travenous drug users sharing needles. The disease progresses to chronic hepatitis in up to 50% of the patients acutely infected. hepatitis C a viral disease caused by the hepatitis C virus, commonly occurring after transfusion or parenteral drug abuse; it frequently progresses to a chronic form that is usually asymptomatic but that may involve cirrhosis.
Hepatitis (plural: hepatitides) is a medical condition defined by the inflammation of the liver and characterized by the presence of inflammatory cells in the tissue of the organ. Chronic hepatitis may have no symptoms, or may progress over time to fibrosis (scarring of the liver) and cirrhosis (chronic liver failure). Cirrhosis of the liver increases the risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (a form of liver cancer).
Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is one of several types of hepatitis viruses that cause inflammation and affect your liver's ability to function. You're most likely to contract hepatitis A from contaminated food or water or from close contact with someone who's infected. Mild cases of hepatitis A don't require treatment, and most people who are infected recover completely with no permanent liver damage.
Worldwide, viral hepatitis is the most common cause of liver inflammation. Other causes include autoimmune diseases and ingestion of toxic substances (notably alcohol), certain medications (such as paracetamol), some industrial organic solvents, and plants. Chronic hepatitis may have no symptoms, or may progress over time to fibrosis (scarring of the liver) and cirrhosis (chronic liver failure). Cirrhosis of the liver increases the risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (a form of liver cancer).
Definition of HEPATITIS for Kids. : a disease which is caused by a virus and in which the liver is damaged and there is yellowing of the skin and fever. Full Definition of HEPATITIS. 1. : inflammation of the liver. 2. : a disease or condition (as hepatitis A or hepatitis B) marked by inflammation of the liver. See hepatitis defined for English-language learners. See hepatitis defined for kids.
HAV is usually transmitted from person to person by food or drink that has been contaminated with the stool of a person with hepatitis A. This type of transmission is called fecal-oral.. Some persons with hepatitis A virus infection have no signs or symptoms of the disease. Older persons are more likely to have symptoms than children. In its most dire form, the disease can lead to liver failure and death. This is relatively rare.
Definition. Hepatitis A is an inflammation of the liver caused by a virus, the hepatitis A virus (HAV). It varies in severity, running an acute course, generally starting within two to six weeks after contact with the virus, and lasting no longer than two or three months. A form of viral hepatitis caused by an enterovirus that does not persist in the blood serum, is transmitted by ingestion of infected food and water, and has a shorter incubation and milder symptoms than hepatitis B.
Medical Definition of HEPATITIS. 1. : inflammation of the liver. 2. : a disease or condition (as hepatitis A or hepatitis B) marked by inflammation of the liver. Full Definition of HEPATITIS. 1. : inflammation of the liver. 2. : a disease or condition (as hepatitis A or hepatitis B) marked by inflammation of the liver. See hepatitis defined for English-language learners. See hepatitis defined for kids.