At Michigan, $14.5 million worth of renovations to the university's baseball and softball complex-unveiled for the 2008 season-were added on to an extensive facilities master plan that features bigger-ticket items including a $21 million football practice facility and a $226 million renovation of the football stadium. We have some bells and whistles, but we're not trying to outshine everybody.. The stadium that most escalated the baseball facilities race in the conference, however, is by all accounts Penn State's Medlar Field at Lubrano Park, a $31 million, 5,400-seat stadium with room for 600 more standing spectators.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average cost for a college baseball stadium can range between $20 to $40 million. This is low compared to Major League stadiums. Not factoring in the Financial Aid, a year of college on average costs about $45,000. (this is considering tuition, housing, books, dorm supplies, and misc.) I know I' … m paying close to $45,000 at a school that costs $41,000 to attend.
Ford Field, designed to incorporate a neighboring warehouse, came in at $430 million, while Reliant's much-simplified retractable roof design kept the building's cost at $352 million, putting the two venues third and fourth at the time on the list of professional football stadium construction cost. Among baseball stadiums, much has been made of new Yankee Stadium's 63 percent jump in square footage over its predecessor (which opened in 1923), but there has hardly been a huge increase in size over the past decade.
That one signature element was a prime culprit in the stadium's ultimate $400 million construction cost, at the time the second-highest price tag for a new professional baseball stadium. Among baseball stadiums, much has been made of new Yankee Stadium's 63 percent jump in square footage over its predecessor (which opened in 1923), but there has hardly been a huge increase in size over the past decade.
This is a list of stadiums that currently serve as the home venue for NCAA Division I college baseball teams. Conference affiliations reflect those in the next NCAA baseball season of 2016. 
The event has been held in the city since 1950, previously at Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium. In the spring, TD Ameritrade Park hosts college baseball as the home field for Creighton University Bluejays. TD Ameritrade Park has a seating capacity of 24,000, with the ability to expand to 35,000 spectators. TD Ameritrade Park Omaha is a baseball park in Omaha, Nebraska, the home field of the College World Series since 2011.
PDF of this report. New estimates of the costs of building a baseball stadium in the District of Columbia have been released in recent weeks. The new figures show that some of the basic costs — including land and stadium materials — are now well over their original budget. 1 Together, the cost of these components is $110 million higher than the budget developed in 2004 that served as the basis for stadium financing legislation. 2  The cost of issuing stadium bonds also has grown. 3  When this cost is included, the total cost overruns are $115 million.