Baby ducks that are raised by their mother get their waterproofing from the mother-they rub up against her and get the oil from her feathers on them, and then mom preens them and distributes the oil through their down, waterproofing them. If they are not waterproof, they can drown, or become chilled and die. When they get rid of the baby down and get the real wooly stuff, you can quit keeping them warm every day. They get a real thick, dense down that grows under the feathers. I would let them get a two or three weeks older before you let them live at the pond. They will be able to take better care of themselves then.
-Bonnie. PS-you don't want to release them too early as they can't get away from predators... snapping turtles, cats, dogs, hawks, ect ... I've seen numerous baby ducks come back into rehab due to injuries. We plan to release them in a protected reserve area with many water ways and soooo many mallards!! I think they will be very happy and safe at least at this point. Thank you again.
Water. Your duckling at this age is not waterproof, and can drown in deeper water. In the wild, ducklings get their waterproofing from their mother who supervises their swim time. Ducks need water to drink all the time, but they can not be allowed to get in the water source without supervision. When they get rid of the baby down and get the real wooly stuff, you can quit keeping them warm every day. They get a real thick, dense down that grows under the feathers. I would let them get a two or three weeks older before you let them live at the pond. They will be able to take better care of themselves then.
If I put them out too soon I'm afraid they might not go in the coop at night, and they,re too hard for me to catch even with a net. Yet I want tem to learn from the big ducks too so I'm debating how soon to let them out of the house. Maybe I should let 2 out at a time to test...not yet of course at 1 week old. I have 13 baby ducks 1 week old. I want them to learn to go in the coop with the big ducks at night due to lots of predators outside.
Report Abuse. Before you try releasing your ducks I would recommend the following. This is from experience as I have raised 5 ducks from eggs to adults. Start taking the ducks outside in a wire-mesh cage and set them down in the grass. Do this a couple times a day for several days. This will get them accustomed to being outside.
Hi to all. We have 5 mallard ducks, 6 wks. old...no mother since day 1. We are looking to release them. We have worked hard not to domesticate them. I have a friend with a small pond, who could put out food for them if needed, or we have beautiful forest preserves with bodies of water and a few other mallards. We plan to release them in a protected reserve area with many water ways and soooo many mallards!! I think they will be very happy and safe at least at this point. Thank you again.
3. Allow adult ducks to swim unassisted. When ducklings are fully feathered with their waterproof, adult feathers, they can swim without your supervision. Depending on the type of duck, full feathers should be in place by 9-12 weeks of age. 
I have 6 mallard ducklings that are one week old. How soon can they go on the pond? I have a goose/duck house that I would put them in a couple of days before they are released so they know where to get feed. I just didnt want them to get eaten or killed so I wanted to make sure they were big enough. At 6 weeks they will be completely feathered out. That would be the absolute earliest I would let them lose on a big pond. They are mature at 6 months. Depending on your potential predator situation, any time between those ages.
As ducklings, you should feed your ducks gamebird starter; give them gamebird grower oncve they are older. To reduce the cost of feed and help you ducks to be more self sufficient, let your ducks forage to find a portion of their diet themselves. Chicken feed is not okay. 
NO you cannot release hand raised ducks they will not survive! They need to either be placed with a wildlife rehabilitator so they are taught to find their own food or placed with an organization that will care for them. 