Centennial College men's cricket team is the reigning 2014 champions of the Ontario Colleges Athletic Association! We also play soccer, golf, badminton and more! Youayouâ ll also be invited to participate in Recreational trips for students such As Niagara, falls, hiking, skiing, shopping snow tubing and. more This year, CICan's 2015 Awards of Excellence awarded Centennial College the first prize for Innovation in Applied Research in Canada! Centennial College is the top choice for international students attending college
Food Processing & Packaging About Centennial College Our mission is to educate students for career success. We make every decision to support the career and personal development of our learners. Our curriculum, teaching and services demonstrate that we value the diverse profiles of our learners. Centennial College is Ontario’s first community college. It was established in 1966 and primarily serves the eastern portion of the Greater Toronto Area through four campuses. Our college is best known for its record of exemplary teaching, innovative programming and extensive partnership building. At Centennial College, our vision is to transform lives and communities through learning. Corbrook: Awakening abilities for more than 60 years As a community-based service organization, Corbrook has been making an important contribution to the lives of people with disabilities and their families for more than 60 years.
Toronto, Canada. Centennial College is located in Metropolitan Toronto, located in the province of Ontario in Canada. Toronto has a population of more than two million people.
Recognized as a leader in international education, Centennial College received two gold awards of excellence for internationalization in 2013, from both the Canadian Bureau for International Education (CBIE) and Colleges and Institutes Canada (CICan). This year, CICan's 2015 Awards of Excellence awarded Centennial College the first prize for Innovation in Applied Research in Canada! Centennial College is the top choice for international students attending college
Welcome to Centennial College. Centennial College is the first government-accredited College in Ontario, Canada. Centennial College is located in Metropolitan Toronto, located in the province of Ontario in Canada. Toronto has a population of more than two million people.
Recognized as a leader in international education, Centennial College received two gold awards of excellence for internationalization in 2013, from both the Canadian Bureau for International Education (CBIE) and Colleges and Institutes Canada (CICan). In 2014, Centennial College received two more (CICan) Entrepreneurship Awards, and Research Infosource recognized Centennial as one of Canada’s top research colleges for the second successive year. Graduates are eligible for a Canadian Post-Graduation work permit for 1-3 years!
Centennial College of Applied Arts and Technology is a diploma and degree granting college located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is the oldest publicly funded college in Ontario. Its four campuses are situated to serve the eastern portion of the Greater Toronto Area. Located at 75 Ashtonbee Road in Scarborough's Warden Avenue-Eglinton Avenue area, this campus is home to the largest training school for transportation technology in Canada. In 1967, the Ontario government merged its Provincial Institute of Automotive and Allied Trades with Centennial College.
Centennial College was the first to be opened in Ontario during the formation of the province's public college system in the 1960s. Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology were established on May 21, 1965 under the direction of the Hon. William Davis, Minister of Education. Located at 75 Ashtonbee Road in Scarborough's Warden Avenue-Eglinton Avenue area, this campus is home to the largest training school for transportation technology in Canada. In 1967, the Ontario government merged its Provincial Institute of Automotive and Allied Trades with Centennial College.