A granuloma is a scar or wound like lesion in the brain. There are chances that it may press upon the surrounding brain tissue. This pressure may give you headache or even fits (convulsions). Levera is being given by your doctor as a precaution to control any chance of fits/ convulsions. Like you get a wound over the skin in any part of the body, and the wound heals slowly. A scar tissue is formed, which dries up gradually with time. A granuloma is similar to the above mentioned situation. It is a scar tissue formed
A granuloma is a small area of inflammation in tissue. Granulomas are most often the result of an infection and most frequently occur in the lungs, but can occur in other parts of the body as well. Granulomas are often found incidentally on a chest X-ray done for some other reason. The most common cause of lung granulomas in the United States is past histoplasmosis, a fungal infection that primarily affects the lungs. People who acquire pulmonary histoplasmosis that results in a lung granuloma have almost always spent some time in the Ohio River Valley or the upper Midwest.
Next. my neighbour (43 yrs old,male) has got calcified granuloma (calcified nodule of 8mm) in his left parietal cortex region which was diagnosed by CT scan on account of his severe headache for more than 20 days.And the CT scan report also says that there is no edema seen.So far we haven't consulted any doctor.We... Granulomas develop in response to infection/injury any thing that causes inflammation. In the severe phase of the illness the granuloma is having edema with it.
Granulomas in the brain tissue is like a scar tissue anywhere else in the body. This scar tissue in the brain, presses upon adjoining normal brain cell, compressing it. This may be giving you headaches. If the granuloma shows signs of inflammation around it, like swelling etc., you need treatment for it. Like you get a wound over the skin in any part of the body, and the wound heals slowly. A scar tissue is formed, which dries up gradually with time. A granuloma is similar to the above mentioned situation. It is a scar tissue formed in the brain.
A calcified granuloma is unlikely to cause mental retardation or dementia. Granuloma is like a scar you get anywhere else on the body. Such lesions press over surrounding brain tissues. They give symptoms like fits, severe headaches, sudden loss of vision etc., depending upon the affected area of the brain. Like you get a wound over the skin in any part of the body, and the wound heals slowly. A scar tissue is formed, which dries up gradually with time. A granuloma is similar to the above mentioned situation. It is a scar tissue formed in
Calcified Granuloma CT vs MRI Brain. Calcified Granuloma is a healed tubercular or cysticeroid lesion in brain showing dystrophic calcification. * In Neuroradiology, CT is most sensitive and specific as far as calcification in any lesion is concerned let it be infective or neoplastic. Calcification on MRI has variable appearance depending on density of calcification and sequence.
Report Abuse. Calcified granuloma without any edema is something most probably irrelevant to your friends ill health. Granulomas develop in response to infection/injury any thing that causes inflammation. In the severe phase of the illness the granuloma is having edema with it.
They would then be able to discuss with you, depending on what they find (or don't find), the best course of action to take (if any). A. A granuloma represents a local area of tissue where there has been inflammation (in your case this is brain tissue on the left side of your brain). The fact that the granuloma you report is calcified suggests that it has been there for a while (on account of the fact that it takes time to lay down calcium). 
Hello. Thanks for writing to us. A calcified granuloma is a benign calcified lesion in the brain which may or may not be the cause of your sympotoms. YUsually such lesions are non progressive and if these are very large in size only then do they produce any symptoms. I hope this information has... 
Because it usually takes some time for calcium to be deposited in a granuloma, it is generally assumed that a calcified granuloma is an old granuloma, or an old area of inflammation. For example, a calcified granuloma in the lung may be due to tuberculosis contracted years earlier that is now inactive and dormant. 