1 Many types of fish also contain isoleucine, including pike, roughy, cod and tuna. 2  Leucine: Leucine can be found in some interesting foods, including soy, seaweed and elk. 3  However, egg whites are also an excellent source of this amino acid, as is chicken.
Fatty fish, such as salmon, lake trout, herring, sardines and tuna, contain the most omega-3 fatty acids and therefore the most benefit, but many types of seafood contain small amounts of omega-3 fatty acids.
1 Isoleucine: If you want to get isoleucine in your diet, your best option is to eat egg whites, which contain by far the most of this amino acid per serving. 2  Turkey is your next best option, following by soy, chicken, lamb and crab. 3  Many types of fish also contain isoleucine, including pike, roughy, cod and tuna.
Amino acids are the building blocks of protein, which your body uses to make new tissues and repair damaged tissues, and protein-rich foods like fish, poultry and beef are some of the best sources. The amino acid profiles of animal foods vary, with some being higher in certain amino acids than others.
Many of the studies about beneficial omega-3 fatty acids focus on fish as the primary source. Salmon, sardines, tuna and even shellfish are rich in omega-3 fatty acid content, but increasing your consumption of all types of fish and seafood is recommended. The American Heart Association recommends that you eat fish rich in omega-3 fatty acids twice a week in order to reap specific health benefits.
Tuna is an excellent source of protein. Tuna is a relatively large, cold-water fish considered fatty or oily due to its high omega-3 fatty acid content. Omega-3 fatty acids are healthy fats with anti-inflammatory properties.
The most predominant amino acids were glutamic acid, aspartic acid, and lysine (ranging from 7.93% to 12.45%). Of these amino acids, glutamic acid was the most predominant. Glutamic acid represented 12.45% and 11.28% of the amino acid content of the muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna and bigeye tuna, respectively.