The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a core protocol of the Internet protocol suite. It originated in the initial network implementation in which it complemented the Internet Protocol (IP). Therefore, the entire suite is commonly referred to as TCP/IP. 
The Internet protocol suite is the computer networking model and set of communications protocols used on the Internet and similar computer networks. It is commonly known as TCP/IP, from Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP). TCP/IP provides end-to-end connectivity specifying how data should be packetized, addressed, transmitted, routed and received at the destination.
TCP/IP is a two-layer program. The higher layer, Transmission Control Protocol, manages the assembling of a message or file into smaller packet s that are transmitted over the Internet and received by a TCP layer that reassembles the packets into the original message. TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol) is the basic communication language or protocol of the Internet. It can also be used as a communications protocol in a private network (either an intranet or an extranet).
vs. SecurActive Performance Vision. TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation via which application programs can exchange data. TCP works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send packet s of data to each other. Together, TCP and IP are the basic rules defining the Internet. TCP is defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in the Request for Comment (RFC) standards document number 793
What does TCP/IP mean? TCP/IP stands for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, which is a set of networking protocols that allows two or more computers to communicate. The Defense Data Network, part of the Department of Defense, developed TCP/IP, and it has been widely adopted as a networking standard. 
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) is a suite of standard protocols for connecting computers across networks. TCP/IP enables Windows-based computers to connect and share information with other Microsoft and non-Microsoft systems. 
UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is an alternative communications protocol to Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) used primarily for establishing low-latency and loss tolerating connections between applications on the Internet. 
1 TCP-A reliable connection oriented protocol used to control the management of application level services between computers. 2  It is used for transport by some applications. 3  UDP-An unreliable connection less protocol used to control the management of application level services between computers. The TCP/IP suite of protocols is the set of protocols used to communicate across the internet. It is also widely used on many organizational networks due to its flexiblity and wide array of functionality provided.