A stator is the static part of rotary electromagnetic devices such as electric motors, alternators, and generators. It represents one of the two primary components of the device, the other being the moving rotor that supplies the working output. Ad. Whether the relevant machine is a motion output device such as a motor, or a source of electrical power output such as a generator, the stator and rotor fulfill one of two basic functions in the work cycle. The first is that of a field device, or field coil as it is often called.
The stator is the stationary part of an electric generator or electric motor. The non-stationary part on an electric motor is the rotor. Stator magnet is the stationary part of a rotor system or a siren, found in an electric gen.,electric motor, siren, or biological rotors. 4 people found this useful.
The rotor is a moving component of an electromagnetic system in the electric motor, electric generator, or alternator. Its rotation is due to the interaction between the windings and magnetic fields which produces a torque around the rotor's axis. 
Stator of a 3-phase AC-motor. Stator of a brushless DC motor from computer cooler fan. The stator is the stationary part of a rotary system, found in electric generators, electric motors, sirens, or biological rotors. The main use of a stator is to keep the field aligned. The stator of these devices may be either a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. Where the stator is an electromagnet, the coil which energizes it is known as the field coil or field winding. The coil can be either iron core or aluminum.
The term, stator is derived from the word stationary. The stator then is the stationary part of the AC motor. The rotor is the rotating electrical component. It also consists of a group of electro-magnets arranged around a cylinder, with the poles facing toward the stator poles. The rotor is located inside the stator and is mounted on the AC motor's shaft. Thus, as the magnetic field of the stator rotates, the rotor is forced to rotate with it. One way to produce a rotating magnetic field in the stator of an AC Motor is to use a three-phase power supply for the stator coils. To produce a rotating magnetic field in the stator of a three-phase AC motor all that needs to be done is wind the stator coils properly and connect the power supply leads correctly
what is a stator. The stator is the stationary part, with windings, that lies under the rotor, or the rotationary part that revolves as the flywheel spins. The rotor/flywheel has the magnets around its ID perimeter and the result of the magnets spinning around the windings produces AC current