Audio. Jaguars are the largest of South America's big cats. They once roamed from the southern tip of that continent north to the region surrounding the U.S.-Mexico border. Today significant numbers of jaguars are found only in remote regions of South and Central America—particularly in the Amazon Basin. Protection status: Near Threatened. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Jaguars are the largest of South America's big cats. They once roamed from the southern tip of that continent north to the region surrounding the U.S.-Mexico border.
HabitatJaguars can be found in rainforests, deserts and grasslands. SizeThe Jaguar will grow to be approximately 5.5 - 8 ft.* ReproductionThe female Jaguar will have an approximately 100 day pregnancy period and can give birth to 2, 3 or 4 cubs. 
The jaguar (scientific name: Panthera onca) is the second largest member of the cat family after the tiger. Jaguars live in rainforests and other habitats in South and Central America. Jaguars are good swimmers and hunt everything from fish to birds to deer and domestic livestock. Jaguars are endangered due to habitat loss (cutting down of rainforests) and hunting by people who believe them to be pests.
The jaguar or Panthera onca, is a New World mammal from the Felidae family and is one of four big cats in the Panthera genus, alongside with the lion, leopard and tiger of the Old World. It is the only Panthera found in the New World. If you want to learn about jaguars, this page contains lots of useful information about the habitat and lifestyle of the jaguar, as well as how it is affected by changes to the rainforests.
The very name 'jaguar' is better known for the luxury car brand rather than the animal that is threatened with extinction. Here are some facts about jaguar, the rainforest animal. Advertisement. Native to the Americas, jaguars are big cats that belong to the genus Panthera in the family Felidae (family of cats). Though not a scientific classification, the term 'big cats' is used to denote larger felines, as compared to smaller ones. In short, the jaguar is the third largest big cat in the world. Unlike other felines, those in genus Panthera have the ability to roar. So jaguars can roar, though their roars are like repetitive cough. As of now, there is only a single species of jaguar in the world and that is Panthera onca.
Jaguars are found in rainforests, seasonally flooded forests, grasslands, woodlands and dry deciduous forests throughout their range. Jaguars spend much of their time on the ground. They use their padded paws to move silently through the forest floor. Anatomy: Jaguars can reach up to six feet in length -- from their nose to the tip of their tail -- and stand up to three feet tall at the shoulder. The average male jaguar weighs about 120 pounds, but some individuals can weigh as much as 300 pounds. At birth most jaguars weigh only two pounds
Jaguar (Panther onca). Jaguars can reach up to six feet in length -- from their nose to the tip of their tail -- and stand up to three feet tall at the shoulder. The average male jaguar weighs about 120 pounds, but some individuals can weigh as much as 300 pounds. At birth most jaguars weigh only two pounds. Anatomy: Jaguars can reach up to six feet in length -- from their nose to the tip of their tail -- and stand up to three feet tall at the shoulder.
Habitat and Range: Jaguars are mostly found in the rainforests of South and Central America. They are also found in swamps, deserts and dry grassland terrain. The most preferred habitat of jaguars is dense forest with thick vegetation. They are often found near sources of water and tend to make dens in caves. In short, the jaguar is the third largest big cat in the world. Unlike other felines, those in genus Panthera have the ability to roar. So jaguars can roar, though their roars are like repetitive cough. As of now, there is only a single species of jaguar in the world and that is Panthera onca.