Mollusks are soft-bodied animals often covered by hard shells. This group of invertebrates includes a variety of animals; snails, clams, and octopus are the most common. There … are more than 85,000 species of mollusks and there is believed to be many more that haven't been identified. Any of numerous chiefly marine invertebrates of the phylum Mollusca, typically having a soft unsegmented body, a mantle, and a protective calcareous shell and including the ed … ible shellfish and the snails.
mollusca. phylum of organisms characterized by having a soft body, muscular foot, and (most often) a protective shell; 1)Bilaterally symmetrical. 2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body without cavity. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus
Body Plan. Mollusks have a thin layer of tissue called the mantle. The mantle covers the body organs, which are located in the visceral mass. Between the soft body and the mantle is a space called the mantle cavity. Mollusks contain gills. Gills are organs in which carbon dioxide from the mollusk is exchanged for oxygen in the water. The mantle also protects the body if the mollusk does not have a shell. the shell is made up of several layers
There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods. Mollusks usually have a shell (although some do not). Mollusks also have an extension of the body wall called the mantle. This portion of the animal's anatomy is responsible for secreting the shell. The mantle encloses the mantle cavity which contains the Ctenidia (gills), anus and excretory pores.
The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/ compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. Numerous molluscs also live in freshwater and terrestrial habitats.
2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body without cavity. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. 5)Body monomeric and highly variable in form, may possess a dorsal or lateral shells of protein and calcareous spicules. 6)Has a nervous system with a circum-oesophagal ring, ganglia and paired nerve chords.
Characteristics of Mollusks. Mollusks are soft-bodied invertebrates with bilateral symmetry and usually one or two shells. Their organs are in a fluid-filled cavity; the word mollusks in Latin means soft. Most of the mollusks live in water but some live on land. There are more than 110,000 species that have been identified. A theoretical, idealized mollusk would crawl on a single flat, muscular foot, and the body would have at least a suggestion of a head at one end and an anus at the other.
An introduction. Mollusca is one of the most diverse groups of animals on the planet, with at least 50,000 living species (and more likely around 200,000). It includes such familiar organisms as snails, octopuses, squid, clams, scallops, oysters, and chitons. 
1 Body is soft and unsegmented enclosed in a glandular mantle covered by usually a shell. 2  Coelom is reduced to a pericardial cavity around the heart. 3  Digestive system is complete. 4  Respiratory organs are in the form of gills called ctenidia. Mollusca. 1  Free living aquatic forms (freshwater or marine), some amphibious. 2  Body is soft and unsegmented enclosed in a glandular mantle covered by usually a shell. 3  Coelom is reduced to a pericardial cavity around the heart. 4