Another type of bacteria that can affect people with cancer are Enterococci. These can cause bladder infections and blood poisoning (septicaemia). Pseudomonas infections are more rare, but can be a problem for people who have weak immune systems or who are in hospital for some time. Some infections are life threatening, particularly if you have low resistance to infection from cancer treatment. Some types of cancers and cancer treatment can weaken your immune system. They stop your bone marrow from making blood cells that help fight infection. This increases your risk of getting an
The author reports the isolation of a pleomorphic organism from various types of cancer which can be grown in pure cultures in its several phases. He produced a serum from it which has given remarkable results in a series of 50 reported cases. This is very important, if true. While cancer-associated bacteria have long been considered to be opportunistic (i.e., infecting healthy tissues after cancer has already established itself), there is some evidence that bacteria may be directly carcinogenic. The strongest evidence to date involves the bacterium H. pylori and its role in gastric cancer.
Viruses, bacteria, a fungus, or (in rare cases) parasites or other organisms can cause pneumonia. 1  In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 1 Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. 2  Pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniaeMycoplasma pneumoniae is sometimes mild and called  walking pneumonia 3  .. Viruses, such as influenza A (the flu virus) and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
HIV, the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), doesn’t appear to cause cancers directly. But HIV infection increases a person’s risk of getting several types of cancer, especially some linked to other viruses. While HPV infections are very common, cancer caused by HPV is not. Most people infected with HPV will not develop a cancer related to the infection. HPV infections of the mucous membranes can cause genital warts, but they usually have no symptoms.
Helicobacter pylori. Stomach cancer is not common in the United States, but it’s one of the more common types of cancer worldwide. Long-term infection of the stomach with Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) can cause ulcers. It can also inflame and damage the inner layer of the stomach. Some of these changes could lead to cancer over time, especially cancer in the lower part of the stomach. 
Immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that helps your immune system fight cancer. The immune system helps your body fight infections and other diseases. It is made up of white blood cells and organs and tissues of the lymph system. Immunotherapy is a type of biological therapy. Biological therapy is a type of treatment that uses substances made from living organisms to treat cancer.
In general, each type of virus tends to infect only a certain type of cell in the body. (For example, the viruses that cause the common cold only infect the cells lining the nose and throat.). Several viruses are linked with cancer in humans. While HPV infections are very common, cancer caused by HPV is not. Most people infected with HPV will not develop a cancer related to the infection. HPV infections of the mucous membranes can cause genital warts, but they usually have no symptoms.
Other viruses can also cause hepatitis (hepatitis A virus, for example), but only HBV and HCV can cause the long-term (chronic) infections that increase a person’s chance of liver cancer. In the United States, less than half of liver cancers are linked to HBV or HCV infection. While HPV infections are very common, cancer caused by HPV is not. Most people infected with HPV will not develop a cancer related to the infection. HPV infections of the mucous membranes can cause genital warts, but they usually have no symptoms.
Two common types are Staphylococcus epidermis and Staphylococcus aureus. They usually cause mild infections, but these can be more serious in people with cancer. MRSA is a type of Staph aureus infection that standard antibiotics can’t treat. MRSA stands for Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus. There is more information about MRSA in our questions about cancer treatment section. Some infections are life threatening, particularly if you have low resistance to infection from cancer treatment. Some types of cancers and cancer treatment can weaken your immune system. They stop your bone marrow from making blood cells that help fight infection. This increases your risk of getting an