DRUG DESCRIPTION. CARNITOR® (levocarnitine) is a carrier molecule in the transport of long-chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3-carboxy-2(R)-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyl-1-propanaminium, inner salt. Levocarnitine is a white crystalline, hygroscopic powder. It is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. The specific rotation of levocarnitine is between -29° and -32°. CARNITOR® (levocarnitine) Injection is a sterile aqueous solution containing 1 g of levocarnitine per 5 mL vial. The pH is adjusted to 6.0 - 6.5 with hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide.
The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3-carboxy-2(R)-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyl-1-propanaminium, inner salt. Levocarnitine is a white crystalline, hygroscopic powder. It is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. The specific rotation of levocarnitine is between -29° and -32°. Its chemical structure is: CARNITOR® (levocarnitine) Injection is a sterile aqueous solution containing 1 g of levocarnitine per 5 mL vial. 
DESCRIPTION. CARNITOR ® (levocarnitine) is a carrier molecule in the transport of long-chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3-carboxy-2(R)-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyl-1-propanaminium, inner salt. Levocarnitine is a white crystalline, hygroscopic powder. It is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. The specific rotation of levocarnitine is between -29° and -32°. 
Levocarnitine is a carrier molecule in the transport of long-chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Chemically, levocarnitine is (R)-(3-Carboxy-2-hydroxypropyl)trimethyl-ammonium hydroxide, inner salt. It is a white powder with a melting point of 196° to 197°C and is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. The pH of a solution (1 in 20) is between 6 to 8 and its pKa value is 3.8. 
Each 118 mL container of CARNITOR® (levocarnitine) Oral Solution contains 1 g of levocarnitine/10 mL. Also contains: Artificial Cherry Flavor, D,L,-Malic Acid, Purified Water, Sucrose Syrup. Methylparaben NF and Propylparaben NF are added as preservatives. The pH is approximately 5. Each 118 mL container of CARNITOR® SF (levocarnitine) Sugar-Free Oral Solution contains 1 g of levocarnitine/10 mL. Also contains: Natural Cherry Flavor, D,L,-Malic Acid, Purified Water, Sodium Saccharin USP. Methylparaben NF and Propylparaben NF are added as preservatives. Its chemical structure is: Empirical Formula: C 7 H 15 NO 3. Molecular Weight: 161.20. For oral use only. Not for parenteral use. Each CARNITOR® (levocarnitine) Tablet contains 330 mg of levocarnitine and the inactive ingredients magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose and povidone.
For oral use only. Not for parenteral use. CARNITOR (levocarnitine) is a carrier molecule in the transport of long-chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3-carboxy-2(R)-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyl-1-propanaminium, inner salt. Levocarnitine is a white crystalline, hygroscopic powder. It is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. Large doses of levocarnitine may cause diarrhea. CARNITOR (levocarnitine) Tablets. Adults: The recommended oral dosage for adults is 990 mg two or three times a day using the 330 mg tablets, depending on clinical response.
It is a white powder with a melting point of 196-197° C and is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. The pH of a solution (1 in 20) is between 6-8 and its pKa value is 3.8. It has empirical formula C 7 H 15 NO 3 with a molecular weight of 161.20. Levocarnitine is a carrier molecule in the transport of long chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. CARNITOR®(Levocarnitine) injection is a sterile aqueous solution containing 1g of levocarnitine per 5 mL ampule and 500 mg of levocarnitine per 2.5 mL ampoule.
(levocarnitine) is a carrier molecule in the transport of long-chain fatty acids. across the inner mitochondrial membrane. R. )-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyl-1­. propanaminium, inner salt. Levocarnitine is a white crystalline, hygroscopic powder. It is. readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. ® , calculated after correction for circulating endogenous plasma concentrations of levocarnitine, was 15.1 ± 5.3% for CARNITOR ® Tablets and 15.9 ± 4.9% for CARNITOR ® Oral Solution. Total body clearance of levocarnitine (Dose/AUC including endogenous baseline concentrations) was a mean of 4.00 L/h.
The chemical name of levocarnitine is 3-carboxy-2(R)-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyl-1-propanaminium, inner salt. Levocarnitine is a white crystalline, hygroscopic powder. It is readily soluble in water, hot alcohol, and insoluble in acetone. 