Biography. Biography by Contactmusic.com. Kendall Jenner (born 03.11.1995) is a reality TV star who appears in 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians'. Childhood: Kendall Jenner was born in Los Angeles, California. Her parents are Bruce Jenner, an Olympic athlete, and Kris Jenner, who manages her older sisters' careers
Mini Bio (1). Kylie Jenner was born on August 10, 1997 in Los Angeles, California to Kris Jenner (nee Née Kristen Mary) houghton and Athlete Caitlyn. Jenner kylie has one full, Sibling Kendall. jenner Mini Bio (1). Kylie Jenner was born on August 10, 1997 in Los Angeles, California to Kris Jenner (nee Née Kristen Mary) houghton and Athlete Caitlyn. jenner
Jenner was born in Los Angeles, California, to retired Olympic decathlete champion Caitlyn Jenner (who changed her name from Bruce after a 2015 gender transition) and television personality Kris Jenner. Jenner was raised in a blended family with one younger sister, Kylie Jenner, and eight half-siblings. 
5' 6 (1.68 m). Kylie Jenner was born on August 10, 1997 in Los Angeles, California to Kris Jenner (nee Née Kristen Mary) houghton and Athlete Caitlyn. Jenner kylie has one full, Sibling Kendall. jenner Mini Bio (1). Kylie Jenner was born on August 10, 1997 in Los Angeles, California to Kris Jenner (nee Née Kristen Mary) houghton and Athlete Caitlyn. jenner
Biography by Contactmusic.com. Kylie Jenner (born 10.08.1997) is a reality TV star best known for appearing on 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians'. Childhood: Kylie Jenner was born in Calabasas, California. Her parents are Bruce Jenner, a track and field athlete, and Kris Jenner. 
Mini Bio (1). Kendall Nicole Jenner was born in Los Angles to parents Kris Jenner (nee Née Kristen Mary) houghton And Caitlyn, (jenner formerly known As Bruce) jenner A.U S olympic gold medal decathlon winner On november, 3. 1995 jenner is An american, socialite television personality and. model
Early life. Jenner was born in Los Angeles, California. She is the youngest daughter of 1976 Summer Olympics decathlon winner Caitlyn Jenner (born Bruce) and TV personality Kris Jenner. She has an older sister, Kendall. In June 2015, the Jenner sisters launched their clothing line Kendall + Kylie with British fashion retailer Topshop. On August 18, 2015, Jenner announced she will be launching her first lipstick line as apart of her self-titled lip kit.