What is a Hurricane? A hurricane is a type of tropical cyclone, which is a generic term for a low pressure system that generally forms in the tropics. The cyclone is accompanied by thunderstorms and, in the Northern Hemisphere, a counterclockwise circulation of winds near the earth's surface.
A hurricane is a type of tropical cyclone, which is a generic term for a low pressure system that generally forms in the tropics. The cyclone is accompanied by thunderstorms and, in the Northern Hemisphere, a counterclockwise circulation of winds near the earth's surface. Tropical cyclones are classified as follows: Tropical Depression. An organized system of clouds and thunderstorms with a defined surface circulation and maximum sustained winds of 38 mph (33 kt) or less. Sustained winds are a 1-minute average wind measured at about 33 ft (10 meters) above the surface.
A tropical cyclone is a rapidly rotating storm system characterized by a low-pressure center, strong winds, and a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce heavy rain. 
A hurricane is a type of storm called a tropical cyclone, which forms over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricane Sandy as seen from NOAA's GOES-13 satellite on October 29, 2012. NOAA's National Ocean Service helps coastal communities prepare for and recover from major coastal storms such as hurricanes. Tropical cyclones with maximum sustained surface winds of less than 39 miles per hour (mph) are called tropical depressions. Those with maximum sustained winds of 39 mph or higher are called tropical storms. When a storm's maximum sustained winds reach 74 mph, it is called a hurricane. The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale is a 1 to 5 rating, or category, based on a hurricane's maximum sustained winds. The higher the category, the greater the hurricane's potential for property damage
A tropical cyclone is a rotating low-pressure weather system that has organized thunderstorms but no fronts (a boundary separating two air masses of different densities). Tropical cyclones with maximum sustained surface winds of less than 39 miles per hour (mph) are called tropical depressions. Those with maximum sustained winds of 39 mph or higher are called tropical storms. When a storm's maximum sustained winds reach 74 mph, it is called a hurricane. The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale is a 1 to 5 rating, or category, based on a hurricane's maximum sustained winds. The higher the category, the greater the hurricane's potential for property damage
Pressure and Winds the distribution across a hurricane. Atmospheric pressure and wind speed change across the diameter of a hurricane. To demonstrate, the diagram below shows a rough profile of wind speed (blue) and surface pressure (red) across a hurricane.
Since a hurricane is a low-pressure system, the surface pressure at the center of the cyclone is lower than that of the surrounding environment. 
Since a hurricane is a low-pressure system, the surface pressure at the center of the cyclone is lower than that of the surrounding environment. 4 people found this useful. A low pressure system over warm ocean water will draw in warm moist air, causing convection to develop within the low, triggering thunderstorms fueled by this air.