The lactate test measures the level of lactate in the blood at a given point in time. A normal lactate level indicates that a person does not have lactic acidosis, that there is sufficient oxygen at the cellular level, and/or that their signs and symptoms are not caused by lactic acidosis. ^ Back to top. Depending on pH, it is sometimes present in the form of lactic acid. However, with the neutral pH maintained by the body, most lactic acid will be present in the blood as lactate. 1  Lactic acidosis is most commonly caused by an inadequate amount of oxygen in cells and tissues (hypoxia).
If oxygen isn't readily available to body cells, anaerobic metabolism occurs, with lactic acid as a byproduct. 1 A serum lactate level measures the amount of lactic acid in the blood and is a fairly sensitive and reliable indicator of tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxia. 
The lactate test is primarily ordered to help determine if someone has lactic acidosis, a level of lactate that is high enough to disrupt a person's acid-base (ph) balance. Depending on pH, it is sometimes present in the form of lactic acid. However, with the neutral pH maintained by the body, most lactic acid will be present in the blood as lactate. 1  Lactic acidosis is most commonly caused by an inadequate amount of oxygen in cells and tissues (hypoxia).
With a higher exercise intensity the lactate level in the blood reaches the anaerobic threshold (AT), or the onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA). Accurately measuring the lactate threshold involves taking blood samples (normally a pinprick to the finger, earlobe or thumb) during a ramp test where the exercise intensity is progressively increased.
Lactic acid levels increase after exercise. Certain drugs may raise the amount of lactic acid in the blood. The amount of lactic acid in the blood can be determined by taking a blood sample and analyzing it. A specific technique is used to take a blood sample in order to measure the amount of lactic acid in the blood. Lactic acidosis may require immediate medical attention. View slideshow of images above.
Lactic Acid. Guide. A lactic acid test is a blood test that measures the level of lactic acid made in the body. Most of it is made by muscle tissue and red blood cells. When the oxygen level in the body is normal, carbohydrate breaks down into water and carbon dioxide. When the oxygen level is low, carbohydrate breaks down for energy and makes lactic acid. A test for lactic acid is done to: 1  Check for lactic acidosis. 2  See whether the right amount of oxygen is reaching the body's tissues. 3  Find the cause for a high amount of acid (low pH) in the blood.
3-Hour Bundle 1. Measure Lactate Level Background Hyperlactatemia is typically present in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock and may be secondary to anaerobic metabolism due to hypoperfusion or other complex factors. 
The lactate threshold (LT) (or lactate inflection point (LIP) or anaerobic threshold (AT)) is the exercise intensity at which lactate (more specifically, lactic acid) starts to accumulate in the blood stream. Accurately measuring the lactate threshold involves taking blood samples (normally a pinprick to the finger, earlobe or thumb) during a ramp test where the exercise intensity is progressively increased.
Cris LaBossiere taking a blood lactate sample during a Vo2 max test. And in the field. Cris LaBossiere taking a sample from an athlete during their post race cool down. Lactate testing is used to determine not only the lactate threshold, but also the correct intensity for base, recovery, and intense interval training. At either end of the extremes of exercise intensity, the result is the same: lot's of exercise but poor or inconsistent results. 