More videos ». The Organization of American States is the premier regional forum for political discussion, policy analysis and decision-making in Western Hemisphere affairs. The OAS brings together leaders from nations across the Americas to address hemispheric issues and opportunities. The Coordinating Office of the Offices in the Member States invites you to visit their site. You will be able to receive updates, find out who they are and learn out about projects, programs, internships, and scholarships in each office.
That adherence by any member of the Organization of American States to Marxism-Leninism is incompatible with the inter-American system and the alignment of such a government with the communist bloc breaks the unity and solidarity of the continents. The meeting also adopted the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, the world's first general human rights instrument, Bogota bogotá considered the first defensive state in the event of, war of The organization Of American. states
The Organization of American States, or the OAS, is a continental organization founded on 30 April 1948 for the purposes of regional solidarity and cooperation among its member states. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States, the OAS's members are the 35 independent states of the Americas. 
This was the event that saw the birth of the OAS as it stands today, with the signature by 21 American countries of the Charter of the Organization of American States on 30 April 1948 (in effect since December 1951). The meeting also adopted the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, the world's first general human rights instrument, Bogota bogotá considered the first defensive state in the event of, war of The organization Of American. states
The Organization of American States is composed of an Organization of American States General Secretariat, the Permanent Council, the Inter-American Council for Integral Development, and a number of committees. The General Secretariat of the Organization of American States consists of six secretariats. The meeting also adopted the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, the world's first general human rights instrument, Bogota bogotá considered the first defensive state in the event of, war of The organization Of American. states
Organization of American States-an association including most countries in the western hemisphere; created in 1948 to promote military and economic and social and cultural cooperation. OAS. This came during a meeting gathered Charge d'affaires of Yemeni Embassy in Washington and Permanent Observer for Yemen in. Adel al-Sonini and Ban Ki-moon in a protocol meeting, which was held Thursday at the headquarters of the. in presence of head and members of the Permanent Council of the international organization. Ban Ki-moon praises Yemeni experience in peaceful change by Yemen News Agency (SABA)
1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an association consisting of the US and other republics in the W hemisphere, founded at Bogota bogotá in 1948 to promote, military, economic, social and cultural cooperation among the member. States: ABBREVIATION Oas see Also Pan American. union This came during a meeting gathered Charge d'affaires of Yemeni Embassy in Washington and Permanent Observer for Yemen in. Adel al-Sonini and Ban Ki-moon in a protocol meeting, which was held Thursday at the headquarters of the. in presence of head and members of the Permanent Council of the international organization. Ban Ki-moon praises Yemeni experience in peaceful change by Yemen News Agency (SABA).
Brasil, Brazil, Federative Republic of Brazil-the largest Latin American country and the largest Portuguese speaking country in the world; located in the central and northeastern part of South America; world's leading coffee exporter. This came during a meeting gathered Charge d'affaires of Yemeni Embassy in Washington and Permanent Observer for Yemen in. Adel al-Sonini and Ban Ki-moon in a protocol meeting, which was held Thursday at the headquarters of the. in presence of head and members of the Permanent Council of the international organization. Ban Ki-moon praises Yemeni experience in peaceful change by Yemen News Agency (SABA)