1 How does the Blind Spot Monitor with Rear Cross-Traffic Alert system work on my 2013 Avalon? 2  How does the Blind Spot Monitor with Rear Cross-Traffic Alert system work on my 2013 RAV4? Always look over your shoulder and use your turn signal before changing lanes. There are several limitations to the function, detection, range and clarity of the monitor. To learn more, see the Owner's Manual. [2] Do not rely exclusively on the Rear Cross-Traffic Alert system. Always look over your shoulder and use your mirrors to confirm rear clearance. There are limitations to the function, detection, range and clarity of the system. To learn more, see your Owner's Manual.
The new radar system is called ‘Cross Traffic Alert’ and is able to detect cross-path traffic while reversing as well as vehicles sitting in blind spots when in drive. The new Cross Traffic Alert feature will assist drivers in backing up by warning drivers of impending traffic while reversing. The radar identifies when a vehicle enters the defined blind spot zone and illuminates an indicator light on the corresponding side-view mirror providing a warning that a vehicle is approaching.
A security alarm is a system designed to detect intrusion – unauthorized entry – into a building or area. Security alarms are used in residential, commercial, industrial, and military properties for protection against burglary (theft) or property damage, as well as personal protection against intruders. 
Ford unveils 'Cross Traffic Alert' monitoring system. Ford has unveiled two new features designed to aid visibility, the first a simple blind spot side-view mirror and the second is a new radar based blind spot monitoring system. The radar identifies when a vehicle enters the defined blind spot zone and illuminates an indicator light on the corresponding side-view mirror providing a warning that a vehicle is approaching.
If the system senses cross traffic, it warns you by flashing the side mirror indicators and sounding a warning tone. Please click here to view a video. [1] Do not rely exclusively on the Blind Spot Monitor to determine if a lane change is safe. Always look over your shoulder and use your turn signal before changing lanes. There are several limitations to the function, detection, range and clarity of the monitor. To learn more, see the Owner's Manual. [2] Do not rely exclusively on the Rear Cross-Traffic Alert system. Always look over your shoulder and use your mirrors to confirm rear clearance. There are limitations to the function, detection, range and clarity of the system. To learn more, see your Owner's Manual
When the system detects that a vehicle entering a blind spot area, the indicator will illuminate in that side view mirror. If you signal a lane change in that direction, the indicator will flash to help get your attention. Rear cross-traffic alert can help you when backing out from a parking space. When your vehicle is in reverse and your speed is less than 5 MPH, the system is designed to detect other automobiles approaching between 5 and 18 MPH from the right or left rear of the vehicle. 
This alert indicator will dim when the system detects nighttime darkness. Cross Traffic Alert will also sound a series of tones and trigger a message in the information display to indicate that a vehicle is approaching on your right or left. Cross Traffic Alert works in tandem with the reverse sensing system, which sounds its own series of tones. Never use the Cross Traffic Alert system as a replacement for checking the interior and exterior mirrors and looking over your shoulder before slowly backing out of a parking space. Cross Traffic Alert is not a replacement for careful driving.
BLIS is not a replacement for careful driving. Cross Traffic Alert. Cross Traffic Alert is designed to warn you of vehicles that are approaching the rear of your vehicle from the side when your transmission is in reverse (R). Never use the Cross Traffic Alert system as a replacement for checking the interior and exterior mirrors and looking over your shoulder before slowly backing out of a parking space. Cross Traffic Alert
At IFRC, monitoring and evaluation is not just a principle, but a practice. We actively strive to build capacity throughout the Red Cross Red Crescent Movement with resources, trainings, and technical guidance and support: 