Warnings. Fractionated palm oil contains a higher percentage of saturated fat than normal palm oil. Due to processing methods, fractionated palm oil may contain varying levels of saturated fat, making it difficult for consumers to know exactly what they’re eating. Misconceptions. Fractionated palm oil should not be confused with hydrogenated oils. The fractioning process only increases the percentage of saturated fat. In contrast, hydrogenation actually hardens the oil and soft fats, destroying healthy unsaturated fats and forming unhealthy trans fats.
Definition of FRACTIONATE. transitive verb. 1. : to separate (as a mixture) into different portions especially by a fractional process. 2. : to divide or break up. — frac·tion·ation \ˌfrak-shə-ˈnā-shən\ noun. — frac·tion·ator \ˈfrak-shə-ˌnā-tər\ noun. 
Differential centrifugation. Fractionation is a separation process in which a certain quantity of a mixture (gas, solid, liquid, suspension or isotope) is divided during a phase transition, into a number of smaller quantities (fractions) in which the composition varies according to a gradient. 
Features. Fractionated coconut oil is made by using steam and pressure hydrolysis of coconut oil into glycerol and free fatty acids. The fatty acids are then fractionated into the long-and medium-chain acids before medium-chain acids are recombined with the glycerol to create MCT oil, according to Ensminger. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Fractionated coconut oil is coconut oil that has been processed or “fractioned” to create a very shelf-stable oil. The fraction of the oil that is used is very high in saturated fat, and this product can be used in a wide variety of ways. 
Pin It. Tags: coconut oil, coconut oil uses, coconut therapeutic properties, fractionated coconut oil, natural coconut oil, virgin coconut oil. Tweet. Coconut Oil for Aromatherapy, ISP. Coconut oil is a popular ingredient used in several types of aromatherapy products. However, there are different types of coconut oil which you can use – and you may want to understand the difference between a good quality coconut oil, and one of lesser quality.
fractionate. vb. 1. (Chemistry) to separate or cause to separate into constituents or into fractions containing concentrated constituents. 2. (Chemistry) chem (tr) to obtain (a constituent of a mixture) by a fractional process. 
fractionate. vb. 1. (Chemistry) to separate or cause to separate into constituents or into fractions containing concentrated constituents. 2. (Chemistry) chem (tr) to obtain (a constituent of a mixture) by a fractional process. 
Follow us on Pinterest. Recently, while reading the ingredients of an energy bar, I came across the term fractionated and it was modifying an oil – palm kernel oil to be exact. 