STEP2 is a Pan-European Automated Clearing House (PE-ACH) for retail payments in euro.
Electronic Payment Network. Electronic Payments Network (“EPN”) is an electronic payment system providing automated clearing house (“ACH”) services that is owned and operated by The Clearing House. The ACH system facilitates exchanges of batched debit and credit payments among business, consumer and government accounts.
The essence of a payment system is that it uses cash-substitutes, such as checks or electronic messages, to create the debits and credits that transfer value. The value that is being transferred is typically stored in depository accounts at banks or other types of financial institutions.
In a nutshell. STEP2 is a Pan-European Automated Clearing House (PE-ACH) for retail payments in euro. STEP2 provides a state-of-the art network-independent processing engine, which is based on global XML-based ISO standards and is fully compliant with the EPC SCT and SDD Scheme Implementation Guidelines.
The ACH system is a funds transfer system that provides for the clearing and settlement of batched electronic transfers for participating depository institutions. Domestically, the ACH system is primarily governed by the rules and guidelines published by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA).
Automated Clearing House. The ACH is a type of electronic funds transfer network used in the United States. Similar to the SWIFT in Europe, the ACH provides inter-bank clearing of credit and debit transactions. The ACH electronic network helps banks and financial institutions exchange information in between.
U.S. Bank's Consolidated Payables Service simplifies the electronic transmission of your payments and payment-related information to your trading partners and/or banks. You transmit to the bank one data file with all of your payment information for ACH transactions, wire transfers, checks and/or virtual card payments. The bank processes the electronic payment instructions and facilitates the production and distribution of the payments.