As a general rule, habitat types with greater understory will be preferred by elk.Elk Habitat Use Elk utilize most habitat types occurring in western Colorado at some point during the year. However, some habitat types are far more productive than others. Arguably, the most productive habitat for elk is aspen. Aspen typically has extremely productive understory and supports large numbers of elk.
What states do elk live in? Rocky Mountain Elk, the most common elk in the U.S., are native to the Rocky Mountain Range in Idaho, Montana, Washington, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, and small parts … of Washington state and Oregon.
Habitat. 1  Food, water, shelter and space are essential to elk survival. 2  Elk live in a variety of habitats, from rainforests to alpine meadows and dry desert valleys to hardwood forests.
Elk are members of the deer family along with moose, caribou, mule deer, and white-tailed deer. Their body color varies from deep coppery brown to light tan, depending on the season and where they live. For instance elk that live in hot, open areas like California, have light colored coats to keep themselves cool.
1 Today, about one million elk live in the western United States, Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina, and from Ontario west in Canada.
Elk were once found across much of North America but they were killed off and driven to take refuge in more remote locations. Today they live primarily in western North America, especially in mountainous landscapes such as Wyoming's National Elk Refuge and Yellowstone National Park.
Elk are related to deer but are much larger than most of their relatives. A bull (male) elk's antlers may reach 4 feet (1.2 meters) above its head, so that the animal towers 9 feet (2.7 meters) tall. Bull elk lose their antlers each March, but they begin to grow them back in May in preparation for the late-summer breeding season.
1 Lonner, T. N. 1976. 2  Elk use-habitat type relationships on summer and fall range in Long Tom Creek, southwestern Montana. 3  Pp. 101-109 in S. R. Hieb, ed., elk-logging-roads symp., University of Idaho, College of Forestry, Wildlife and Range Sciences, Moscow. 25 pp.