Shibumi is a Japanese term, a concept really, that like many Eastern concepts isn’t easily translated. I’m reluctant to even attempt to define it, because: 1) I’m not an expert on Asian culture, 2) my definition will no doubt be woefully inadequate, and 3) my intention in using the term is not that literal. 
Shibumi is a novel published in 1979, written in English by Trevanian, a pseudonym of Rodney William Whitaker. Hel learns that the general who raised him is being held as a prisoner of war by the Russians and faces an ignominious show-trial for war crimes, and decides that the only way he can show his gratitude for the man's raising him in Shanghai is to kill him and help him avoid the embarrassment of the trial.
Shibui (渋い) (adjective), shibumi (渋み) (noun), or shibusa (渋さ) (noun) are Japanese words which refer to a particular aesthetic of simple, subtle, and unobtrusive beauty. Like other Japanese aesthetic terms, such as iki and wabi-sabi, shibui can apply to a wide variety of subjects, not just art or fashion. Shibui, a registration or 'felt sense' of evolving perfection. What is being registered is the 'Life' behind the qualities of any experience. A 'felt sense' of qualities, such as, quiet beauty with intelligence, love, light, and joy.
Shibumi is a Japanese word that means 'effortless perfection'. Anything that is Shibumi is quiet in refinement, noble and fulfilling in a manner that is not shaped exclusively by analytical thought. A shibumi flower arrangement brings into being coolness during a scorching summertime and sunshine on a frigid day It may describe an action done with effortless perfection. Shibumi is a Japanese concept that suggests complete harmony, tranquility, and balance.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shibui. Shibui (渋い) (adjective), shibumi (渋み) (noun), or shibusa (渋さ) (noun) are Japanese words which refer to a particular aesthetic of simple, subtle, and unobtrusive beauty. A shibumi flower arrangement brings into being coolness during a scorching summertime and sunshine on a frigid day It may describe an action done with effortless perfection. Shibumi is a Japanese concept that suggests complete harmony, tranquility, and balance.
shibumi. A term from the Edo period in Japan refering to places, persons, or things of effortless perfection. Anything that is Shibumi is noble and fulfilling in a manner that is not shaped exclusively by analytical thought. Simply put, a state of great refinement underlying commonplace appearances. I can't wait to get back to shibumi for a jelly sandwich.
Shibumi Effortless Perfection Robert Hudson In our striving to learn Jujitsu there is a spoken and unspoken truth that we all desire to perform a technique with grace and fluidity, perfect motion. Striving to develop Shibumi in our training is a noble cause and through Jujitsu is found to be a place of strength versus weakness as many may misinterpret it. We are lucky indeed to have an art such as ours to enable us to practice and find such wonderful qualities within ourselves!
In demeanor, it is modesty without pudency. In art, where the spirit of shibumi takes the form of sabi, it is elegant simplicity, articulate brevity. In philosophy, where shibumi emerges as wabi, it is spiritual tranquility that is not passive; it is being without the angst of becoming. A shibumi flower arrangement brings into being coolness during a scorching summertime and sunshine on a frigid day It may describe an action done with effortless perfection. Shibumi is a Japanese concept that suggests complete harmony, tranquility, and balance.
Shibumi is set in the 1970s and details the struggle between the Mother Company, a conspiracy of energy companies that secretly controls much of the western world, and a highly skilled assassin, Nicholai Nicholaï. hel Hel learns that the general who raised him is being held as a prisoner of war by the Russians and faces an ignominious show-trial for war crimes, and decides that the only way he can show his gratitude for the man's raising him in Shanghai is to kill him and help him avoid the embarrassment of the trial.
In art, where the spirit of shibumi takes the form of sabi, it is elegant simplicity, articulate brevity. In philosophy, where shibumi emerges as wabi, it is spiritual tranquility that is not passive; it is being without the angst of becoming. Striving to develop Shibumi in our training is a noble cause and through Jujitsu is found to be a place of strength versus weakness as many may misinterpret it. We are lucky indeed to have an art such as ours to enable us to practice and find such wonderful qualities within ourselves!