The Great Barrier Reef has a tropical climate, with average temperatures in summer of between 24 and 33 degrees Celsius, in winter 14 to 26 degrees. Being a wet tropic climate, there are only 2 seasons, 'the green' and 'the dry'. Where is the Great Barrier Reef? The Great Barrier Reef, one of the natural wonders of the world, begins just off the coast of Bundaberg, 368 kilometres north of the state capital, Brisbane, and extends over 2000 km north to western Papua New Guinea.
The Great Barrier Reef climate varies between the northern and southern extremes of the area. With the exception of a few islands in the very south of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority boundaries, the entire Reef lies within the tropical belt between the Tropic of Capricorn and the Equator. The chart shown below gives you an easy comparison between general climate trends for Cairns (the northern end of the Great Barrier Reef) and for Brisbane (at the southern end):
The temperatures are recorded as average maximums of (Celsius) 30 degrees and average minimums of (Celsius) 21 degrees. The Tropical North has an average rainfall of 2010mm (an average of 168mm per month). For more information on weather around the Great Barrier Reef visit the Bureau of Meteorology. The Bureau of Meteorology is responsible for the functions of the National Meteorological Service including provision of monitoring, research and services in the public interest. 175
The Great Barrier Reef, Australia. The average weather for The Great Barrier Reef. The region appears to have a huge amount of rain fall during the wet summer season of November through to April and especially in February. This is also the summer season as the seasons are reversed in the southern hemisphere. Great Barrier Reef Weather. The following 2 weather charts display the average weather conditions of The Great Barrier Reef, Australia. The first chart plots the maximum temperature and the amount of rain in mm. The second The Great Barrier Reef chart indicates the average amount sunshine per day and the number of wet days per month
We can also compare the monthly average SST for the GBR Marine Park with the monthly mean temperatures for the Australian Bureau of Meteorology's observation station on Willis Island, which is located at Lat. 16.3S Long. 150.0E on the Great Barrier Reef, 455km almost due East from the city of Cairns. 
Located in tropical North Queensland, the Great Barrier Reef enjoys mild sunny weather year round. Part of the reason visitors flock to the region each year is for the sunshine, sea breezes, fine days and warm seas. Unlike the typical four seasons experienced by most of the country, the Great Barrier Reef is divided by only two seasons however the two are quite distinct.
This is the Great Barrier Reef's rainy season, with average temperatures in the north hovering in the high 80s. Intermittent tropical downpours are common, meaning water visibility is blurred and conditions are muggy. The best time to visit the Great Barrier Reef is April through May. This small window between the region's high and low tourist seasons offers some key advantages for savvy travelers. Temperatures hover in the 70s and 80s, and rainfall is uncommon, which means clearer waters and better diving conditions.
Great Barrier Reef Weather. Experience the best of the Great Barrier Reef’s weather right here at Lizard Island. With a tropical climate and average temperature of approximately 27 degrees Celsius (80 degrees Fahrenheit), Lizard Island is your dream destination any time of year. 
Visibility. While visibility can vary due to wind, tide, and current, the Great Barrier Reef experiences an average visibility of 20 metres (~65 feet) with a range of 10 to 30 metres, while the Coral Sea Reefs experience a year round average of 30 metres (~100 feet) visibility. Sweetlip. Spirit of Freedom operates in the northern sector of the Great Barrier Reef, a tropical zone with relatively warm temperate winters and high humidity in the summers. Water temperatures range 24C/ 75F in the winter, peaking at 30C/ 86F in the summer, while maximum air temperatures will range 24C/75F to 32C/90F.