Protactinium (atomic number 91) is a metal discovered by Oswald Gohring and Kasimir Fajans in 1913. It was only in 1934 when the element was first isolated. Protactinium-231 was discovered by John Cranston and Frederick Soddy and Lisa Meitner and Otto Hahn in 1918. This metal is found in uranium ores while its isotopes are present in uranium-238 and uranium-235. Protactinium is a rare metal that reacts with inorganic acids, water vapor, and oxygen. It is toxic, radioactive, and harmful for human health. Because protactinium is a rare element, it is not used for commercial purposes and only for scientific research. Spent nuclear fuel is also used to extract the metal. In households, it is found in smoke detectors in the form of protactinium-233 which is the product of decay of neptunium-237. The isotope itself has a half life of only 27 days (in comparison, the half life of protactinium-231 is over 32,000 years).
Protactinium is a radioactive actinide group metal with the atomic symbol Pa, atomic number 91, and atomic weight 231. It decays by alpha-emission. It is a Block F, Group 3, Period 7 element. Protactinium’s decay chain leads to actinium, and thus its chemical element name refers to Proto-actinium. The most stable and abundant isotope of Protactinium (231 Pa) has a half-life of 32,760 years and is itself produced through the decay chain of uranium (235 U).
Properties. Protactinium metal is a dense, silvery-gray material with a bright metallic luster which it retains for some time in air but it does readily react with oxygen, water vapor and inorganic acids to form various compounds.
About Protactinium. Protactinium is a radioactive actinide with little known about its properties and no known commercial or industrial uses. It is a very scarce element, with only a few parts per million available even within uranium ore, the study of which led to its discovery. Protactinium’s decay chain leads to actinium, and thus its chemical element name refers to Proto-actinium. The most stable and abundant isotope of Protactinium (231 Pa) has a half-life of 32,760 years and is itself produced through the decay chain of uranium (235 U).
Properties of protactinium. As a metal, protactinium is dense and silvery-gray with a bright metallic luster, which it retains for some time in air. It is superconductive below 1.4 K (minus 457.2 F). It readily reacts with oxygen, water vapor, and inorganic acids to form various compounds. Some of the compounds are colored. Word Origin: The word protactinium comes from the Greek protos, meaning first, and actinium. In effect, it means “parent of actinium” because actinium is a decay product of protactinium’s radioactive decay.
In chemistry, a metal is an element that readily loses electrons to form positive ions (cations) and has metallic bonds between metal atoms. Metals form ionic bonds with non-m … etals. They make up most of the periodic table (all but the far right hand side, top corner). A metal is a metal because it is malleable, shiny, and ductile (can be drawn into wire). It can conduct electricity, and magnetism. A non-metal i … s brittle, dull or non-reflective, non-ductile, does not conduct electricity, and has no
Protactinium is a silver metallic element that belongs to the actinide group. It is malleable, shiny, silver-gray, radioactive. It does not tarnish rapidly in air, it is attacked by oxygen, steam and acids, but not by alkalis. It is superconductive at temperatures below 1.4 K. 
Protactinium is a bright, shiny metal that forms compounds with the halogens and with hydrogen, though there are no known practical applications of any such compounds. Sitting between useful elements such as thorium and uranium on the periodic table, protactinium is itself not as useful as its neighbors. Protactinium’s decay chain leads to actinium, and thus its chemical element name refers to Proto-actinium. The most stable and abundant isotope of Protactinium (231 Pa) has a half-life of 32,760 years and is itself produced through the decay chain of uranium (235 U).
Protactinium is harmful due to its radioactivity and is also toxic. Characteristics: Protactinium is a very rare shiny, silvery, highly radioactive metal that tarnishes slowly in air to the oxide. Almost all naturally occurring protactinium is the 231 isotope. It emits alpha radiation and is produced through the decay of uranium-235. 