Today I found out why Greenland is an island and Australia is a continent. There are several different ways of thinking about how many continents there are, with models ranging from 4 to 7 continents. However, in most English speaking countries, as well as other nations around the world, the 7-continent model is taught. 
Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As  a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely  surrounded by water and not joined onto any othe … r land mass. For  this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent.  Australia is too big to be formally classified as an island. Because Australia is a Continent and an Island. Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely sur … rounded by water and not joined onto any other land mass. For this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent.
Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely surrounded by water and not joined onto any other land mass. For this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent. Australia is too big to be formally classified as an island. Because Australia is a Continent and an Island. Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely sur … rounded by water and not joined onto any other land mass. For this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent.
Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely surrounded by water and not joined onto any other la … nd mass. For this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent. Australia is too big to be formally classified as an island. Because Australia is a Continent and an Island. Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely sur … rounded by water and not joined onto any other land mass. For this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent.
Yes, it does. Tasmania, an island to the south of Australia, is one of the states of Australia. Australia has, in fact, 8222 islands attached to its states and territories. In … addition, there are seven external (offshore) territories / dependencies. For  this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent.  Australia is too big to be formally classified as an island.  The world's largest island is Greenland.    Another reason why Australia is also considered a continent is  because it sits on its own tectonic plate.
Its arbitrary. Australia is no more an island than Maui or the combined continents of Africa and Eurasia. They are all surrounded by water. The only difference is size... and the turning point between island and continent is an arbitrary, invisible line. Its a man-made concept with no strict definition. Report Abuse. Australia isn't an island, it is a continent. People sometimes say it is an island because they: 1. failed social studies in primary/elementary school. 2. live in the USA where the flat earth society has control over the geography curriculum.
Australia (/ɒˈstreɪliə/ , /ə-/ , colloquially /-jə/), officially the Commonwealth of Australia, is an Oceanian country comprising the mainland of the Australian continent, the island of Tasmania, and numerous smaller islands. 
Because Australia is a Continent and an Island. Geographically, Australia is a continent, not an island. As a landform, it could be considered an island as it is entirely sur … rounded by water and not joined onto any other land mass. For this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent. For  this reason, it is often referred to as an island continent.  Australia is too big to be formally classified as an island.  The world's largest island is Greenland.    Another reason why Australia is also considered a continent is  because it sits on its own tectonic plate.