Cause. Malaria is caused by the protozoan parasite Plasmodium. Human malaria is caused by four different species of Plasmodium: P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. vivax. Humans occasionally become infected with Plasmodium species that normally infect animals, such as P. knowlesi
Symptoms include mucusy stools, diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain and upset stomach. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites.
This list of dog diseases is a continuously updated selection of diseases and other conditions found in the dog. Some of these diseases are unique to dogs or closely related species, while others are found in other animals.Including humans. Not all of the articles listed here contain information specific to dogs. 
There are four main groups of protozoa that cause infection in humans. They have been grouped according to how they move: the sarcodina (ameba), mastigophora (flagellates), ciliophora (ciliates) and the Sporozoa. African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness
Amoebiasis. Amoebiasis is a protozoan disease caused by Entamoeba histolytica, which secretes enzymes that dissolve the host's tissues. Amoebiasis infection is spread by contact with feces, which can occur if water or food are contaminated, or if someone has oral contact with fecal matter. Protozoa are one-celled organisms that can cause diseases ranging in severity from mild to deadly. These organisms can be classified as parasitic or free-living. Parasitic protozoa are found in organisms such as ticks, flies and mosquitoes.
Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC. Like protozoa, helminths can be either free-living or parasitic in nature. In their adult form, helminths cannot multiply in humans. There are three main groups of helminths (derived from the Greek word for worms) that are human parasites:
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. Like protozoa, helminths can be either free-living or parasitic in nature. In their adult form, helminths cannot multiply in humans. There are three main groups of helminths (derived from the Greek word for worms) that are human parasites:
There are over 30 000 protozoan species but not all are parasites. Protozoa usually have flagella and thus can actively move. Protozoa are 10–100 µm long and can be seen microscopically. They usually consume food by surrounding it with their cell membrane. Some species sweep food into their mouth parts. 