The major differences arise from the fact that the RNA viruses genetic information is stored, as their name suggests, in RNA, not DNA. This has important consequences in the life cycle of the virus-and gives it the potential to outwit the immune system.
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription.
DNA. Genetic information is stored within the chemical structure of the molecule DNA. The molecule consists of: 1  Two backbones, which spiral around each other in the well-known double helix formation. 2  Strings of four chemicals, called bases, running along the backbones.
The instructions stored within DNA are read and processed by a cell in two steps: transcription and translation. Each of these steps is a separate biochemical process involving multiple molecules. During transcription, a portion of the cell's DNA serves as a template for creation of an RNA molecule.
Translation converts the information stored in ______ into ______. a. DNA. . . RNA b. RNA. . . a polypeptide c. protein. . . DNA d. DNA. . . a polypeptide e. RNA. . .
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene.
In other cases, the RNA molecule carries messages from the DNA to other parts of the cell for processing. Most often, this information is used to manufacture proteins. The specific type of RNA that carries the information stored in DNA to other areas of the cell is called messenger RNA, or mRNA. Transcription begins when an enzyme called RNA polymerase attaches to the DNA template strand and begins assembling a new chain of nucleotides to produce a complementary RNA strand. There are multiple types of types of RNA. In eukaryotes, there are multiple types of RNA polymerase which make the various