Picking up fresh bagels from Goldbergs is always a treat, but how do you make that magic last even longer? Our bagels go quickly, but sometimes you end up with extras, and wasting them would be a crime! Here are some tips and tricks to keep your Goldbergs bagels delicious for days. Contrary to popular belief, refrigerating your bagels will actually make them go stale more quickly. Another option is freezing your bagels. Frozen, they will keep for 3-4 months in an airtight bag. Don’t forget to pre-slice them! Another “cool” face about freezing bagels: they don’t even need to be thawed before toasting.
Best Answer: The refrigerator does NOT keep bagels (or any other bread product) from staling-wrap bagels individually and freeze them. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. If they're bakery bagels that you bought fresh, keep them in an airtight container such as a zip top bag or a bowl with a tight fitting lid. If you keep them in the fridge they should last 3-4 days. sommerluvn77 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up
Instructions for Storing and Freezing Bagels. Now typically, bagel store bagels or bakery-store bagels only last about two days at room temperature. But store-bought bagels-the kind with preservatives in them-might last as long as 7 to 10 days at room temperature. Check the package to be sure.To store bagels longer, you can freeze them. Don't ever store bagels in the refrigerator. It will dry them out and make them go stale faster. To freshen up bagels that have been stored, sprinkle a few drops of water on bagels and wrap in foil and heat at 350 for 10 minutes.The exterior will get that nice crack and the interior will be soft, just like fresh bagels.
If you don't want to freeze them, I usually keep them in a brown paper bag, rolled closed, and then tuck that loosely into a plastic grocery shopping bag. Then leave the whole thing on the counter and take a bagel out as needed. They'll be good for 4-6 days that way without molding or getting too hard. 
You can store fresh bagels at room temperature on the counter or in a bread box. Now typically, bagel store bagels or bakery-store bagels only last about two days at room temperature. But store-bought bagels-the kind with preservatives in them-might last as long as 7 to 10 days at room temperature. Check the package to be sure.To store bagels longer, you can freeze them. Don't ever store bagels in the refrigerator. It will dry them out and make them go stale faster. To freshen up bagels that have been stored, sprinkle a few drops of water on bagels and wrap in foil and heat at 350 for 10 minutes.The exterior will get that nice crack and the interior will be soft, just like fresh bagels.
1 Heat bagels straight from the refrigerator or freezer in their plastic bag in the microwave oven. 2  Set the oven on medium and warm for 30 seconds, longer if frozen. 3  Bear in mind that the longer you heat it the softer it will get. 4  If you heat it too long it will lose its outer shell. 1 Sprinkle bagels with water and wrap in foil or a dampened paper bag. 2  Then place in the oven preheated to 350 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes. 3  Dip bagels in water, shake off, then heat uncovered for 10 to 15 minutes. 4  Heat bagels straight from the refrigerator or freezer in their plastic bag in the microwave oven.
Here are a few Bagels & Bites tips for keeping your bagels delicious on the ride home, and out of storage: To Store Bagels Overnight. Leave bagels in a plastic bag at room temperature. Never leave the plastic bag of bagels in the direct sunlight (or a hot car) because they will get soggy. 1 Sprinkle bagels with water and wrap in foil or a dampened paper bag. 2  Then place in the oven preheated to 350 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes. 3  Dip bagels in water, shake off, then heat uncovered for 10 to 15 minutes. 4  Heat bagels straight from the refrigerator or freezer in their plastic bag in the microwave oven.
1 Dip bagels in water, shake off, then heat uncovered for 10 to 15 minutes. 2  Heat bagels straight from the refrigerator or freezer in their plastic bag in the microwave oven. 3  Set the oven on medium and warm for 30 seconds, longer if frozen. 4  Bear in mind that the longer you heat it the softer it will get. 1 Sprinkle bagels with water and wrap in foil or a dampened paper bag. 2  Then place in the oven preheated to 350 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes. 3  Dip bagels in water, shake off, then heat uncovered for 10 to 15 minutes. 4  Heat bagels straight from the refrigerator or freezer in their plastic bag in the microwave oven.