(Science: biochemistry) Of or pertaining to catabolism; as, catabolic processes, which give rise to substances (catastates) of decreasing complexity and increasing stability. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
The enzymes present in an organism depend on the genes present in the organism. Catabolism refers to chemical reactions that result in the breakdown of more complex organic molecules into simpler substances. Catabolic reactions usually release energy that is used to drive chemical reactions. Anabolism refers to chemical reactions in which simpler substances are combined to form more complex molecules. Anabolic reactions usually require energy. Anabolic reactions build new molecules and/or store energy. The energy of catabolic reactions is used to drive anabolic reactions.
ATP not only provides energy to your cells, it also allows anabolic processes to occur. Anabolism is the reverse of catabolism, since these reactions build large biomolecules from smaller ones. And the molecules that are produced are the same types as what you find in food, such as carbohydrates and proteins. In a sense, these molecules are like your body's own version of the food it originally came from. They take smaller molecules that were broken down during catabolism and use them to build new, stronger material in your body. These two forms of metabolism work together to create a balance in your body. In healthy muscle tissue, muscle breakdown (catabolism) is equal to muscle building (anabolism).
We can think of metabolism in two separate forms: catabolism and anabolism. Catabolism involves all of the metabolic processes that tear down biomolecules, while anabolism is all of the metabolic processes that build biomolecules. They take smaller molecules that were broken down during catabolism and use them to build new, stronger material in your body. These two forms of metabolism work together to create a balance in your body. In healthy muscle tissue, muscle breakdown (catabolism) is equal to muscle building (anabolism).
Define the two catabolic pathways: Fermentation – a partial degradation of sugars that occurs without the use of oxygen. Cellular respiration – when oxygen is consumed as a reactant along with the organic fuel; most efficient catabolic pathway; mitochondria house most of the metabolic equipment needed. Use the following terms correctly in a sentence: redox reactions, oxidation, reduction, reducing agent and oxidizing agent. In redox reactions, oxidation (the loss of electrons from one substance) and reduction (the addition of electrons to another substance) occur. 
Chapter 8 Guided Reading Assignment. Contrast the catabolic and anabolic pathways. Define the following terms: these terms and concepts are critical – they would be “great” quiz words. 
it is an enzyme that can synthesize ATP from ADP by using a form of energy. It is important because it is linked to the ETS through the proton-motive force which allows protons back into the mitochondria. 
Catabolic and Anabolic Reactions. The sum of all chemical reactions within a living organism is known as metabolism. Metabolic pathways are a series of chemical reactions in which the product of one reaction is the substrate for the next reaction. Anabolism refers to chemical reactions in which simpler substances are combined to form more complex molecules. Anabolic reactions usually require energy. Anabolic reactions build new molecules and/or store energy. The energy of catabolic reactions is used to drive anabolic reactions.
Definition. noun. (1) The process involving a series of degradative chemical reactions that break down complex molecules into smaller units, usually releasing energy in the process. (2) A destructive type of metabolism. Supplement