Patients with orthodontic problems can benefit from treatment at nearly any age. An ideal time for placement of braces is between 10 and 14 years of age, while the head and mouth are still growing and teeth are more accessible to straightening. 
There’s no set “best” age to get braces. For most kids, the best time for braces is generally between ages 10 and 14, when a child’s mouth and head are still growing and the permanent teeth are erupting. The exact time depends on growth and on how quickly a child’s adult teeth come in. However, braces can still be effective in older teenagers and adults. To be ready for full braces (sometimes known as Phase II treatment), kids generally need to have all of their permanent teeth. Early developers may have all of their permanent teeth (except wisdom teeth) by age 9, while late bloomers may not get them until age 14 or later.
It's a good idea to get an orthodontic evaluation by the time a child is 7 years old. An orthodontist is a dentist with additional training, who specializes in aligning and straightening teeth. The best time for your child to get dental braces depends on the severity and the cause of the misalignment of your child's teeth. Then, when a child has most of his or her adult teeth, a second phase of treatment is started — usually with dental braces. This second phase is thought by some to be shorter than a traditional course of braces if an early treatment has been performed.
Traditionally, treatment with dental braces begins when a child has lost most of his or her baby (primary) teeth, and a majority of his or her adult (permanent) teeth have grown in — usually between the ages of 8 and 14. Then, when a child has most of his or her adult teeth, a second phase of treatment is started — usually with dental braces. This second phase is thought by some to be shorter than a traditional course of braces if an early treatment has been performed.
Most children with Invisalign or other dental braces begin active orthodontic treatment between ages 8 and 14. However, the American Association of Orthodontists recommends an orthodontic check-up no later than age 7. 
Children should be evaluated for braces by age 7, according to the American Association of Orthodontics. By starting treatment before your child’s permanent teeth are in, you may prevent problems with tooth and jaw alignment. Talk with your dentist or orthodontist for more information about getting braces. As a result, children should have an orthodontic evaluation no later than age 7. By then, they have a mix of baby (primary) teeth and their adult (permanent) teeth.
Braces aren't just for teenagers – it’s never too late to improve your dental health and beautify your smile. About 1 million Americans over the age of 18 wear braces. Your general dentist can help you determine if orthodontic treatment is the right option for you. 
A bad bite, or malocclusion, often becomes noticeable between the ages of 6 and 12, as a child’s permanent teeth erupt. Orthodontic treatment often begins between ages 8 and 14. Treatment that begins while a child is growing helps produce optimal results. As a result, children should have an orthodontic evaluation no later than age 7. By then, they have a mix of baby (primary) teeth and their adult (permanent) teeth.
The ideal age to have orthodontic treatment is around 12 or 13, while you're still growing. The opportunity for improvement in an adult is more limited and surgery is more likely to be needed. I had braces for 3 and 1/2 years from the age of 13 to 16, I have always had a really really bad over bite and did used to have severely bad crooked teeth. After having braces for 3 and half years I then wore a retainer for a little while.
While most kids get braces between the ages of 11 and 14, the American Association of Orthodontists recommends a checkup with an orthodontist by no later than age 7, when most children still have some of their baby teeth and their adult teeth have begun to come in [sources: AAO, CAO, LA Times ]. 