Bacillus cereus. Overview: Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, spore-forming, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobic bacterium belonging to the Bacillaceae family of the Firmicutes (Figure 1). Most strains of B. cereus are motile, while only 4% are found to be non-motile
Bacillus cereus is an endemic, soil-dwelling, Gram-positive, rod-shaped, motile, beta hemolytic bacterium. Some strains are harmful to humans and cause foodborne illness, while other strains can be beneficial as probiotics for animals. Bacillus foodborne illnesses occur due to survival of the bacterial endospores when food is improperly cooked. Cooking temperatures less than or equal to 100 °C (212 °F) allow some B. cereus spores to survive. This problem is compounded when food is then improperly refrigerated, allowing the endospores to germinate.
B. cereus is a also found in the gut microflora of invertebrates, and is an intestinal symbiont of arthropods where it exhibits filamentous growth in sow bugs, roaches, and termites [22]. Arthropods consume feces or soil with spores or cells of B. cereus. B. cereus has a circular chromosome measuring 5,411,809 nt in length and was completely sequenced using the shotgun sequencing method [7]. The genome structure of B. cereus consists of 5481 genes, 5234 protein coding, 147 structural RNAs, and 5, 366 RNA operons [1].
It is the cause of  fried rice syndrome, as the bacteria are classically contracted from fried rice dishes that have been sitting at room temperature for hours (such as at a buffet). B. cereus bacteria are facultative anaerobes, and like other members of the genus Bacillus, can produce protective endospores. Bacillus foodborne illnesses occur due to survival of the bacterial endospores when food is improperly cooked. Cooking temperatures less than or equal to 100 °C (212 °F) allow some B. cereus spores to survive. This problem is compounded when food is then improperly refrigerated, allowing the endospores to germinate.
Like other members of the genus Bacillus, B. cereus can produce protective endospores. An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. They are typically located at cells' centre and contain hydrophobic appendages. Overview: Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, spore-forming, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobic bacterium belonging to the Bacillaceae family of the Firmicutes (Figure 1).
Additional Organisms That Cause Foodborne Illness Bacteria Bacteria Bacillus cereus (ba-SIL-us SEER-ee-us)Illness Bacillus cereus gastroenteritis (ba-SIL-us SEER-ee-us GAS-tro-EN-ter-I-tiss)Bacillus cereus is a spore-forming bacteria found in dirt. It can produce two different toxins when allowed to grow to high levels. 
Bacillus cereus. This type of bacterium is responsible for food poisoning although it has a positive effect in the form of a probiotic food additive for animals. Bacillus cereus or B. cereus for short causes food poisoning as a result of improperly prepared and stored food. This allows these bacteria to multiply and produce ‘enterotoxins’ which are the direct cause of this illness. They are found along with the. and. bacteria and can often dominate these two strains of bacteria. There are several strains of the bacillus cereus bacteria, some of which are beneficial to animals but others are harmful to humans.
Pathogenesis [edit]. B. cereus is responsible for a minority of foodborne illnesses (2–5%), causing severe nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Bacillus foodborne illnesses occur due to survival of the bacterial endospores when food is improperly cooked. Cooking temperatures less than or equal to 100 °C (212 °F) allow some B. cereus spores to survive. This problem is compounded when food is then improperly refrigerated, allowing the endospores to germinate.
Bacillus cereus is an aerobic spore-forming bacterium that is commonly found in soil, on vegetables, and in many raw and processed foods. B. cereus food poisoning may occur when foods are prepared and held without adequate refrigeration for several hours before serving, with B. cereus 6 cells/g. Foods incriminated in past outbreaks include cooked meat and vegetables, boiled or fried rice, vanilla sauce, custards, soups, and raw vegetable sprouts. Tests for differentiating members of the B. cereus group (Table 1). The following tests are useful for differentiating typical strains of B. cereus from other members of the B. cereus group, including B. mycoides, B. thuringiensis, and B. anthracis also non-motile.
The bacillus cereus bacteria. Each bacterium has a long, rod shaped appearance and is capable of causing a range of gastrointestinal illnesses which include food poisoning. These bacteria are found in animals such as rabbits and pigs and birds such as chickens. They are found along with the. and. bacteria and can often dominate these two strains of bacteria. There are several strains of the bacillus cereus bacteria, some of which are beneficial to animals but others are harmful to humans. The beneficial strains are used to produce probiotic feed for animals which boosts their growth as well as reducing the number of. bacteria within their digestive system