1 It may take two years or more before Theresa Caputo is able to conduct a reading for you. 2  While the Long Island Medium website and Theresa Caputo's website do not indicate official costs, reports suggest that a 30-minute session can cost around $400 if held locally. 4. Know what to expect. Contacting Long Island Medium does not guarantee that you will be able to schedule a reading, and even if you do schedule a reading, it may not be immediate. 1  Reports suggest that there is a backlog of reading requests due to the popularity of the show.
Theresa has a book due out later in 2013 called There’s More To Life Than This: Healing Messages, Remarkable Stories, and Insight About the Other Side.. Fans will be able to enjoy past readings and personal anecdotes. Good news for Long Island Medium fans! A fourth season of 30 episodes is set to launch in March 2013. Theresa Caputo, star of TLC’s reality series Long Island Medium hasn't publicly announced the cost for a reading with her. In a recent interview she confessed that there is currently a four-year waiting list for a private meeting. 
Write a letter. One of the simplest ways to write fan mail to Long Island Medium is by sending a letter through the mail. 1  The address used for fan mail is the same one listed for any other form of contact: Theresa Caputo, PO Box 490, Hicksville, NY 11802. 2  Include as much or as little information as you'd like. 4. Know what to expect. Contacting Long Island Medium does not guarantee that you will be able to schedule a reading, and even if you do schedule a reading, it may not be immediate. 1  Reports suggest that there is a backlog of reading requests due to the popularity of the show.
UPDATE: Long Island Medium returns to TLC on March 9th, 2014 for her 5th season! Check out the listings here. The show airs 9pm on Sundays with new episodes, and throughout the week starting at 2pm. Don't forget to like us on Facebook & Google+ so others can find the truth! CHECK OUT OUR LONG ISLAND MEDIUM DISQUS COMMENTS SECTION BELOW (scroll down) FOR THE LATEST UPDATES AND TO OFFER YOUR OWN OPINION. We are the #1 authority on the Long Island Medium.
Theresa Caputo Ticket Information. One of the most famous mediums active today, Theresa Caputo has enthralled millions since her television show “Long Island Medium” debuted in 2011, and now you can be part of the live audience to see this popular New York native demonstrate her unique talent. The seventh season of Caputo’s TLC reality series, “Long Island Medium,” ended in the spring of 2015, on May 3. As of Aug. 19, the network has not confirmed whether or not the show will be renewed for an eighth season.
We have been erroneously accused of running a scam by Caputo's supporters, who are constantly attacking us. How much money does Theresa Caputo make? According to our research and our sources, Caputo has made around $3.4 million dollars for the totality of her four seasons starring on TLC's Long Island Medium. She received a $1 million dollar advance for her new book. Don't forget to like us on Facebook & Google+ so others can find the truth! CHECK OUT OUR LONG ISLAND MEDIUM DISQUS COMMENTS SECTION BELOW (scroll down) FOR THE LATEST UPDATES AND TO OFFER YOUR OWN OPINION. We are the #1 authority on the
Long Island Medium. In September 2011, Theresa Caputo’s show Long Island Medium debuted on the TLC Network. It follows Theresa’s daily life where she juggles with her family and clients. In each episode, Theresa conducts group readings and private sessions with both skeptics as well as believers
Theresa Caputo Tickets. Theresa Caputo is a lady who definitely possesses great psychic powers and earned the unique title of the Long Island Medium. Caputo has simply stunned the audience with her unusual persona and ability to communicate with the dead. In September 2011, Theresa Caputo’s show Long Island Medium debuted on the TLC Network. It follows Theresa’s daily life where she juggles with her family and clients. In each episode, Theresa conducts group readings and private sessions with both skeptics as well as believers
Pre-Sale codes are available only to members, and can be found the morning of the sale on the fan-club site and runs for 2 days before tickets become available to the public. This helps to prevent scalpers and third party sites from buying and reselling tickets at insane prices! The fan club fee is $19.99 a year. 