September 19, 2008January 13, 2011 by sara. Female guinea fowl can start laying as early as 16 weeks old. If they reach 16 weeks in the Autumn and Winter months then they usually start to lay in the following Spring, so they can be about 8-10 months old when they start to lay eggs and to breed with their male partners. In the UK guinea fowl tend to lay between March and September
A domestic guinea hen lays seasonally, just as her wild cousins do. Some time between March and May, when she is 26 to 28 weeks old, an average hen will lay about 100 eggs. She will continue laying that number each year until she is five years old (or even older). 
Rhode Island Red Pullet (about 18 weeks old). Rhode Island Red Hen (about 22 weeks old). Unfortunately, there’s no hard and fast rule about how long it will take for your chickens to begin laying eggs, but we’ve found that the general rule of thumb of 16-24 weeks is true. One of the first questions every backyard chicken owner wants to know is when will my chickens start laying eggs? The general rule is sometime between 4 and 6 months of age (16-24 weeks). We got our first batch of day old chicks on July 6th.
EGG PRODUCTION The number of eggs a guinea hen will lay depends on her breeding and management. A hen that is of a good stock and is carefully managed may lay 100 or more eggs a year. Generally, breeders produce well for 2 to 3 years; sometimes they are kept as long as 4 to 5 years in small flocks. 
Additionally, use an artificial, mechanical incubator to hatch the guinea eggs. If you bought guinea fowl eggs from a poultry hatchery, and the eggs were shipped to you, allow the guinea eggs to settle before incubating. Set the guineafowl eggs in the incubator and incubate for 28 days. 
egg-laying. Guinea Fowl start laying at the start of April and will lay most days until early October, depending on the weather. One hen bird will lay up to 100 eggs a year, although I find that 50 or 60 is more normal. 
The males stand guard, which is a lovely thought. If you have found a place where your guinea fowl hen is laying then I would keep an old egg there so that they continue to lay there otherwise if ytou are taking the eggs away they will eventually stop laying there and find another nest site. Hope this helps. There are certain signs that show that the guinea fowl hen is about to start laying eggs. 1  Visiting the same patch of undergrowth daily. 2  Sitting in a patch of undergrowth for periods of time. 3  Digging a hole in the ground to form a nest area in the undergrowth. 4  Male guinea fowl sitting nearby waiting for the hen.
I have heard 16-18 weeks they begin to lay. I have one guinea hen and it took a long time before I discovered she was laying. I had her eggs confused with my regular chicken eggs. I've heard guineas will have triangular shaped eggs but that wasn't the case for me. They were about 2/3rds the size of a chicken egg and the shells were rock hard.
When do guinea fowl start to lay eggs? I have 1 that is 6 mouths old. Reply. Reply. I had her eggs confused with my regular chicken eggs. I've heard guineas will have triangular shaped eggs but that wasn't the case for me. They were about 2/3rds the size of a chicken egg and the shells were rock hard.
It is also a good idea to replace the real guinea fowl eggs with a pot or plastic egg so that the guinea fowl will continue to lay in this nest, because if the eggs disappear then the guinea fowl will stop laying in this nest site and will find another area to lay which may take some time to discover. There are certain signs that show that the guinea fowl hen is about to start laying eggs. 1  Visiting the same patch of undergrowth daily. 2  Sitting in a patch of undergrowth for periods of time. 3  Digging a hole in the ground to form a nest area in the undergrowth. 4  Male guinea fowl sitting nearby waiting for the hen.