Nicole is a feminine given name and a surname.The given name Nicole is of Greek origin and means victorious people. It's evolved into a French feminine derivative of the masculine given name Nicholas.The given name Nicole is of Greek origin and means v. A feminine form of Nicolas, which is from the Greek Nikolaos, a compound name composed of the elements nikē (victory) and laos (the people): hence, victory of the people. Cole, Ercole, Micole, Niocole, Nycole. Nicole is a feminine given name and a surname.The given name Nicole is of Greek origin and means victorious people. It's evolved into a French feminine derivative of the masculine given name Nicholas.The given name Nicole is of Greek origin and means v. Nicole Popularity.
Nicole is a feminine given name and a surname. The given name Nicole is of Greek origin and means victorious people. It's evolved into a French feminine derivative of the masculine given name Nicolas. There are many variants. The surname Nicole originates in Netherlands where it was notable for its various branches, and associated status or influenc
Greek Meaning: The name Nicole is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Nicole is: People's victory. American Meaning: The name Nicole is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Nicole is: People's victory.
Meaning of Nicole. French name. In French, the name Nicole means-victory of the people.The name Nicole originated as an French name. The name Nicole is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-victory of the people. Origin-France. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Nicole /ni-co-le/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ni-KOHL. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Nicole is people of victory. From Nikola; French feminine form of Nicholas. During the Middle Ages names that appear feminine today, like Nicolet and Nicol, were actually male names. Singer Nicolette Larson; actress Nicole Kidman.
Usage: Nicole, of Anglo-Saxon origin, is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Nicole are in general originating from Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Nicole across the world, see Nicholas. The name Nicole is ranked on the 42nd position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 7380900 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.102% of the population.
The name Nicole is of French origin, and it means Victory of the People . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
Origin of the name Nicole: A feminine form of Nicolas, which is from the Greek Nikolaos, a compound name composed of the elements nikē (victory) and laos (the people): hence, victory of the people.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.