The employee works 12 hours overtime, which is in excess of the 10 hours that the BCEA prescribes. An employer may, by agreement, compensate the employee for the overtime worked at the prescribed rate of: (a) 1.5 times the normal wage; or. (b) pay the normal wage and grant 30 minutes time off (on full pay); or. (c) grant the employee at least 90 minutes time off for each hour of overtime worked. An employer must grant paid time off within one month of the employee becoming entitled to it.
1 9 hours for a 5-day week. 2  8 hours a day for a 6-day week. 3  On a shorter working week. 4  The hours may be increased with employees consent. 5  For example, an employee can agree to work shifts of 12 hours over 4 working days. 6  The maximum hours are 45 hours per week for ordinary pay. Normal hours as follows: 1 
The statutory meal break is 1 hour, but by agreement between the employee and employer this may be reduced to 30 minutes. The maximum permissible overtime as per section 10 of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act is 10 hours in any 1 week. As per section 9 of the basic conditions of employment Act, the maximum normal working time for an employee below the threshold* is 45 hours per week.
1 Short working week by collective or individual agreement: 2  Employees can work up to 12 hours of normal time on any day without receiving overtime pay. 3  The employees may still not work more than 45 normal hours per week and not more than 5 days in a week. Normal hours as follows: 1  9 hours for a 5-day week. 2  8 hours a day for a 6-day week. 3  On a shorter working week. 4  The hours may be increased with employees consent. 5  For example, an employee can agree to work shifts of 12 hours over 4 working days. 6  The maximum hours are 45 hours per week for ordinary pay.
For example, generally employees’ normal time is limited to 45 hours per week and overtime to 10 hours per week. They are also entitled to overtime pay and extra pay for work on Sundays and public holidays. 
What is overtime worked? All hours worked in excess of the employee's normal hours of work will be regarded as overtime hours. Therefore, if an employee is contracted to work 45 hours per week normal time, then any hours in excess of that is overtime worked. Similarly, if an employee is contracted to work 40 hours per week normal time, then any hours in excess of the 40 hours is overtime worked. According to the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), the maximum normal working time allowed is 45 hours weekly. This is nine hours per day (excluding a lunch break) if the employee works a five-day week, and eight hours per day (excluding a lunch break) if the employee works more than 5 days per week.
Normal hours as follows: 1  9 hours for a 5-day week. 2  8 hours a day for a 6-day week. 3  On a shorter working week. 4  For example, an employee can agree to work shifts of 12 hours over 4 working days. 5  The maximum hours are 45 hours per week for ordinary pay. Normal hours as follows: 1  9 hours for a 5-day week. 2  8 hours a day for a 6-day week. 3  On a shorter working week. 4  The hours may be increased with employees consent. 5  For example, an employee can agree to work shifts of 12 hours over 4 working days. 6
Therefore if an employee is contracted to work 45 hours per week normal time, then any hours in excess of that is overtime. Similarly if an employee is contracted to work 40 hours per week normal time, then any hours in excess of the 40 hours is overtime. As per section 9 of the basic conditions of employment Act, the maximum normal working time for an employee below the threshold* is 45 hours per week.
1 Generally, the employee can legally refuse to work more than 45 hours per week normal time and he can legally refuse to work more than 10 hours per week overtime and he can legally refuse to work more than 12 hours in any one day, consisting of nine hours normal time and three hours overtime. As per section 9 of the basic conditions of employment Act, the maximum normal working time for an employee below the threshold* is 45 hours per week.
Section 10 of the BCEA limits the overtime worked by an employee to a maximum of 12 hours per day, and 10 hours per week. If an employer requires an employee who works 6 days in a week (and therefore 8 ordinary hours per day) to work 12 hours per day for 3 days, the employer is contravening the provisions of the BCEA. The employee works 12 hours overtime, which is in excess of the 10 hours that the BCEA prescribes. An employer may, by agreement, compensate the employee for the overtime worked at the prescribed rate of: (a) 1.5 times the normal wage; or. (b) pay the normal wage and grant 30 minutes time off (on full pay); or. (c) grant the employee at least 90 minutes time off for each hour of overtime worked. An employer must grant paid time off within one month of the employee becoming entitled to it.