The Tumela Mine, located in the Thabazimbi District in Limpopo province of South Africa, contains platinum group metals (PGM). Dishaba Mine became a stand-alone operational entity since 2009 after Anglo Platinum's Amandelbult section was restructured into two mines, namely Tumela and Dishaba. The life of the Dishaba mine extends up to 2058.
Here is a summary of the thesis we have covered so far, and where we as investors go from here: 1  South African supplies, 75% of global platinum and palladium production, have proven unreliable and the PGM mining companies are structurally in danger. Platinum and palladium fundamentals are extremely intriguing. On going mine strikes in South Africa (SA supplies 75% of PGMS globally). Increasing PGM demand; diminishing supplies. Adds to already prominent deficit.
It is found in platinum ores and obtained free as a white inert metal which is very difficult to fuse. Principal sources of this element are located in river sands of the Ural Mountains, in North and South America and also in the copper-nickel sulfide mining area of the Sudbury Basin region. Sperrylite (platinum arsenide, PtAs 2) ore is a major source of this metal. A naturally occurring platinum-iridium alloy, platiniridium, is found in the mineral cooperite (platinum sulfide, PtS).
Processing Platinum Group Metals(PGMs) Total technology solutions across the mining & minerals value chain TENOVA is a worldwide supplier of advanced technologies, products and engineering services forthe metals and mining & minerals industries. 3 Tenova Mining & Minerals is a total integrated solutions provider to the global mining, bulk materials handling andminerals beneficiation and processing sectors, offering innovative technological solutions and full process andcommodity knowledge across the mining & minerals industry value chain.
Dishaba Mine, located 40km south of Thabazimbi and 15km north of Northam town in the Limpopo province of South Africa, produces platinum group metals (PGM). Dishaba is one of the nine platinum mines 100%-owned by world's largest platinum producer Anglo American Platinum in South Africa. Dishaba Mine became a stand-alone operational entity since 2009 after Anglo Platinum's Amandelbult section was restructured into two mines, namely Tumela and Dishaba. The life of the Dishaba mine extends up to 2058.
The typical range for unit water consumption per PGMs produced of 214–1612 m 3 /kg PGM, with a production-weighted average of 391.5 m 3 /kg PGM, compares similarly to Au mining where production requires an average of 691 m 3 /kg Au (typical range 224–1783 m 3 /kg Au) (Mudd, 2007). Solid wastes – waste rock and tailings. The majority of PGM ore is sourced by underground mining, with 2007 production data showing that for the Bushveld, Great Dyke and Stillwater underground mining represents 88.6% of the ore milled, with 11.4% by open cut mining.
Palladium is found as a free metal and alloyed with platinum and gold with platinum group metals in placer deposits of the Ural Mountains of Eurasia, Australia, Ethiopia, South and North America. However it is commercially produced from nickel-copper deposits found in South Africa and Ontario, Canada. Sperrylite (platinum arsenide, PtAs 2) ore is a major source of this metal. A naturally occurring platinum-iridium alloy, platiniridium, is found in the mineral cooperite (platinum sulfide, PtS).
Jewelry: The second largest sector demand for PGM's, specifically platinum, is jewelry. America, China, and Japan the last few years have had a dramatic increase in the growth of platinum jewelry (not including for bullion investment demand). Platinum and palladium fundamentals are extremely intriguing. On going mine strikes in South Africa (SA supplies 75% of PGMS globally). Increasing PGM demand; diminishing supplies. Adds to already prominent deficit.
A relatively recent advance in understanding the environmental impacts of PGM projects is that the mining and processing of PGM ore can lead to the formation of trace amounts of dioxins, furans and polychlorinated biphenyls (Jordaan et al., 2007). Solid wastes – waste rock and tailings. The majority of PGM ore is sourced by underground mining, with 2007 production data showing that for the Bushveld, Great Dyke and Stillwater underground mining represents 88.6% of the ore milled, with 11.4% by open cut mining.
The growing popularity of platinum group metals (or PGMs, including platinum and palladium) for a wide range of applications leads to some interesting issues for mining and sustainability. Solid wastes – waste rock and tailings. The majority of PGM ore is sourced by underground mining, with 2007 production data showing that for the Bushveld, Great Dyke and Stillwater underground mining represents 88.6% of the ore milled, with 11.4% by open cut mining.