The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks. Protolith Composition. Although textures and structures of the protolith are usually destroyed by metamorphism, we can still get an idea about the original rock from the minerals present in the metamorphic rock. Minerals that form, do so because the chemical elements necessary to form them are present in
Quartzite is a nonfoliated metamorphic rock composed almost entirely of quartz. It forms when a quartz-rich sandstone, is altered by the heat, pressure, and chemical activity of metamorphism. These conditions recrystallize the sand grains and the silica cement that binds them together. It is often difficult or impossible to differentiate quartz arenite from quartzite. The transition of sandstone into quartzite is a gradual process. A single rock unit such as the Tuscarora Sandstone might fully fit the definition of quartzite in some parts of its extent and be better called sandstone in other areas.
Metamorphic rock can be formed from virtually any parent rock (protolith) that has been subjected to heat and/or pressure, modifying its texture or mineral composition. Quartz sandstone, when metamorphosed, becomes the metamorphic rock 'quartzite'. 1 person found this useful. Answered. No. Sandstone is sedimentary rock, where the individual grains of sand that compose the rock are visible without magnification. These individual grains of sand (sediment) have … become compacted and cemented together in a process called lithification, forming a sedimentary rock
A rock formed by the metamorphism (addition of high temperature and pressure) of sandstone would be quartzite. These individual grains of sand (sediment) have … become compacted and cemented together in a process called lithification, forming a sedimentary rock. Metamorphic rock can be formed from virtually any parent rock (protolith) that has been subjected to heat and/or pressure, modifying its texture or mineral composition.
Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. The original rock (protolith) is subjected to heat (temperatures greater than 150 to 200 °C) and pressure (1500 bars), causing profound physical and/or chemical change. Metamorphic minerals are those that form only at the high temperatures and pressures associated with the process of metamorphism. These minerals, known as index minerals, include sillimanite, kyanite, staurolite, andalusite, and some garnet.
Schists are usually named by the main minerals that they are formed from. Bitotite mica schist, hornblende schist, garnet mica schist, and talc schist are some examples of this. Gneiss is a high grade metamorphic rock. This means that gneiss has been subjected to more heat and pressure than schist. The area affected by the contact of magma is usually small, from 1 to 10 kilometers. Contact metamorphism produces non-foliated (rocks without any cleavage) rocks such as marble, quartzite, and hornfels. In the diagram above magma has pushed its way into layers of limestone, quartz sandstone and shale.
Gneiss can be formed from a sedimentary rock such as sandstone or shale, or it can be formed from the metamorphism of the igneouse rock grantite. Gneiss can be used by man as paving and building stone. Non-Foliates are metamorphic rocks that have no cleavage at all. The area affected by the contact of magma is usually small, from 1 to 10 kilometers. Contact metamorphism produces non-foliated (rocks without any cleavage) rocks such as marble, quartzite, and hornfels. In the diagram above magma has pushed its way into layers of limestone, quartz sandstone and shale.
Quartzite. Images: Background: Quartzite is a nonfoliated metamorphic rock that formed by the metamorphism of pure quartz sandstone. The intense heat and pressure of metamorphism causes the quartz grains to compact and become tightly intergrown with each other, resulting in very hard and dense quartzite. 
This small sample of Jotnian quartzite from Finland is either strongly cemented sandstone or weakly metamorphosed quartzite. It is old (1.4 Ga) and a part of crystalline basement. Hence, it is usually considered to be a metamorphic rock. Width of the sample is 4 cm. In vast majority of cases, quartzite is a metamorphosed sandstone. The transition from sandstone to quartzite is gradational. There is little mineralogical change. Quartz, the main constituent of sandstone, is not altered to other minerals but it is recrystallized during the metamorphism.