The definition of a ballad is poem or song with more than two stanzas that is usually about a romantic or sentimental topic. An example of a ballad is The Ballad of Davy Crockett or God Bless the Child.. 1 a romantic or sentimental song with the same melody for each stanza. 2  a song or poem that tells a story in short stanzas and simple words, with repetition, refrain, etc.: most old ballads are of unknown authorship and have been handed down orally in more than one version.
A Ballad is a poem that tells a story, which are often used in songs because of their rhyme. A ballad is a poetic story, often a love story. 
Poetry Definition. A story in a song, usually a narrative song or poem. Any form of story may be told as a ballad (not to be confused with a ballade), ranging from accounts of historical events to fairy tales in verse form.
A ballad /ˈbaeləd/ ˈbæləd is a form of, verse often a narrative set to. Music ballads derive from the Medieval french chanson balladee balladée, or ballade which were originally. dancing songs A ballad /ˈbaeləd/ ˈbæləd is a form of, verse often a narrative set to. music
Definition of a Ballad. A Ballad can be defined as, “A simple narrative poem, often of folk origin, bearing romantic and sentimental character, composed in short stanzas.”.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Narrative poetry is a form of poetry that tells a story, often making use of the voices of a narrator and characters as well; the entire story is usually written in metred verse. Narrative poems do not have to follow rhythmic patterns. A narrative poem usually tells a story using a poetic theme. Epic poems are very vital to narrative poems, although it is thought that narrative poems were created to explain oral traditions. The focus of narrative poetry is often the pros and cons of life.
Term: Ballad. Strictly, a ballad is a form of poetry that alternates lines of four and three beats, often in quatrains, rhymed abab, and often telling a story-the anonymous poem 'Sir Patrick Spens' and Wordsworth's A Slumber Did My Spirit Seal demonstrate this well.
Ballad Examples. The word Ballad is of French provenance. It is a type of poetry or verse which was basically used in dance songs in the ancient France. Later on, during the late 16th and 17th century, it spread over the majority of European nations. 