The oldest rocks are metamorphic gneisses which are to be found on Inishtrahull, several miles off Malin Head in Co. Donegal, and elsewhere in the north-west. They originally formed as igneous rocks 1750-1780 million years ago.
Igneous rock can be found on the surface in areas of current or past volcanism or in uplifted and eroded areas of past plutonic intrusions, deep underground nearly anywhere, o … r in areas of past or present glaciation, where igneous rock has been eroded and deposited.
An Igneous rock is the product of cooled solidified magma/lava. As magma/lava cools it goes through the process of crystallization which turns it into an igneous rock. The amount of time it takes for an igneous rock to form depends on its location and its composition.
, Co. Wicklow (501 metres). Extrusive igneous rocks are extensive in the north-east where the basaltic lavas have given rise to the Antrim-Derry plateau. Intrusive igneous rocks are represented by granites of several ages, in Counties Donegal, Armagh, Down, Wicklow and Galway.
1 Igneous Rocks: form by crystallizing melted material (magma). 2  They can form either on the surface (extrusive igneous rocks), or deep in the crust (intrusive or plutonic igneous rocks). 3  Volcanoes are places where magma erupts as lava or ash.
Confidence votes 303. Igneous rock can be found on the surface in areas of current or recent volcanism or in uplifted and eroded areas of past platonic intrusions, deep underground nearly anywhere, or in areas of past or present glaciations, where igneous rock has been eroded and deposited.
Igneous rock can be found on the surface in areas of current or past volcanism or in uplifted and eroded areas of past plutonic intrusions, deep underground nearly anywhere, or in areas of past or present glaciation, where igneous rock has been eroded and deposited.
Igneous rock can be found on the surface in areas of current or recent volcanism or in uplifted and eroded areas of past platonic intrusions, deep underground nearly anywhere, … or in areas of past or present glaciations, where igneous rock has been eroded and deposited. .