serpentine. n. 1. (Minerals) a dark green or brown mineral with a greasy or silky lustre, found in igneous and metamorphic rocks. It is used as an ornamental stone; and one variety (chrysotile) is known as asbestos. Composition: hydrated magnesium silicate.
Serpentine is the “brand name” for a group of polymorphous rocks within the serpentine group; these rocks are sometimes called serpentinite. Polymorphous means that the rocks have the same chemical compound with the molecules arranged differently.
- Name describing a small group of green Serpentine minerals rich in nickel. It is also used as definition for a rock containing nickel-rich Serpentine, associated with Talc, Chllorite, and other soft minerals.
Serpentine is a very common mineral, and is found in abundance worldwide. Some famous localities include The Lizard Peninsula, Cornwall, England (the type locality of Lizardite; the Antigorio Valley, Piedmont, Italy (the type locality of Antigorite); and Mount Olympus, Cyprus.
The serpentine Mineral Group. Serpentine is not a single mineral, but rather a group of related minerals. Besides for the main members of Antigorite and Chrysotile, a distinction is not usually made between the individual members except under scientific study and classification. Antigorite usually represents the more solid forms, and Chrysotile usually represents the fibrous forms, especially asbestos.
Lizardite, the most common type of serpentine used in home decor, décor is often referred to as green. Marble lizardite is a-fine grained serpentine with perfect cleavage and can be, white, yellow or. Green the type we find in our home is usually a dark green with veins of calcite running through. it
Most people call it serpentine (SER-penteen) or serpentine rock, but serpentine is the set of minerals that make up serpentinite (ser-PENT-inite). It gets its name from its resemblance to snakeskin, with a mottled color, waxy or resinous luster and curving, polished surfaces. Serpentinite is a sexy rock.
Specimens Serpentine is a major rock forming mineral and is found as a constituent in many metamorphic and weather igneous rocks. It often colors many of these rocks to a green color and most rocks that have a green color probably have serpentine in some amount.