The fourth Aetherium Shard is in Raldthbar, a massive and complex Dwemer ruin located slightly south-west of Windhelm. The Aetherium Shard is located in the final room of Raldthbar Deep Market, a sub-location of the great Dwemer ruin. The first Aetherium Shard is located in the final room of Arkngthamz. The Dwemer Ruin is found south-east of Markarth, in the Reach. The second Aetherium Shard is located in Deep Folk Crossing, more known also as Bthar-Zel
Overview. Raldbthar is a Dwarven Ruin located in North Eastern Skyrim. You can find it by traveling West of Windhelm. It is also the location of one of the Aetherium Shards during the quest Lost to the Ages. See All Top Contributors ».
Dubmeupsome answered: You can't, you use the four aetherium shards as a key and also as one of the three rewards for the quest. You don't make aetherium armour, just dwemer armour with the aetherium shards that give them magical properties. 3 years ago 2 0.
1 Aetherium Shards can be collected before the quest Lost to the Ages was started. 2  This will result in a miscellaneous quest to identify the shard, which can be done by reading a copy of The Aetherium Wars. 1 This will result in a miscellaneous quest to identify the shard, which can be done by reading a copy of The Aetherium Wars. 2  After reading the book, the Dragonborn will be redirected to Arkngthamz, where the actual quest will begin.
You have to go to the Deep Crossing Forest in order to collect the last Aetherium Shard in Skyrim: Lost to the Ages. Once you are there, travel to the Ruins of Bthalft, which are directly south of Ivarstead and far northwest of Riften. Once there, speak to Katria, who will be waiting for you. 
The third Aetherium Shard is located in the Storage Room of Mzulft, which is found if you turn to the West before you enter the Dwemer ruin. I believe it has a high level lock guarding the entrance door. Mzulft is located to the far west of Skyrim, north-west of Riften. The first Aetherium Shard is located in the final room of Arkngthamz. The Dwemer Ruin is found south-east of Markarth, in the Reach. The second Aetherium Shard is located in Deep Folk Crossing, more known also as Bthar-Zel
Edit Page Last Edit: 1 year 9 months ago. You must have the Dawnguard DLC to obtain this quest. To start this quest you can do a few things one get a book called THE AETHERIUM WARS or you could just go straight to Arkngthamz which is located south of Dushnik Yal and thats southeast of Markarth. 
Check your quest log: Lost to the Ages In Arkgnthamz, I met Katria, a ghost searching for the Mythical Aetherium Forge. Together, we found one of the four Aetherium Shards that make up the key to the forge. She left search for the other shards and the Forge itself, and urged me to do the same. As long as you set the quest to trackable in your journal, your map should point you to the correct locations. 4th Aetherium Shard Location: Mzulft (south east of Windhelm). Note: You could get these shards in a different order, but unless specifically instructed to do so by your quest markers, we suggest you follow the order above to avoid the chance of glitches and bugs in the quest.