The partially digestive food in the stomach is known by the name of Chyme. In the stomach, a large sack-like   organ, the food is churned and mixed with a strong gastric (mostly   hydrochloric) acid. Only partly digested, this   mix in the s … tomach is called chyme.   Additional Information:   However, the digestive process isn't   restricted to the stomach
The muscular action of the stomach causes churning, which mixes the food with thesecretions. At this point in the digestive process, the liquid-like mixture of partially digested food and digestive secretions in the stomach is called (6) ___. The pyloric sphincter releases this mixture into the small intestine. 
1 Cecum: the beginning of the large intestine. 2  The cecum is a pouch that connects the ileum with eh ascending colon. 3  Chyme: the name given to the partially digested food that leaves the stomach via the pyloric valve into the small intestine (duodenum). 4  Chyme, also known as chymus has the consistency of oatmeal. 
Chyme has a low pH that is countered by the production of bile, helping to further digest food. Chyme is part liquid and part solid: a thick semifluid mass of partially digested food and digestive secretions that is formed in the stomach and small intestine during digestion. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancreas.
Introduction Digestive System Diseases of the GI system Endoscopy Alternative Procedures Before Endoscopy Procedures Risks and Complications After the Procedure Conclusion. Swallowed food passes through the esophagus, also known as “the feeding tube,” then through the stomach, where it is partially digested. Digested food travels from the stomach to the small intestines, where nutrients are further digested and absorbed. The small intestines are divided into 3 parts, the duodenum, the jejunum and the ileum. Digested food that has not been absorbed in the small intestines then reaches the colon.
Villi and Absorption. Although the villi play a role in digestion, they also are essential for the absorption of digested nutrients. The cells of the villi and another part of the small intestine, known as the crypts, transport food from the digestive tract into the bloodstream, where they can be used by the body.
Chyme (/kaɪm/ ; from Greek χυμός khymos, juice) is the semifluid mass of partly digested food that is expelled by the stomach into the duodenum and moves through the intestines during digestion. With a pH of approximately 2, chyme emerging from the stomach is very acidic. The duodenum secretes a hormone, cholecystokinin (CCK), which causes the gall bladder to contract, releasing alkaline bile into the duodenum. CCK also causes the release of digestive enzymes from the pancreas.
1 Partially digested food, or chyme, from the stomach is mixed with bile from the liver and pancreatic juice from the pancreas to complete its digestion in the duodenum. 2  The jejunum is the middle section of the small intestine that serves as the primary site of nutrient absorption. 3  It measures around 3 feet in length. Small Intestine. The small intestine is a long, highly convoluted tube in the digestive system that absorbs about 90% of the nutrients from the food we eat. It is given the name “small intestine” because it is only 1 inch in diameter, making it less than half the diameter of the large intestine.
After food is swallowed, it travels down the esophagus, a tube connecting your mouth to your stomach. The partially digested food is known as chyme. Once in your stomach, the food stimulates the release of substances (hormone regulators) that aid in digestion. The duodenum is a short funnel-shaped tube at the beginning of the small intestine. It receives chyme from the stomach, as well as enzymes from the pancreas and bile from the liver (delivered by the gallbladder) that help the body digest food.