The Bachelor of Science Physician Assistant degree (BScPA) is a full-time professional, second-entry undergraduate degree program, based in the Department of Family and Community Medicine (DFCM) in the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Toronto (U of T). 
History of Physician Assistants. PAs are a new, relatively small group of health care providers in Canada with about 300 currently in practice, mainly in Ontario and Manitoba. However, they are well established in the United States and the Canadian Forces. After several decades working in the Canadian military, Physician Assistants (PAs) are being introduced into provincial health care systems. This year, Alberta launched a two-year demonstration project to integrate PAs into selected clinical practices. About a decade ago ago, PAs were introduced in Manitoba and Ontario
The salary for someone with the job title Physician Assistant-Medical in Ontario, CA varies depending on a number of factors. Job Description for Physician Assistant-Medical. Assesses, plans and provides patient care under the supervision of a physician. Examines patient, performs comprehensive physical examinations, and compiles patient medical data, including health history and results of physical examination.
Physician assistant’s starting salary varies from city to city. For instance, physician assistant’s starting salary in New York, New York is around $69,559 while in Dallas, Texas, physician assistant’s starting salary is around $76,114. Average physician assistant salary. Physician assistant’s salary is ranging from $68,587 to $117,554 pay per year. The average physician assistant’s salary is $87,749. Generally, a new physician assistant earns an hourly pay ranging from $28.13 to 50.00. Read more about average PA salary in USA
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Physician Assistant-Medical in Ontario, CA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Physician Assistant-Medical in Ontario are expected to make less than the median. Job Description for Physician Assistant-Medical. Assesses, plans and provides patient care under the supervision of a physician. Examines patient, performs comprehensive physical examinations, and compiles patient medical data, including health history and results of physical examination.
Physician Assistants in Ontario. Physician Assistants (PAs) support physicians in a range of health care settings and work alongside physicians, nurses and other members of interprofessional health care teams to provide patient care. There are now over 200 PAs working as part of interdisciplinary care teams in over 100 sites across the province. These PAs are helping to decrease wait times, and improve patient access in high need areas including emergency medicine and primary care.
In order to work as a PA in Ontario, you need to be certified by the Canadian Association of Physician Assistants (CAPA) or be eligible to write the certification exam. In order to be eligible for certification, you would have had to complete an accredited PA Education program either in the U.S or Canada. In Canada, PAs have been employed by the Canadian Forces for many years to deliver health care services to members of the military and their families. PAs have been working in Manitoba since 2002, where they are known as clinical assistants. PAs have also practiced in the United States since the 1960s.
The Canadian Association of Physician Assistants is a nationally incorporated bilingual professional association that advocates on behalf of it’s members at the direction of a volunteer board of directors, which represents physician assistants (PAs), PA Students and other members across Canada and internationally. CAPA will be hosting a PA Awareness Day on September 28, 2015 at the Legislative Assembly of Ontario (otherwise known as Queens Park in Toronto). PAs have made great strides in improving access to care for Ontarians and CAPA would like the… Read more ».