by Leo A. Notenboom, © 2006. I just installed two external Firewire hard drive cases with two hard drives. When I shut off my system the drives keep running and they don't power down when my PC is on after 15 minutes-the setting I use for turning the hard drives off. Is this normal for a Firewire external drive or is there something I need to do to get them to power down. I can shut them off when not in use but it would be more convenient if they just turned off according to my power schedule.
The hard drive runs perfectly though-no issues. It can't be related to my USB ports since my other external HDDs run fine all the time, except this one when it's not in use. If I unplug the USB and plug it back in, it works fine until it's not in use. usb external-hard-drive shutdown. share | improve this question. 
Check the power settings in Windows and see if the hard drives are set to power off after a certain period of inactivity. There could be a Windows swap file on the drive which is being accessed, causing the spin-up shortly after it powers off. I have the same problem. I used to have 2 hard drives which were over 5 years old and both started doing this shut down thingy. I tried to buy a new WD500GB hard drive but only a month down the road it started doing the same thing. So I've bought a whole new computer and put the hard drive in it.
First, to my knowledge, the Windows power schedule for disk drive shutdown really only applies to internal drives. And it certainly only applies while the computer is running. If the computer's powered down, it has no way to tell the external drives it's time to shut down now. Is this normal for a Firewire external drive or is there something I need to do to get them to power down. I can shut them off when not in use but it would be more convenient if they just turned off according to my power schedule.
I have a samsung story usb external hard drive and want to use it as my backup for my laptop plus put all my audio books on it and get them off my laptop. But each time I try and copy or backup to it all is ok for a minute or 2 then the drive shuts down. Try plugging the External hard drive to different USB ports in the Computer and check if the issue still persists. Attempt to use the drive on a different Computer.
Perform the following methods and check if it helps. Method 1: Try plugging the External hard drive to different USB ports in the Computer and check if the issue still persists. Attempt to use the drive on a different Computer. Contact the manufacturer for a repair under the warranty if it still does not work on a separate Computer.
I have an old Maxtor DiamondMax Plus 9 120GB hard drive in an also old computer. From time to time, randomly, the hard drive suddenly shuts down and then immediately powers up again (same sound as when the computer is shut down). I have the same problem. I used to have 2 hard drives which were over 5 years old and both started doing this shut down thingy. I tried to buy a new WD500GB hard drive but only a month down the road it started doing the same thing. So I've bought a whole new computer and put the hard drive in it.
External (USB 2.0) hard drive shuts down USB port and is not recognized until port is disabled and then re-enabled. Djembe asked on November 2, 2009. I have a 160GB Seagate Free Agent Go external drive. It requires 2 USB ports-one for power and one for power + data. Since installing Windows 7 Home Premium, whenever I plug it in to my computer (Asus Z71V notebook), the drive will light up for approximately 5 seconds and then shut off. For each USB Root Hub, go to the Power tab on the Properties page and uncheck the Allow the computer to turn off this device to save power check box. Reboot the machine. Then try connecting the device again.
6. Since upgrading to 8.1, Windows will shut down my hard drive bay connected by USB after about 10 minutes. I didn't have this issue in Windows 8 as I just went in and changed the hard drive sleep time to Never. However Windows 8.1 seems to be ignoring this and powering off my USB drives. +. ) on each of the entries labeled USB Root Hub, choose Properties, and click on tab Power Management. Make sure the check mark in Allow computer to turn off device DOES NOT HAVE A CHECK. Do that for every USB Root Hub device in Device Manager. Your external hard disk drive will no longer shut off.