Goulash Recipe Photo. Paprika gives a boost to all sorts of savory dishes as a seasoning or garnish. The red-tinted powdery condiment is made by grinding dried aromatic sweet red peppers. Most paprika comes from Spain, South America, California and Hungary. Mild sweet Spanish paprika gives French dressing its vibrant tone.
Fresh paprika has the full flavor of the peppers it was ground from. Originating, like all chili peppers, in the Americas, paprika peppers are now strongly associated with Hungarian cuisine. Paprika can range in flavor from mild and sweet to fiery hot, and is used heavily in Eastern European cooking. The Spice House offers five varieties of paprika. Classic Hungarian sweet paprika remains our top seller, and was voted best in the country by Cooks Illustrated. Half-sharp Hungarian has all the rich flavor of the Sweet, with a sharp heat. 
With its often mild flavor and light aroma, paprika is not usually spicy like the seasonings made from chili peppers. This makes sense, since the red bell pepper is a rather sweet and mellow fruit. This spice can add a little heat to a dish, however, especially when certain varieties are used. 
In other parts of the world, paprika is included earlier in the recipe, with the heating process bringing out its sweet and spicy flavors. As a seasoning, paprika is most commonly used in soups, stews, casseroles and rice dishes. Paprika is also one of the spices mixed in with various chopped meats to make sausages. 
A red powder made from grinding dried sweet red peppers; used as a garnish and seasoning. The color varies from bright orange-red to deep red, depending on the peppers used. Most commercial paprika comes from Spain, South America, California and Hungary. Hungarian paprika is thought to be the finest, and will be labelled as from the Szeged region.
I guess you'll just have to taste and see. It might have a little kick to it. Here's what Widipedia says about paprika: Paprika is a spice made from the grinding of dried sweet red bell peppers (Capsicum annuum). In many European countries the name paprika also refers to bell peppers themselves. The seasoning is used in many cuisines to add colour and flavour to dishes.
Not all paprika is spicy. Some has all the heat of a bell pepper. Paprika is nothing more than dried and finely ground capsicums, and different regions grow peppers with different heat. Paprika marked as sweet will have almost no heat at all. I'd be willing to guess that paprika is one of the most common spices in America. For decades it's been an iconic classic for dishes like deviled eggs, and it's one of those common cover-ups for bland chicken breasts.
1) Paprika on eggs and the such is used simply to add color to the food. Not taste. Hungarians often have paprika on the table along with salt and pepper, but they don't use it in this case as a flavoring agent. It makes things look prettier. 
This paprika tends to be neither sweet nor hot and is a suitable garnish for things like deviled eggs or wherever you want some color. &bull Hungarian paprika. Pin it. Paprika is considered the national spice of Hungary and it appears in the country's most celebrated dish, goulash. Hungarian paprika is made from peppers that are harvested and then sorted, toasted, and blended to create different varieties. All Hungarian paprikas have some degree of rich, sweet red pepper flavor, but they range in pungency and heat. 