Most notably however, is the toxicity of California Newts--the most toxic of poisonous newts (3). image source: http://www.npwrc.usgs.gov/narcam/idguide/range58.gif. The toxin exhibited by Taricha torosa is known as tarichatoxin or tetrodotoxin (TTX), the same neurotoxin found in pufferfish (3,5). These are toxic salamanders found exclusively in particular regions of California, the western halves of Oregon and Washington, and western costal Canada up through parts of Alaska (3).
Western Newt is the vernacular name for the genus Taricha of which there are three species: torosa, granulosa, and rivularus. These are toxic salamanders found exclusively in particular regions of California, the western halves of Oregon and Washington, and western costal Canada up through parts of Alaska (3). Being newts, they are salamanders that spend the majority of their time on land (2). Ideal places to find them are rock crevices and logs though when breeding they prefer slow moving pools along costal streams. While they resemble the rough skinned newt they can be distinguished in a few way
Identification. There are many species of salamanders but some of the most toxic are tiger salamanders, spotted salamanders, and the rough-skinned newt. Salamanders excrete milky toxins through their skin when touched or eaten. Marshes, ponds, lakes and streams are common areas where salamanders are found during breeding season. Other times they are seen in drier areas such as forests and fields. Salamanders are amphibians, which characteristically breathe through gills, have smooth skin, and produce jelly-coated eggs.
A stocky newt with rounded snout, it ranges from light brown to olive or brownish-black on top, with the underside, including the head, legs, and tail, a contrasting orange to yellow. The skin is granular, but males are smooth-skinned during breeding season. Newts are not immune to their own toxin; they only have a heightened resistance. The toxin in newts consists of a tradeoff. Each time they release the toxin, they inject themselves with a few milligrams. The TTX becomes concentrated in certain parts of the tissue after passing through cell membranes.
Salamanders are common in many areas of the United States, with some species being poisonous. Marshes, ponds, lakes and streams are common areas where salamanders are found during breeding season. Other times they are seen in drier areas such as forests and fields. Salamanders are amphibians, which characteristically breathe through gills, have smooth skin, and produce jelly-coated eggs.
The newt produces a neurotoxin called tetrodotoxin (TTX), which in this species was formerly called tarichatoxin. It is the same toxin found in pufferfish and a number of other marine animals. This toxin targets voltage gated sodium channels via binding to distinct but allosterically coupled sites. Newts are not immune to their own toxin; they only have a heightened resistance. The toxin in newts consists of a tradeoff. Each time they release the toxin, they inject themselves with a few milligrams. The TTX becomes concentrated in certain parts of the tissue after passing through cell membranes.
Triturus vulgaris. Common newts are olive green or pale brown with a bright orange, black spotted underside. In the breeding season males develop a wavy crest from their heads to their tails. They are widespread throughout mainland Britain. Common newts are nocturnal and spend the day hiding under large stones or compost heaps.
In a nutshell, fire bellied newts (Cynops orientalis and Cynops pyrrhogaster) aren't nearly as toxic as some other newts (such as the rough skinned newt), but they do produce a toxin that is very irritating and can be toxic at sufficient levels. 
The eastern newt is one of only a few species of true salamanders native to North America. It is found throughout most of eastern North America, from Atlantic coast to the Great Lakes and south to Texas, Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Hatchlings range in length from 7 to 9 mm and have smooth skin that isn't toxic. Eastern newts usually transform into a terrestrial eft stage after 2 to 5 months as an aquatic larva. The eft is reddish-orange in color with two rows of black-bordered red spots. It has well-developed lungs, limbs, and eyelids.
Newts are generally a safe pet, however there are a few species that are known to carry salmonella, and other species are in fact poisonous, but only if consumed. The brightly colored bellies of a newt are one way to tip a person off to their toxicity. 