DEFINITION of 'Direct Cost'. A price that can be completely attributed to the production of specific goods or services. Direct costs refer to materials, labor and expenses related to the production of a product. For example, the cost of meat in a hamburger can be attributed directly to the cost of manufacturing that product, as could the cost of packaging materials and preservatives. These are considered variable costs that are inconsistent and change amounts often.
Direct Labor Cost. Direct labor describes workers that are directly involved in the production of goods or the performance of services. For example, workers at a factory who assemble, machine, paint or otherwise help to physically produce products perform direct labor. Indirect labor cost describes wages paid to workers that perform tasks that do not directly contribute to the production of goods or performance of services, such as support workers who help enable others to produce goods.
The cost of direct labor is generally considered to be the cost of regular hours, shift differentials, and overtime hours worked by employees, as well as the related amounts of payroll taxes. Direct labor is considered to be a direct cost, which means that it varies directly with revenue or some other measure of activity.
In business management and finance, labor costs are often split into direct labor costs and indirect labor costs, depending on whether a particular worker contributes directly to the production of goods. Indirect labor cost describes wages paid to workers that perform tasks that do not directly contribute to the production of goods or performance of services, such as support workers who help enable others to produce goods.
However, in direct labor cost calculations, companies should watch out for variance in efficiency and rate of labor. Definition. Direct labor cost is essentially the work related expenses that can be attributed to the actual manufacturing of a product/good. In case of service industry, direct labor cost is referred to the labor cost needed for providing a particular service. Thus, direct labor cost does not involve employees who are not involved in the production, like office and administrative staff members. 
Definition. Direct labor cost is defined as work expenses attributable to the actual manufacture of a good. For service industry businesses, direct labor cost refers to the cost of labor required to provide the service. In general, direct labor does not include employees uninvolved in production, such as administrative and office staff. Only include “shop floor” personnel responsible for maintaining or setting up equipment.
Direct labor cost is wages that are incurred in order to produce specific goods or provide specific services to customers. The total amount of direct labor cost is much more than wages paid. It also includes the payroll taxes associated with those wages, plus the cost of company-paid medical insurance, life insurance, workers' compensation insurance, any company-matched pension contributions, and other company benefits. Direct labor costs are most commonly associated with products in a job costing environment, where the production staff is expected to record the time they spend working on various jobs. This can be a substantial chore if employees work on a multitude of different products.
Employees or workers who are directly involved in the production of goods or services. Direct labor costs are assignable to a specific product, cost center, or work order. 7 people found this helpful. In cost accounting, direct labor costs of the production staff, materials and overhead are properly allocable in determining the overall cost to produce a given product.
Direct labor cost is a part of wage-bill or payroll that can be specifically and consistently assigned to or associated with the manufacture of a product, a particular work order, or provision of a service. 
Definition: Direct labor is production or services labor that is assigned to a specific product, cost center, or work order. Direct labor is considered to be a direct cost, which means that it varies directly with revenue or some other measure of activity.