The text of my messages is larger or smaller than usual. When you compose, reply to, or forward an e-mail message, and the message body (including the text) appears larger or smaller than the size that you typically see, you might have accidentally changed the zoom view setting. Use a mouse wheel button to change the zoom. If you have a pointing device, such as the Microsoft IntelliMouse pointing device, that has a wheel button, you can use the wheel button to zoom in on, or out of, the body of a message. Click the message body. On the Format tab, in the Zoom group, click Zoom. In the Zoom dialog box, under Zoom to, click 100% for the default size, or use the other options to specify a custom zoom size. Note When the zoom view is changed, the setting is persistent on all future messages you compose, reply to, or forward
To change the default font or text color for e-mail messages: http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/outlook-help/change-the-default-font-or-text-color-for-e-mail-messages-HA010239585.aspx. To change the size or formatting of text: http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/outlook-help/change-the-size-or-formatting-of-text-HA010208722.aspx. Hope this helps to resolve the issue. If you need any assistance, reply to us and we are glad to assist you further. NE. I have set the font size in Outlook 2007 to my preferences but it seems that when I open up an the font is very small even though I have it set at Arial 14 pt. I think the the view size of the email seems to change sometimes. Like in Word you can say see at 150% or at 75%.
Maybe you want to just change the size to make the font bigger or smaller, or change the font to one you like better. To change the font settings for your message list, open Outlook and click on the View tab. Click the View Settings button in the Current View section of the View tab. On the Advanced View Settings dialog box, click Conditional Formatting button. 
When the zoom view is changed, the setting is persistent on all future messages you compose, reply to, or forward. Note The zoom view setting doesn't affect how recipients will see the message. Messages always open at 100-percent zoom view size. Top of Page. The zoom level of the message view can be changed in the ribbon. Click the message body. On the Message tab, in the Format group, click Zoom. In the Zoom dialog box, under Zoom to, click 100% for the default size, or use the other options to specify a custom zoom
1 In Outlook Express, click Options on the Tools menu. 2  On the Compose tab, click Font Settings. 3  Change the appropriate font settings, and then click OK. 4  To change the font settings for newsgroup messages, click the News tab, and then click Font Settings. 5  Change the appropriate font settings, click OK, and then click OK. 
Use the ribbon controls to change the zoom. The zoom level of the message view can be changed in the ribbon. Click the message body. On the Message tab, in the Format group, click Zoom. In the Zoom dialog box, under Zoom to, click 100% for the default size, or use the other options to specify a custom zoom size. Top of Page.
Use the Ribbon controls to change the zoom. The zoom level of the message view can be changed in the Ribbon, which is part of the Microsoft Office Fluent user interface. Click the message body. On the Format tab, in the Zoom group, click Zoom. In the Zoom dialog box, under Zoom to, click 100% for the default size, or use the other options to specify a custom zoom size. Note When the zoom view is changed, the setting is persistent on all future messages you compose, reply to, or forward. Use a mouse wheel button to change the zoom. If you have a pointing device, such as the Microsoft IntelliMouse pointing device, that has a wheel button, you can use the wheel button to zoom in on, or out of, the body of a message. Click the message body.
To change the font settings for your message list, open Outlook and click on the View tab. NOTE: Even if you closed Outlook when another module was active, such as Calendar or Tasks, Outlook opens by default with the Mail module active. Click the View Settings button in the Current View section of the View tab. 
1 Open Microsoft Office 2013 and access ‘ View Tab 2  ‘. Then after click on ‘View Setting’ option and choose Advanced View Settings. 3  Later on click on to Conditional Formatting tab to change text formatting of numerous mails in Outlook 2013. 4  In Conditional formatting window you see active or inactive features. 1 Then after click on ‘View Setting’ option and choose Advanced View Settings. 2  Later on click on to Conditional Formatting tab to change text formatting of numerous mails in Outlook 2013. 3