This is what I learned: Organisms that have a nucleus are called Eukaryotes (pronounced yoo-care-ee-oats). Some examples of eukaryotes are humans and most types of animals, such as zebras or turles. Eukarytoic organisms are animals, plants, fungi, and protists. Organisms that do not have a nucleus and Prokaryotes (pronounced pro-care-ee-oats). Examples of prokaryotes are a type of bacteria (such as Frateuria aurantia) and thermophiles. Prokaryotic organisms can fit into the categories of Bacteria or Archaea
eukaryotic cells. contains a nucleus and other organelles that are the bound by membranes, also referred to as membrane bound organelles-multicellular organisms-have a nucleus-have a membrane bound organelles-unicellular organisms-contains organelles. 
Organisms whose cells do not contain a nucleus are called prokaryotes. These cells have a single strand of DNA in a circular shape, and ribosomes for protein production, but n … ot much else in the way of organelles. + 8 others found this useful. Jeanette Johnson. 
This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. Generally there is only one nucleus per cell, but there are exceptions, such as the cells of slime molds and the Siphonales group of algae. Simpler one-celled organisms (prokaryotes), like the bacteria and cyanobacteria, don't have a nucleus. 
Eukaryote cells, or cells that contain a nucleus, have DNA in chromosomes in the nucleus of the cell that tells the cell what to do. In biology, the term pliody is used to define the number of sets of chromosomes found within the nucleus of a cell. Different organisms have different number of chromosomes. 
eukaryote. an organism of the Eucaryotae, whose cells (eukaryotic cells) have a true nucleus that is bounded by a nuclear membrane, contains the chromosomes, and divides by mitosis. Eukaryotic cells also contain membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, lysosomes, and the Golgi apparatus. an organism of the Eucaryotae, whose cells have a true nucleus bounded by a nuclear membrane and containing the chromosomes and which divide by mitosis. Eukaryotic cells also contain membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, lysosomes
[ u-kar´e-ōt ]. an organism of the Eucaryotae, whose cells (eukaryotic cells) have a true nucleus that is bounded by a nuclear membrane, contains the chromosomes, and divides by mitosis. Eukaryotic cells also contain membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, lysosomes, and the Golgi apparatus. an organism of the Eucaryotae, whose cells have a true nucleus bounded by a nuclear membrane and containing the chromosomes and which divide by mitosis. Eukaryotic cells also contain membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, lysosomes
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the Greek ευ (eu, well) and κάρυον (karyon, nut or kernel). Eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria and the Golgi apparatus. In addition, plants and algae contain chloroplasts. Eukaryotic organisms may be unicellular, or multicellular. Only eukaryotes have many kinds of tissue made up of different cell types.
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. The distinction is that eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus containing their DNA, whereas prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes contain large RNA / protein structures called ribosomes, which produce protein.
eukaryote. an organism of the Eucaryotae, whose cells have a true nucleus bounded by a nuclear membrane and containing the chromosomes and which divide by mitosis. Eukaryotic cells also contain membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, lysosomes and the Golgi apparatus.