edit Ingredients. The basic ingredients in modern ketchup are tomatoes, vinegar, sugar, salt, allspice, cloves, and cinnamon. Onions, celery, and other vegetables are frequent additions. Catsup may be made of tomatoes, onions, cayenne, sugar, white vinegar, cloves, cinnamon, celery seed and salt. edit Origin of Word. Both words are derived from the Chinese ke-tsiap, a pickled fish sauce. It made its way to Malaysia where it became kechap and ketjap in Indonesia. Catsup and katchup are acceptable spellings used interchangeably with ketchup, however, ketchup is the way it is popularly used today.
Ceviche (. [seˈβitʃe]) is a seafood dish popular in the coastal regions of Latin America. The dish is typically made from fresh raw fish cured in citrus juices, such as lemon or lime, and spiced with aji ají or chili. Peppers additional, seasonings such as chopped, onions, salt and, cilantro may also be. added Ceviche (. [seˈβitʃe]) is a seafood dish popular in the coastal regions of Latin America. The dish is typically made from fresh raw fish cured in citrus juices, such as lemon or lime, and spiced with aji ají or chili. peppers
Palestinian cuisine consists of foods from or commonly eaten by Palestinians —which includes those living in the Palestinian territories, Israel, Jordan, refugee camps in nearby countries as well as by the Palestinian diaspora. 
Here is a very simple and easy brine recipe that is based off of Alton Browns. I left out the candied ginger as it is expensive for a little spice bottle of it. This is so easy and adds tons of juicy flavor to turkey and chicken (or probably any type of bird) no matter how you cook it (smoking, oven, deep frying, etc). Combine the vegetable stock, salt, brown sugar, peppercorns, allspice berries, and candied ginger in a large stockpot over medium-high heat. Stir occasionally to dissolve solids and bring to a boil. Then remove the brine from the heat, cool to room temperature, and refrigerate.
½ cup butter, softened. 1 tsp. vanilla. ½ tsp. almond extract. 1 cup powdered sugar. Preparation Directions: ~ Preheat oven to 350 degrees. ~ In a large bowl, stir together cookie mix, allspice, cardamom and cinnamon. Stir in butter, vanilla, and almond extract mix well. ~ Shape dough into 1-inch balls. Place balls 2-inches apart on an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake for 12 to 14 minutes or until set. 
1 In a large bowl, beat pumpkin with evaporated milk, eggs, brown sugar, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg and salt with an electric mixer or immersion blender. 2  Mix well. 3  Pour into a prepared crust. 4  Bake 40 minutes or until when a knife is inserted 1 inch from the edge comes out clean. 1 Cut shortening into flour; add cold water 1 tablespoon at a time (you may need only 3 tablespoons, or up to 4 tablespoons). 2  Mix dough and repeat until dough is moist enough to hold together. 3  With lightly floured, hands shape dough into a ball.
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  In a small bowl, stir together the garlic and butter until well combined. 2  Set aside. 3  Place a chicken breast half on a work surface with the thick side facing to the right (if you're right-handed), and place your left hand down on the chicken breast. Ready In. 1  In a small bowl, stir together the garlic and butter until well combined. 2  Place the flour into a shallow dish, and dredge each chicken breast on both sides with flour. 3  Cook and stir the mushrooms in the same skillet as the chicken until the mushrooms have absorbed the remaining butter in the skillet and have begun to turn brown at the ...
A Cybex Seated Leg Press is, and can best be described as follows: A Seated Leg Press is a plate-loaded or selectorized strength station that places the user in an upright seated position in front of a large movable foot platform. This particular Cybex Seated Leg Press is a VR3 Seated Leg Press. A leading model in an already highly-sophisticated line of workout machines, the Cybex VR3 equipment would easily find a home in any gym facility.