Before committing to any plastic surgery, it is important to understand the risks involved, and how to avoid any potential problems during or after surgery. One factor that can cause complications is the use of certain medications, herbs and even vitamins.
To prepare for your surgery or procedure, your doctor has asked you to avoid certain medicines, including aspirin and aspirin-like products, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, and other medicines or supplements.
No matter what you call them, if you take these products prior to a heart operation, they can cause real problems during or after your cardiac surgery. If you are like millions of other Americans, you may well be taking several supplements daily for your health.
Pre ‐ operative Information Medications to Avoid Before Surgery ENTRUST MEDICAL GROUP Section Two: The drugs listed below can have undesirable side affect that may affect your anesthesia or surgery.
Stop taking ALL natural products, herbal medicines, vitamins, and other supplements 7 days before your surgery. They may be resumed when your doctor says it is OK. On the next page are herbs and other supplements that are especially harmful to take if you are having surgery because they can cause extra bleeding.
Pre ‐ operative Information Medications to Avoid Before Surgery It is important to avoid certain medications prior to surgery. The following medications can have effects on bleeding, swelling, increase the risk of blood clots, and cause other problems if taken around the time of surgery.
* This is not a complete list of all the medications and supplements that can cause problems with surgery or anesthesia. Consult with your surgeon regarding the medications you should avoid before and after your surgery or treatment.
It is important that patients tell their doctors about all the medications they are taking, including herbal supplements, before surgery. And doctors should provide patients with a list of supplements to avoid, Rowe says.
Certain prescription medications, over-the-counter drugs, vitamins and mineral supplements, and herbal products should not be taken if possible in the two weeks before liposuction surgery.They can interfere with anesthesia and other medications used during liposuction, or they can affect blood clotting.
Often certain herbs and vitamins can cause problems with medications used for anesthesia. As a result, make sure to avoid certain herbs and vitamins, including St. John's wort, ginkgo biloba, garlic, ginger, ginseng, and vitamin E, before surgery and after surgery for a couple weeks.