Rattlesnakes are a group of venomous snakes of the genera Crotalus and Sistrurus of the subfamily Crotalinae (pit vipers). The 36 known species of rattlesnakes have between 65 and 70 subspecies, all native to the Americas, ranging from southern Alberta and southern British Columbia in Canada to Central Argentina. Rattlesnakes are predators that live in a wide array of habitats, hunting small animals such as birds and rodents. The threat of envenomation, advertised by the loud shaking of the titular noisemaker (rattle) at the end of their tails, deters many predators
Snakes live in every continent in the world except for Antarctica. So they live in Europe, Asia, Australia, North America, South America and Africa. Strangely, they are not found in New Zealand, Ireland or Iceland. King cobras live in forests. So now you know that answer to the question ‘where do snakes live’. Now, let’s look at some facts about snakes. Facts About Snakes. 1  There are over 2,900 species of snakes. 2  Most species are non-venomous. 3  Most pet snakes only need to be fed every 5-14 days. 4  Cooked rattlesnake is eaten in the Midwestern United States.
Rattlesnakes are large, venomous snakes that are found throughout North and South America. The greatest concentration of them is in the Southwestern United States and in Northern Mexico. Arizona is home to 13 species of rattler, more than any other state. 
Most live in deserts. If you ever see one that looks like a rattle snake do not touch it. Rattlesnakes can live in almost any environment from about 9000 ft. in elevation down to sea level (and below in certain valleys). Snakes can be found on every continent, but some Rattlesnakes live only in North and South America others in sea level to the inland prairies and desert areas to the mountains … at elevations of more than 10000 feet.
Genus Crotalus. Venomous Snakes-Throughout the world there are many snakes whose venomous bite can be fatal to humans. In the United States, however, there are only four: the coral snake, the copperhead, the cottonmouth water moccasin and the rattlesnake.
Size: A number of different rattlesnakes live in the United States, and they range in size from the 1 foot long ridge-nosed rattlesnake to the 5 to 8 foot long eastern diamondback. Diet: Rattlesnakes are pit vipers—they have heat sensing organs located in pits near the eyes. Habitat: They live in a variety of habitats, including forest, grasslands, scrub brush, swamps, and deserts, and they are also capable swimmers. Almost all reptiles, including rattlesnakes, are ectothermic (cold-blooded). Ectotherms cannot regulate their body temperatures like warm-blooded animals can.
Cancel. Rattlesnakes are most commonly found living in the central and southern parts of the United States where climates are warmer. Look for rattle snakes hiding under rocks and bushes with tips from a science teacher in this free video on animal habitats. Part of the Video Series: Animal Habitats.
Habitats and Adaptations. Snakes have adapted to a variety of very different habitats. They can live in forests, prairies, deserts or even bodies of water, but will typically be found where there is an ample supply of food, such as rodents, small reptiles, birds and frogs. Snakes eat their food whole and often while it is still alive. 
· just now. Report Abuse. well..., rattlesnakes usually live in a very dry climate. usually in a desert. they also live in a climate like a savanah(a desert with several shrubs and bushes) , where there is much places to hide. Anyway, I had a pet rattlesnake, and done my reasurch on them(Im experienced on reptiles). 
Rattlesnake bites are the leading cause of snakebite injuries in North America. However, rattlesnakes rarely bite unless provoked or threatened; if treated promptly, the bites are rarely fatal. The 36 known species of rattlesnakes have between 65 and 70 subspecies, all native to the Americas, ranging from southern Alberta and southern British Columbia in Canada to Central Argentina. Rattlesnakes are predators that live in a wide array of habitats, hunting small animals such as birds and rodents.