Geotechnical Design Manual. The Geotechnical Engineering Bureau is in the clearance review process of the Engineering Information Issuance System (EIIS) as part of an overall effort to establish an official NYSDOT Geotechnical Design Manual (GDM). The focus of the geotechnical design, construction, and maintenance support within the context of NYSDOT is to ensure that the soil or rock beneath the ground surface can support the loads and conditions placed on it by transportation facilities.
The geotechnical report is a tool used to communicate the site conditions and design and construction recommendations to the site design, building design, and construction personnel. Without the use of a geotechnical report, engineers will have to make assumptions for the design criteria of the onsite soils. Unfortunately, the building department is usually not willing to recommend design criteria for the soil thus leaving the engineer to assume code minimum criteria apply.
1 BS EN 1997-1 covers the general basis for the geotechnical aspects of the design of buildings and civil engineering works, assessment of geotechnical data, use of ground improvement, ground reinforcement, dewatering and fill. 2  Geotechnical design of spread foundations, piles, retaining structures, embankments and slopes. 1 BS EN 1997-2 covers requirements for the execution, interpretation and use of results of laboratory tests to assist in the geotechnical design of structures.
The fields of geotechnical engineering and engineering geology are closely related, and have large areas of overlap. However, the field of geotechnical engineering is a specialty of engineering, where the field of engineering geology is a specialty of geology. Offshore (or marine) geotechnical engineering is concerned with foundation design for human-made structures in the sea, away from the coastline (in opposition to onshore or nearshore). Oil platforms, artificial islands and submarine pipelines are examples of such structures
Description: The Geotechnical Design Manual focuses on geotechnical design, construction, and maintenance to ensure that the soil or rock beneath the ground surface can support the loads and conditions placed on it by transportation facilities. May 2015 revision package M 46-03.11 (pdf 4.23 MB). 
What is Geotechnical Engineering? Geotechnical engineering is the branch of engineering concerned with the analysis, design and construction of foundations, slopes, retaining structures, embankments, tunnels, levees, wharves, landfills and other systems that are made of or are supported by soil or rock. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. EN 1997 - Eurocode 7: Geotechnical design, is the European Standard for the design of geotechnical structures, using the limit state design philosophy. It is published in two parts; General rules and Ground investigation and testing. 
Geotechnical engineering is the branch of civil engineering concerned with the engineering behavior of earth materials. Offshore (or marine) geotechnical engineering is concerned with foundation design for human-made structures in the sea, away from the coastline (in opposition to onshore or nearshore). Oil platforms, artificial islands and submarine pipelines are examples of such structure
Geotechnical engineering is important in civil engineering, but also has applications in military, mining, petroleum and other engineering disciplines that are concerned with construction occurring on the surface or within the ground. Offshore (or marine) geotechnical engineering is concerned with foundation design for human-made structures in the sea, away from the coastline (in opposition to onshore or nearshore). Oil platforms, artificial islands and submarine pipelines are examples of such structures