The normal range of urea nitrogen in blood or serum is 5 to 20 mg/dl, or 1.8 to 7.1 mmol urea per liter. The range is wide because of normal variations due to protein intake, endogenous protein catabolism, state of hydration, hepatic urea synthesis, and renal urea excretion. A BUN of 15 mg/dl would represent significantly impaired function for a woman in the thirtieth week of gestation. An elevated BUN:Cr due to a low or low-normal creatinine and a BUN within the reference range is unlikely to be of clinical significance. The ratio is predictive of prerenal injury when BUN:Cr exceeds 20 or when urea:Cr exceeds 100.
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
In medicine, the BUN-to-creatinine ratio is the ratio of two serum laboratory values, the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) (mg/dL) and serum creatinine (mg/dL) (Cr). An elevated BUN:Cr due to a low or low-normal creatinine and a BUN within the reference range is unlikely to be of clinical significance. The ratio is predictive of prerenal injury when BUN:Cr exceeds 20 or when urea:Cr exceeds 100.
Normal range of serum creatinine level will differ with age, gender and physical constitute. In adult men, normal range of serum creatinine is 0.9-1.3mg/dl; while in adult women, normal range of creatinine is 0.6 to 1.1mg/dl. A muscular young man will have a higher normal creatinine result than the senior people with poorer health conditions.
Normal BUN levels differ with age and gender. A healthy male adult must have BUN levels from 8 to 24 mg/dL, while a healthy female adult should have it from 6 to 21mg/dL. The normal BUN levels for children fall between 5 and 18 mg/dL. Meanwhile, the healthy BUN level for pregnant women is from 5 to 12 mg/dL. The normal BUN levels for children and women are relatively low due to their bodies’ ability to split up protein molecules
Normal BUN levels are signs that the body breaks down and releases the excess proteins properly. It shows that the liver and kidney are doing their metabolic and excretory functionscorrectly. Serious health problems like kidney diseases and liver problems can make the BUN levels of a person go beyond the normal range. The normal BUN levels for children fall between 5 and 18 mg/dL. Meanwhile, the healthy BUN level for pregnant women is from 5 to 12 mg/dL.
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein. Normal human adult blood should contain between 6 to 20 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml (6–20 mg/ dL) of blood. Individual laboratories may have different reference ranges as the procedure may vary. To convert from mg/dL of blood urea nitrogen to mmol/L of urea, multiply by 0.357 (each molecule of urea having 2 nitrogens, each of molar mass 14g/mol) (BUN is the mass of nitrogen within urea/volume, not the mass of urea).
If kidney function begins to decline, BUN and creatinine rise. A normal creatinine depends on muscle mass and age. In general, a normal creatine is 0.5 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). A normal BUN is 7 to 20 mg/dL. Remember that different laboratories use different testing equipment, and may have slightly different ranges for normal. A small, temporary increase in either BUN or creatinine can occur during illness or dehydration; the numbers usually return to normal during recovery. In cases of dehydration, BUN may increase in a higher proportion than the creatinine. A normal BUN-to-creatinine ratio is between 10 to 1 and 20 to 1. (For example, a BUN of 14 and a creatinine of 1.2 would be a ratio of 12.).
Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) measures the amount of urea nitrogen in bloodstream. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females. Generally, a high blood urea nitrogen level means that the kidneys are not performing well, particularly if the result is above 50mg/dl. In adult men, normal range of serum creatinine is 0.9-1.3mg/dl; while in adult women, normal range of creatinine is 0.6 to 1.1mg/dl. A muscular young man will have a higher normal creatinine result than the senior people with poorer health conditions.