If so, this booklet can help you. While head and neck radiation helps treat cancer, it can also cause other things to happen in your mouth called side effects. Some of these problems could cause you to delay or stop treatment. This booklet will tell you ways to help prevent mouth problems so you'll get the most from your cancer treatment. Head and neck radiation causes other side effects in children, depending on the child's age. Problems with teeth are the most common. Permanent teeth may be slow to come in and may look different from normal teeth. Teeth may fall out.
Radiation therapy (RT) is often used to treat head and neck cancer. It can be used as the only treatment, in combination with chemotherapy (chemoradiation therapy), or after surgery (adjuvant radiation therapy). The goal of radiation therapy is to kill cancer cells. Early side effects include inflammation of the oropharyngeal mucosa (mucositis), painful swallowing (odynophagia), difficulty swallowing (dysphagia), hoarseness, lack of saliva (xerostomia), orofacial pain, dermatitis, hair loss, nausea, vomiting, i nadequate nutrition and hydration, and weight loss.
The side effects depend on the site and extent of the head and neck cancer. In general, irradiation of the head and neck does not cause nausea, but a few patients do experience nausea during treatment. Many effective antiemetics (drugs that alleviate nausea) can relieve this symptom if it should occur. Generally, the side effects of radiation therapy become apparent about two weeks into the treatment course, when a sore throat, loss of taste sensation, dryness of the mouth and dry skin reactions may occur. Sore throat is the main side effect that makes the course of radiation therapy difficult.
Head and neck. Side effects of radiation therapy to the head and neck may include dry mouth, difficulty swallowing, mouth and gum sores, stiffness in the jaw, nausea, and a type of swelling called lymphedema. In addition, tooth decay may occur. Fortunately, the dose of radiation associated with fibrosis is well known, and the radiation oncologist accounts for this in the planning process to minimize the risk of fibrosis. Stomach and abdomen. Side effects from radiation therapy to the stomach and abdomen may include nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.
The most significant immediate side effects of radiation for head and neck cancers are mucositis, inflammation of the mucous membranes of the mouth or throat, or dry mouth (xerostomia). These side effects may be further complicated by damage to the salivary glands, resulting in a lack of saliva. One of the frequently encountered complications of radiation therapy for head and neck cancer is abnormally low levels of thyroid hormone, referred to as hypothyroidism. Signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism include weight gain, tiredness, depression, constipation, brittle nails, and pale color.
Side effects associated with radiation therapy occur because the high doses of radiation used to destroy cancer cells can also damage healthy cells and tissues located near the treatment area. However, major improvements in radiation technology have made it more precise, leading to fewer side effects. Fortunately, the dose of radiation associated with fibrosis is well known, and the radiation oncologist accounts for this in the planning process to minimize the risk of fibrosis. Stomach and abdomen. Side effects from radiation therapy to the stomach and abdomen may include nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.
If you get radiation therapy to the head or neck, you need to take good care of your teeth, gums, mouth, and throat. Here are some tips that may help you manage mouth problems: 1  Avoid spicy and rough foods, such as raw vegetables, dry crackers, and nuts. 2  Don’t eat or drink very hot or very cold foods or beverages. People who get radiation to the head and neck might have side effects such as: 1  Soreness (or even open sores) in the mouth or throat. 2  Dry mouth. 3  Trouble swallowing. 4  Changes in taste. 5  Nausea. 6  Earaches. 7  Tooth decay. 8  Swelling in the gums, throat, or neck. 9  Hair loss. 10  Changes in skin texture. 11  Jaw stiffnes
Doctors use head and neck radiation to treat cancer because it kills cancer cells. But radiation to the head and neck can harm normal cells, including cells in the mouth. Side effects include problems with your teeth and gums; the soft, moist lining of your mouth; glands that make saliva (spit); and jaw bones. Head and neck radiation causes other side effects in children, depending on the child's age. Problems with teeth are the most common. Permanent teeth may be slow to come in and may look different from normal teeth. Teeth may fall out.