Two thousand years ago, the world was ruled by Rome, but Rome could not rule itself. It took two men to wrestle Rome back from chaos and turn a republic into an empire. In the first century BC, Rome was a republic. Power lay in the hands of the Senate, elected by Roman citizens. But the senators were fighting for power between themselves. Order had given way to anarchy and only might was right.
Julius Caesar actually changed Rome by being killed. It was his murder that began the steps toward forming the government of the principate. Gaius Octavius, changes his name to Augustus Caesar when he came to be the Emperor of Rome. He did it as a power symbol: the name Augustus is Latin (Roman Language) for Grea … t. Basically he thought a new title, new name.... 3 people found this useful.
Caesar was assassinated in March 44 BC. The motives of the conspirators were both personal as well as political. Many of Caesar's ultimate assassins were jealous of him, and unsatisfied as to the recognition that they had received from him. After Caesar's assassination, Mark Antony, who had been Caesar's master of the horse, formed an alliance with Caesar's adopted son and great-nephew, Gaius Octavian. Along with Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, they formed an alliance known as the Second Triumvirate
The fatt=richh the poor-bad class During Julius Caesar's time Rome had the standard social classes. They were the patricians, plebeians, equites, proletariat, freedmen and s … laves. Gaius Octavius, changes his name to Augustus Caesar when he came to be the Emperor of Rome. He did it as a power symbol: the name Augustus is Latin (Roman Language) for Grea … t. Basically he thought a new title, new name.... 3 people found this useful.
The constitutional reforms of Julius Caesar were a series of laws pertaining to the Constitution of the Roman Republic enacted between 49 and 44 BC, during Caesar's dictatorship. After Caesar's assassination, Mark Antony, who had been Caesar's master of the horse, formed an alliance with Caesar's adopted son and great-nephew, Gaius Octavian. Along with Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, they formed an alliance known as the Second Triumvirate
When Caesar returned to Rome in 47 BC, the ranks of the senate had been severely depleted, and so he used his Censorial powers to appoint many new senators, which eventually raised the senate's membership to 900. After Caesar's assassination, Mark Antony, who had been Caesar's master of the horse, formed an alliance with Caesar's adopted son and great-nephew, Gaius Octavian. Along with Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, they formed an alliance known as the Second Triumvirate
Following implementation of the 1939 amendments, the basic Social Security program was in place. It would remain essentially unchanged over the 1940's as the Nation concentrated its efforts on fighting World War II and toward building a healthy post-war economy. (A few years later, in 1972, Medicare protection was extended to people who had been receiving cash disability benefits for 24 months or more.). The Last 15 Years. With the advent of Medicare, the body of programs which we refer to today as Social Security was complete.
oPompey left for Greece when news of Caesar's march South of Gaul reached him oPompey and senate called Caesar a tyrant oCaesar responded that Pompey and the senate were tyrannical, and he didn't abuse the cities he captured that already belonged to Rome. o Octavian was the adopted heir of Caesar o Cicero persuaded the senate and consuls to support Octavian and gave him imperium; o Two consuls are killed at Mutina o Lepidus and Antony join forces (Lepidus has control of the cavalry). Antony victorious, Octavian and the Republic sign a treaty with Antony.