While most recipes call for discarding the marinade before cooking, you can also cook a steak in the marinade. However, in order to cook a steak in the marinade, take basic steps for making sure that your steak is properly cooked and not contaminated by the marinade. Marinades contain three basic ingredients -- an acid such as vinegar or lemon juice, oil such as olive oil, and spices such as salt and pepper. Braising. Braising is a common cooking process that uses liquid. During the braising process, you can add extra herbs and spices to the marinade for extra flavor. To braise steak in the marinade, brown the steak first on a skillet, cover it with the marinade and cook slowly, letting the steak simmer in the marinade.
Once it comes to a boil add honey and stir to mix well. Now add the remaining ingredients to the sauce pan. Remove the sauce pan from heat and marinate the steaks in it overnight. How to Cook Marinated Steak. For cooking, remove the steak from the resealable bag, but do not discard the marinade. Do not remove the herbs which stick to the meat. Cut the steak into two pieces and sprinkle generous amount of salt and pepper on it. 
Rub the marinade into the steak and flip the steak once or twice in the dish to coat. Marinate for 1 hour or up to 24 hours: Cover the dish and place the steak in the fridge for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours. Flip the steak occasionally if you happen to think about it. The Best Way to Cook Flank Steak. You can grill flank steak, cook it in a skillet on the stovetop, or even cut it up for a stir-fry, but my choice for everyday cooking is under the broiler. The broiler is basically an upside-down grill that blasts the steak with direct heat.
1 Combine the marinade ingredients in a large non-reactive bowl. Place steak in the bowl and turn so that it is completely coated with the marinade. (You can also place the steak and marinade in a freezer bag and place it in a bowl.) Chill and marinate for at least 2 hours and up to overnight. 2 Prepare your grill for high, direct heat with one part of the grill for lower, indirect heat. 4 When the steak has cooked to your preferred level of doneness, remove from the grill and place on a cutting board. Cover with aluminum foil to hold in the heat while the steak rests for 10 to 15 minutes. 5 Notice the direction of the muscle fibers of the steak; this is called the grain of the meat.
Line a broiler pan with aluminum foil, add the top, and spray the top with nonstick cooking spray. Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total). The Best Way to Cook Flank Steak. You can grill flank steak, cook it in a skillet on the stovetop, or even cut it up for a stir-fry, but my choice for everyday cooking is under the broiler. The broiler is basically an upside-down grill that blasts the steak with direct heat.
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/Cookingguide. Cooking marinated steak in a skillet requires you to cut that steak in a very specific way for the best results. Cook marinated steak in a skillet with help from a chef at Coast 2 Coast Cuisine in this free video clip. Expert: Edward Gallagher. Filmmaker: Alan Mack
I always take my steaks out of the fridge at least 30 minutes before I have to cook them and allow them to marinate in a half cup olive oil, 4 tablespoons soy sauce and 4 teaspoons Grill Mates Montreal Steak Seasoning. That marinade recipe is for two good sized steaks but you can easily double it if needed. 1. Thick steaks approximately 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches thick that weigh between 12 and 16 ounces work best. 2. Marinate Steaks to Cook in The Oven: To cook steak in the oven that has great flavor and is tender it is best to marinate them. This is another timing thing for me but it works.
Remove bag with steak from fridge and place on counter for 20 minutes or up to 2 hours. Cook on a grill or using the stovetop method above. Approximate cost/serving: The cost of the marinade alone is under $1 if you get your dried herbs in bulk (many grocery stores have a bulk spice/herb section). 