Ambien CR in Detail-Patient Information: Side Effects. Zolpidem may cause a severe allergic reaction. Stop taking zolpidem and get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Summary: Skin rash is found among people who take Ambien, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for 1 - 6 months, also take medication Zometa, and have Pain. We study 43,202 people who have side effects while taking Ambien from FDA and social media. Among them, 2,004 have Skin rash.
Ambien in Detail-Patient Information: Side Effects. Zolpidem may cause a severe allergic reaction. Stop taking zolpidem and get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Ambien is the brand name for zolpidem, a drug that's used to treat insomnia. Insomnia is a sleep disorder that makes it difficult for you to go to sleep, stay asleep, or both. Ambien is in a class of drugs called sedative-hypnotics. They work by slowing the activity in your brain, which allows for a state of sleep.
A generic formulation is available. The most common side effects of Ambien (zolpidem) are drowsiness, dizziness, weakness, lightheadedness, drugged feeling, tiredness, loss of coordination, stuffy nose, dry mouth, sore throat, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, stomach upset, headache, or muscle pain.
Summary: Hives is found among people who take Ambien, especially for people who are female, 40-49 old, have been taking the drug for 1 - 2 years, also take medication Lortab, and have Sleep disorder. We study 43,202 people who have side effects while taking Ambien from FDA and social media.
In some rare cases, Ambien has been known to cause severe allergic reactions. If this happens, stop taking Ambien and immediately seek medical attention. The most common signs of an allergic reaction from Ambien include: hives, swellings of the face, lips, tongue, or throat, and difficulty breathing.