Southern Tradition. Traditionally speaking, a picnic roast is defined as a pork shoulder roast, which is considered the fattest and toughest part of a pig. Southern cooks typically smoke or barbecue the roast for long periods of time and refer to it as pulled pork or a picnic roast. Whatever the cut of pork roast, the meat can be seasoned by using a needle to inject flavoring solution into the meat. A blend of apple juice, cider vinegar and Worcestershire sauce makes a tasty solution. Then use a seasoning rub, and slow-cook the roast in the oven or smoker. Serve with barbecue sauce on the side.
Pork shoulder picnic or shoulder arm picnic are labels defined by the government and come from the shoulder cut. Over time, the term picnic roast has come to mean a barbecued pork roast. Picnic roast is made of pork. Whatever the cut of pork roast, the meat can be seasoned by using a needle to inject flavoring solution into the meat. A blend of apple juice, cider vinegar and Worcestershire sauce makes a tasty solution. Then use a seasoning rub, and slow-cook the roast in the oven or smoker. Serve with barbecue sauce on the side.
Ekilby/Flickr. Picnic shoulder is a cut of pork that comes, as you might expect, from the shoulder area of the pig. But then, so too do cuts labeled pork butt (strange but true!). If a recipe calls for one, you can use the other. Picnic shoulder and pork shoulder are the same (with slight variations in how they are cut in different parts of the country) and one can be substituted for the other in recipes without worry.
Picnic Roast Recipe. Whatever the cut of pork roast, the meat can be seasoned by using a needle to inject flavoring solution into the meat. A blend of apple juice, cider vinegar and Worcestershire sauce makes a tasty solution. Then use a seasoning rub, and slow-cook the roast in the oven or smoker. Serve with barbecue sauce on the side.
As such, picnic shoulder is a bit better for cooking whole and slicing whereas pork butt is perfect for making pulled pork and other recipes in which the meat is meant to fall apart. Yet both picnic shoulder and pork butt benefit from long, slow cooking, and are great cut up and used as stew meat and in chilis. If a recipe calls for one, you can use the other. Picnic shoulder and pork shoulder are the same (with slight variations in how they are cut in different parts of the country) and one can be substituted for the other in recipes without worry.
For a special supper, slow-roast a pork shoulder. Start the roast in the morning, and it will be ready for dinner. The skin crisps to crunchy cracklings, and the meat melts with juicy tenderness. Serve it with carrots butter-steamed in a slow-cooker, then finished with cream and olives. 
Cuts labeled  pork shoulder  or picnic shoulder are from the thinner, triangle-shaped end of the shoulder whereas the butt is from the thicker, more intensely marbled end of the shoulder. If a recipe calls for one, you can use the other. Picnic shoulder and pork shoulder are the same (with slight variations in how they are cut in different parts of the country) and one can be substituted for the other in recipes without worry.
There are 2 parts of the pork shoulder – the Picnic Roast (what we’re using) and Boston Butt (which comes from the upper part of the shoulder). Boston Butt is generally a bit more expensive, but will usually have the bone removed for easier serving. 4. Once your oven is preheated and pork rubbed, place into the oven and bake for anywhere between 8-10 hours. I did 10 hours for my 8 lb. roast, but if you have smaller sizes or bigger sizes, you will have to adjust accordingly. You essentially want the internal temperature to be about 190F. 5.
pork arm picnic = pork picnic roast = fresh pork picnic = pork picnic shoulder roast = fresh pork picnic ham Notes: Southerners like to use this fatty, bony cut to make barbecued pulled pork. It's also available boneless. 
Pork Shoulder Picnic Roast The shoulder roast or fresh picnic roast is usually smoked, but you can find fresh uncured shoulder roasts in most supermarket meat cases. They are often priced dirt cheap, even cheaper than pork shoulder butts, but they are not a better value. Next. The first type of cut is called for in a pulled-pork recipe, but I can only find the second type of pork cut (with the word picnic) at my local supermarket.