Manfred /man-fred/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced MAN-fred. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Manfred is man of peace. Used by Bryon for an antihero in an epic poem. Manfred is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#46523 out of 150436, Top 31%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Manfred for boys. Manfred has not made it into the Top 1000 thus far
Other English variants include the pet forms Fred (also used in Dutch), Mannie, and Manny. Manfredi (Italian) and Manfredo (Italian) are variations of Manfred that are used in foreign languages. The shortening Fredi (German) is another foreign variation. Manfred is not popular as a baby name for boys. Mainfred (Old French) and Manfried (Germanic) are older forms of the name. The name is of the first element man, magin (meaning 'strength, power') or manag, combined with the second element fridu ('peace, protection, safety').
Manfred Name Meaning. German and Dutch: evidently from the Germanic personal name Manfred, composed of the elements man ‘man’ + frid ‘peace’. The surname is rare in Germany, however, while the personal name was common in Lombardy, and Italian sources derive the first element from magin ‘strength’. Compare Manfredo. You can find out where the majority of the Manfred families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
[ 2 syll. man-fred, ma-nfr-ed ] The baby boy name Manfred is pronounced M AA N-FRahT in Dutch or M AA N-FRehT in German and Polish †. Manfred has its origins in the Germanic language, and it is used largely in Dutch, English, German, and Polish. Manfred is of the meaning 'man of peace, strong peace, much peace'. Mainfred (Old French) and Manfried (Germanic) are older forms of the name. The name is of the first element man, magin (meaning 'strength, power') or manag, combined with the second element fridu ('peace, protection, safety').
Meaning & History. Derived from the Germanic elements magan strength and frid peace. This is the name of the main character in Byron's drama 'Manfred' (1817). This name was also borne by Manfred von Richthofen (1892-1918), the German pilot in World War I who was known as the Red Baron. 
Meaning of Manfred. German name. In German, the name Manfred means-man of peace. Other origins for the name Manfred include-German, English.The name Manfred is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-man of peace. Origin-Germany. 
Comments and insights on the name Manfred: | Edit. Many German boys received this name between 1914 and 1940 due to the fame of Manfred von Richthofen, the Red Baron, in World War I.
English Meaning: The name Manfred is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Manfred is: Hero's peace. German Meaning: The name Manfred is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Manfred is: Man of peace. Peaceful. Teutonic Meaning: The name Manfred is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Manfred is: Mighty peace.