The Blarney Stone. The Blarney Stone (Irish: Cloch na Blarnan) is a block of Carboniferous limestone built into the battlements of Blarney Castle, Blarney, about 8 kilometres (5 mi) from Cork, Ireland. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the stone and tour the castle and its gardens. The word blarney has come to mean clever, flattering, or coaxing talk.
Kiss the Blarney Stone @ Castle Blarney. After travelling through County Tipperary, your tour bus will reach the charming village of Blarney by late morning-at this stage almost half of the day’s driving is done! (Distance from Dublin to Blarney Castle is only 250km. People travel from around the globe to experience the Blarney Castle near Cork. They climb the fairytale medieval battlements to kiss the Blarney Stone and thereby acquire the “ gift of the gab !” – seven years of charming eloquent speech! You will have the opportunity to do the same on this Blarney Castle Tour
OVERVIEW: We depart from Dublin, driving through the midlands down to Blarney, in the beautiful County of Cork. Visit the most famous castle in all of Ireland!! The world famous Blarney Castle. Lie back and kiss the magical Blarney Stone and see the exciting battlements. Get the gift of the gab for 7 years!! Also visit the Titanic town of Cobh in 1 brilliant day trip from Dublin.
- Tour stops every 1.5 hours. You will have 1.5 hours at Blarney Castle, 2 hours in Cork and 1 hour in the Rock of Cashel. - Departure from the Rock of Cashel is around 17:00. Tour ends at the Dublin Tourism information office by 19:00 at the latest. Cancellation Policy. 
The Blarney Stone Kissing the Blarney stone The world famous Blarney Stone is situated high up in the battlements of the castle. Follow one of the several long, stone spiral staircases up to the top and enjoy the spectacular views of the lush green Irish countryside, Blarney House and The Village of Blarney. 
We arrive at Blarney Castle! This is for most people the highlight of the tour, Blarney Castle known the world over for its famous Blarney Stone. Kiss the stone and receive the “gift of the gab”. Blarney castle isn't all about the Stone, the Blarney manor its self is worth exploring as are its fantastic grounds and woodland walks.
Arrive into Cork Kent Station, we transfer to our Railtours Ireland tour coach through Cork City to Blarney Village and historic Blarney Castle, built in 1446 by Dermot Mc Carthy. You will have time to kiss the famous stone, which is said to bestow the gift of eternal eloquence on those lucky enough to do so. 
This tour Includes admission to Blarney Castle and Gardens worth 12 euro! Visit the most famous castle in all of Ireland-Blarney Castle. Lay back and kiss the magical Blarney Stone and receive the gift of eloquent speech for 7 years. Also visit Cobh, the last departure port for RMS Titanic in April 1912. Enjoy a stroll in Cobh and visit St Coleman's Cathedral, overlooking Cork Harbour. Depart Dublin. We depart Dublin, driving through the midlands down to Blarney, in the beautiful County Cork. We will pass through the Golden Vale, the most fertile lands in all of Europe with green fields as far as the eye can see.
Arrive into Cork Kent Station, we transfer to our Railtours Ireland tour coach through Cork City to Blarney Village and historic Blarney Castle, built in 1446 by Dermot Mc Carthy. You will have time to kiss the famous stone, which is said to bestow the gift of eternal eloquence on those lucky enough to do so. 