lineage. n. 1. direct descent from an ancestor, esp a line of descendants from one ancestor. 2. a less common word for derivation. lineage. noun descent, family, line, succession, house, stock, birth, breed, pedigree, extraction, ancestry, forebears, progeny, heredity, forefathers, genealogy They can trace their lineage back to the 18th century.
It is generally thought here, that the word 'sandwich' as an item of food, has no connection with the town, only with John Montagu, who happened to have the title, a 'sandwich' could just as easily have been called a 'portsmouth' if the 1st Earl, Edward Montagu, had not changed his mind over his title. 
–noun, plural-gies. 1. the derivation of a word. 2. an account of the history of a particular word or element of a word. 3. the study of historical linguistic change, esp. as manifested in individual words.
We can often learn a meaning of a word or how to spell that word by understanding the parts of the word. For example, the ancient Greek word hippos means horse and potamus means river. So, we can gather that hippopotamus is a river horse. The study of the origin of words is called Etymology. We can study the changes in a word through time by researching old books and manuscripts. Etymologists study the construction of a word and compare languages to discover the history and origin of a word. As we become familiar with various root words, we can gain more knowledge regarding the meaning of more difficult words. The study of the origin of words can help us gain a more educated vocabulary.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2015). Etymology is the study of the history of words, their origins, and how their form and meaning have changed over time. By extension, the term the etymology of [a word] means the origin of the particular word. Etymologists apply a number of methods to study the origins of words, some of which are: 1  Philological research. 2  Changes in the form and meaning of the word can be traced with the aid of older texts, if such are available. 3  Making use of dialectological data.
The lineage of a word is called its: ETYMOLOGY. The lineage of a word is called its _____. a. synonym c. antonym b. etymology d. anthropology. (More). Question. Not Answered.
The word etymology is derived from the Greek word ἐτυμολογία, etymologia, itself from ἔτυμον, etymon, meaning true sense, and the suffix-logia, denoting the study of. In linguistics, the term etymon is used to refer to a word or morpheme from which a later word is derived. Etymologists apply a number of methods to study the origins of words, some of which are: 1  Philological research. 2  Changes in the form and meaning of the word can be traced with the aid of older texts, if such are available. 3  Making use of dialectological data.
The history of the word nigger is often traced to the Latin word niger, meaning Black. This word became the noun, Negro (Black person) in English, and simply the color Black in Spanish and Portuguese. 
The lineage of a word is called its _____. a. synonym c. antonym b. etymology d. anthropology. The lineage of a word is called its etymology. The lineage of a word is called its _____. a. synonym c. antonym b. etymology d. anthropology. (More). Question. Not Answered.