A DUI conviction will stay on your record forever unless you get it expunged at some point after successful completion of probation. However, the DUI conviction will be used as a prior DUI conviction against you on any subsequent DUI arrest occurring within the next 10 years of that conviction. In Michigan, points from a DUI stay on your driving record for 2 years. The notation of the offense is always on your driving record As for your criminal record, the DUI is always on your criminal record.
1 A misdemeanor DUI is on your criminal record and California DMV record for 10 years. 2  After 10 years, the courts and DMV cannot use that DUI against you. 3  A felony DUI is on your record for 10 years. This means if you got a DUI 20 years ago and get arrested for another DUI it will be your second DUI and you will face additional punishment. Expect the worse and expect the California DUI laws to change in the future and make your DUI stay on your record for 15 years or longer if not for a lifetime.
1 After 10 years, the courts and DMV cannot use that DUI against you. 2  A felony DUI is on your record for 10 years. 3  The ten year time period begins on your arrest date. This means if you got a DUI 20 years ago and get arrested for another DUI it will be your second DUI and you will face additional punishment. Expect the worse and expect the California DUI laws to change in the future and make your DUI stay on your record for 15 years or longer if not for a lifetime.
How long does a prior DUI conviction stay on my record and count as a second offense? While DUI / DWI laws vary from state to state, you can count on a DUI / DWI staying on your record for at least five years. However, in many states, any prior DUI / DWI conviction can affect your sentencing, even if it was 20 years ago. Question: I just received my second driving under the influence (DUI) conviction. Although my first DUI conviction was eight years ago, when I was 21, I'm worried that my prior conviction will affect my sentencing.
In Louisiana, a DUI conviction will stay on your record indefinitely unless you take action to have it expunged. That being said, a DUI conviction can only be used against you in criminal matters for 10 years. In Michigan, points from a DUI stay on your driving record for 2 years. The notation of the offense is always on your driving record As for your criminal record, the DUI is always on your criminal record.
According to carinsurance.com, in California a DUI will stay on your driving record for 10 years and cannot be expunged before that time period has passed. According the same website, a DUI will stay on your record for a lifetime in the state of Illinois. Warning. While many states specify that a DUI will be removed from your driving record after a certain period of years, in other states, a DUI can stay on your driving record indefinitely.
WARNING-presently a DUI conviction will be on your record for 10 years starting from your arrest date. However, there are efforts in the California legislature to make a DUI stay on your record for a lifetime and to be used against you for your whole life. This means if you got a DUI 20 years ago and get arrested for another DUI it will be your second DUI and you will face additional punishment. Expect the worse and expect the California DUI laws to change in the future and make your DUI stay on your record for 15 years or longer if not for a lifetime.
Each state within the U.S. has a State Department of Transportation (DOT). It is the DOT’s responsibility to manage the DMV (Department/Division of Motor Vehicles). The DMV processes requests for driving records, and will have information about how long a DUI will stay on your record.Trusted HelplineHelp Available 24/71-800-971-1547PRIVACY GUARANTEED1. Find your state Department of Transportation/DOT2. 
However, you may have a DUI record remain on your driving record indefinitely. If you were convicted of a DUI a few years ago it is important to check your driving record to see if your DUI record is still showing up on your driving record. Getting Your DUI Record Expunged. You may be able to have a DUI record expunged from your driving record depending on the state laws where you live. In order to do remove a DUI record, you’ll need to speak with the Department of Motor Vehicles where you live to find out how to remove the DUI record.
Answer: While DUI / DWI laws vary from state to state, you can count on a DUI / DWI staying on your record for at least five years. However, in many states, any prior DUI / DWI conviction can affect your sentencing, even if it was 20 years ago. Question: I just received my second driving under the influence (DUI) conviction. Although my first DUI conviction was eight years ago, when I was 21, I'm worried that my prior conviction will affect my sentencing.