Answer 1: Photosynthesis is the ability of plants to absorb the energy of light, and convert it into energy for the plant. To do this, plants have pigment molecules which absorb the energy of light very well. The pigment responsible for most light-harvesting by plants is chlorophyll, a green pigment. The green color indicates that it is absorbing all the non-green light-- the blues (~425-450 nm), the reds and yellows (600-700 nm).
A pigment is a compound that absorbs a particular wavelength of visible light. Chlorophyll is a green pigment contained in thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts that is used in photosynthesis by plants. In bacteria that also perform photosynthesis, chlorophylls are in the plasma membrane. The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of wavelengths from the radio waves of your car stereo to high-energy gamma rays. Chlorophyll and other pigments absorb specific visible wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum. The visible light is literally the colored wavelengths that are visible to your eyes. They range from red at a wavelength of 700 nm to blue at a wavelength of 400 nm
Chlorophyll absorbs certain wavelengths of light within the visible light spectrum. As shown in detail in the absorption spectra, chlorophyll absorbs light in the red (long wavelength) and the blue (short wavelength) regions of the visible light spectrum. Green light is not absorbed but reflected, making the plant appear green. Chlorophyll is found in the chloroplasts of plants. Plants are able to satisfy their energy requirements by absorbing light from the blue and red parts of the spectrum. However, there is still a large spectral region between 500 and 600 nm where chlorophyll absorbs very little light, and plants appear green because this light is reflected.
Best Answer: Chlorophylls a & b absorb light most strongly in the red and violet portions of the spectrum. Green light is poorly absorbed so when white light (which contains the entire visible spectrum) shines on leaves, green rays are transmitted and reflected giving leaves their green color. 
Confidence votes 1. there's 2 different types of chlorophyll. chlorophyll a absorbs light in the violet and red regions of the visible spectrum while chlorophyll b absorbs light in the blue and red regions of the visible spectrum. 
A pigment is any substance that absorbs light. The color of the pigment comes from the wavelengths of light that are reflected, or in other words, those wavelengths not absorbed. Chlorophyll, the green pigment common to all photosynthetic cells, absorbs all wavelengths of visible light except green, which it reflects. This is why plants appear green to us. Black pigments absorb all wavelengths of visible light that strike them. White pigments reflect most of the wavelengths striking them. Wavelengths absorbed by chlorophyll and other photosynthetic pigments generate electrons to power photosynthesis. All photosynthetic organisms have chlorophyll a which absorbs violet-blue and reddish orange-red wavelengths. Chlorophyll a reflects green and yellow-green wavelengths. Accessory photosynthetic pigments, including chlorophyll b and beta-carotene, absorb energy that chlorophyll a does not absorb
Chlorophyll absorbs light most strongly in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, followed by the red portion. Conversely, it is a poor absorber of green and near-green portions of the spectrum, hence the green color of chlorophyll-containing tissues. 