Abdominal angina is abdominal pain after eating that occurs in individuals with ongoing poor blood supply to their small intestines known as chronic mesenteric ischemia. The term angina is used in reference to angina pectoris, a similar symptom due to obstruction of the coronary artery. Pathophysiology [edit]. The pathophysiology is similar to that seen in angina pectoris and intermittent claudication. The most common cause of abdominal angina is atherosclerotic vascular disease, where the occlusive process commonly involves the ostia and the proximal few centimeters of the mesenteric vessels. It can be associated with:
Abdominal angina is caused by narrowing and then blockage of the artery or arteries of the gut. It is not uncommon for the patient to have similar problems elsewhere in the body – heart (cardiac angina) or legs (peripheral artery disease). Abdominal pain is the hallmark of abdominal angina. However, abdominal pain is a non-specific symptom meaning that it can be due to a host of different conditions and does not clearly indicate the underlying cause.
This type of angina, or chest pain, may be a symptom of coronary microvascular disease (MVD) . Coronary MVD is heart disease that affects the heart’s smallest coronary artery blood vessels. 1  May be more severe and last longer than other types of angina pain. Learn more: 
Intestinal ischemia occurs when the blood flow through the major arteries that supply blood to your intestines slows or stops. The condition has many potential causes, including a blockage in an artery caused by a blood clot, or a narrowing of an artery due to buildup of deposits, such as cholesterol. Whatever the cause, diminished blood flow within your digestive tract leaves cells without enough oxygen, which causes the cells to weaken and die. If damage is severe enough, infection, gangrene and eventually a hole (perforation) in the wall of the intestines can occur. If untreated, intestinal ischemia can be fatal.
Abdominal angina symptoms. Abdominal pain is the hallmark of abdominal angina. However, abdominal pain is a non-specific symptom meaning that it can be due to a host of different conditions and does not clearly indicate the underlying cause. Certain characteristics of the pain in abdominal angina may provide a better indication of the condition
Background. Abdominal angina is defined as the postprandial pain that occurs in individuals with sufficient mesenteric vascular occlusive disease such that blood flow cannot increase enough to meet visceral demands. Schnitzler first described the clinical picture of postprandial pain in 1901. However, the true description of postprandial abdominal angina is attributed to Baccelli or Goodman (1918). In 1957, Mikkelsen proposed surgical treatment of occlusive mesenteric vascular disease.
Angina. Angina is a pain or discomfort felt in your chest, which is usually caused by coronary heart disease. Some people feel the pain in their arm, neck, stomach or jaw. Angina often feels like a heaviness or tightness in your chest, and this may spread to your arms, neck, jaw, back or stomach as well
Pathophysiology. Intestinal ischemia results from the imbalance of oxygen supply to and oxygen consumption by the gastrointestinal tract. Diminished blood flow results from narrowing of the mesenteric vessels. The most common cause of abdominal angina is atherosclerotic vascular disease. It commonly involves the ostia of the mesenteric vessels. The 3 arteries supplying the gut are the celiac, superior mesenteric, and inferior mesenteric, as shown below. Schnitzler first described the clinical picture of postprandial pain in 1901. However, the true description of postprandial abdominal angina is attributed to Baccelli or Goodman (1918). In 1957, Mikkelsen proposed surgical treatment of occlusive mesenter