Once the new bamboo is well rooted in the ground, the shoots will be significantly larger than previous canes, usually gaining 3-5 feet of height each year. See this link to for a photo illustration of the growth rate for new shoots from a large grove of Moso growing at Bamboo Garden. This is especially impressive when watching Timber Bamboo new shoots grow over a foot per day, from ground level up to 50 feet in the spring season. New shoots literally SPRING out of the ground! They need to be attached to a large grove to produce this caliber of growth.
Organic fertilizer is a better choice for improving the long term health of the soil and the bamboo. 1 pound of 21-5-6 synthetic fertilizer, is equal in nitrogen to about 5 pounds of 4-3-2 organic fertilizer. This is especially impressive when watching Timber Bamboo new shoots grow over a foot per day, from ground level up to 50 feet in the spring season. New shoots literally SPRING out of the ground! They need to be attached to a large grove to produce this caliber of growth.
Water the golden bamboo three times a week during the summer. If temperatures are over 90 degrees, you may need to water five days a week. Keep an eye on the moisture content of the soil, and if it appears to be drying quickly, give the bamboo some water. Fertilize the golden bamboo once a month with a 17-6-2 slow-release fertilizer. Follow the label directions for dosage.
Bill replies... What I would do Patricia is to dig a small clump of your Bamboo up and place it in a pot and if you do not want to keep any of the remaining Bamboo I would spray with a systemic weed killer such as Round Up or Tumbleweed-which contains glyphosate. Division is best taking place during early springtime and if your Bamboo is growing in a large pot you can knock the Bamboo out of the pot and using a very sharp strong knife, saw or sharp spade to divide the large plant, ensuring that there quite a number of shoots.
Bamboo Care and Maintenance. Bamboo has a multitude of uses. It is the fastest growing plant used in the landscape to create a natural, tall privacy screen. Some people are captivated by bamboos decorative appeal; the dazzling array of colors, and graceful, evergreen foliage. 
Planting Bamboo Plants. Once you have chosen a place to start your bamboo growing, you can plant your bamboo. Dig a hole that is twice as wide as the rootball on your bamboo. Set the bamboo in the hole and spread the roots out some in the hole. Gently backfill the hole, tamping down the soil some as you go. Caring for Bamboo Plants. Bamboo plant care after the plants are established is pretty straightforward. Bamboo does best if it gets at least 1 inch of water a week, either from rainfall or manual watering.
For example, a young bamboo that is about 8 feet tall with 4 canes, may produce 3 additional new shoots in the spring that grow to 10 feet, within two months time. Next spring those 7 canes will produce about 5 to 10 new shoots that could reach 15 feet. This is especially impressive when watching Timber Bamboo new shoots grow over a foot per day, from ground level up to 50 feet in the spring season. New shoots literally SPRING out of the ground! They need to be attached to a large grove to produce this caliber of growth.
The Golden Bamboo (Aurea) is generally described as a perennial vine or shrub or graminoid. This is not native to the U.S. (United States) and has its most active growth period in the spring and summer and fall. The Golden Bamboo (Aurea) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a rapid growth rate. At maturity, the typical Golden Bamboo (Aurea) will reach up to 15 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 15 feet. The Golden Bamboo (Aurea) is usually not commercially available except under contract.
Keep the bamboo moist at all times. After transplanting keep the bamboo well watered for two weeks and then begin a regular irrigation program. Watch the bamboo, if its leaves start curling this is a sign of water stress. You may need to give it more water, remove more leaves, or trim off more branches. 
Thinning Clumping Bamboo. Clumping Bamboo can be pruned to maintain upright growth, or thinned to maintain an airy appearance. If the plant gets too wide, just clip some of the outer canes back to ground level. See this page for a photo illustrated guide to pruning clumping bamboo. This is especially impressive when watching Timber Bamboo new shoots grow over a foot per day, from ground level up to 50 feet in the spring season. New shoots literally SPRING out of the ground! They need to be attached to a large grove to produce this caliber of growth.