The NPL is an important component of US Club Soccer's 10-year vision to refine the landscape for competitive youth soccer. This vision recognizes that: Properly-structured youth soccer clubs are the vehicle through which player development occurs in the United States. Clubs should play in leagues that provide meaningful games, allow establishment of the proper training-to-game ratio, and eliminate calendar congestion.
Home Programs Leagues NPL. The NPL is a national competition platform created to elevate and change the competitive youth soccer landscape by: 1  extending developmental principles espoused by U.S. Soccer into more age groups and clubs. The NPL Finals – formerly known as the NPL Champions Cup – features the champions of all 19 NPLs across the United States in the U-13 through U-18 boys and girls age groups. Teams play group games before advancing to knock-out rounds to determine the NPL national champion in every age group.
The National Premier Leagues (NPL) is a national association football (soccer) competition in Australia which acts as the second tier of the sport in the country below the A-League. The NPL consists of the highest level state league in each state-based federation within Australia. The FFA member federations that did not join the NPL in 2013, Football West, Northern New South Wales Football and Football Federation Victoria joined in the 2014 season, with Football Federation Northern Territory expected to adopt a partial model at some time in the future.
The NPL (National Premier League) and Pre-NPL teams of Princeton SA are comprised of the highest level players competing at the highest level of competition. The Pre-NPL teams are ages U8-U11 with our NPL teams starting at U12. The Princeton SA Pre-NPL teams play at the highest level available to those age groups. The Princeton SA NPL teams compete in the New York Club Soccer League (NYCSL) NPL Division, with league games in New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut. These teams also play in 5 tournaments over the course of the year and also compete in the USYSA National State Cup
The NPL held its inaugural NPL Showcase in March 2014, which brought teams from NPLs across the country to one site for intra-league competition and player showcasing. It featured U-16, U-17 and U-18 boys teams at Heritage Park in suburban Las Vegas, Nev. Properly-structured youth soccer clubs are the vehicle through which player development occurs in the United States. Clubs should play in leagues that provide meaningful games, allow establishment of the proper training-to-game ratio, and eliminate calendar congestion.
On the heels of a successful 2014-15 NPL Showcase (Girls) , US Club Soccer announced plans to return to Palm Coast, Fla., Dec. 31, 2015 – Jan. 2, 2016 for a second edition of the showcase. The 2015-16 NPL Showcase (Girls) will also feature top U-15 through U-17 girls teams from around the country. The NPL Finals – formerly known as the NPL Champions Cup – features the champions of all 19 NPLs across the United States in the U-13 through U-18 boys and girls age groups. Teams play group games before advancing to knock-out rounds to determine the NPL national champion in every age group.
The National Premier Leagues (NPL) Division is the top tier of the New York Club Soccer League for both boys and girls. The NPL has been created to provide a national developmental platform with the highest level of competition in given geographic areas, and to elevate and change the competitive youth soccer landscape based upon fundamental principles in US Club Soccer s 10-year vision.
National Premier Leagues (NPL) and Premier Leagues: A collection of the top US Club Soccer leagues around the country, providing a unified, league-based national platform for long-term player development. 