Out of the various theories regarding what causes a yawn, the most important ones are given below. A yawn is contagious, in the sense that it can easily spread to the person who is observing the other person yawning. While many take yawning to be a sign of tiredness, sleepiness, stress or simply a lack of interest, it could even be an indicator of many other physiological phenomena. This write-up elucidates on what causes one to yawn. Advertisement.
Causes of Yawning: The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Yawning. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Yawning as a side effect. [ See detailed list of 5 drug side effect causes of Yawning 1  ]. Venlafaxine.
Drug side effect causes of Yawning. The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Yawning as a side effect. [ See detailed list of 5 drug side effect causes of Yawning 1  ]. Venlafaxine. 2  Effexor. 3  Effexor XR
It's not uncommon to find that your anxiety is making you yawn more. Yawning is actually a very common symptom of anxiety, especially if you have anxiety attacks, and it's not just because anxiety can leave you fatigued. In this article, we'll explain why anxiety makes you yawn. 
Causes of yawning a lot. The central cause of excessive yawning or yawning a lot is low CO2 (carbon dioxide) and oxygen levels in brain cells. Most modern people constantly have low brain and body oxygenation. Let us consider why. The physiological norm for breathing at rest (for adults) is only 6 L/min. 
Yawning redirects here. For the fish species, see Yawning (fish) . A yawn is a reflex consisting of the simultaneous inhalation of air and the stretching of the eardrums, followed by an exhalation of breath. Yawning (oscitation) most often occurs in adults immediately before and after sleep, during tedious activities and as a result of its contagious quality. 
Yawns are contagious, but they keep the brain working in peak form. By. Yawning can be a problem at the office for Lindsay Eierman. I've explained, 'I'm sorry, I didn't get much sleep last night,'  says Ms. Eierman, a 26-year-old social worker from Durham, N.C. But a lack of sleep may not be the problem.... 
Serious or life-threatening causes of yawning excessively. In some cases, yawning excessively may be a symptom of a serious or life-threatening condition that should be immediately evaluated in an emergency setting. 
Excessive Yawning. Excessive yawning is more than a theory, it’s actually an indication of something more serious called a vasovagal reaction. The yawning occurs as a response to the vagus nerve, which is the longest cranial nerve. When this nerve acts upon the blood vessels, it causes the body to yawn. 