Pons means bridge in Latin, and the pons functions as a bridge between different parts of the brain. It also controls sleep and consciousness, breathing, bladder control, hearing, equilibrium, taste, swallowing, eye movement and the secretion of saliva and tears.
There are 8 parts of the brain. Here's a list of what they are and what they do. The frontal lobe is one of the 4 major divisions of the cerebral cortex. This part of the brain regulates decision making, problem solving, control of purposeful behaviors consciousness, and emotions.
A part of the brain called the temporal lobe controls a very important part of a person: memories. In addition, this specific part of the brain controls language functions, sexual functions and personality. It also has an effect on how the person perceives verbal and non-verbal input.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
The outermost part of the brain is the cerebral cortex. The cortex has two hemispheres: the left, which controls the right side of the body, and the right, which controls the left side. The right side is more artistic, while the left is more rational. The cortex is divided into four sections or lobes.
The frontal lobe is located directly at the forehead. This part of the brain controls judgments, impulses, motor functions, language, problem-solving and how people react to situations. The frontal lobe is separated into two sections, the left and the right, each witch controls different characteristics.
The parts of the brain are the cerebrum, cerebellum and the brain stem. The cerebrum makes up 90% of the brain and controls speech, memory, thoughts and all conscious actions. … The cerebellum controls balance and co-ordinates complex muscle movements.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe.