Representative democracy is a form of democracy in which people vote for representatives who then vote on policy initiatives as opposed to a direct democracy, a form of democracy in which people vote on policy initiatives directly. Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary.
Direct democracy is the opposite of the more common representative democracy, under which the people elect representatives empowered to create laws and policies. Ideally, the laws and policies enacted by the elected representatives in a representative democracy reflect the will of the people. Post. Share. Direct democracy, sometimes called pure democracy, is a form of democracy in which the people themselves, rather than elected representatives, determine the laws and policies by which they are governed.
Direct vs Representative Democracy. Democracy is a form of government wherein citizens are allowed to govern themselves by letting them participate in the formulation and passage of laws and in deciding what is best for them. Its most basic characteristics are freedom and equality.
Representative Democracy. Britain is a representative democracy. This is where citizens within a country elect representatives to make decisions for them. Every 5 years in Britain the people have the chance to vote into power those they wish to represent us in Parliament. 
Simply put, a representative democracy is a system of government in which all eligible citizens vote on representatives to pass laws for them. A perfect example is the U.S., where we elect a president and members of the Congress. We also elect local and state officials. Direct democracy is a system of governance that started in ancient Athens, around 508 BC. In it, all eligible citizens vote on decisions for the government rather than relying on representatives. A representative democracy, by contrast, is one where voters select representatives who vote on their behalf.
1.A direct democracy or pure democracy is a form of government wherein the citizens have a direct say in the formulation of laws and issues that affect them while a representative democracy is a form of government wherein its citizens vote for or elect a representative to represent them in Congress or the Senate. Democracy is a form of government wherein citizens are allowed to govern themselves by letting them participate in the formulation and passage of laws and in deciding what is best for them. Its most basic characteristics are freedom and equality.
A representative democracy is a government in which the will of the majority of the governed dictates legislation to its legislators or representatives. 6 people found this useful. 
Answers. Best Answer: A representative democracy is a system of government in which representatives are elected by popular vote. These representatives then poll their constituents on the various matters and _represent_ them in the large meeting called the Congres
In a representative democracy, citizens allow elected officials to represent them in government processes. Elected officials in a representative democracy serve in some kind of chamber, like the House of Representatives. 