Chromatin. The nucleus contains the chromosomes of the cell. Each chromosome consists of a single molecule of DNA complexed with an equal mass of proteins. Collectively, the DNA of the nucleus with its associated proteins is called chromatin. Most of the protein consists of multiple copies of 5 kinds of histones. 
The nucleus is the centre of an atom and contains protons and neutrons. That depends on what organism the cell belongs to. A nucleus of a normal human cell contains 46 chromosomes, whereas this is a double chromosome set, i.e. we have 23 pairs o … f chromosomes that are used for the same functions. Two chromosomes that fulfill the same functions are called homologou
A double-layered membrane, the nuclear envelope, separates the contents of the nucleus from the cellular cytoplasm. The envelope is riddled with holes called nuclear pores that allow specific types and sizes of molecules to pass back and forth between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information processing and administrative center of the cell.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes.
The cell nucleus contains the majority of the cell's genetic material in the form of multiple linear DNA molecules organized into structures called chromosomes. Each human cell contains roughly two meters of DNA. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form
Abstract. The cell nucleus is a double membrane‐bound organelle that contains the genetic information of the cell packaged in the form of chromatin. The nucleus is a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic cells. The nucleus is considered to be one of the most important structures of eukaryotic cells as it serves the function of information storage, retrieval and duplication of genetic information.
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell contains the DNA, the genetic material of the cell. The DNA contains the information necessary for constructing the cell and directing the multitude of synthesis tasks performed by the cell in the process of life and reproduction. The nucleolus is the central portion of the cell nucleus and is composed of ribosomal RNA, proteins and DNA. It also contains ribosomes in various stages of synthesis. The nucleolus accomplishes the manufacture of the ribosomes.
The nucleus is the control centre of the cell, and contains the genetic material that is organized in chromosomes. This compartment of the cell is responsible for the expression of the genes contained in the chromosomes, as well, it is the major site for cell reproduction and growth. mitosis courtesy of. The nucleus is a cell organelle that consists of a double membrane also known as the nuclear envelope. This structure is one of the fundamental ways of differentiating between eukaryotic cells (eu = true, karyon = nucleus) and prokaryotic cells (pro = before, karyon= nucleus). return to top.