Variant forms of Aimee include the names Aime, Aimey, Aimee, Aimée, Aimia, Aimie, Aimy, Aimya, amey And. Amie aimee is an-all time. Favorite at present it is still a somewhat popular baby name for, girls though it was in more widespread use. Previously the name rose in popularity from the 1950s up to the. 1970s Within the group of girl names directly linked to Aimee, Amy was the most commonly used. It was used 7 times more than Aimee in 2012. Baby names that sound like Aimee include Aimey, Aimee, Aimée, Aimi, Aimie, Aimy, Amey, Amie, Amy, Aymi, Ainee, Ainey, Aini, Ainie, Ainye, Aithne, Ami, Any, Anye, anyu And. ayan
Variant forms of Aimee include the names Aime, Aimey, Aimee, Aimée, Aimia, Aimie, Aimy, Aimya, amey And. Amie aimee is an-all time. Favorite at present it is still a somewhat popular baby name for, girls though it was in more widespread use. previously Within the group of girl names directly linked to Aimee, Amy was the most commonly used. It was used 7 times more than Aimee in 2012. Baby names that sound like Aimee include Aimey, Aimee, Aimée, Aimi, Aimie, Aimy, Amey, Amie, Amy, Aymi, Ainee, Ainey, Aini, Ainie, Ainye, Aithne, Ami, Any, Anye, anyu And. ayan
Etymology & Historical Origin-Aimee. Aimee aimée is The french spelling Of. Amy it is pronounced-E may by The french but more Typically-a mee by The. English it was first used by The french during The Middle ages as a colloquial Nickname aime “aimé” meaning beloved From “the” latin amare “which means”. to love Ironically, Aimee is now more popular within English speaking countries than in France. The French spelling is quite popular in Northern Ireland, Scotland, Ireland, and England (the name is a Top 80 choice in all of these nations), but no longer ranked in France itself.
[ 2 syll. ai-mee, aim-ee ] The baby girl name Aimee is pronounced EY-Miy- †. Aimee's language of origin is French and Latin, and it is predominantly used in the Dutch, English, and French languages. Within the group of girl names directly linked to Aimee, Amy was the most commonly used. It was used 7 times more than Aimee in 2012. Baby names that sound like Aimee include Aimey, Aimee, Aimée, Aimi, Aimie, Aimy, Amey, Amie, Amy, Aymi, Ainee, Ainey, Aini, Ainie, Ainye, Aithne, Ami, Any, Anye, anyu And. ayan
French Meaning: The name Aimee is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Aimee is: Dearly loved; Beloved. From the Old French Amee, which derives from the Latin amatus meaning loved. American Meaning: The name Aimee is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Aimee is: Dearly loved; Beloved.
Aimee /ai-mee/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ay-MEE, ay-MAY. It is of Old French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Aimee is  beloved . From French aimer meaning to love, from Latin amare. Variant of Amy. Saint Ame of France (seventh century), also called Amatus. Aimee is a very popular first name for women (#503 out of 4276, Top 12%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Aimee for girls. Aimee reached its apex rank of #151 in the U.S. in the 1970s, and is at #815 presently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).
Meaning of Aimee. French name. In French, the name Aimee means-beloved friend.The name Aimee originated as an French name. The name Aimee is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-beloved friend. Origin-France.
The name Aimee is of French origin, and it means Beloved Friend . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
French origin: It is derived literally from the word aimee meaning 'beloved'. The name has been used by French speakers since the medieval period; among English speakers, it has been taken up only since the end of the 19th century. In addition, Aimee is a variant form of the English Amy. Within the group of girl names directly linked to Aimee, Amy was the most commonly used. It was used 7 times more than Aimee in 2012. Baby names that sound like Aimee include Aimey, Aimee, Aimée, Aimi, Aimie, Aimy, Amey, Amie, Amy, Aymi, Ainee, Ainey, Aini, Ainie, Ainye, Aithne, Ami, Any, Anye, anyu And. ayan