Common causes of dizziness include inner-ear disorders, medications, and alcohol. Dizziness is often a result of vertigo. It can also be caused by a problem in the inner ear, where balance is regulated. The most common cause of vertigo and vertigo-related dizziness is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). This causes short-term dizziness when a person changes positions quickly—for instance, when sitting up in bed. Dizziness is not a disease but a symptom of other disorders. Vertigo and disequilibrium may cause a feeling of dizziness, but those two terms describe different symptoms. Vertigo is characterized by a feeling of spinning. Disequilibrium is a loss of balance or equilibrium.
Causes of Vertigo. Vertigo, or dizziness, usually results from a disorder in the peripheral vestibular system (i.e., structures of the inner ear). Dizziness also may occur as a result of a disorder in the central vestibular system (i.e., vestibular nerve, brainstem, and cerebellum). In some cases, the cause of vertigo is unknown
Dizziness has many possible causes, including inner ear disturbance, motion sickness and medication effects. Sometimes it's caused by an underlying health condition, such as poor circulation, infection or injury. The way dizziness makes you feel and your triggers provide clues for possible causes. 1 A viral infection of the vestibular nerve, called vestibular neuritis, can cause intense, constant vertigo. 2  If you also have sudden hearing loss, you may have labyrinthitis. 3  Meniere's disease. 4  This disease involves the excessive buildup of fluid in your inner ear.
1 Vertigo may also be caused by inflammation within the inner ear (labyrinthitis or vestibular neuritis), which is characterized by the sudden onset of vertigo and may be associated with hearing loss. 2  The most common cause of labyrinthitis is a viral or bacterial inner ear infection. 1 Head trauma and neck injury may also result in vertigo, which usually goes away on its own. 2  Cervical vertigo can be caused by neck problems such as impingement of blood vessels or nerves from neck injuries. 3  Migraine, a severe form of headache, may also cause vertigo.
Meniere's disease. This is an inner ear disorder thought to be caused by a buildup of fluid and changing pressure in the ear. It can cause episodes of vertigo along with ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and hearing loss. Vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis. This is an inner ear problem usually related to infection (usually viral). Vertigo is often caused by an inner ear problem. Some of the most common causes include: BPPV. These initials stand for benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. BPPV occurs when tiny calcium particles (canaliths) clump up in canals of the inner ear.
1 Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common form of vertigo and is characterized by the brief sensation of motion lasting 15 seconds to a few minutes. 2  It may be initiated by sudden head movements or moving the head in a certain direction, such as rolling over in bed. 1 Head trauma and neck injury may also result in vertigo, which usually goes away on its own. 2  Cervical vertigo can be caused by neck problems such as impingement of blood vessels or nerves from neck injuries. 3  Migraine, a severe form of headache, may also cause vertigo.
Meniere's disease is caused by the buildup of fluid and pressure in the inner ear and can cause dizziness along with ringing in the ears and hearing loss. Less common causes of vertigo can include head or brain injuries or migraines. The most common causes of vertigo are inner ear infections or diseases of the ear such as benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), vestibular neuritis, and Meniere's disease. BPPV can occur when calcium builds up in canals of the inner ear, causing brief dizziness that lasts from 20 seconds to one minute. It is usually brought on by trauma to the head or by moving the head in certain position
1 Acoustic neuroma is an uncommon cause of vertigo related to a type of tumor of the nerve tissue of the inner ear that can cause vertigo. 2  Symptoms may include vertigo with one-sided ringing in the ear and hearing loss. 3  Vertigo can be caused by decreased blood flow to the base of the brain. 1 Head trauma and neck injury may also result in vertigo, which usually goes away on its own. 2  Cervical vertigo can be caused by neck problems such as impingement of blood vessels or nerves from neck injuries. 3  Migraine, a severe form of headache, may also
Vertigo can be caused by problems in the brain or the inner ear. 1  Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common form of vertigo and is characterized by the brief sensation of motion lasting 15 seconds to a few minutes. 1 Head trauma and neck injury may also result in vertigo, which usually goes away on its own. 2  Cervical vertigo can be caused by neck problems such as impingement of blood vessels or nerves from neck injuries. 3  Migraine, a severe form of headache, may also cause vertigo.