Ischemic cardiomyopathy (IC) is a condition that occurs when the heart muscle is weakened. In this condition, the left ventricle, which is the main heart muscle, is usually enlarged and dilated. This condition can be a result of a heart attack or coronary artery disease, a narrowing of the arteries.
Nonischemic cardiomyopathy is weakness in the muscle of the heart that is not due to coronary artery disease. To make a diagnosis of nonischemic cardiomyopathy, significant coronary artery disease should be ruled out. Cardiomyopathy can lead to heart failure as the pumping efficiency of the heart is diminished. People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of arrhythmia and/or sudden cardiac death. Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the commonest form of cardiomyopathy, and one of the leading indications for heart transplantation.
Learn about the types, symptoms, treatment, and prognosis of this disease. Cardiomyopathy is a progressive disease of the myocardium, or heart muscle. In most cases, the heart muscle becomes weakened and unable to pump blood to the rest of the body as well as it should. Dilated. The most common form, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) occurs when the heart muscle becomes too weak to pump blood effectively. The muscles stretch and become thinner, allowing the chambers of the heart to expand or “dilate.”.
Dilated cardiomyopathy or DCM is a condition in which the heart becomes enlarged and cannot pump blood efficiently. The decreased heart function can affect the lungs, liver, and other body systems. DCM is one of the cardiomyopathies, a group of diseases that affect primarily the myocardium (the muscle of the heart). Different cardiomyopathies have different causes and affect the heart in different ways. In DCM a portion of the myocardium is dilated, often without any obvious cause
Cardiomyopathy refers to diseases of the heart muscle. These diseases have many causes, signs and symptoms, and treatments. In cardiomyopathy, the heart muscle becomes enlarged, thick, or rigid. In rare cases, the muscle tissue in the heart is replaced with scar tissue. As cardiomyopathy worsens, the heart becomes weaker. It's less able to pump blood through the body and maintain a normal electrical rhythm. 
A. Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a condition in which the heart 's ability to pump blood is decreased because the heart's main pumping chamber, the left ventricle, is enlarged and weakened. In some cases, it prevents the heart from relaxing and filling with blood as it should. 
Ischemic cardiomyopathy is the cause of more than 60% of all systolic heart failures in most countries of the world. A chest radiography that demonstrates coronary artery calcification is a probable indication of ischemic cardiomyopathy. Typically, patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy have a history of acute myocardial infarction, however, it may occur in patients with coronary artery disease, but without a past history of acute myocardial infarction. This cardiomyopathy is one of the leading causes of sudden cardiac death.
Cardiomyopathy is a disease of the heart muscle that decreases heart's ability to pump blood. About 36,000 people in the United States are hospitalized each year with cardiomyopathy.* This condition is a major cause of heart failure. Cardiomyopathy can be classified as primary or secondary and ischemic or nonischemic. 1  Primary cardiomyopathy occurs in the absence of other cardiac conditions. 2  Secondary cardiomyopathy is caused by a known medical condition (such as hypertension, valve disease, congenital heart disease, or coronary artery disease). 3  Ischemic cardiomyopathy is 4  ... No 1 Click here to learn more about coronary artery disease. 2  Nonischemic cardiomyopathy includes the four types of heart muscle disease listed below. 3  These forms of cardiomyopathy are not related to coronary artery disease (poor coronary artery blood supply).
Dilated cardiomyopathy is the most common form of non-ischemic cardiomyopathy. It occurs more frequently in men than in women, and is most common between the ages of 20 and 60 years. About one in three cases of congestive heart failure (CHF) is due to dilated cardiomyopathy. DCM is one of the cardiomyopathies, a group of diseases that affect primarily the myocardium (the muscle of the heart). Different cardiomyopathies have different causes and affect the heart in different ways.
In the early stages, people with cardiomyopathy may not have any signs and symptoms. But as the condition advances, signs and symptoms usually appear. Cardiomyopathy signs and symptoms may include: 1  Breathlessness with exertion or even at rest. 2  Swelling of the legs, ankles and feet. 