The City of London is widely referred to simply as the City (often written as just City and differentiated from the phrase the city of London by capitalising City) and is also colloquially known as the Square Mile, as it is 1.12 sq mi (2.90 km 2) in area. The name London is now ordinarily used for a far wider area than just the City. London often denotes the sprawling London metropolis, or the 32 London boroughs, in addition to the City of London itself.
The City of London is a small portion of the metropolitan region of London, which is located in England, in the United Kingdom. There are also many other cities and towns arou … nd the world that are called London because they were settled by or built by people from England. The Diocese of London lists 35 churches in The City of London. It should be noted that the 'City of London' is a small, one-square mile, part of the Metropolitan area of Lon … don. According to the Diocese, there are in excess of 1,000 churches in greater London, though this would only include diocesan churches.
The City of London is the name of an area of London, where the stock markets are etc. London is a city, but the actual City of London is an area between East and Central Lon … don. The City of London is only one square mile that formed the original city in Roman times. Now the City boundaries are from Aldgate in the east, Temple in the west, Bishopsgate in the north and London Bridge in the south. The Diocese of London lists 35 churches in The City of London. It should be noted that the 'City of London' is a small, one-square mile, part of the Metropolitan area of Lon … don. According to the Diocese, there are in excess of 1,000 churches in greater London, though this would only include diocesan churches.
London is by far the largest city in England and the United Kingdom. 8.63 million people live in London, which is on the River Thames. It is the capital of the United Kingdom. London is the biggest city in middle Europe, and the world's largest financial centre. London was founded by the Romans in AD 43 and called Londinium. London is also known as Lunnainn in Scottish Gaelic, Llundain in Welsh and Londain in Irish.
The local authority for the City, namely the City of London Corporation, is unique in the UK and has some unusual responsibilities for a local council, such as being the police authority. It is also unusual in having responsibilities and ownerships beyond its boundaries. The name London is now ordinarily used for a far wider area than just the City. London often denotes the sprawling London metropolis, or the 32 London boroughs, in addition to the City of London itself.
A city, fool! Capital of England and of the United Kingdom. London is the capital city of England and the United Kingdom. The City of London is a small portion of the metropolitan region of London, which is located in England, in the United Kingdom. There are also many other cities and towns arou … nd the world that are called London because they were settled by or built by people from England.
The City of London and the city called London are two distinct places. The head of the City of London is the 'Lord Mayor of the City of London'. This should not be confuse … d with the 'Mayor of London', who is in charge of the whole of Greater London. The Diocese of London lists 35 churches in The City of London. It should be noted that the 'City of London' is a small, one-square mile, part of the Metropolitan area of Lon … don. According to the Diocese, there are in excess of 1,000 churches in greater London, though this would only include diocesan churches.
London, England is the capital city of the United Kingdom but there are other cities called London in other parts of the world. The City of London is a small portion of the metropolitan region of London, which is located in England, in the United Kingdom. There are also many other cities and towns arou … nd the world that are called London because they were settled by or built by people from England.
The City of London is the name of an area of London, where the stock markets are etc. London is a city, but the actual City of London is an area between East and Central Lon … don. The City of London is only one square mile that formed the original city in Roman times. The City of London is a small portion of the metropolitan region of London, which is located in England, in the United Kingdom. There are also many other cities and towns arou … nd the world that are called London because they were settled by or built by people from England.