The following list is a comparison of elevation absolutes in the United States. Data include interval measures of highest and lowest elevation for all fifty states and Washington, D.C. . Which state is highest and lowest is determined by the definition of high and low. For instance, Alaska could be regarded as the highest state because Denali, at 20,310 feet (6,190.5 m), is the highest point in the United States. However, Colorado, with the highest mean elevation of any state as well as the highest low point, could also be considered a candidate for highest state. Determining which state is lowest is equally problematic.
What is the highest point and the lowest point in Australia? The highest point on the Australian mainland is Mt Kosciuszko in southern NSW, with an elevation of 2228m.  The lowest point on the mainland is Lake Eyre, in South Australia, … which lies fifteen metres below sea level. Humphreys Peak at 12,633 feet above sea level. The lowest point is where the Colorado River leaves Arizona and enters Mexico at 70 feet above sea level on its way to the Sea … of Cortez. 34 people found this useful.
Pennsylvania's highest elevation point, Mount Davis, is 3,213 feet (979 meters) above sea level. Pennsylvania's lowest point is the Delaware river at the Delaware state border … and is actually at sea level. 9 people found this useful. Ohio's highest elevation point is Campbell Hill and is 1,549 feet (472 meters) above sea level. Ohio's lowest elevation point is the Ohio River at the Indiana state border and … is 455 feet (139 meters) above sea level. 15
A small inset shows Massachusetts among the other 47 Continental United States. Massachusetts base map, Courtesy of Maps.com. This elevation map of Massachusetts illustrates the number of feet or meters the state rises above sea level. As you can see, the eastern third of Massachusetts and the Connecticut River Valley resides at, or less than 500 feet above, sea level. The lowest point in the state is sea level at the Atlantic Ocean. 
Or more formally, what is the lowest elevation in Massachusetts? To find the lowest point in Massachusetts, we looked for places around the state to find the one closest to sea level, or even below sea level. The lowest point in Massachusetts is at the Atlantic Ocean.
New York's lowest elevation point is level with the Atlantic Ocean. The highest elevation point is Mount Marcy and is 5,343 feet (1628.57 meters) above sea level. Ohio's highest elevation point is Campbell Hill and is 1,549 feet (472 meters) above sea level. Ohio's lowest elevation point is the Ohio River at the Indiana state border and … is 455 feet (139 meters) above sea level. 15 people found this usefu
To find the highest point in Massachusetts, we looked at the distance between sea level and high points in the state of Massachusetts. The place with the highest distance to sea level would be the highest point in Massachusetts. Question: What is the highest elevation in Massachusetts? Here we answer one simple question: What is the highest point in Massachusetts? Or more formally, w
The land in this area rises in elevation from the Connecticut Valley to heights of over 2,000 feet above sea level. Twenty to thirty miles wide in Massachusetts, the Western New England Upland is home to the Berkshire Hills and Mount Greylock, the highest point in Massachusetts at 3,487 feet above sea level. 
The lowest point of 455 feet is at the Ohio River in Hamilton County. Nationally, the lowest point of 282 feet below sea level is found at Death Valley, Calif. Mt. McKinley, Alaska, at 20,320 feet is the highest point. Cleveland's elevation ranges from 571 feet to 1,050 feet. Here are the lowest and highest points for each state.