Snake venom is highly modified saliva containing zootoxins that facilitates the immobilization and digestion of prey, and defends against a threat. It is injected by unique fangs after a bite but some species are also able to spit. Some of the proteins in snake venom have very specific effects on various biological functions including blood coagulation, blood pressure regulation, transmission of the nervous or muscular impulse and have been developed for use as pharmacological or diagnostic tools or even useful drugs.
Cobra venom is an example of a molecule that prohibits the interaction of acetylcholine molecules (transmitted from nerve endings surrounding the diaphragm muscle) with the receptor sites on the diaphragm muscle. With cobra venoms, this process can take as little as 30 minutes. The only way to counteract the effects of cobra venom (or most other poisonous snake venoms) is to inject the appropriate antivenom shortly after the bite occurs.
The Northern Pacific rattlesnake is venomous. Snake venom typically lowers blood pressure. Snake venom affects the human body in a number of ways, depending on the snake, the type of venom, and how much venom is released. Snake venom can cause blood clotting that can attack the heart. Post 6. Yes you can get venom in a open cut and it can kill. as long as it enters the blood stream it does its work. the only safe way (if you do want to stay safe) to have venom in your body is if it is swallowed. this is because it is mostly proteins and it digests normally in your digestive system.
Effects of Cobra Venom. Cobras have several methods for delivering their deadly venom to their prey. Some cobras can spit their venom into a victim's eyes, causing extreme pain and blindness. However, the most common and well known method of venom delivery is injection into a victim's body through their bite. A Cobra striking! (Quicktime Movie - 2.1MB) NOTE: You will need the QuickTime Plug-in to view this movie. With cobra venoms, this process can take as little as 30 minutes. The only way to counteract the effects of cobra venom (or most other poisonous snake venoms) is to inject the appropriate antivenom shortly after the bite occurs.
Snake Venom. Snake venom is merely modified saliva, or a combination of many different proteins and enzymes. The old way of categorizing venom indicated that some snakes have a neurotoxic venom (affecting the nervous system) and others have a haemotoxic venom (affecting tissue and blood). 
The king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah) is an elapid found predominantly in forests from India through Southeast Asia. This species is the world's longest venomous snake, with a length up to 18.5 to 18.8 ft (5.6 to 5.7 m). King cobra skull, lateral view, showing fangs. The venom of the king cobra consists primarily of neurotoxins, known as the haditoxin, with several other compounds. Its murine LD50 toxicity varies from intravenous 1.31 mg/kg and intraperitoneal 1.644 mg/kg to subcutaneous 1.7—1.93 mg/kg.
Effects of Cobra Venom in Detail. Cobras have several methods for delivering their deadly venom to their prey. Some cobras can spit their venom into a victim's eyes, causing extreme pain and blindness. However, the most common and well known method of venom delivery is injection into a victim's body through their bite. A Cobra striking! (Quicktime Movie - 2.1MB) NOTE: You will need the QuickTime Plug-in to view this movie. Cobra venom is an example of a molecule that prohibits the interaction of acetylcholine molecules (transmitted from nerve endings surrounding the diaphragm muscle) with the receptor sites on the diaphragm muscle. (See the section on Human Respiration for more details).