As you use the Card, the Balance will be reduced by the full amount of each purchase including taxes, charges and other fees, if any. The Card can be used to pay the full amount of the purchase and applicable taxes, so long as the Balance remaining on the Card is sufficient. If you want to make a purchase for an amount greater than the remaining Balance, you must notify the merchant before completing the transaction.
1 Depending on the terms and conditions in effect at the time the card was purchased, the monthly fee may be $2.95 or $1.50 and may go into effect after the seventh or eleventh month following activation. 2  There is a $5.95 fee to replace a lost or stolen card. 3  Vanilla Visa Cards cannot be reloaded or returned. The Vanilla Visa Gift Card is available in $25, $50 and $100 denominations. This type of Visa gift card can be used anywhere that Visa debit cards are accepted. Vanilla Gift Cards are suitable to give for occasions such as: 1  Birthday
To purchase an item that costs more than the balance on your Vanilla Prepaid MasterCard® card you can usually use your card and a second payment method such as cash, cheque or credit or debit card for the difference. At Walmart Canada stores, you may purchase $25, $50, $100 and $200 cards located at the cash lanes or gift card displays throughout the store (exact location may differ by store, please ask a store associate for assistance).
Examples include: 1  There is an initial activation fee associated with the card. 2  For example, a $25 card will have an activation fee of $4.95, a $50 card has a $5.95 fee and a $100 card has a $6.95 fee. 3  Monthly service fees are deducted from some cards. The Vanilla Visa Gift Card is available in $25, $50 and $100 denominations. This type of Visa gift card can be used anywhere that Visa debit cards are accepted. Vanilla Gift Cards are suitable to give for occasions such as: 1  Birthday
If you wish to use your card for a debit transaction, you will need to select a PIN of your choice for your Card. See below to learn more about selecting your PIN. As you use the Card, the balance will be reduced by the full amount of each purchase including taxes, charges and other fees, if any. The Card can be used to pay the full amount of the purchase and applicable taxes, so long as the balance remaining on the Card is sufficient. 
Store gift cards — good only for a particular retailer — tend not have such fees. You pay $25 for the card, and the recipient has $25 worth of store credit to enjoy. So I was surprised to hear that Target was tacking a fee of $4 onto its cards. We don't charge an activation fee for our own cards, responded Jenna Reck, a Target spokeswoman. The $4 activation fee is for the Target Visa gift card.. 
Hey there world, just so you know, when you get a vanilla visa prepaid card in canada you Can NOT activate it on the US website... The correct website for Canada is this one: http://visaprepaidcanada.com/. This was incredibly annoying, as nothing on the card points to the correct place to register it online. 
Vanilla Visa Gift Cards are issued by The Bancorp Bank pursuant to a license from Visa U.S.A. Inc. The Bancorp Bank; Member FDIC. Cards are distributed and serviced by either ITC Financial Licenses, Inc. or IH Financial Licenses, Inc., depending on the state or territory in which the Card is purchased. ITC Financial Licenses, Inc. is a licensed money transmitter by the Banking Department of the State New York. The Cards are not redeemable for cash except where required by law. By accepting or using the Card, Cardholder agrees to be bound by the Cardholder Agreement.
Each time you use the card, the card balance will be reduced by the full amount of each purchase, including taxes, charges and other fees, if any. The card can be used to pay the full amount of the purchase and applicable taxes so long as the balance remaining on the card is sufficient. At Walmart Canada stores, you may purchase $25, $50, $100 and $200 cards located at the cash lanes or gift card displays throughout the store (exact location may differ by store, please ask a store associate for assistance).