In electronics, a diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts primarily in one direction (asymmetric conductance); it has low (ideally zero) resistance to the flow of current in one direction, and high (ideally infinite) resistance in the other.
Sketch the I-V characteristics of a real diode assuming that its ON voltage is 0.6V (2 points) 3. Sketch the I-V characteristics of a Zener diode assuming that its turn-on voltage is 0.6V and that its reverse breakdown voltage is 6V (2 points) 4. In your parts kit, you have been given three diodes.
A semiconductor diode, the most common type today, is a crystalline piece of semiconductor material with a p–n junction connected to two electrical terminals. A vacuum tube diode has two electrodes, a plate (anode) and a heated cathode. Semiconductor diodes were the first semiconductor electronic devices.
The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current to pass in one direction (called the diode's forward direction), while blocking current in the opposite direction (the reverse direction). Thus, the diode can be viewed as an electronic version of a check valve.
2. V-I characteristics of a real diode Figure 1-2 When analyzing circuits, the real diode is usually replaced with a simpler model. The simplest form, the diode is modeled by a switch (Figure 1-3). The switch is closed when the diode is forward biased and open when the diode is reverse biased.
Current-voltage characteristic of a real silicon diode. (a) Generation-recombination region. (b) Ideal or Shockley diffusion current region. (c) High-injection current region. (d) Series resistance effect. (f) Reverse leakage current due to generation-recombination and surface effects.
1 Lab 1 Diode Characteristics Purpose The purpose of this lab is to study the characteristics of the diode. Some of the characteristics that will be investigated are the I-V curve and the rectification properties. The Zener diode characteristics will also be studied at.
The behaviour of a diode in a circuit is given by its I-V characteristics. The shape of the curve is determined by the transport of charge carriers through the depletion layer that exist at the p-n junction. When a p-n junction is first cretaed, diffusion of holes and electrons take place through the junction.