Primary succession. 1  Erosion: Wind and water erode the soil and deposit it elsewhere and vegetation changes. 2  Physiography: The configuration of the land surface helps the agents of erosion, i.e. wind, water and gravity to create new soils, eg., land slide may take place on a steep slope, destroying the forest.
There are two main types of succession, primary and secondary. Primary succession is the series of community changes which occur on an entirely new habitat which has never been colonized before. For example, a newly quarried rock face or sand dunes. Secondary succession is the series of community changes which take place on a previously colonized, but disturbed or damaged habitat.
Primary succession is a change in vegetation which occurs on previously unvegetated terrain (Barnes et al. 1998). Examples of where primary succession may take place include the formation of new islands, on new volcanic rock, and on land formed from glacial retreats.
Primary succession is the colonization of new sites by communities of organisms. It often occurs after a devastating event has wiped out the organisms that lived in the area, or with the creation of a new habitat.
Primary succession occurs after the complete wipe out of  vegetation. After the wipe out occurs, small shrubs and grasses  grow. Secondary succession however, occurs when th … ere has been  destruction to the land, but not enough to completely devastate the  area. Hard woods grow during secondary succession.
Primary succession is the series of community changes which occur on an entirely new habitat which has never been colonized before. Examples of such habitats would include newly exposed or deposited surfaces, such as landslips, volcanic lava and debris, elevated sand banks and dunes, quarried rock faces.
Secondary succession is the series of community changes which take  place on a previously colonized, but disturbed or damaged habitat.  Examples include areas which have bee … n cleared of existing  vegetation (such as after tree-felling in a woodland) and  destructive events such as fires.
Definition of Primary Succession. Primary succession is the colonization of new sites by communities of organisms. It often occurs after a devastating event has wiped out the organisms that lived in the area, or with the creation of a new habitat. Let's look at a couple examples to see how primary succession occurs.
Answer by Blu WikiAnswers. Confidence votes 34.6K. Primary succession starts in a virtually lifeless area where the soil has not yet formed due to environmental factors, such as on a new volcanic island or on the rubble (also called moraine) left behind by retreating glaciers.