Section 53A of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 is not applicable in case of section 43CA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 because it relates to capital assets as per provision of section 2(47) of Income Tax Act, 1961. Section 43CA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 applies when the immovable property is transferred. In the Income Tax Act, transfer in relation to capital assets has been defined in section 2(47) of the
As per section 32 of Income Tax Act, 1961, a assessee is entitled to claim depreciation on fixed assets only if the following conditions are satisfied: 1  Assessee must be owner of the asset – registered owner need not be necessary. 2  The asset must be used for the purposes of business or profession. The assessee is entitled to claim depreciation on the residual value of such discarded asset [ie., Opening WDV of such asset less scrap value] even though such discarded asset is not used for the purposes of business or profession in such year and subsequent years.
Pavan Jain S. Depreciation – a non cash expenditure allowed under Income Tax Act, 1961 following block concept. Under the block concept, all the assets falling within the same class and subject to same rate of depreciation are clubbed together and considered as single asset. The assessee is entitled to claim depreciation on the residual value of such discarded asset [ie., Opening WDV of such asset less scrap value] even though such discarded asset is not used for the purposes of business or profession in such year and subsequent years.
Illustration 4 Note: The purpose of this illustration is to assist in clarifying the meaning of the explanation toparagraph 13 of theStandard. Facts: 1. The income before depreciation and tax of an enterprise for 15 years is Rs. 1000 lakhs per year, both as per the booksof account and for income-tax purposes. 2. The enterprise is subject to 100 percent tax-holiday for the first 10 years under section 80-IA. 
For the purposes of Income Tax Act, a previous year is a distinct unit. In case an asset is discarded by the business but not sold, section 43(6) permits the scrap value of the asset to be reduced from the block in the previous year in which such asset is discarded. Under the block concept, all the assets falling within the same class and subject to same rate of depreciation are clubbed together and considered as single asset. Any alterations to the value of the block have to be strictly in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IV D of Income Tax Act, 1961. As per section 32 of Income Tax Act, 1961, a assessee is entitled to claim depreciation on fixed assets only if the following conditions are satisfied: 1
In India, depreciation on assets for the purpose of computation of net income as per the Income Tax (IT) Act 1961 is calculated over a block of assets instead of individual assets as allowed under the Companies Act 1956. The following are the customization settings that may be followed in SAP in order to manage your assets in the income tax depreciation area. 1. Copy the standard chart of depreciation 0IN/1IN as provided by SAP and create your own chart of depreciation.
Hi Sapfrido. In India, depreciation on assets for the purpose of computation of net income as per the Income Tax (IT) Act 1961 is calculated over a block of assets instead of individual assets as allowed under the Companies Act 1956. Asset acquisitions and retirements are managed over the block level. The following are the customization settings that may be followed in SAP in order to manage your assets in the income tax depreciation area. 1. Copy the standard chart of depreciation 0IN/1IN as provided by SAP and create your own chart of depreciation.
1 As per the provisions of Income Tax, taxability of an Individual depends upon his/her days of residence in India. 2  As per Section 6 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, which defines residence in India for the Taxation purposes, the Indian Individual in present case is ordinarily resident in India. 1 Income by way of Dividend earned by an Indian Individual on investment in shares of a Foreign Company will be included in the Total income of such individual and will be taxable in India as per the provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961.
1 As per Section 6 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, which defines residence in India for the Taxation purposes, the Indian Individual in present case is ordinarily resident in India. 1 Income by way of Dividend earned by an Indian Individual on investment in shares of a Foreign Company will be included in the Total income of such individual and will be taxable in India as per the provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961.