Best price guarantee. The recently built 5 star complex of the Hotel Riu Guanacaste (24h All Inclusive) , is situated in Guanacaste, Costa Rica in a seafront location on Mata Palo Beach. 
HOTEL DETAILS. This resort is located on the seafront in the beautiful region of Guanacaste onn the Pacific coast of Costa Rica. This Resort is located on Playa de Matapalo beach. Buildings are 6 stories. Located on beautiful Matapalo Beach in Guanacaste, the Riu Guanacaste's guests will bask in both luxury and comfort while taking in the beautiful natural landscapes and romantic beaches. Riu Guanacaste features four restaurants, including an International buffet and a Grill Steakhouse
The 5 star complex of the Hotel Riu Guanacaste, is situated in Guanacaste, Costa Rica in a seafront location on Mata Palo Beach. During the day, there are several entertainment programs for all ages, whether you’re travelling with your family, as a couple or with friends. RIU Guanacaste Hotel is situated in northern Costa Rica next to the RIU Palace Costa Rica. The Hotel is a 6 storey building with extensive gardens and offers complimentary sun loungers on the beach. Show More
The Riu Guanacaste lies directly on the beautiful, fine-sandy Matapalo beach, in the Playas del Coco region, which is bordered by the Pacific Ocean and has lush vegetation inland. Shops 200 m. Nuevo Colon colón 4. Km shopping center 18. Km playas Del coco 18. km The Riu Palace Costa Rica is located right next door. The “El Poblado” street near the hotel offers facilities which are shared by both hotels: a conference center, discotheque, spa, casino, several shops and a tennis court. In the northwest of Costa Rica, in the Guanacaste province.
Hotel Riu Guanacaste-Guanacaste, Costa Rica. The Riu Guanacaste features an attractive building in hacienda-style which has 6 stories with 6 lifts and comprises 701 stylish rooms. The beautiful pool area and hotel gardens directly join the dark-sandy beach of Matapalo. The Riu Palace Costa Rica is located right next door. The “El Poblado” street near the hotel offers facilities which are shared by both hotels: a conference center, discotheque, spa, casino, several shops and a tennis court. In the northwest of Costa Rica, in the Guanacaste province.
Riu Guanacaste. Liberia, Costa Rica. You certainly will not have to look anymore for a holiday destination if you have landed on this blog. The Hotel Riu Guanacaste is one of Costa Rica’s finest holiday destinations. It is nestled on the Mata Palo Beach of Guanacaste, Costa Rica. The hotel is all you imagine a holiday retreat would be, and some. Trust me; you need to read through to see what you will miss if you don’t make a reservation here.
Located in the province of Guanacaste in front of Liberia Airport, the hotel is close to many top tourist attractions, such as the Guanacaste beaches, Arenal Volcano, Rincon de la Vieja hot springs, Monteverde National Park, and many Costa Rica adventure activities includi ... ng zip-lining and whitewater rafting. During the day, there are several entertainment programs for all ages, whether you’re travelling with your family, as a couple or with friends. RIU Guanacaste Hotel is situated in northern Costa Rica next to the RIU Palace Costa Rica. The Hotel is a 6 storey building with extensive gardens and offers complimentary sun loungers on the beach. Show More
800-998-6925. Hotel Riu Guanacaste is located on the seafront in the beautiful region of Guanacaste, on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica. The resort boasts 701 inviting guest rooms, four dining venues, six free-flowing bars and five conference rooms. 