After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medic … al School-to get your MD or MO degree. After that you're a general doctor. . This entails at least 3 more years of Residency training.
A Bachelor's degree takes 4 years of college, attending full-time (also called Undergraduate School.) A Bachelor's degree in journalism mixes industry-specific courses with broad exposure to the arts and humanities. After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medic … al School-to get your MD or MO degree. After that you're a general doctor. . This entails at least 3 more years of Residency training.
If you want to inform people for a living, you have to get informed first. That's why most journalism schools emphasize a broad education that begins with the foundation of journalism, but also includes courses in the liberal arts, including history and economics. In fact, many journalism schools limit the number of hours you can spend taking courses in the major. Concentrations. Many journalism schools require students to choose minor concentrations. Concentrations may be in humanities such as art or history, social sciences such as psychology or sociology, or interdisciplinary studies that combine areas. It takes three to four upper-level courses to complete a concentration.
Confidence votes 4. To become a journalist, you have to attend college/university for at least 4 years and graduate with a Bachelor's degree. You can also continue on into Graduate School for approximately 2 more years to receive a Master's degree in Journalism. See information below regarding the differences in journalism work depending on the degree. A Bachelor's degree takes 4 years of college, attending full-time (also called Undergraduate School.) A Bachelor's degree in journalism mixes industry-specific courses with broad exposure to the arts and humanities.
While it's possible for you to land a job as a journalist without a degree, there are aspects of journalism taught in college that may keep you out of legal trouble in the professional world. Find out what type of degree would help you embark on a career in journalism. Read about what you'd learn in a journalism program, and review practical experience opportunities in the field. Get info about the different types of journalists.
To become a journalist, you have to attend college/university for at least 4 years and graduate with a Bachelor's degree. You can also continue on into Graduate School for app … roximately 2 more years to receive a Master's degree in Journalism. After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medic … al School-to get your MD or MO degree. After that you're a general doctor. . This entails at least 3 more years of Residency training.
I've written before about the pros and cons of getting a journalism degree compared to a degree in another field. But I teach at a community college where many students ask me whether they even need a bachelor's degree, or if a two-year associate's degree or certificate is enough. Now, it's not impossible to get a journalism job without a BA.
Many reporters are entering the field with master's degrees, either in journalism or a specialized area of interest. Remember, in a tough economy, in a competitive field like journalism, you want to give yourself every advantage, not saddle yourself with a liability. And the lack of a bachelor's degree will eventually become a liability. Employment Prospects. But I teach at a community college where many students ask me whether they even need a bachelor's degree, or if a two-year associate's degree or certificate is enough. Now, it's not impossible to get a journalism job without a BA.