Adams was six feet tall (1.83 m) by age 12 and stopped growing at 6 ft 5 in (1.96 m). He became the only student ever to be awarded a ten out of ten by Halford for creative writing, something he remembered for the rest of his life, particularly when facing writer's block. Adams moved to Upper Street, Islington, in 1981 and to Duncan Terrace in Islington in the late 1980s. In the early 1980s Adams had an affair with novelist Sally Emerson, who was separated from her husband at that time. Adams later dedicated his book Life, the Universe and Everything to Emerson.
The song is a mid-tempo ballad with a half-spoken, half-sung delivery about a man approaching a woman and expressing a desire to know her more closely. It was written by Hunt, Josh Osborne and Shane McAnally and was produced by McAnally and Zach Crowell. In the United States, Take Your Time debuted at number 55 on the Billboard Country Airplay chart issued for the week November 29, 2014. It also debuted at number 35 on Hot Country Songs for the chart dated November 15, 2014, and peaked at number one on the chart on February 21, 2015.
Take time to pray-It is the greatest power on earth. Take time to give-It is too short a day to be selfish. Take time to work-It is the price of success. Author Unknown. Today, take time, or rather make time for what’s really important in your life. Take time to read – It is the foundation of all wisdom. Take time to play-It is the source of perpetual youth. Take time to be quiet-It is the opportunity to seek God.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Take Your Time  is a song co-written and recorded by American country music artist Sam Hunt. It was released to country radio by MCA Nashville on November 24, 2014 as the second single from his debut studio album, Montevallo (2014). In the United States, Take Your Time debuted at number 55 on the Billboard Country Airplay chart issued for the week November 29, 2014. It also debuted at number 35 on Hot Country Songs for the chart dated November 15, 2014, and peaked at number one on the chart on February 21, 2015.
The Bible was written over a span of 1500 years, by 40 authors. Unlike other religious writings, the Bible reads as a factual news account of real events, places, people, and dialogue. Historians and archaeologists have repeatedly confirmed its authenticity. Two of the gospel biographies were written by the apostles Matthew and John, men who knew Jesus personally and traveled with him for over three years. The other two books were written by Mark and Luke, close associates of the apostles. These writers had direct access to the facts they were recording.
In his bestselling 1946 book, Man's Search for Meaning, which he wrote in nine days about his experiences in the camps, Frankl concluded that the difference between those who had lived and those who had died came down to one thing: Meaning, an insight he came to early in life. Which brings us back to Frankl's life and, specifically, a decisive experience he had before he was sent to the concentration camps. It was an incident that emphasizes the difference between the pursuit of meaning and the pursuit of happiness in life.
Relationship. Armstrong wrote this song when his girlfriend was moving to Ecuador. He wrote the song under the title Time of Your Life as a sarcastic expression of the bitterness of this break up, sort of saying you trashed my heart, I hope you had fun. 
Adams was born on 11 March 1952 to Janet (nee Née; donovan-) 1927 And Christopher Douglas (adams-1927) 1985 In, Cambridge. England the following Year watson And crick famously first MODELLED dna At Cambridge, university Leading adams to later quip he WAS dna In cambridge months. earlier Adams moved to Upper Street, Islington, in 1981 and to Duncan Terrace in Islington in the late 1980s. In the early 1980s Adams had an affair with novelist Sally Emerson, who was separated from her husband at that time. Adams later dedicated his book Life, the Universe and Everything to Emerson.