I dare you to move I dare you to lift yourself up off the floor I dare you... show more Love the song; Can't figure out what it's talking about. Here are the lyrics: Welcome to the planet Welcome to existence Everyone&#39;s here Everybody&#39;s watching you now Everybody waits for you now What happens next?
Welcome to the planet. Welcome to existence. Everyone's here. Everyone's here. Everybody's watching you now. Everybody waits for you now. What happens next. What happens next. I dare you to move. I dare you to move. I dare you to lift yourself up off the floor
Dare You to Move was released as a single on the band's 2003 record titled The Beautiful Letdown. It was originally a part of the movie soundtrack of A Walk to Remember, but was re-released on their album. Lead singer Joe Foreman said the songs he writes are mostly about the personal things he deals with in life. 
Dare You to Move  is a single by the alternative rock band Switchfoot from the band's fourth studio album, The Beautiful Letdown. The song was originally called  I Dare You to Move , and was on the album Learning to Breathe, but the band decided to remix it and put it on The Beautiful Letdown. The song received considerable radio airplay, and its accompanying music videos saw play on MTV, VH1, FUSE TV, and other mainstream channels. The song received positive reviews from critics, and was ranked #73 on Rhapsody 's list of the Top 100 Tracks of the Decade. Dare You to Move was co-produced by Charlie Peacock —who discovered Switchfoot and signed the band to its first record deal—and John Fields.
I dare you to move, I dare you to lift yourself up off the floor means that God is daring you to move on from past mistakes. Things you regret, things you want to do over, things that still make you cry and upset you. They use the key phrase I dare you to move a couple different ways, both fantasies, but then again what isn't. First - welcome to the planet.... - imagining giving someone you care about a leg to stand on in a new world and showing them its beauty. Second - I dare you to move like you did every like me....
I dare you to move. I dare you to lift yourself up off the floor. I dare you to move. I dare you to move. Like today never happened. Today never happened. Today never happened. Today never happened before. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics.
The song begins with the line welcome to the Planet, which means welcome to life of troubles. Everyone's facing troubles of their own. Everybody is watching you now for a difference. I dare you to move wud mean you are saying it to your loved ones that all trouble has to be borne by me, not the loved ones. They use the key phrase I dare you to move a couple different ways, both fantasies, but then again what isn't. First - welcome to the planet.... - imagining giving someone you care about a leg to stand on in a new world and showing them its beauty. Second - I dare you to move like you did every like me....
(I get to see them in concert in May!!!). Anyhoo, what I gather from this song is that they're saying that if you fail, try again. (I think that cuz of the I dare you to pick yourself up off the floor). I think that they're saying bad stuff is gonna happen, but you gotta be strong, and keep moving forward. Switchfoot rules. God bless everyone. 
And then the moment I encounter something that feels difficult, I feel like that's when, for me, I turn to writing and thinking and maybe a song comes from that.. (Here's our Jon Foreman interview .). The song was originally called I Dare You to Move, and was included on Switchfoot's 2000 album Learning to Breathe. It was this version that appeared on the soundtrack to the film A Walk To Remember. This is a good song. I think that it's meaning is really great, about trying to be the best you can be and all that. I definetly think it dosen't just have to be a religous thing. I'm not religous at all.