An underactive thyroid is a lifelong condition, so you'll usually need to take levothyroxine for the rest of your life. If you're prescribed levothyroxine because you have an underactive thyroid, you're entitled to a medical exemption certificate. This means you don't have to pay for your prescriptions. An underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) is usually treated by taking daily hormone replacement tablets called levothyroxine. Levothyroxine replaces the thyroxine hormone, which your thyroid doesn't make enough of. You'll initially have regular blood tests until the correct dose of levothyroxine is reached
Do not change brands or change to a generic levothyroxine drug product without first asking your doctor. Different brands of levothyroxine may not work the same. If you get a prescription refill and your new pills look different, talk with your pharmacist or doctor. Other medicine may also increase or decrease the effects of levothyroxine. Many drugs can interact with levothyroxine and not all possible interactions are listed in this medication guide. Tell your doctor about all medications you use, start using, or stop using during your treatment with
As a single dose, probalby not much. Too much thyroid medication can cause an increase in metabolism of just about all the cells in the body. This increase in nutrient use requires the heart to pump more blood. Its too much work on the heart, over the long run it will shorten your life. If you take thryoid medication and dont need it, hopefully your thyroid will simply release that much less thyroxine and tri-iodothyronine, so that your normal blood level (your set point) doesnt change, and you dont feel an effect over time.
Taking too much levothyroxine can result in a condition known as hyperthyroidism, which can be quite dangerous. The specific effects of a levothyroxine overdose will vary depending on a number of factors, including the levothyroxine dosage and whether it was taken with any other medications or substances. The treatment for a levothyroxine overdose will also vary. If the overdose was recent, the healthcare provider may administer certain medicines or place a tube into the stomach to pump the stomach.. Treatment also involves supportive care, which consists of treating the symptoms that occur as a result of the overdose.
A: Usually, when taking levothyroxine the side effect is weight loss rather than weight gain. This occurs because the thyroid hormone is what regulates metabolism. If you are hypothyroid, your metabolism is slower since you don't have as much thyroid hormone in your body. A: Levothyroxine is a synthetic or man-made replacement for a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland to regulate the body's energy and metabolism. It is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone levels) and to treat and prevent goiter (an enlarged thyroid gland).
Side effects usually only occur if you're taking too much levothyroxine. This can cause problems including sweating, chest pain, headaches, diarrhoea and vomiting. Tell your doctor if you develop new symptoms while taking levothyroxine. You should also let them know if your symptoms get worse or don't improve. An underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) is usually treated by taking daily hormone replacement tablets called levothyroxine. Levothyroxine replaces the thyroxine hormone, which your thyroid doesn't make enough of. You'll initially have regular blood tests until the correct dose of levothyroxine is reached
Levothyroxine is a synthetic thyroid hormone used to treat hypothyroidism, a condition in which the thyroid gland doesn't produce enough thyroid hormone. The drug is available under the brand names Levothroid, Levoxyl, Levo-T, Synthroid, Tirosint, and Unithroid. A: Levothyroxine is a synthetic or man-made replacement for a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland to regulate the body's energy and metabolism. It is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone levels) and to treat and prevent goiter (an enlarged thyroid gland).
A: Levothyroxine is a synthetic replacement for a hormone that is normally produced by your thyroid gland to regulate the body's energy and metabolism. It is given when the thyroid does not produce enough of this hormone on its own. Levothyroxine is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) and to treat or prevent goiter (enlarged thyroid gland), which can be caused by hormone imbalances, radiation treatment, surgery, or cancer. A: Levothyroxine is a synthetic or man-made replacement for a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland to regulate the body's energy and metabolism. It is used to treat hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone levels) and to treat and prevent goiter (an enlarged thyroid gland).
Report Abuse. Taking levothyroxine with food can decrease the amount of medicine that gets into your blood stream. Taking it on an empty stomach will help you to get the most benefit from the drug. If you forget to take it before you eat then take it as soon as you remember even if you are eating. Best Answer: Levothyroxine is better absorbed by your body on an empty stomach. Which means it works at its best like this. It will probably still work if you take it during or after a meal and nothing bad will happen.