Caldera. A large depression made because of volcanic activity is called a caldera. It is the result of a large cavity created underground when a chamber of magma and lava gets emptied. This cavity creates pressure and the over ground rocks collapse to create a large depression. This large depression is called a caldera. Crater. A volcanic crater is a bowl like structure at the top of a volcano around the opening that is used for eruption of magma and lava. This is a depression that is the result of sinking in of the rocks because of high pressure. Mostly it has the opening through which lava and ash flows upwards.
A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature on large central volcanoes, a special sort of volcanic crater (from one to several kilometers in diameter), formed when a magma chamber was emptied. The depression then originated either in very big explosive eruptions or in erosion and collapse of the magma chamber roof. 
Best Answer: A CALDERA is a large depression in a volcano formed either by the collapse of the top of a composite volcano after an explosive eruption, or from the collapse of the top of a shield volcano after the magma chamber is drained. A CRATER is a steep walled depression located at the summit of a volcano. 
A caldera is a large crater, up to 50 kilometers, that can form when the summit or side of a volcano collapses into the magma chamber during of after an explosion. A crater is … an indentation, only up to 1 kilometer in diameter, that forms around the central vent at the summit of a volcano. The main difference is size. 
Collapse calderas form when a large magma chamber is emptied by a volcanic eruption or by subsurface magma movement. The unsupported rock that forms the roof of the magma chamber then collapses to form a large crater. Crater Lake and many other calderas are thought to have formed by this process. Calderas are some of the most spectacular features on Earth. They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon.
A caldera is a large crater, up to 50 kilometers, that can form when the summit or side of a volcano collapses into the magma chamber during of after an explosion. A crater is … an indentation, only up to 1 kilometer in diameter, that forms around the central vent at the summit of a volcano. The main difference is size. A caldera is a depression in the land surface caused by the  collapse of land into an emptied magma chamber as a result of an  eruption of a stratovolcano. A caldera indicat … es that the volcano  produced an extremely violent eruption.
A great example is Crater Lake located in Oregon. This is actually a caldera. Photo courtesy of Wikicommons. Photographer: unknown. The main difference between craters and calderas is how they are formed. Craters are caused by impacts from meteorites, and can range in size from very small to several hundred km across. According to the US Geological Survey, a caldera is a large (at least one km across), circular depression formed at the top of a volcano when the magma chamber collapse
In strictly volcanic terms, they are two different kinds of depressions. A caldera is formed when a large eruption of magma, or lava, leaves a gigantic empty chamber underground. The volcanic material above the chamber, usually made of volcanic rock and tuff, collapses into the empty magma chamber.