Seismic Waves and Earth's Interior. When you look at a seismogram the wiggles you see are an indication that the ground is being, or was, vibrated by seismic waves. Seismic waves are propagating vibrations that carry energy from the source of the shaking outward in all directions. 
P wave. A P wave, or compressional wave, is a seismic body wave that shakes the ground back and forth in the same direction and the opposite direction as the direction the wave is moving. Share this page: 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 3  Google. 4  Email. 5  Earthquakes. 6  Latest Earthquakes. 7  Real-time Feeds & Notifications. 
Longitudinal Waves. To see a animations of spherical longitudinal waves check out: In a longitudinal wave the particle displacement is parallel to the direction of wave propagation. The animation at right shows a one-dimensional longitudinal plane wave propagating down a tube. 
P wave. the first complex of the electrocardiogram, during sinus and atrial rhythms, representing depolarization of the atria; if the P wave is retrograde or ectopic in axis or form, it is labeled P'. P wave, the component of the cardiac cycle shown on an electrocardiogram as an inverted U-shaped curve that follows the T wave and precedes the QRS complex. It represents atrial depolarization.
All Plugins. From the industry's most popular equalizers, compressors, and limiters to award-winning reverbs, noise reduction, and surround sound tools, Waves offers the world’s largest selection of professional audio plugins. * Limited-time offer. 
S-wave. n. A seismic wave that travels relatively quickly through the earth, causing the rocks it passes through to change shape, and the particles of the rocks to vibrate at right angles to the direction of wave propagation. S-waves can travel through solids but not through liquids or gases. Also called shear wave. 
S-wave. n. A seismic wave that travels relatively quickly through the earth, causing the rocks it passes through to change shape, and the particles of the rocks to vibrate at right angles to the direction of wave propagation. S-waves can travel through solids but not through liquids or gases. Also called shear wave. 
Definition of S WAVE. : a wave (as from an earthquake) in which the propagated disturbance is a shear in an elastic medium (as the earth) — compare pressure wave. 
P and S waves. A wave is a vibration that transfers energy from one place to another without transferring matter (solid, liquid or gas). Light and sound both travel in this way. Energy released during an earthquake travels in the form of waves around the Earth. Two types of seismic wave exist, P-and S-waves. 