Tomatillos may ripen to yellow but are better used when green. Before cooking or eating tomatillos, pull off the papery husks by hand, then wash by swishing in a bowl of cold water to remove the sticky coating. Recipes: Click here for tomatillos recipes. 
Tomatillo harvesting is best when the fruits are green because they contain the most flavor. It is important to know how to harvest tomatillos to enhance continued fruiting. Choose fruits that have burst their husk and have no signs of disease, mold or insect damage. Remove and compost any damaged fruits. The plant produces papery shells and the fruit grows to fill the husk. As soon as the dry exterior splits, it is time for tomatillo harvesting. Once you know when to harvest tomatillos you will need to decide how to use them. Tomatillos store well in a cool, dry location. They can hold for several weeks in this manner.
How to Use Tomatillos. The papery husks on tomatillos are pretty, but they need to be removed before cooking. Rinse de-husked tomatillos – they may well feel a bit sticky, that's okay. Tomatillos are often used chopped and cooked into sauces to play a background note. Tomatillos fabulous lemon-y flavor can carry a dish, though, such as this Grilled Tomatillo Salsa or Green Chile Tomatillo Soup. I'm also a fan of these Fried Tomatillos, a delicious riff on fried green tomatoe
Step 1. Remove tomatillos from the branch when the fruit expands out of the husk. The husk will form first, and then the tomatillo will fill it. Look inside the husk, from the bottom, to see how large the tomatillo is if it has not expanded out of the husk. Step 3. Determine whether you will want refrigerate or freeze the tomatillos. Refrigeration means the fruit must be consumed within two to three weeks. Freezing the fruit allows the fruit to be preserved for 10 to 12 months.
Set tomatillos, still in their husks, in a dry and ventilated area such as a hanging basket in your pantry; they last for about 2 months. Place the tomatillos (with husks on) in a paper bag and set them in the crisper drawer or in a bowl with a paper towel over them in your fridge; they will last for about 1 month. Make sure they don't get wet or the inside of their husk could become a little slimy. Place them in plastic freezer bags and set them back in the freezer; the will keep for 6 to 10 months. Husk and wash the tomatillos and then cut them up. Stick them in a blender and puree. You can also puree them with other vegetables to be used in salsas and sauces. Pour them into ice trays and put them in the freezer
Tomatillos are related to tomatoes, which are in the Nightshade family. They are similar in shape but are ripe when green, yellow or purple and have a husk around the fruit. The fruits are borne on warm season plants and from inside the husk. You can tell when to pick a tomatillo by watching for the husk to burst. The plant produces papery shells and the fruit grows to fill the husk. As soon as the dry exterior splits, it is time for tomatillo harvesting. Once you know when to harvest tomatillos you will need to decide how to use them. Tomatillos store well in a cool, dry location. They can hold for several weeks in this manner.
Here are a few ways to store tomatillos. Storing the Plant. I might be sounding crazy but hey, if you grow your own tomatillos, then this might sound an easy option for you. You need not pluck the fruits from the plant, all you have to do is uproot the plant itself and hang it upside down in a cool and dark room. First and foremost, stop fretting, as you can use substitutes for tomatillos and prepare your dish. Besides, it is always good to stack and preserve food, like in the ant and the grasshopper story where, the ant wisely saves for a cold day.
Step 5. Remove the husks from the tomatillos by hand if freezing. Place the vegetable in an airtight container or in a freezer bag. Tomatillos can also be boiled, pureed and roasted prior to freezing, as well as freezing raw. Ensure freezer temperatures are zero degrees or below. Step 3. Determine whether you will want refrigerate or freeze the tomatillos. Refrigeration means the fruit must be consumed within two to three weeks. Freezing the fruit allows the fruit to be preserved for 10 to 12 months.
Photo © Molly Watson. Tomatillos look like small green tomatoes (of which they are a distant relative) covered with a papery husk. They have a bright, lemon-like flavor perfect with spicy food or alongside grilled items. They can also add a nice hit of acid to stews and other heavy fare. The papery husks on tomatillos are pretty, but they need to be removed before cooking. Rinse de-husked tomatillos – they may well feel a bit sticky, that's okay. Tomatillos are often used chopped and cooked into sauces to play a background note.