Each hydrogen atom has one valence electron and is univalent. In chemistry, a valence electron is an electron that is associated with an atom, and that can participate in the formation of a chemical bond; in a single covalent bond, both atoms in the bond contribute one valence electron in order to form a shared pair. The presence of valence electrons can determine the element's chemical properties and whether it may bond with other elements: For a main group element, a valence electron can only be in the outermost electron shell. In a transition metal, a valence electron can also be in an inner shell.
A “ group ” of electrons can be a single bond, double bond, triple bond, or a lone pair of electrons. The table below indicates the “Molecular Geometry” of the central atom depending on whether the groups of electrons around it are covalent bonds to other atoms or simply lone pairs of electrons. Thus, the “Electron Group” geometry of each central atom in a structure can be determined by simply counting the number of “groups” of electrons around the atom, then considering how those groups would arrange themselves to be as far apart as possible.
According to the VSEPR theory, groups of electrons about a central atom are arranged so that repulsion between the groups is at a minimum. A group of electrons could be a single bond, a double bond, a triple bond, a lone pair, or a single electron. A double bond has two pairs of electrons but counted as one group because both pairs are attached to the same atom. Similarly the three pairs of electrons in a triple bond are counted only as one group. It is important to note that the actual shape of a molecule or polyatomic ion is the same as the arrangement of the groups of electrons only when all groups of electrons about the central atom are bonding electrons.
c) a lone pair, a single bond, a double bond, a triple bond and a single electron-each of these is counted as a single electron group. d) bond angles may depart from the idealized angles because lone pairs of electrons take up less space than bond pairs. * Then find out the number of bond pairs and lone pairs in the valence shell of central atom. While counting the number of bond pairs, treat multiple bonds as if they were single bonds. Thus electron pairs in multiple bonds are to be treated collectively as a single super pair.
Best Answer: VSEPR theory is useful for determining the geometry of a molecule. We treat multiple bonds as if they are single bonds because it is only the sigma bond part of a multiple bond that determines the geometry and bond angle. Double bonds consist of a sigma bond, and a pi bond. 
A pair of oxygen atoms can form an O 2 molecule in which each atom has a total of eight valence electrons by sharing two pairs of electrons. The term covalent bond is used to describe the bonds in compounds that result from the sharing of one or more pairs of electrons. The Covalent Bond. Atoms can combine to achieve an octet of valence electrons by sharing electrons. Two fluorine atoms, for example, can form a stable F 2 molecule in which each atom has an octet of valence electrons by sharing a pair
4.2.1: Describe the covalent bond as the electrostatic attraction between a pair of electrons and the positively charged nuclei. Single and multiple bonds should be considered. Examples should include O2, N2, CO2, HCN, C2H4 (ethene) and C2H2 (ethyne). A single bond is a shared pair of electrons that is attracted to both nuclei of the bonded atoms. The bonding electrons draw the atoms closer together but as the atoms get very close they experience repulsive forces from the other non-bonding electrons and from the two nuclei themselves.
In covalent bonds, two atoms move close enough to share some electrons. The electrons from each atom shift to spend time moving around both atomic nuclei. In the most common form of covalent bond, a single covalent bond, two electrons are shared, one from each atom’s valence shell. Double covalent bonds where four electrons are shared, and triple covalent bonds where six electrons are shared, are also commonly found in nature. Because hydrogen only has one electron surrounding its nucleus, its valence shell is the first energy shell, which only needs two electrons to be full. Hydrogen tends to form covalent bonds because a single covalent bond will fill its shell.
Lewis structure for an alkane. Note that all the bonds are single covalent bonds. In chemistry, a single bond is a chemical bond between two atoms involving two valence electrons. That is, the atoms share one pair of electrons where the bond forms. Therefore, a single bond is a type of covalent bond. When shared, each of the two electrons involved is no longer in the sole possession of the orbital in which it originated. Rather, both of the two electrons spend time in either of the orbitals which overlap in the bonding process. Usually, a single bond is a sigma bond. An exception is the bond in diboron, which is a pi bond. In contrast, the double bond consists of one sigma bond and one pi bond, and a triple bond consists of one sigma bond and two pi bonds (Moore, Stanitski, and Jurs 396).
But – IF an electron group is a LONE PAIR, there is NO ATOM VISIBLE to “ Mark that Corner” of the geometry. Remember – You can only “see” the ATOMS; you CANNOT “see” the ELECTRONS. Thus, the “Electron Group” geometry of each central atom in a structure can be determined by simply counting the number of “groups” of electrons around the atom, then considering how those groups would arrange themselves to be as far apart as possible.