The family Argulidae contains the carp lice or fish lice – a group of parasitic crustaceans of uncertain position within the Maxillopoda. Although they are thought to be primitive forms, they have no fossil record. Argulidae is the only family in the order Arguloida (occasionally Arguloidea), although a second family, Dipteropeltidae, has been proposed.
Genus: Pediculus. P ediculus, the genus of the species, Pediculus humanus, is a general term for any lice found on a human. Species: Pediculus humanus. Pediculus humanus is the scientific name for human lice, whether it be located on the head or pubic area. Human lice fall under the phylum Arthropoda because of the following characteristics: ~ Triploblastic: embryos contain three different types of tissues or germ layers, the endoderm (digestive tract), mesoderm (muscle, bone, circulatory system), and ectoderm (skin and nervous system).
For pruritic dermatitis, see seabather's eruption. The sea louse (plural sea lice) is a copepod within the order Siphonostomatoida, family Caligidae. There are around 559 species in 37 genera, including approximately 162 Lepeophtheirus and 268 Caligus species. Sea lice are marine ectoparasites (external parasites) that feed on the mucus, epidermal tissue, and blood of host marine fish. Many sea louse species are specific with regard to host genera, for example L. salmonis which has high specificity for salmonids, including the widely farmed Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar).
Classification of Parasites. Living organisms are classified using the Linnaean hierarchical scheme-in order of decreasing generality, the groupings are Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus and finally species. The classification of Protozoa (one-celled organisms) is not as well established, and we list their main phyla here. 
The term phylum is one of seven major categories that are used to classify organisms. In order of broad to specific. These seven categories are: Kingdom (broadest), Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, and Species (most specific). This system of classification was developed in the 18th century by Carolus Linnaeus. A phylum can be defined in two ways: as a group of organisms with a certain degree of structural or developmental similarity or a group of organisms with a certain degree of evolutionary relatedness. For plants Phylum is equivalent to the botanical term Division.
Their preferred diet is mucus, blood, and skin. There are two species of sea lice found on salmon, Caligus elongates and Lepeophtheirus salmonis. C. elongates effects many species of marine fish, while L. salmonis is found only on salmon and related species. Sea lice are common on adult salmon, and fall off as the salmon return to freshwater streams to spawn. This insures there are no surviving sea lice where the juvenile salmon outmigrate in the spring. 