What To Do if Laid Off When you find yourself laid off, it's time to network. There are plenty of online networking sites that can help you get back on your feet. Just remember – any connection can lead to employment. One of the major issues people are facing when they get laid off is what to do about health insurance. Remember that there are plans like COBRA that can continue passed your employment. Who Does Not Get Hurt During Hard Times Not everyone gets hurt by a recession or downturn in the economy. There is usually a waiting time before benefits take effect, and even then, the total amount you receive will not equal the amount you'd make while working. So, plan accordingly.(Preparation for unemployment can help you land on your feet should the day come, check out our article Planning For Unemployment for more.).
Mental Health-Benefits. You might be surprised to hear that your job can positively affect your mental health -- provided that certain conditions are met. According to a study published in 2011 in the journal, Occupational & Environmental Medicine, the quality of your job is closely correlated to mental health. Factors such as benefits, job stability, fair pay and feelings of control on the job can all increase your overall job satisfaction, resulting in a positive impact on your mental health and decreased mental health problems like depression and anxiety.
Here are some ways unemployment can affect health: 1  Boredom-Many people say the days become long and a reason to get out of bed becomes more difficult to find.  2 Life tends to get a bit grey after a while, you just sort of sit and you're looking at the same four walls day in and day out. 1 If you don't have a job you may not be able to afford some things that are important to your health.  2 Then you've got to budget, okay this week I'll put $10 away to pay bills, next week-and then you forget about it and your bill comes in and it's $200.
I am sure that in your first economics class you learned that unemployment is a key macroeconomic indicator to determine the health of an economy. However, there is an ongoing debate regarding the extent to which the stock market should be guided by unemployment rates. 
The Overall Effects of Unemployment. Unemployment affects your entire life, not just your bank account. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Unemployment, especially chronic unemployment, affects the unemployed in ways other than their pocketbooks. It affects their future ability to find a job, their psychological well-being and more. Even the employed are affected by unemployment because the ripple effects affect the overall economy and the communities where they live. Nobody, whether they are unemployed or not, is immune to the far-reaching effects and lasting consequences of unemployment
A fulfilling career is essential for a well-balanced life, but unfortunately, a lot of people sometimes find themselves without a job or any employment prospects in the near future. Here are some ways that unemployment can affect your health. Before you know it, you begin to feel like a failure without anything to look forward to in life. Needless to say, depression can take a serious toll on your general health. It helps to know that unemployment can happen to everyone, and with a little bit of perseverance, you can eventually get back on track.
Filing for Unemployment Insurance How do you know if you qualify for unemployment insurance? The first place to start is your state's Department of Labor website, in order to answer a few qualifying questions. There is usually a waiting time before benefits take effect, and even then, the total amount you receive will not equal the amount you'd make while working. So, plan accordingly.(Preparation for unemployment can help you land on your feet should the day come, check out our article Planning For Unemployment for more.).
You can't always see the effects of unemployment -- it can have an overall effect on a person's mental health. While unemployment does not have much of an initial affect on someone's mental well-being, after a few months, it takes its toll. It affects their future ability to find a job, their psychological well-being and more. Even the employed are affected by unemployment because the ripple effects affect the overall economy and the communities where they live.
Your benefits will be paid to you once a week. Benefits are paid up to 26 weeks. If you worked less than what is required, you may get less than 26 weeks of benefits. If you are in an approved training program, benefits beyond 26 weeks may be available. Unemployment, welfare, and Social Security Disability/SSI benefits: How they affect one. another. You can file an unemployment benefit application online at www.njuifile.net or by phone at one of three call centers: Union City (201-601-4100), Freehold (732-761-2020), or Cumberland (856-507-2340).
It is the financial hardship that is produced through unemployment which directly affects the family relationships of these workers. Unemployment causes financial hardship which, in turn, causes a deterioration in family relationships. This work shows conclusively how emotional distress arising from job loss affects both the job loser and other family members. Some studies have linked unemployment to levels of violence in the family (Straus, Gelles, & Steinmetz, 1980).