If the text file is too large to open in Excel, these instructions explain how to edit the data in Notepad to separate the file by Region Code. The limit for Excel is approximately 65,000 records. Open the text file in Notepad. This application is in the Accessories area of Windows. Enter the name you want the file to be saved as and press the Save button. Make sure the directory is correct. When the file is saved in the directory that you want, with the name that you want, then. open a new Excel spreadsheet.
Double-click on the name of the file you wish to open from the menu that appears. If your file is not in the list, click Open and navigate to the folder that contains the file. Click on the file and click Open.. Click on any cell in the worksheet. Hold down the Ctrl key on the keyboard and tap the End key. Microsoft's Excel program gives users beginner to advanced spreadsheet capabilities. An Excel 2003 worksheet can accommodate up to 256 columns and 65,536 rows of data, while Excel 2007 and 2010 are able to accommodate 16,384 columns and over one million rows of data.
In the Address bar, locate and double-click the text file that you want to open. On a computer that is running Microsoft Windows XP. In the Look in list, locate and double-click the text file that you want to open. If the file is a text file (.txt), Excel starts the Import Text Wizard. Follow the instructions in the Text Import Wizard. Click Help for more information about using the Text Import Wizard or see Text Import Wizard. When you are done with the steps in the wizard, click Finish to complete the import operation. Export data to a text file by saving it. You can convert an Excel worksheet to a text file by using the Save As command. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Save As. The Save As dialog box appears. In the Save as type box, choose the text file format for the worksheet
Here's a screen shot of our innocent-looking Excel file: ..and here is where all the file size is coming from: - in this case, the culprit is clearly Sheet2, so that's where to start looking.. Here's how to do it: 1  Save your file. 2  SaveAs a completely new name so that you can mess about with it. 3  SaveAs Web page (choose 'Other Formats' in Excel 2007). 4  Open Explorer. 5  Navigate to where you saved the file. 6  Open the folder with the same name as your file. 7  Sort descending by the file size
[1] Open a blank Excel workbook. [2] Also open your problematic huge workbook. [3] Copy only the relevant data (for example, say, range A1 to Z1000, for example). [4] Paste that into the blank workbook, and save it with a new name. Check the file size of the newly-saved file, and hopefully it is lots smaller. [7] Named the file, and saved it as an .xlsx document. The end result of the above six steps, is that my Excel file a file size of 173 MB. By the way a blank .xlsx document saves to 173 KB. Thus my simple steps of 1-7 above made the file size 1000 times larger.
ActiveSheet.UsedRange. End Sub. Daniel L. -----------------------------------------------------. You can get to the end of the worksheet in Microsoft Excel by holding the Control button down, and then the 'down' button on your keyboard. This will take you to the vertical end of the worksheet. If you want to go to the horizontal end, use the 'right' key instead of the 'down' one
Select File from the menu, and choose Open from the submenu that appears. Navigate to the folder that contains the file you wish to open. Click on the file and click Open.. Click on any cell in the worksheet. Press the End key on the keyboard, followed by the Home key. Microsoft's Excel program gives users beginner to advanced spreadsheet capabilities. An Excel 2003 worksheet can accommodate up to 256 columns and 65,536 rows of data, while Excel 2007 and 2010 are able to accommodate 16,384 columns and over one million rows of data.