Photo by Steve Mattox. Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles (volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid “freezes” to form volcanic glass. Chemically lava is made of the elements silicon, oxygen, aluminum, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and titanium (plus other elements in very small concentrations.
Lava is molten rock. It is formed inside the Earth and is liquefied by a source of heat called geothermal energy. Lava is made up of igneous rocks. CaitlynnReeves | Student, Grade 12 | TA | (Level 1) Salutatorian. Posted on. (Answer #2). Lava is molten rock that has been crushed and heated in the earth's mantle. (Answer #1). Lava is formed from “magma”, which is nothing but a very hot liquid (fluid or semi-fluid) that flows inside the Earth. When a volcano erupts, this magma comes out and reaches the Earth surface, cools down after contact with the atmosphere and finally becomes lava.
Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles (volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid freezes to form volcanic glass. Chemically lava is made of the elements silicon, oxygen, aluminum, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and titanium (plus other elements in very small concentrations. Have a look at the background information in Minerals, Magma, and Volcanic Rocks.
Lava is the molten rock expelled by a volcano during an eruption and the resulting rock after solidification and cooling. This molten rock is formed in the interior of some planets, including Earth, and some of their satellites. The source of the heat that melts the rock within the earth is geothermal energy. When first erupted from a volcanic vent, lava is a liquid at temperatures from 700 to 1,200 °C (1,292 to 2,192 °F). Up to 100,000 times as viscous as water, lava can flow great distances before cooling and solidifying because of its thixotropic and shear thinning properties
Natural Lava Rock Click Picture to Enlarge The truth is that Lava Rock is a a misunderstood name. Lava is molten(liquid) rock that comes out of an erupting volcano. It is extremely hot, reaching temperatures as high as 1,300 to 2,000 degrees. When it cools,it forms igneous rock.
A lava lamp (or Astro lamp) is a decorative novelty item, invented by British accountant Edward Craven Walker, the founder of Mathmos, in 1963. 
A lava flow is a moving outpouring of lava, which is created during a non-explosive effusive eruption. When it has stopped moving, lava solidifies to form igneous rock. The term lava flow is commonly shortened to lava. This molten rock is formed in the interior of some planets, including Earth, and some of their satellites. The source of the heat that melts the rock within the earth is geothermal energy. When first erupted from a volcanic vent, lava is a liquid at temperatures from 700 to 1,200 °C (1,292 to 2,192 °F).
(Answer #4). Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass and bubbles (volcanic gases). When the magma gets closer to the surface and cool, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When the lava erupts, it is made up of crystals, liquid and bubbles. (Answer #1). Lava is formed from “magma”, which is nothing but a very hot liquid (fluid or semi-fluid) that flows inside the Earth. When a volcano erupts, this magma comes out and reaches the Earth surface, cools down after contact with the atmosphere and finally becomes lava.
A volcano is a vent or 'chimney' that connects molten rock (magma) to the Earth's surface. It includes the surrounding cone of built-up material. Magma erupting from a volcano is called lava. Gases and pieces of rock erupt from volcanoes too. 
First, there is a definition we need to make. Just to keep things straight, geologists use the word  magma  for molten rock that is still underground, and the word  lava  once it has erupted onto the surface. Rocks in the mantle and the core are still hot from the formation of the Earth about 4.6 billion years ago