Best Answer: During inspiration (breathing in) our external intercostal muscle contract and the internal intercostal muscle relax together with the movement of ribs and the thorax, this increases the volume of the throacic cavity. Air pressure in our lung decrease as the volume increases. intercostal muscles are the muscles around our ribs surrounding the diaphragm which helps to lift up the ribs and sternum so that pulmonary volume increases and air can be sucked in by contraction of diaphragm muscles ..so they play a significant role in inspiration..
In human physiology, the muscles of respiration are those muscles that contribute to inhalation and exhalation, by aiding in the expansion and contraction of the thoracic cavity. The diaphragm and, to a lesser extent, the intercostal muscles drive respiration during quiet breathing. Additional 'accessory muscles of respiration' are typically only used under conditions of high metabolic demand (e.g. exercise) or respiratory dysfunction (e.g. an asthma attack). Along with the diaphragm, the intercostal muscles are one of the most important groups of respiratory muscles. These muscles are attached between the ribs and are important in manipulating the width of the rib cage. There are three layers of intercostal muscles
The external intercostal muscles actually consist of the internal and the external intercostal muscles. During inspiration, the external intercostal muscles contract, along with the diaphragm, to increase the volume of the thoracic cavity and expand the lungs. The internal intercostal muscles remain relaxed during this process. intercostal muscles are the muscles around our ribs surrounding the diaphragm which helps to lift up the ribs and sternum so that pulmonary volume increases and air can be sucked in by contraction of diaphragm muscles ..so they play a significant role in inspiration..
When you inhale inhale: breathe air in 1  : the intercostal muscles contract, expanding the ribcage. 2  the diaphragm contracts, pulling downwards to increase the volume of the chest. 3  pressure inside the chest is lowered and air is sucked into the lungs. 
The intercostal muscles lie between the ribs. When you exhale, these muscles contract, and in conjunction with the abdominal muscles, the lungs contract and air is forced up v … ia a positive pressure gradient. There are three levels of intercostal muscles all situated between the ribs. The layers are named according to depth into the thorax, the outer (or external) intercostal being the most superficial the inner (or internal) intercostals being in the middle and the innermost intercostal being the deepest.
The other muscles are the scaleni, subcostal, and transversus thoracis. The external intercostal muscles are responsible for forced and quiet inhalation. They raise the ribs and expand the chest cavity, and originate from ribs one through 11, with insertion from ribs two to 12. The internal intercostal muscles are responsible for forced exhalation. They depress the ribs and decrease space in the chest cavity.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: &nbsp The intercostal muscles are mainly involved in the mechanical aspect of breathing. There are three principal layers; the external intercostal muscles, which aid in quiet and forced inhalation. They originate on ribs 1-11 and have their insertion on ribs 2-12. The external intercostals are responsible for the elevation of the ribs, and expanding the transverse dimensions of the thoracic cavity. Both the external intercostal muscles and the intercondral elevate the ribs, thus increasing the width of the thoracic cavity, while the diaphragm contracts to increase the vertical dimensions of the thoracic cavity, and also aids in the elevation of the lower ribs.
Click to read more below. The intercostal muscles are a group of 22 pairs of tiny muscles found between the ribs. These muscles play a vital role in the movement of the chest during breathing. They also help to solidify the thoracic region and protect the lungs. Anatomy The 22 pairs of intercostal muscles are broken down into two groups: 11 pairs of internal intercostals and 11 pairs of external intercostals.... 