Hydrotreating, formally known as hydrodesulfurization (HDS), is a chemical process used on natural gas and refined petroleum. The aim of this process is to decrease the amount of sulfur in the petroleum by increasing the amount of hydrogen in the product. Ad. In hydrotreating, hydrogen is introduced into a mixture to increase the overall hydrogen count. Petroleum undergoes what is specifically called hydrogenolysis. This is when the carbon and sulfur bond contained within petroleum is split, and a hydrogen atom is linked to both the carbon and the sulfur atom.
hydrotreating. (chemical engineering). Oil refinery catalytic process in which hydrogen is contacted with petroleum intermediate or product streams to remove impurities, such as oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, or unsaturated hydrocarbons. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
Chemistry. The type and amount of impurities to be removed by catalytic hydrotreating in a petroleum distillate can vary substantially depending on the type and source of the feed. Hydrodeasphaltenization The way in which asphaltenes react is very important during hydrotreating. It is to be remembered that asphaltenes reduce the reaction rate of other reactions during hydrotreating, since asphaltenes are coke precursors that deactivate catalysts by plugging the catalytic sites.
Catalytic hydrotreating (HDT) is applied extensively in the petroleum refining industry to remove impurities, such as heteroatoms (sulfur, nitrogen, oxygen), PNAs (polynuclear aromatics), and metal-containing compounds (primarily V and Ni). When hydrotreating petroleum feeds, the life of the catalyst is crucial to retaining its activity and selectivity for some time. Depending on the feed, the catalyst life may vary on the order of months or years. It is then clear that the time scale of deactivation influences the choice of reactor (Moulijn et al., 2001).
Sulfur is the primary element removed from the fuel with hydrotreating, but there are other elements removed as well that are thought of as unwanted in petroleum. Both unsaturated hydrocarbons and nitrogen are taken out of the petroleum supply. Ad. In hydrotreating, hydrogen is introduced into a mixture to increase the overall hydrogen count. Petroleum undergoes what is specifically called hydrogenolysis. This is when the carbon and sulfur bond contained within petroleum is split, and a hydrogen atom is linked to both the carbon and the sulfur atom.
The objective of the Hydrotreating prococess is to remove suplur as well as other unwanted compunds, e.g. unsaturated hydrocarbons, nitrogen from refinery process streams. 
UOP’s UF-75 catalyst is formulated for top guard bed applications in hydrotreating or hydrocracking process units to remove arsenic compounds for the protection of downstream catalyst that are sensitive to arsenic to prevent premature catalyst deactivation. 
Purpose of the naphtha hydrotrater unit is to remove sulphur and nitrogen compounds. The naphtha hydrotreating unit uses a cobalt-molybdenum catalyst to remove sulfur by converting it to hydrogen sulfide that is removed along with unreacted hydrogen. Some of the hydrogen sulphide-hydrogen mixture is recycled back to the reactor to utilize the unreacted hydrogen, using a compressor. After the hydrotreater unit, naphtha is sent to an isomerisation unit or a catalytic reformer unit, which often use reforming catalysts. Most reforming catalysts contain platinum as the active material.
Hydrotreating catalysts: an alliance to offer you more. UOP and Albemarle formed the Hydroprocessing Alliance in 2006 to support the production of clean transportation fuels worldwide. UOP is a leading developer of hydrocracking catalysts, and hydrotreating and hydrocracking process technology. 