Confidence votes 397. A scientific name consists of two parts; the first is the genus and the second is the species. A certain genus contains a group of related species. The definition of a species differs in different contexts; one definition is. When an organism is classified it is placed in taxonomic ranks that become gradually more specific : d 
1 Biology A taxonomic category ranking below a family and above a species and designating a group of species that are presumed to be closely related and usually exhibit similar characteristics. 2  In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a genus is a class of items such as a group of animals or plants with similar traits, qualities or features. An example of a genus is all the species of mushrooms that are part of the Amanita family.
noun. 1  Biology A taxonomic category ranking below a family and above a species and designating a group of species that are presumed to be closely related and usually exhibit similar characteristics. 2  In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a genus is a class of items such as a group of animals or plants with similar traits, qualities or features. An example of a genus is all the species of mushrooms that are part of the Amanita family.
1 In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. 2  Logic A class of objects divided into subordinate species having certain common attributes. 3  A class, group, or kind with common attributes. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a genus is a class of items such as a group of animals or plants with similar traits, qualities or features. An example of a genus is all the species of mushrooms that are part of the Amanita family.
A genus is a scientific way of showing that species are very closed related to each other. In fact the first word of the species' scientific name is its genus. So for lions (Panthera leo), Panthera is the genus and tells us that they are closely related to tigers (Panthera tigris), because they share the name. 1  Bottlenose dolphins. 
In the hierarchy of biological classification, genus comes above species and below family. In binomial nomenclature, the genus name forms the first part of the binomial species name for each species within the genus. However, a genus in one kingdom is allowed to bear a scientific name that is in use as a generic name (or the name of a taxon in another rank) in a kingdom that is governed by a different nomenclature code. Names with the same form but applying to different taxa are called homonym
1. Biology A taxonomic category ranking below a family and above a species and designating a group of species that are presumed to be closely related and usually exhibit similar characteristics. In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. 2. Logic A class of objects divided into subordinate species having certain common attributes. 3. A class, group, or kind with common attributes. 1. (Biology) biology any of the taxonomic groups into which a family is divided and which contains one or more species. For example, Vulpes (foxes) is a genus of the dog family (Canidae). 2. (Logic) logic a class of objects or individuals that can be divided into two or more groups or species.
noun, plural: genera. (general) A class or group with common attributes. (biology) A taxonomic category ranking used in biological classification that is below a family and above a species level, and includes group(s) of species that are structurally similar or phylogenetically related. Supplement. In binomial nomenclature, the genus is used as the first word of a scientific name. The genus name is always capitalized and italicized. In order for a genus to be descriptively useful, it must have monophyly, reasonable compactness, and distinctness. Word origin: from Latin genus descent, family, type, gender). Related forms: generic (adjective). See also: 1  Scientific Name. 2  species. 3  family. 4  order.