Your following list contains all the users you follow on Twitter; your followers list contains the users who follow you. If you're accessing your account from your computer, select Home. You can see your following and followers numbers under your username.
How Following and Followers Work. Following connects you to other people on Twitter, but it doesn't necessarily connect them back to you. When you follow someone, her account appears in your following list. You see her Tweets, Retweets and updates in your feed, and she can send you direct messages.
Following: You follow the person (ex, you follow britney spears) follower: people who follow you (in this case, you're britney spears) follow me on twitter twitter.com/cynl857 i can help you with further questions =)). nataliahemming · 6 years ago.
If you are a student of English language, the title of this article might be puzzling. This is because you know that someone who follows is the follower and trying to find a difference between following and follower is a silly idea.
• On Twitter, a social networking site, one can be a follower of many people, and he is said to be following them. • To become a follower, one has to press the follow button below the profile of the person. • A person is allowed to follow 2000 people. • Followers receive tweets of the people they are following. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Facebook and Myspace. 2  Difference Between Flickr and Picasa. 3  Difference Between Google Profiles and Facebook. 4  Difference Between Google Hangout and Skype Video Call.
In the Twitter app, select Me to open your Home page to access your lists. You can also see how many Tweets you've sent on your Home page. (Image: Image courtesy Twitter). If you want to see a list of accounts you follow or users who follow you, select Followers or Following.
When you follow users, the information they share automatically comes in to your account; when people follow you, they see what you have to say. Although Twitter promotes two-way communication with its following and followers features, it doesn't force a connection between the two.
Twitter Followers: Following someone on Twitter simply means subscribing to their tweets or messages so they can receive them and read them. Twitter followers are the people who follow or subscribe to another person's tweets.