Mount Everest is located on the border between Tibet and Nepal in the Himalayan Mountains in Asia. Everest is situated on the Tibetan Plateau known as Qing Zang Gaoyuan; the summit is directly between Tibet/China and Nepal. Because the summit is directly between Tibet and Nepal, Mount Everest can be climbed either from the Tibet/China side (the north ridge) or from the Nepal side (the southeast ridge).
Confidence votes 2.7K. Mount Everest, the Earth's tallest mountain, is located on the border between the People's Republic of China and Nepal. The international border in fact runs across Everest's summit point. Mount Everest borders the countries of Nepal and Tibet. Tibet is part of China. ----------------------------------------------   Mount Everest borders in Nepel, Tibet, an … d China. Also North India. 33 people found this useful. Colin Wallace. 4,585 Contributions.
Mount Everest is the world's tallest mountain. It straddles the border of China and Nepal and can be visited from either side. A brief introduction:At an elevation of 8,848.13 meters, Mount Everest, or Mount Qomolangma is the main peak of the Himalayas. This world’s No. 1 peak rises high on the border of China and Nepal. It’s northern slope lies in the Tingri County of Tibet
Mt Everest is located in the Himalaya Mountains, right on the border between Nepal and Tibet, China. 
At 29,035 feet (8,850 meters) above sea level, Mount Everest is the tallest and most prominent mountain in the world based on measurement to sea level. Asia's Himalayas -- the tallest mountain range in the world -- span across six countries: China, Nepal, India, Pakistan, Bhutan, and Afghanistan. Because the summit is directly between Tibet and Nepal, Mount Everest can be climbed either from the Tibet/China side (the north ridge) or from the Nepal side (the southeast ridge).
At 8850m (29,035 feet), Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world. Mount Everest, which is also known as Chomolungma (“Holy Mother”) in Tibetan, is located in Nepal, close to the Tibetan border and belongs to the Himalayan Range. The mountain has two main climbing routes: the southeast ridge from Nepal and the northeast ridge from Tibet
Reaching 29,029 feet (8,848 meters) above sea level, Mount Everest is the highest mountain on Earth. Located in the Mahalangur section of the Himalayas, the mountain's summit straddles the border separating China and Nepal. The mountain's height was first determined in 1856. The Great Trigonometric Survey of British India pegged the mountain, known to them as Peak XV, at 29,002 feet (8,840 meters).
What countries does Mount Everest border? Mount Everest borders the countries of Nepal and Tibet. Tibet is part of China. ----------------------------------------------   Mount Everest borders in Nepel, Tibet, an … d China. Also North India. 33 people found this useful. Colin Wallace. 4,585 Contributions.