Landforms. Ontario, the largest province in Canada, is home to three different landform regions: the Hudson Bay Lowlands (yellow), the Canadian Shield (dark green), and the Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Lowlands (light green). The Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Lowlands are the most densily populated landform region in Canada because of this and home to many of the country s largest cities, such as Toronto and Hamilton. Much of Canada s industry is also based in this region because of it s proximity to transportation routes.
Print this map. As the second largest country in the world, Canada includes a wide variety of land regions, vast maritime terrains, thousands of islands, more lakes and inland waters than any other country, and the longest coastline on the planet. In essence, Canada is a smorgasbord of landforms. The Canadian Cordillera includes ranges of the Rocky Mountains, the Coast Range and varied coastal mountains ranges and their many active volcanoes. Great Slave Lake: Great Slave Lake is the second-largest lake in the Northwest Territories of Canada behind Great Bear Lake.
These are the 7 landforms of Canada    1. Innuitian Mountains   2. Arctic Lowlands   3. Western Cordillera   4. Interior Plains   5. Canadian Shield  …  6. Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Lowlands   7. Appalachian Mountains. Innuitians: Mountain Ranges covered in snow separates by plains, also cover … ed in snow. Hudson Bay Lowlands: Very flat, covered in swamp and forest. Appalacians: Oldest highland region in North America, formed 300 million years ago. Glaciers separate the hills and valleys.
Ontario Landform Regions. Eric Casey. Ontario. is part of two major. landform regions. ; the Canadian Shield and Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Lowlands. The Canadian Shield. The Canadian Shield. is the geographic foundation of Canada. 
There are a variety of landforms surrounding the Hudson Bay in  Canada. This includes the Hudson Bay Lowlands, Southampton Island,  the Canadian Shield, and The Ungava Penin … sula. Innuitians: Mountain Ranges covered in snow separates by plains, also cover … ed in snow. Hudson Bay Lowlands: Very flat, covered in swamp and forest. Appalacians: Oldest highland region in North America, formed 300 million years ago. Glaciers separate the hills and valleys.
Canada Geography. As the second largest country in the world, Canada includes a wide variety of land regions, vast maritime terrains, thousands of islands, more lakes and inland waters than any other country, and the longest coastline on the planet. In essence, Canada is a smorgasbord of landforms. The Canadian Cordillera includes ranges of the Rocky Mountains, the Coast Range and varied coastal mountains ranges and their many active volcanoes. Great Slave Lake: Great Slave Lake is the second-largest lake in the Northwest Territories of Canada behind Great Bear Lake.
The Canadian Shield is the largest landform region in Canada; it covers most of Canada and much of the United States. This region contains some of the oldest rocks in the world (3.96 billion years old). The Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Lowlands are the most densily populated landform region in Canada because of this and home to many of the country s largest cities, such as Toronto and Hamilton. Much of Canada s industry is also based in this region because of it s proximity to transportation routes.
Canada may be divided into seven physiographic regions: Arctic Lands, Cordillera, Interior Plains, Hudson Bay Lowland, Canadian Shield Forest Lands, St Lawrence Lowlands and Appalachia. Divisions are based on each area’s relatively similar physical geography and landforms. This region is part of the mountain system that extends the length of the western third of North and South America. The Canadian part of the Cordillera is about 800 km wide, and extends from southern British Columbia north to the Yukon and the Beaufort Sea.