The lumbar vertebrae consist of five individual cylindrical bones that form the spine in the lower back. These vertebrae carry all of the upper body’s weight while providing flexibility and movement to the trunk region. They also protect the delicate spinal cord and nerves within their vertebral canal. 
It is formed from individual bones called vertebrae (singular: vertebra), which houses the spinal canal, a cavity that encloses and protects the spinal cord. There about 50,000 species of animals that have a vertebral column. Vertebrae are defined by the regions of the vertebral column that they occur in. Cervical vertebrae are those in the neck area. With the exception of the two sloth genera (Choloepus and Bradypus) and the manatee genus, (Trichechus), all mammals have seven cervical vertebrae.
Each rib articulates with the vertebral column in three places. The head of the rib articualtes with the superior coastal facet of the vertebra after which it is number, the i … nferior coastal facet of the vertebra above it and the articular facet on the transverce process of the vertebrae aftr which it is numbered. Each disc is slightly flexible, so the combined movement of many of the joints in the vertebral column allows the back to bend forward or the the side or to twist. they are amphiarthrotic joints because these joints allow slight movement. Alexander Rowan.
The vertebral bodies of the lower back are the largest of the spine because they bear the majority of the body's weight. The paired facet joints on the back of the vertebral segments are aligned so that they allow flexion/extension but not a lot of rotation. Most causes of back pain originate in the lumbar spine. The top two segments are unique: 1  The first cervical segment (called the atlas) is a ring that does not have a vertebral body. 2  It is attached to the second vertebral body (the axis), which acts as a post that the first vertebral ring rotates around. 3  Most of the rotation in the neck is located in these top two segments.
The human vertebral column usually consists of 33 vertebrae; the upper 24 are articulating vertebrae, separated by intervertebral discs and the lower nine are fused, five fused in the sacrum and four in the coccyx. Vertebrae are defined by the regions of the vertebral column that they occur in. Cervical vertebrae are those in the neck area. With the exception of the two sloth genera (Choloepus and Bradypus) and the manatee genus, (Trichechus), all mammals have seven cervical vertebrae.
Each intervertebral disc is composed of a band of fibrocarti … lage (annulus fibrosus) that surrounds a gelatinous core (nucleus pulposus). the disc absorbs shocks and helps equalize pressure between the vertebrae when the body movies. It rib 6 joins with transverse process and superior coastal facet of of the vertebrae T6 and with the inferir coastal facet of T5. All of these joints are synnovial plane type joints.
The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protects the spinal cord. Fig 1.4 – Diagram of the sacrum and coccyx, articulating with the pelvic bones. The sacrum is a collection of five fused vertebrae. It is described as an upside down triangle, with the apex pointing inferiorly. On the lateral walls of the sacrum are facets, for articulation with the pelvis at the sacro-iliac joints. The coccyx is a small bone, which articulates with the apex of the sacrum
An intervertebral disc (or intervertebral fibrocartilage) lies between adjacent vertebrae in the vertebral column. Each disc forms a fibrocartilaginous joint (a symphysis), to allow slight movement of the vertebrae, and acts as a ligament to hold the vertebrae together. 
It is commonly called the spine, or simply backbone. The articulating vertebrae are grouped into their regions; there are seven cervical vertebrae of the neck (C1 to C7); twelve thoracic vertebrae of the thorax (T1 to T12); and five lumbar vertebrae of the lower back above the pelvis (L1 to L5). Vertebrae are defined by the regions of the vertebral column that they occur in. Cervical vertebrae are those in the neck area. With the exception of the two sloth genera (Choloepus and Bradypus) and the manatee genus, (Trichechus), all mammals have seven cervical vertebrae.