Adj. 1. virucidal-tending to destroy viruses. viricidal. 1  Facebook. 1. virucidal-tending to destroy viruses. viricidal
The present invention relates to a virucidal disinfectant containing an active quantity of salts of metals of the alkaline earth metals, alkali metals, earth metals and/or metals of the first, second or third secondary group of the periodic system of elements in the form of a solution in water and/or alcohol. However, the disinfectants may also be made up in the form of gels or the like. Virucidal activity was determined in accordance with the guidelines for testing virucidal disinfectants in human medicine (suspension test) (cf.
Biogen is a virucidal disinfectant which kills a range of pathogenic micro-organisms, including the viruses that cause HIV and Hepatitis B and the MRSA bacteria. Biogen also meets the requirements of BS EN 1276:1997. It is specially designed to be used as part of a controlling cross infection procedure. For use in: Biogen is ideal for treating hard surfaces and soft furnishings, including, carpets and fabrics contaminated with potentially infectious soiling. Biogen is both bactericidal and virucidal which makes it highly effective against bacteria and viruses that cause diseases like, 1  E. Coli. 2  Salmonella. 3  MRSA.
Abstract. Virucidal agents are chemical substances that attack and inactivate viral particles outside the cell (virions). In general this is accomplished by damaging their protein shells (capsid) or the substance penetrates the core itself, where it destroys the genetic material. Damage to the virion structure is also possible. Peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide (known as a disinfectant) in solution (3%-6%) showed a very low virucidal effect towards enteroviral virions (1 min treatment in the surface test vs. poliovirus 1 dried suspension) or lack of effect (1 min in the suspension test) [ 1 ].
Versatile broad spectrum multipurpose virucidal veterinary disinfectants for complete biosecurity control of all types of poultry and animal housing, water delivery systems, farm equipment and vehicles. Ambicide™. 
Methods of virucidal disinfection with virucidal disinfectants containing an active quantity of salts of metals of the alkaline earth metals, alkali metals, earth metals and/or metals of the first, second or third secondary group of the periodic system of elements in the form of a solution in water and/or... However, the disinfectants may also be made up in the form of gels or the like. Virucidal activity was determined in accordance with the guidelines for testing virucidal disinfectants in human medicine (suspension test) (cf.
A virucide (pronounced /ˈvī-rə-ˌsīd/ and alternatively spelled 'viricide' and 'viruscide') is an agent (physical or chemical) that deactivates or destroys viruses. This differs from an antiviral drug which inhibits the development of the virus. 
Ethyl alcohol, at concentrations of 60%–80%, is a potent virucidal agent inactivating all of the lipophilic viruses (e.g., herpes, vaccinia, and influenza virus) and many hydrophilic viruses (e.g., adenovirus, enterovirus, rhinovirus, and rotaviruses but not hepatitis A virus (HAV) 58 or poliovirus) 49. Because occupational diseases among cleaning personnel have been associated with use of several disinfectants (e.g., formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, and chlorine), precautions (e.g., gloves and proper ventilation) should be used to minimize exposure 318, 480, 481.
Comparison of virucidal activity of alcohol-based hand sanitizers versus antimicrobial hand soaps in vitro and in vivo. In the modified fingerpad test a povidone-iodine-containing soap was superior to the sanitizers whereas the other two soaps showed no activity. Copyright © 2012 The Healthcare Infection Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd.