Spanish or Castilian. The national language of Castilian is official through out the country, and is one of the most spoken languages in the world. Besides Spain, it is also used in Gibraltar, Andorra, Latin America and North America. This major language is spoken by in the Catalonia region, Arragon and Balearic islands of Spain, as well as parts of Andorra, France and Italy. If you speak Spanish, it is not difficult to understand Catalan.
Romance languages are the most widely spoken in Spain; of which Spanish, or Castilian, is the only language which has official status for the whole country. 1 Basque is the only non-Romance language with an official status in mainland Spain. 2  Catalan, co-official in Catalonia, the Balearic Islands and, as a distinct variant (Valencian), in the Valencian Community.
Catalan is a language spoken in three regions of Spain: Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands. Outside Spain, it is the official language of Andorra. It is also spoken in some parts of France and Italy. 
In terms of number of speakers and dominance, the most prominent of the languages of Spain is Spanish, spoken by about 99% of Spaniards. Spanish is the country's official national language, and spoken throughout the entire country. Nearly everyone in Spain can speak Spanish as either a first or a second language. In 2005, 89% of Spaniards spoke Spanish as their mother tongue, followed by Catalan/Valencian with 9%. Galician is spoken by 5%, and Basque by 0.9%. Three percent claimed another native language. (Percentages add up to 104%, as these figures include people brought up bilingually.) There are also robust regional languages figuring prominently in a number of territories: 1  Aranese, co-official in Catalonia. 1 Basque is the only non-Romance language with an official status in mainland Spain. 2  Catalan, co-official in Catalonia, the Balearic Islands and, as a distinct variant (Valencian), in the Valencian Community.
Almost 4 million people speak Catalan as their first language. This major language is spoken by in the Catalonia region, Arragon and Balearic islands of Spain, as well as parts of Andorra, France and Italy. If you speak Spanish, it is not difficult to understand Catalan. A mix between French and Spanish, Catalan is quite an interesting language to learn and us
The, official language and the language spoken in all of Spain, and the primary language in Spain is Spanish. It is understood throughout Spain. In addition, Catalan is spok … en in the Northeastern border area, and Basque in the Northwestern border areas. The most spoken language in Spain is Spanish. The national government also recognizes 4 regional languages: Basque, Catalan and Galician, because the autonomous region where they are spoken has also recognized them. There is a provision for this recognition in the Spanish Constitution. No other languages are recognized by the government nor taught in schools.
The Spanish spoken in Spain is largely the same as that spoken in Latin America. The main difference is accent, although there are some differences of vocabulary and grammar usage. Spain is a great place to learn Spanish that can be used with any Spanish speakers around the world. Aragonese is spoken around the Aragon river and the province of Huesca in Aragon. It said that these languages form a continuum-Portuguese, Galician, Asturian/Leonese, Spanish, Aragonese, Catalan, Aranese/Gascon/Occitan to Italian.
Spain. The official language is Spanish, also called Castilian, and is the first language of over 72% of the population. Galician is spoken in the region of Galicia and Basque by increasing numbers of the population of Euskadi, the Spanish Basque Country. Catalan is spoken in Catalonia and the Balearic Islands, and the closely-related Valencian in the Valencia region. All these languages have official regional status. 
1 Official Languages Spoken in Spain While Spain may be the birthplace of Spanish, the language is hardly the only one that you'll hear locals speaking natively. 2  In fact, the country also claims four co-official…. The national government also recognizes 4 regional languages: Basque, Catalan and Galician, because the autonomous region where they are spoken has also recognized them. There is a provision for this recognition in the Spanish Constitution. No other languages are recognized by the government nor taught in schools.