1. The price of the product. This is not often the largest component of a gutter guard cost to a homeowner, but it is a key one. Obviously, if the company giving you an estimate purchases the same, low-cost screen from their local supply shop that the next guy can buy, then you’re getting one type of product.
1 Gutterglove.com says that a simple plastic or metal screen to cover your gutter can cost around $0.50 per foot but the premium quality gutter guards may run around $25 per foot. 2  Homewyse.com states that an average cost of a basic gutter guard is $7.06 per linear foot while the best quality costs $11.52 per linear foot.
1 Homewyse.com states that an average cost of a basic gutter guard is $7.06 per linear foot while the best quality costs $11.52 per linear foot. 2  These costs are based on a 150-linear foot area to be covered. 3  The prices given above include materials, fasteners, and labor for the installation of the leaf guard gutters.
Click here to download our FREE Gutter Guards Buying Guide. Vinyl Gutters and Downspout Cost: $1 to $3 per linear foot. Vinyl is the least expensive material on the market, and the easiest to work with, making it a good fit for “do-it-yourself” (DIY) projects.
1 Most guards that can be installed by the homeowner can often cost them less than $500 for an entire job. 2  If you absolutely do not have the money for gutter guards, you can avoid the need for them by regularly cleaning out your gutters.
1 Gutter Company-there are also gutter guard companies that specialize in their own custom designs and systems. 2  The costs for such installations can be exorbitant with prices starting $6 a linear foot. 3  The average cost for a full installation tends to be around $1500 (according to AskTheBuilder.com).
Cost breakdown. For the gutter guard installation, the typical costs include: 1  Materials-costs on gutter guards of all kinds range quite widely with some being as little as $3 for a three foot section and some climbing as high as $18 to $20 per single foot. 2  The variations are due to the materials and efficiency of the particular system.
According to DIYOrNot.com the average home has roughly 200 feet of gutters. These need frequent cleanings throughout the year, with an average of three cleanings as the absolute minimum. The standard cost for a professional to clean them is around $75 per cleaning, which means maintenance is $225 per year.