This baseball statistic represents the amount of earned runs, on average, that a pitcher allows for every nine innings he or she pitches. A pitcher's ERA is one of the most fundamental stats used to compare pitchers. ERA is calculated by dividing the pitcher's earned runs allowed by the total number of innings pitched and multiplying that total by 9. Earned Run Average = 9 x (Earned Runs Allowed/Innings Pitched).
Earned Run Average. The amount of runs a pitcher has given up per 9 innings pitched. Take earned runs, divide by how many innings pitched. That will determine how many runs that pitcher has given up per inning pitched. Multipy that number by 9.0, to determine how many runs that pitcher would give up in 9 innings. Example: Pitcher has given up 9 earned runs in 30 innings. 
ERA in baseballs stands for “earned run average.” It is used to measure a pitcher’s performance and was originally created during the 1900s to rate the effectiveness of relief pitchers. Today, it is one of most widely recognized statistics used to assess a pitcher’s ability. Calculations. An ERA is calculated by adding up the earned runs and dividing the number by the number of innings pitched. That number is then multiplied by 9. For example, if a pitcher allowed 25 earned runs over 100 innings, you would divide 25 by 100 and then multiply by 9. The ERA would be 2.25.
Era. An era is a commonly used word for a long period of time. When used in science, for example geology, an era denotes a clearly defined period of time of arbitrary but well-defined length, such as for example the Mesozoic Era from 252 Ma–66 Ma, delimited by a start event and an end event.
Answer   An era stands for earned run average, it is the average amount of runs given up over a nine inning period. This is computed by taking the number of runs gi … ven up multiplied 9 then divided by the number of innings pitched. that number by. Que soy era   is typically the beginning of the sentence   Que soy era inmaculada conceptiou   Bernadette Soubirous said to be told by an apparition on the … day of annunciation in 1858.
In baseball statistics, earned run average (ERA) is the mean of earned runs given up by a pitcher per nine innings pitched (i.e. the traditional length of a game). It is determined by dividing the number of earned runs allowed by the number of innings pitched and multiplying by nine. Runs resulting from defensive errors (including pitchers' defensive errors) are recorded as unearned runs and are not used to determine ERA.
An era is a span of time marked by character, events, changes on earth, etc. When used in science, for example geology, an era denotes a clearly defined period of time of arbitrary but well-defined length, such as for example the Mesozoic Era from 252 Ma–66 Ma, delimited by a start event and an end event. When used in social history, eras may for example denote a period of some monarch's reign. In colloquial language, eras denote longer spans of time, before and after which the practices or fashions change to a significant degree. When era is extended to a calendar system, it is known as a calendar era
3. (baseball) a measure of a pitcher's effectiveness; calculated as the average number of earned runs allowed by the pitcher for every nine innings pitched. Familiarity information: ERA used as a noun is uncommon. Hypernyms (era is a kind of...): geologic time; geological time (the time of the physical formation and development of the earth (especially prior to human history)). Meronyms (parts of era): geological period; period (a unit of geological time during which a system of rocks formed).