The investment required to open a Curves Franchise is between $115,600-$243,200. There is an initial franchise fee of $39,900 which grants you the license to run a business under the Curves name. Jaime Keller's 15 years teaching fitness has culminated in owning a Curves franchise. My personal goal is to help people realize that 30 minutes of exercise three times a week will help them with more energy, better eating habits and a healthier lifestyle, Keller said. Weight loss is just a si...
Territory: The franchisee will receive territorial rights to operate one Curves franchise at a specific location. The franchise area is based primarily on population. The territory size should range anywhere from populations of 5,000 people to 40,000 people. Franchisees will not receive an exclusive territory. Curves is restricted from granting a franchised outlet to anyone other than the franchisee within a franchisee’s area. Term of Agreement and Renewal: The length of the franchise term is 5 years. Curves may allow for a term of less than 5 years at its discretion if requested by the franchisee. If Curves grants the franchisee renewal, the franchisee must sign a new Franchise Agreement for a term of 5 additional years. For the renewal term, Curves may also allow for a term of less than 5 years at its discretion if requested by the franchisee
Thurmont Gets Curves Franchise. Jaime Keller's 15 years teaching fitness has culminated in owning a Curves franchise. My personal goal is to help people realize that 30 minutes of exercise three times a week will help them with more energy, better eating habits and a healthier lifestyle, Keller said. Weight loss is just a si...
How much money you could make as a Curves Franchise owner depends on a wide variety of factors. As a business owner, your primary goals are to strive for high sales while keeping your operating costs as low as possible while still maintaining quality products and service. Jaime Keller's 15 years teaching fitness has culminated in owning a Curves franchise. My personal goal is to help people realize that 30 minutes of exercise three times a week will help them with more energy, better eating habits and a healthier lifestyle, Keller said. Weight loss is just a si...
The cost of a Curves franchise is $39,900* plus applicable taxes and equipment shipping cost. The franchise cost includes Curves franchise rights, equipment and training. Curves franchise rights allow you to run and operate a Curves business as outlined in the Franchise Agreement. Low overhead and low maintenance. Curves franchises can operate in spaces as small as 1,200 square feet, keeping rent and operating costs on the low side. In addition, the Circuit equipment requires low maintenance and is included with franchise cos
In just one year of existence, Curves already had 50 franchise locations. Currently, Curves is the largest fitness franchise in the world, with more than 3,000 Curves spots situated in the United States alone. Curves has a franchise fee of $39,900, with an extra $2,000 to $3,000 due upon delivery of Curves equipment. Additionally, Curves charges a 5% ongoing royalty fee to its franchisees, although the company caps the amount between $195 and $795. A 3% (capped between $95 and $395) advertising royalty also applies. Curves is a fitness business geared toward women with about 4 million members at over 10,000 locations found around the world. Curves promotes healthy lifestyles in females by assisting with weight loss and exercise. With cardio, stretching, and strength training, Curves vows to work every major muscle group.
The cost of buying and operating a Curves franchise varies with the economics of your area.InvestmentThe cost of a low investment Curves Franchise is $29,900 with delivery of the Curves equipment ranging from $3,000- $5,000. Buying a Curves FranchiseThere are two ways to buy a Curves franchise. One is to buy a new franchise territory where there is not currently a Curves in operation and open one.
Curves Franchise. Women-only fitness center. At the age of 20, pre-med student Gary Heavin had taken over a failing fitness center in Houston, turning the business around and, within five years, opened six more centers. After 10 years and 17 centers, Heavin's business went under. Jaime Keller's 15 years teaching fitness has culminated in owning a Curves franchise. My personal goal is to help people realize that 30 minutes of exercise three times a week will help them with more energy, better eating habits and a healthier lifestyle, Keller said. Weight loss is just a si...