Generally, fees and expenses incurred as part of owning rental property are tax deductible. If you don't live in the property but routinely rent out the condo, the Internal Revenue Service normally treats condo fees, association fees and other mandatory expenses as ordinary business expenses. Other Deductible Expenses. Owners of rental condominiums can also deduct property taxes and fees paid to the association for maintenance and repairs of common areas, as well as attorney fees paid for the purpose of generating income.
The dues for your condo usually aren't deductible. Condo maintenance fees, also referred to as homeowner's or condominium association dues, are levied monthly on most condo owners. They cover the cost of operating the condo complex and managing its common areas and amenities. Unfortunately, they usually aren't tax deductible. Rental Condos. When your condo is a rental property for you, the rules are different. On your Schedule E, the IRS allows you to write off all of your ordinary and necessary expenses. Since you're required to pay your condo fees, they're definitely necessary.
In most cases, you can't deduct condo fees from your taxes the way you can deduct other homeowner-related expenses, such as mortgage interest or private mortgage insurance. If you work from home, you may be able to include a fraction of your condo fees as part of the home office deduction. To qualify, you must use a part of your condo regularly and exclusively as your principal place of business.
If you live in your property year-round, then the HOA fees are not deductible. Though many costs of owning a home are deductible on your income taxes, including your mortgage interest and property taxes, the IRS does not allow you to deduct HOA fees, because they are considered an assessment by a private entity. If the home is a rental property, however, HOA fees do become deductible. In this case, the IRS considers HOA fees to be a deductible cost of maintaining the rental property You report the fees on Schedule E on your tax return
Leave a comment. Albert Sullivan, CPA Typically condo fees are not deductible for the homeowner because fees usually are for maintenance of common areas. If you rent the property you can deduct condo fees or if the fees contact a property tax component you can also deduct that portion that represents property taxes. Victor. This is from the IRS Gov site. 
Tax Considerations for Condo Renters. Personal expenses are generally not deductible. So if you are renting the condominium from someone else, you cannot itemize the condo fee that you pay and claim a tax deduction, nor can you claim a deduction for depreciation. Other Deductible Expenses. Owners of rental condominiums can also deduct property taxes and fees paid to the association for maintenance and repairs of common areas, as well as attorney fees paid for the purpose of generating income.
Homeowners association fees are considered personal living expenses and are not tax-deductible. If, however, an association has a special assessment to make one or more capital improvements, condo owners may be able to add the expense to their cost basis. 
Rental Condo. If you rent out your condo, you can deduct the portion of your condo fees that go toward maintaining common areas. For example, if your condo fees are used to maintain a tennis court and pool available to all residents, those costs are deductible as a rental expense. But if part of the fee goes toward improvements, like building a putting green on the grounds, that portion isn't deductible. If you work from home, you may be able to include a fraction of your condo fees as part of the home office deduction. To qualify, you must use a part of your condo regularly and exclusively as your principal place of business.
Most of your homeowner's association fees go to pay for what the IRS considers personal expenses. For example, your condo dues may pay for the service that picks up fallen leaves in the fall or vacuums the hallways in a high-rise building. They also pay for maintenance of the building, like painting it. Rental Condos. When your condo is a rental property for you, the rules are different. On your Schedule E, the IRS allows you to write off all of your ordinary and necessary expenses. Since you're required to pay your condo fees, they're definitely necessary.
Condominium homeowner's association dues are tax deductible only on rental properties. Condominium homeowner's dues for your primary residence or a second home are not tax deductible. Typically, only one situation permits a homeowner to get a tax write-off for monthly condominium dues. If you own a condo that is rented to others, homeowner's dues qualify as an operating expense for an investment property. The IRS considers condominium homeowner's association dues and assessments as non-deductible items for a logical, although not always welcome, reason. Since the homeowner's association is neither a state nor local government agency, condominium monthly dues