Administrative law encompasses laws and legal principles governing the administration and regulation of government agencies (both Federal and state). Such agencies are delegated power by Congress (or in the case of a state agency, the state legislature) to act as agents for the executive. Of special importance are the powers granted to administrative agencies, the substantive rules that such agencies make, and the legal relationships between such agencies, other government bodies, and the public at large.
Branch of law governing the creation and operation of administrative agencies. Of special importance are the powers granted to administrative agencies, the substantive rules that such agencies make, and the legal relationships between such agencies, other government bodies, and the public at large.
Overview. Administrative law, commonly called regulatory law, includes those rules and regulations promulgated and enforced by an administrative body—for example, the Department of Labor or the Federal Communications Commission—according to that body’s area. of responsibility, which is set by statute. 
For other uses, see Bureaucracy (disambiguation) . A bureaucracy (/bjuːˈrɒkrəsi/) is a body of non-elective government officials and/or an administrative policy-making group. Historically, bureaucracy was government administration managed by departments staffed with nonelected officials. Today, bureaucracy is the administrative system governing any large institution. Since being coined, the word bureaucracy has developed negative connotations. Bureaucracies have been criticized as being too complex, inefficient, or too inflexible.
Although the two terms may appear to be overlapping, a clear distinction between the jurisdiction of administrative law – and that of the Judicial Branch – exists: 1. The Judicial Branch is comprised of the United States Supreme Court, which oversees judicial proceedings on a Federal level. Administrative law mandates the oversight of government officials and the process of conducting all matters of federal business and commercial activity; Administrative law typically addresses matters with regard to the legislative branch of the United States Government.
Administrative law is a body of law which governs federal and state administrative agencies, as well as the procedures these agencies must follow when making determinations, rulings, and rules. Administrative law helps to expedite many legal issues in the United States. There are many different kinds of administrative agencies, so there are many examples of administrative law proceedings. One common example is a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge to determine whether one is entitled to receive Medicaid services.
Administrative law is the body of law that governs the activities of administrative agencies of government. Government agency action can include rulemaking, adjudication, or the enforcement of a specific regulatory agenda. In The Netherlands, administrative law provisions are usually contained in separate laws. There is however a single General Administrative Law Act (Algemene wet bestuursrecht or Awb) that applies both to the making of administrative decisions and the judicial review of these decisions in courts.
Examples of Administrative Law Proceedings. There are many different kinds of administrative agencies, so there are many examples of administrative law proceedings. One common example is a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge to determine whether one is entitled to receive Medicaid services.
Definition of Administrative Law. Administrative law is the body of law created by the agencies and departments of the government, which carry out the laws passed by Congress or a state legislature. When Congress passes a law on a complicated issue, Congress often needs help determining all of the details of how the law will be enforced and implemented.