(April 2011). A cerebral hemorrhage (also spelled haemorrhage; also known as a cerebral hematoma) is a type of intracranial hemorrhage (intracranial hematoma) that occurs within the brain tissue. It is alternatively called intracerebral hemorrhage. It can be caused by brain trauma, or it can occur spontaneously in hemorrhagic stroke. Non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage is a spontaneous bleeding into the brain tissue. Non-traumatic can refer to increased exertion, tension or stress.
Cerebral hemorrhage is always an emergency. Seek immediate medical care (call 911) for serious symptoms, such as severe headache, nausea, numbness or weakness, loss of the ability to see or speak, seizures, or change in level of consciousness or alertness, such as passing out or unresponsiveness. It can occur from an injury or as a result of a leaky or burst blood vessel. This can happen when a blood vessel gets weakened enough that its wall can no longer withstand the pressure of the blood flowing through it.
Cerebral hemorrhage is uncontrolled bleeding in the brain. It can occur from an injury or as a result of a leaky or burst blood vessel. This can happen when a blood vessel gets weakened enough that its wall can no longer withstand the pressure of the blood flowing through it.
Etymology: L, cerebrum + Gk, haima, blood, rhegnynei, to burst forth. a hemorrhage from a blood vessel in the brain. Three criteria used to classify cerebral hemorrhages are location (subarachnoid, extradural, subdural), kind of vessel involved (arterial, venous, capillary), and origin (traumatic, degenerative). Each kind of cerebral hemorrhage has distinctive clinical characteristics. 
A cerebral hemorrhage is an intra-axial hemorrhage; that is, it occurs within, rather than outside, the brain tissue. The other category of intracranial hemorrhage is extra-axial hemorrhage, such as epidural, subdural, and subarachnoid hematomas, which all occur within the skull but outside of the brain tissue. It is alternatively called intracerebral hemorrhage. It can be caused by brain trauma, or it can occur spontaneously in hemorrhagic stroke. Non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage is a spontaneous bleeding into the brain tissue. Non-traumatic can refer to increased exertion, tension or stress.
A brain hemorrhage, one of the two main types of stroke results when a ruptured artery causes bleeding into the brain (intracerebral bleed) or into the space between the membranes surrounding the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage). 1 Blood vessel abnormalities such as arteriovenous malformation (AVM) may result in a stroke. 2  A head injury may rupture arteries in the brain. 3  Brain tumors may lead to intracerebral bleeding. 4  An increasingly recognized cause of brain hemorrhage in the elderly is amyloid angiopathy.
Figure 1. An intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is usually caused by rupture of tiny arteries within the brain tissue (left). As blood collects, a hematoma or blood clot forms causing increased pressure on the brain. Arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) and tumors can also cause bleeding into brain tissue (right). Overview. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a type of stroke caused by bleeding within the brain tissue itself  a very life-threatening situation. A stroke occurs when the brain is deprived of oxygen due to an interruption of its blood supply.
When blood vessels within the brain become damaged, they are more likely to burst and cause a hemorrhage. Intracerebral hemorrhage occurs when a diseased blood vessel within the brain bursts, allowing blood to leak inside the brain. (The name means within the cerebrum or brain). The sudden increase in pressure within the brain can cause damage to the brain cells surrounding the blood. 
An intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) occurs when blood suddenly bursts into brain tissue, causing damage to the brain, which may present symptoms similar to that of a stroke. Lobar intracerebral hemorrhages occur in the cerebral lobes outside of the basal ganglia. 
If a blood vessel inside the brain bursts, blood can get into the brain tissue and cause inflammation and swelling. If one of the blood vessels on the surface of the brain breaks, blood can collect between the brain and the membranes that surround it (subarachnoid hematoma). This causes pressure on the brain. It can occur from an injury or as a result of a leaky or burst blood vessel. This can happen when a blood vessel gets weakened enough that its wall can no longer withstand the pressure of the blood flowing through it.