Tornado damage to a house in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma hit during the May 10–13, 2010 tornado outbreak. Tornado intensity can be measured by in situ or remote sensing measurements, but since these are impractical for wide scale use, intensity is usually inferred via proxies, such as damage. The Fujita scale and the Enhanced Fujita scale rate tornadoes by the damage caused. Near the tornado's peak intensity, they recorded a wind speed of 115–120 m/s (260–270 mph). Though the portable radar had uncertainty of ±5–10 m/s (11–22 mph), this reading was probably within the F5 range, confirming that tornadoes were capable of violent winds found nowhere else on earth.
With this said, the typical tornado damage path is about one or two miles, with a width of around 50 yards. The largest tornado path widths can exceed one mile, while the smallest widths can be less than 10 yards. Widths can even vary considerably during a single tornado, since its size can change during its lifetime. Damage results from the strong winds within a tornado. The degree of damage and speed of these winds vary widely, depending on the intensity of the tornado. The Fujita Scale is designed to assess damage produced by tornadoes, then estimate associated wind speeds by assigning an F rating.
The average tornado is on the ground for about 5 miles, but path lengths can vary greatly. Some tornadoes may be on the ground for only a few hundred feet while others may tra … vel over 100 or even 200 miles. The longest damage path on record is 219 miles. 1 person found this useful. The severity of damage caused by a torndo can vary widley, and  there is in fact a scale used to rate tornadoes based on that,  called the Enhanced Fujita scale which has si … x levels ranging from  EF0 to EF5. The rating is based on the most severe damage the  tornado causes.
In some cases, one  structure in a tornado's path may be completely destroyed while the  one next to it may only suffer minor to moderate damage. That said,  a tornado of EF4 or EF5 damage can still produce a swath of  complete destruction along at least part of its path. The severity of damage caused by a torndo can vary widley, and  there is in fact a scale used to rate tornadoes based on that,  called the Enhanced Fujita scale which has si … x levels ranging from  EF0 to EF5.
The path width of a tornado can vary greatly. Most tornadoes are a few dozen to a few hundred yards wide. However some tornadoes are just a few feet wide. Some tornadoes have damage paths over a mile, and in rare cases, over 2 miles wide. The severity of damage caused by a torndo can vary widley, and  there is in fact a scale used to rate tornadoes based on that,  called the Enhanced Fujita scale which has si … x levels ranging from  EF0 to EF5. The rating is based on the most severe damage the  tornado causes.
In some cases, one  structure in a tornado's path may be completely destroyed while the  one next to it may only suffer minor to moderate damage. That said,  a tornado of EF4 or EF5 damage can still produce a swath of  complete destruction along at least part of its path. The severity of damage caused by a torndo can vary widley, and  there is in fact a scale used to rate tornadoes based on that,  called the Enhanced Fujita scale which has si … x levels ranging from  EF0 to EF5. The rating is based on the most severe damage the  tornado causes.
A tornado appears as a rotating, funnel-shaped cloud that extends from a thunderstorm to the ground with whirling winds that can reach 300 miles per hour. Damage paths can be in excess of one mile wide and 50 miles long. Some tornadoes are clearly visible, while rain or nearby low-hanging clouds obscure others. 
Tornadoes typically get speeds from 65 to 250 mph. Tornadoes usually take the form of a funnel cloud and turn into a tornado once they touch the ground. The winds are usually so violent that they may uproot trees, destroy homes or office buildings or even crumple cars. They can stay on the ground for a couple of seconds to many minutes and may travel miles, leading to great tornado damage like cutting large swaths of destruction of their path. When talking about tornado damage we’ve got to understand that tornadoes have many weapons in the arsenal. The wind is the tornado’s primary weapon, but tornadoes may also do damage by lightning, hail and flash floods. Depending on the potency of a tornado, it can cause not much damage to wide-spread destruction.
The average tornado is on the ground for about 5 miles, but path lengths can vary greatly. Some tornadoes may be on the ground for only a few hundred feet while others may tra … vel over 100 or even 200 miles. The longest damage path on record is 219 miles. 1 person found this useful. The severity of damage caused by a torndo can vary widley, and  there is in fact a scale used to rate tornadoes based on that,  called the Enhanced Fujita scale which has si … x levels ranging from  EF0 to EF5.
Weak tornadoes, or strong yet dissipating tornadoes, can be exceedingly narrow, sometimes only a few feet or couple meters across. One tornado was reported to have a damage path only 7 feet (2 m) long. On the other end of the spectrum, wedge tornadoes can have a damage path a mile (1.6 km) wide or more. A tornado is a violently rotating column of air that is in contact with both the surface of the earth and a cumulonimbus cloud or, in rare cases, the base of a cumulus cloud.