Answers. Best Answer: a) Acetylcholine results in muscle contraction b)Neostigmine acts as a reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, increasing both the level and duration of action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. c)d-tubocurarine results in muscle relaxation. It acts as a competitive antagonist of nicotinic neuromuscular acetylcholine receptors, thus inactivating it and preventing ACh to bond and induce contraction. d)Suxamethonium results in muscle relaxation
Best Answer: Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter used in the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system. The peripheral nervous system is broken into two groups: the autonomic system and the somatic system. The glands that receive impulses from the parasympathetic part of the autonomic nervous system are also stimulated in the same way. Acetylcholine is synthesized in certain neurons by the enzyme choline acetyltransferase from the compounds choline and acetyl-CoA.
Report Abuse. The chemical compound acetylcholine, often abbreviated as ACh, was the first neurotransmitter to be identified. It is a chemical transmitter in both the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS) in many organisms including humans. The glands that receive impulses from the parasympathetic part of the autonomic nervous system are also stimulated in the same way. Acetylcholine is synthesized in certain neurons by the enzyme choline acetyltransferase from the compounds choline and acetyl-CoA.
Upon completion of this section, you will be able to: 1  Describe the key ways that muscarinic receptors differ from nicotinic receptors. 2  Describe where muscarinic receptors are found. 3  Identify the key physiological effects that result from stimulation of muscarinic receptors by excessive amounts of acetylcholine. 1 Muscarinic receptors respond more slowly than nicotinic receptors. 2  The effects of muscarinic receptors may be excitatory or inhibitory. 3  Muscarinic receptors do not affect skeletal muscles, but do influence the exocrine glands as well as the inherent activity of smooth muscles and the cardiac conduction system.
Learning Objectives. Upon completion of this section, you will be able to: 1  Describe the key function of nicotinic receptors. 2  Describe where nicotinic receptors are found. 3  Identify the key physiological effects that result from stimulation of nicotinic receptors by excessive amounts of acetylcholine. Toxic levels of cholinesterase inhibitors prevent the breakdown of acetylcholine. As a result, the chemical-gated nicotinic receptor Na+ channels are held in the open position, and a constant state of depolarization occurs. This results in a prolonged refractory period, during which no further transmission can occur.
A neurotransmitter that stimulates nicotinic receptors in autonomic ganglia, at the motor endplates of skeletal muscle, and in the central nervous system as well as muscarinic receptors in smooth muscle, in exocrine glands, and in the central nervous system. 
It is now known to be a neurotransmitter at all autonomic ganglia, at many autonomically innervated organs, at the neuromuscular junction, and at many synapses in the CNS. In this chapter we will discuss the acetylcholine’s anatomy, cell biology, physiological effects, role in behavior, and clinical applications. In the peripheral nervous system, ACh is the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction between the motor nerve and skeletal muscle. Figure 11.3. Distribution of cholinergic cell groups and projections in the rat brain.
Structure of acetylcholine (ACh). 11.2 Acetylcholine in the Autonomic Nervous System. In the autonomic nervous system, acetylcholine (ACh) is the neurotransmitter in the preganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons. These are shown in Figure 11.2 as the red ACh in the ganglion. In the peripheral nervous system, ACh is the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction between the motor nerve and skeletal muscle. Figure 11.3. Distribution of cholinergic cell groups and projections in the rat brain.