Vygotsky’s Sociocultural Theory Vygotsky’s sociocultural theory of human learning describes learning as a social process and the origination of human intelligence in society or culture.
Sociocultural theory is an emerging theory in psychology that looks at the important contributions that society makes to individual development. This theory stresses the interaction between developing people and the culture in which they live.
Theory Vygotsky's Sociocultural Theory: Vygotsky is best known for being an educational psychologist with a sociocultural theory. This theory suggests that social interaction leads to continuous step-by-step changes in children's thought and behavior that can vary greatly from culture to culture(Woolfolk, 1998).
Sociocultural theory was created by Lev Vygotsky as a response to Behaviorism. The main idea of the theory is that the ways people interact with others and the culture they live in shape their mental abilities.
The second element in the sociocultural theory is the zone of proximal development (ZPD). Vygotsky believed that any pedagogy creates learning processes that lead to development and this sequence results in zones of proximal development.
Sociocultural theory is a theory that believes social interaction  has a major part in the development of cognition. The theory is  that learning is a social process.
Current conceptualizations of sociocultural theory draw heavily on the work of Vygotsky (1986), as well as later theoreticians (see, for example, Wertsch, 1991, 1998).
Sociocultural theory, as stated by Cole, John-Steiner, Scribner and Souberman, is the belief that every function in the child's cultural development appears twice: first, on the social level, and later, on the individual level..
Lev S. Vygotksy, a psychologist in Russia who began his work following the Russian Revolution of 1917, is most closely identified with sociocultural theory. Vygotsky, argued: “The social dimension of consciousness is primary in time and in fact.
The work of Lev Vygotsky (1934) has become the foundation of much research and theory in cognitive development over the past several decades, particularly of what has become known as Social Development Theory.