If you’re looking for 2015 breakdown for Cost of Hardiplank Siding materials and what installation cost might be, you’ve come to the right place. Cost of Hardiplank Siding. Don’t let your remodeling budget go over-board by hidden surprises – understand what the average installed costs for Hardiplank Siding is in your zip code by using our handy calculator.
Entry Level: $5 to $6 psf. Entry level project totals range from $5 to $6 psf installed. This includes the hardie board panels, all additional material costs and the cost of installation.For more pricing information, try our Hardie siding calculator. Mid Range: $6 - $8 psf. Hardie Board Siding Prices | HardiPlank Costs. Hardie board siding prices range from $5 to $10 per square foot with installation. This price includes the cost of the product itself, additional materials such as trim and fascia board and the installation or labor portion on the project
Installation. Costs for materials and professional installation runs from $5 to $6 a square foot for the low end, $6 to $8 a square foot for the middle range and $9 to $12 at the high end. Incorrect installation can produce mold, which is expensive to correct
Hardie Board Siding Costs & Prices. Hardie board siding costs ranges from $5.00 to $10.00 for materials and professional installation. Hardie board, or HardiPlank (the official product name), is the most popular fiber cement product. Discover the cost breakdowns for materials and installation, as well as actual customer costs. “Hardie Board siding cost per square foot range from $5 to $10 installed. The reason for the large price range is due to the fact that materials and installation requirements vary so much from project to project.”
1 For a home with 1,500 exterior square feet, that s a total cost of approximately $15,000. 2  At this price, Hardie board is roughly 40 percent more expensive than vinyl siding. 3  This is mostly due to the fact that fiber cement is heavy (around 5 times heavier than vinyl) and therefore more labor-intensive. James Hardie Siding Installation Prices. James Hardie pioneered the use of fiber cement siding in the mid 1980s and today, the material is as popular as it s ever been.
1 At this price, Hardie board is roughly 40 percent more expensive than vinyl siding. 2  This is mostly due to the fact that fiber cement is heavy (around 5 times heavier than vinyl) and therefore more labor-intensive. James Hardie Siding Installation Prices. James Hardie pioneered the use of fiber cement siding in the mid 1980s and today, the material is as popular as it s ever been.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Fiber Cement Siding Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Fiber Cement Siding ranges between $5.19 - $7.36 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
James Hardie Siding Average Costs. The actual cost of James Hardie siding may vary based on the materials used, the local economy, the complexity of the installation, and other factors. 1  James Hardie siding costs $8 to $12 per square foot. James Hardie Siding Installation Prices. James Hardie pioneered the use of fiber cement siding in the mid 1980s and today, the material is as popular as it s ever been.
Labor. Because labor costs vary across the country, the cost of adding Hardie board siding to a home depends on location. The Bureau of Labor Statistics show that as of May 2010, installers made a mean $21.10 per hour, with lows of $11.85 and highs of $34.45. Incorrect installation can produce mold, which is expensive to correct. Costs for materials and professional installation runs from $5 to $6 a square foot for the low end, $6 to $8 a square foot for the middle range and $9 to $12 at the high end.