1 The transponder that works on the I-85 Express Lanes will also provide access to Florida and North Carolina toll roads via the SunPass, Leeway Pass and E-Pass and NC Quick Pass lanes. 2  Your Peach Pass transponder must be tied to a valid and current license plate.
Conversely, any toll road in Florida that accepts SunPass, will now accept all Peach Pass and NC Quick Pass transponders. Peach Pass and NC Quick Pass motorists traveling in Florida will need to utilize the clearly marked, SunPass-only lanes located throughout Florida’s toll road system.
For now, SunPass only works outside Florida on a Raleigh, N.C.-area toll road. Drivers from the Tar Heel state similarly can pay for tolls in Florida using their Quick Pass, part of the Northeast's larger E-ZPass system that operates in 15 states.
SunPass, which is run by Florida's Turnpike Enterprise, also is compatible with E-Pass, which is the transponder system operated by the expressway authority. North Carolina, which has Quick Pass, entered into a similar arrangement with Florida in July, 2013.
Motorists can use their home state transponder to pay tolls on the I-85 Express Lanes in Georgia, the all-electronic Triangle Expressway in North Carolina and more than 700 miles of toll roads in Florida with their Sun Pass.
The Future of Interoperability. Currently, Peach Pass can be used on toll roads in Georgia, Florida and North Carolina only. In the coming months and years, the number of states in which the Peach Pass is interoperable will continue to expand to include the E-Z Pass network throughout the Northeast.
Florida transponders now work in Georgia and North Carolina. SunPass, Florida's electronic transponder system, now works on toll roads in Georgia, said a Wednesday release from the two states.
Some time after that, SunPass and Georgia's Peach Pass, which works on toll roads in Atlanta, will become compatible. Officials hope these deals will lead to agreements with states that use the much bigger E-Zpass, which has nearly 23 million transponders in circulation.