Due Date Calculator. Find out your due date, and see how big your baby is right now. BabyCenter's Due Date Calculator uses the same approach that your provider is likely to use. It gives you a due date that's 40 weeks from the first day of your last period.
Pregnancy normally lasts from 37 weeks to 42 weeks from the first day of your last period. To find your due date, use the drop down menus below to enter the date of the first day of your last period, and click 'calculate date' - the calculator will do the rest. Confused about due date and how many weeks I am. I used the Due date calculator on this site and several other sites and my due date came up as 8 weeks. However when I went for an early scan they dated me as being 6 weeks 5 days, that was on Friday so I would be 7 weeks + 2 today according to the scan.
Use our Pregnancy Due Date Calculator to find out when your baby is due, and get started planning for that exciting arrival. Your doctor or midwife uses the number of weeks since your last menstrual period to estimate how far along you are in your pregnancy. This calculation is for an average pregnancy (40 weeks). Your pregnancy may be longer or shorter.Only 5 percent of women deliver their babies on their projected due date
You can work out the date your baby is likely to be born by counting from the first day of your last normal period. To make things simpler, use our Due Date Calculator to help you work out your baby's due date. Your pregnancy should last approximately nine calendar months and seven days, or 40 weeks. So add this length of time from the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP) to get an idea of your due date. It's quite hard to get a spot-on due date this way. The calculation works best if your menstrual cycle is regular and your period begins predictably every 28 days.
Pregnancy due date calculator. The calculator on this page can help you work out when you might expect your baby to arrive. This will give you a rough idea. As part of your antenatal care, your midwife will also offer you a dating scan that will give you a more accurate date for the birth of your baby. Confused about due date and how many weeks I am. I used the Due date calculator on this site and several other sites and my due date came up as 8 weeks. However when I went for an early scan they dated me as being 6 weeks 5 days, that was on Friday so I would be 7 weeks + 2 today according to the scan.
LunaD, A woman's pregnancy is dated from the first day of her last period, not from the day of conception. You had a period starting on 19 July, so if you got pregnant after this date your pregnancy weeks will be counted from 19 July. Confused about due date and how many weeks I am. I used the Due date calculator on this site and several other sites and my due date came up as 8 weeks. However when I went for an early scan they dated me as being 6 weeks 5 days, that was on Friday so I would be 7 weeks + 2 today according to the scan.
1 Pregnancies usually last from 37 weeks to 42 weeks. 2  To work out your due date, you need to count 40 weeks from the first day of your last period. 3  You can get a result from a home pregnancy test as early as a day after your period is due. Working out your due date. To work out your due date, you need to count 40 weeks from the first day of your last period. You could even try working out your date from when you think you conceived – tricky for most women as they won't know exactly when they ovulated!
Pregnancy induced hypertension. Your due date is calculated by adding 280 days (40 weeks) to the first day of your last menstrual period (assuming a 28 day cycle). How is my due date calculated? Your due date is calculated by adding 280 days (40 weeks) to the first day of your last menstrual period (assuming a 28 day cycle).