In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive).
A structure or part that is enclosed within its own membrane inside a cell and has a particular function. Organelles are found only in eukaryotic cells and are absent from the cells of prokaryotes like bacteria. The nucleus, mitochondrion, and chloroplast are examples of organelles. or·gan·elle. n. A differentiated structure within a cell, such as a mitochondrion, vacuole, or chloroplast, that performs a specific function. [New Latin. , diminutive of Medieval Latin.
noun, plural: organelles. A membrane-bound compartment or structure in a cell that performs a special function. Supplement. A eukaryotic cell contains many organelles, for example, the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus, mitochondria, and chloroplast (plastid). However, not all these organelles are found in only one cell or in an organism. The chloroplast, for instance, is abundant in plant cells but not in animal cells
Organelles. Definition. noun, plural of organelle. Literally, the term means little organs. As the body is composed of various organs, the cell, too, has little organs that perform special functions. They are membrane-bound compartments or structures of a cell. A eukaryotic cell contains many organelles, for example, the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus, mitochondria, and chloroplast (plastid). However, not all these organelles are found in only one cell or in an organism. The chloroplast, for instance, is abundant in plant cells but not in animal cells.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an organelle is a structure in a cell with a specific function. An example of an organelle is a centriole. noun. A differentiated structure within a cell, such as a mitochondrion, vacuole, or chloroplast, that performs a specific function. New Latin organella, diminutive of Medieval Latin organum, organ of the body, from Latin, implement, tool; see organ.
Organelle. In cell biology, an organelle is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function, and it is usually separately enclosed within its own lipid bilayer. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body.
Definition of ORGANELLE. : a specialized cellular part (as a mitochondrion, lysosome, or ribosome) that is analogous to an organ. See organelle defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Under the more restricted definition of membrane-bound structures, some parts of the cell do not qualify as organelles. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound organelles. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive).
Medical Definition of ORGANELLE. : a specialized cellular part (as a mitochondrion or ribosome) that is analogous to an organ. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about organelle. : a specialized cellular part (as a mitochondrion, lysosome, or ribosome) that is analogous to an organ. See organelle defined for kids.