[ 2 syll. ai -(n) slie, ain-sl-ie ] The baby boy name Ainslie is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is EY-NZLiy- †. Ainslie is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Old English. Ainslie is a variant of the name Ansley (English). Ainslie is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is listed outside of the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Ainslie include Angel (English, Slavic, and Spanish), Angell (English), Angelle, Anyl, Emslea, Emsleigh, Emsley, Emsli, Emsly, Engel, Engell, Engjell, Engjelli (Engjëlli), Albanian, Engle, Enjel, Enjell (Emanual), English, Emslie, engelo And. enjelo
Ainslie is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ain-slie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5956 in baby name popularity for girls with 21 occurrences. 
Origin of the name Ainsley: Transferred use of the Scottish surname taken from the place-name Ainsley, which is derived from the name element Æne'æne s Ægen'aegen ægen s And The old (english, lēah, wood, clearing). Meadow Enclosure From a World Of baby Names By. teresa norman Origin of the name Ainsley: Transferred use of the Scottish surname taken from the place-name Ainsley, which is derived from the name element Æne'æne s Ægen'aegen ægen s And The old (english, lēah, wood, clearing). Meadow Enclosure From a World Of baby Names By. Teresa norman buy. the book
It is used mainly in English and Scottish. Ainslie is a spelling variant of the English and Scottish Ainsley. Ainslie is also an English form of the English and Scottish Ansley. Ainslie is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Among the family of girl names directly related to Ainslie, Ainsley was the most popular in 2012.
Meaning of Ainslie. English name. In English, the name Ainslie means-my own meadow.The name Ainslie originated as an English name. The name Ainslie is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-my own meadow. Origin-England. 
Origin of the name Ainsley: Transferred use of the Scottish surname taken from the place-name Ainsley, which is derived from the name element Æne'æne s Ægen'aegen ægen s And The old (english, lēah, wood, clearing). meadow enclosure Origin of the name Ainsley: Transferred use of the Scottish surname taken from the place-name Ainsley, which is derived from the name element Æne'æne s Ægen'aegen ægen s And The old (english, lēah, wood, clearing). Meadow Enclosure From a World Of baby Names By. Teresa norman buy. the book
Ainslie /ain-slie/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Ainslie). Ainslie's root is Old English, and the name Ainslie means only hermitage wood or clearing; hermitage field. Ainslie is a version of Ainsley (Old English). Ainslie is a rare first name for males but a very popular surname for all people (#23237 out of 150436, Top 15%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Ainslie /ain-slie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Ainslie). Ainslie's root is Old English, and the meaning of the name Ainslie is only hermitage wood or clearing. Ainslie is an alternate form of Ainsley (Old English). Originally a place name: from Annesley. Compare last name Ailshie. Ainslie is an uncommonly occurring given name for females but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#23237 out of 150436, Top 15%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is an analysis of the usage of the girl name Ainslie and related names.