The taskkill.exe process is part of Microsoft Windows and should not be deleted or prevented from loading each time Windows loads. Doing so could cause errors or Windows to stop working. Because the taskkill.exe file is a Windows Operating System file it is not recommend you download this file from any website. If this file is missing, it is likely other Windows related files are also missing, we suggest re-installing Windows to make sure your issue is correctly resolved.
By Vic Laurie. Windows XP comes with several tools for ending programs or processes from the command line. The features and application of Taskkill and Tskill are discussed. Sometimes it is desirable to end a program or a process from the command line. The process may be hung or not responding or it may be desirable to have a script for ending it. Both the Home and Professional version of Windows XP come with the tool Tskill. In addition, XP Professional has the more powerful tool Taskkill. It may not always be obvious what process name to use for a program. Usually the name of the program executable file (minus the EXE extension) will work. One way is to use Tasklist to find the PID and use that. Another is to use Task Manager to find the process associated with a program
/s Computer: Specifies the name or IP address of a remote computer (do not use backslashes). The default is the local computer. /u Domain \ User: Runs the command with the account permissions of the user specified by User or Domain \ User. The default is the permissions of the current logged on user on the computer issuing the command. /p Password: Specifies the password of the user account that is specified in the /u parameter. /fi FilterName: Specifies the types of process(es) to include in or exclude from termination
Availability. The taskkill command is an external command that is available in the below Microsoft operating systems as taskkill.exe. Tip: Windows XP home edition do not have access to this command. Use the command tskill instead. 
taskkill.exe is a process associated with Microsoft® Windows® Operating System from Microsoft Corporation. Non-system processes like taskkill.exe originate from software you installed on your system. Since most applications store data in your system's registry, it is likely that over time your registry suffers fragmentation and accumulates invalid entries which can affect your PC's performance. Scan your system now to identify unused processes that are using up valuable resources. taskkill.exe is used by 'Microsoft® Windows® Operating System'.This is an application created by 'Microsoft Corporation'. To stop taskkill.exe permanently uninstall 'Microsoft® Windows® Operating System' from your system. Uninstalling applications can leave invalid registry entries, accumulating over time. Run a free scan to find out how to optimize software and system
Taskkill.exe process in Windows Task Manager. The process known as taskkill.exe belongs to software Betriebssystem Microsoft Windows or Microsoft Windows Ýþletim Sistemi or VYUPPUE or Microsoft Windows Operating System by Microsoft (www.microsoft.com) or ©Wyebugur. Description: The original taskkill.exe is an important part of Windows and rarely causes problems. The file taskkill.exe is located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 78,336 bytes (25% of all occurrences), 72,192 bytes, 72,704 bytes or 77,824 bytes. The taskkill.exe file is a Windows core system file. It is a Microsoft signed file