The rebec was adopted as a key instrument in Arab classical music and in Morocco a tradition of Arabo-Andalusian music has been kept alive by descendants of Muslims who left Spain as refugees following the Reconquista. The instrument was used by dance masters until the 18th century, however, often being used for the same purpose as the kit, a small pocket-sized violin. The rebec also remained in use in folk music, especially in eastern Europe and Spain. Andalusi nubah, a genre of music from North Africa, often includes the rebec.
The rebec was little used beyond the renaissance period. A form of the instrument, called a kit or pocket fiddle did remain in use by dance masters until the 18th century, however. The rebec also continued to be used in folk music, especially in eastern Europe. It is found in Turkey today. This style of hurdy gurdy is commonly depicted in iconography of the 10th through the 15th centuries. We use it for our earliest music. It has a sweet, quieter tone than the larger Bosch instrument, which does have a trompette.
(includes rebec on second verse). War Branle-dance tune by Arbeau. (includes rebec). The use of a bow on stringed instruments probably originated in central Asia during the ninth century, spreading through Islamic and Byzantine territories and later reaching western Europe in the tenth to twelth centuries. The instrument often has frets, and probably had a thin nasal, penetrating tone, Rebecs are associated with secular intrumental music, especially dance music, and their role in the latter continues to the eighteenth century. Remnants of its tone and style can be heard in the country fiddling of the United States.
A distinguishing feature of the rebec is that the bowl (or body) of the instrument is carved from a solid piece of wood. This distinguishes it from the later period vielles and gambas known in the Renaissance. The instrument was used by dance masters until the 18th century, however, often being used for the same purpose as the kit, a small pocket-sized violin. The rebec also remained in use in folk music, especially in eastern Europe and Spain. Andalusi nubah, a genre of music from North Africa, often includes the rebec.
The rebec (sometimes rebecha, rebeckha, and other spellings, pronounced /ˈriːbɛk/ or /ˈrɛbɛk/) is a bowed stringed instrument of the Medieval era and Renaissance era. In its most common form, it has a narrow boat-shaped body and 1-5 strings. The instrument was used by dance masters until the 18th century, however, often being used for the same purpose as the kit, a small pocket-sized violin. The rebec also remained in use in folk music, especially in eastern Europe and Spain. Andalusi nubah, a genre of music from North Africa, often includes the rebec.
The rebec's rounded pear-shaped body is carved from a single block of wood and tapers in such a way that there is no visible distinction between the body and the neck. The fingerboard is a raised part of the soundboard or is fixed to it from above, but this does not change the frontal outline of the instrument. The instrument often has frets, and probably had a thin nasal, penetrating tone, Rebecs are associated with secular intrumental music, especially dance music, and their role in the latter continues to the eighteenth century. Remnants of its tone and style can be heard in the country fiddling of the United States.
In time, the viol came to replace the rebec, and the instrument was little used beyond the renaissance period. The instrument was used by dance masters until the 18th century, however, often being used for the same purpose as the kit, a small pocket-sized violin. The rebec also remained in use in folk music, especially in eastern Europe and Spain. Andalusi nubah, a genre of music from North Africa, often includes the rebec.
Overview. The rebec is a type of medieval fiddle that is distinguishable by its shape: a round body that tapers into the neck and culminates in a peg box or disk. Related to the Arabic rabāb and Greek lyra, rebecs were introduced into Europe as early as the eleventh century. 
The rebec was definitely an instrument of the lower classes, not the court. The rebec (rebeca, rebecq, rebet, ribeca, rebecum, rabel, or rebequin) came from the Arabian rabob. It has been known in Europe since the 10th century but their use in art music was chiefly during the Middle Ages and Renaissance. The instrument often has frets, and probably had a thin nasal, penetrating tone, Rebecs are associated with secular intrumental music, especially dance music, and their role in the latter continues to the eighteenth century. Remnants of its tone and style can be heard in the country fiddling of the United States.