Most human foods fall into a pH range of about 2 to 7, but this presents no challenge to the human stomach which averages a pH of about 1.5 to 2. The acidity of honey is very close to that of the more acidic fruits. 1  Lemons: 2.2-2.4. 2  Oranges: 3.0-4.0. 3  Honey: 3.9 [ranging from 3.2-6.1]. 4  Cherries: 3.2-4.0. 5  Carrots: 4.9-5.3. 
The honey I am talking about now is raw honey and it is alkaline. or at least on the cusp between alkaline and acidic. The reason I am experimenting with honey is to find an acceptable sweetner for some of the dishes I enjoy. One of the reasons honey landed in my lap is because of my research with the Budwig Diet. My interest and dance with cancer can be seen here. Here is a section from one of my favorite Alkaline Chart websites. It places honey on the cusp, but puts raw honey in the alkaline department. There are several versions of the Acidic and Alkaline Food chart to be found in different books and on the Internet.
Lemons are acidic to the taste, but are alkaline forming in the body. In fact they are one of the most alkaline forming foods; this makes them great for balancing a highly acidic condition in the body. Lemons are a favorite all over the world and an essential food in kitchens around the world.
*NB. pH is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a liquid. You can test your saliva or your urine to see how acid or alkaline you are. The measurement of pH is from zero (acid) to 14 (alkaline) and ideally water is 7.0 to 7.2 and the human body 7.2 to 7.4. The acidity or alkalinity is almost entirely due to the various dissolved salts in the liquid. Where reverse osmosis removes salts, the pH of the water can fall to 6 and the water becomes more acid.
As a result, different charts can report slightly different pH levels of the same foods. Download this printable Alkaline-Acid Food Chart to post on your fridge. Jump To Featured Products. How the body reacts to certain foods is what determines what foods are alkaline-forming and what foods are acid-forming. For example lemons are acidic in nature, but have an alkalizing effect on the body once they are digested. Similarly, milk is alkaline outside the body, but acidic upon digestion. 
Raw fruits, leafy green vegetables, legumes, and tea are examples of alkaline forming or promoting foods. Interestingly and ironically, a food's acid or alkaline-forming tendency in the body has nothing to do with the actual pH of the food itself. 
The Basics Every solution is either acidic or alkaline. (Alkaline is often called base.) These solutions can be anything from body fluids, such as stomach acid and blood, to beverages, such as wine or coffee, to sea water. Acidity and alkalinity are measured in pH (potential of hydrogen). The Misconceptions Foods are classified as acid-forming or alkalizing depending on the effect they have on the body. An acid-forming food contributes hydrogen ions to the body, making it more acidic. An alkalizing food removes hydrogen ions from the body, making it more alkaline.
1 Pure honey…. 2  The Basics of the Alkaline-Based Diet An alkaline-based diet helps regulate your pH level. 3  A naturally balanced alkaline diet may help your lungs, kidneys and other organs to function more efficiently. 
1/2 cup rapadura or sucanat (I use about a 1/4 cup of Raw Honey). 1 cup coconut oil or butter (I use only coconut oil). 1 T. vanilla. If you go to the original recipe site you can see pictures of how the cook used a glass jar in water to blend the first 3 items. My interest and dance with cancer can be seen here. Here is a section from one of my favorite Alkaline Chart websites. It places honey on the cusp, but puts raw honey in the alkaline department. There are several versions of the Acidic and Alkaline Food chart to be found in different books and on the Internet.