Light Bends. The fundamental process at work in a rainbow is refraction -- the bending of light. Light bends -- or more accurately, changes directions -- when it travels from one medium to another. This happens because light travels at different speeds in different mediums. To understand why light bends, imagine you're pushing a shopping cart across a parking lo
Refraction is the bending of a wave when it enters a medium where its speed is different. The refraction of light when it passes from a fast medium to a slow medium bends the light ray toward the normal to the boundary between the two media.
When light enters a different medium, the amount that the light is bent as it enters the medium is determined by the medium's index of..........=refraction. The speed of light in a vacuum is a universal constant: about 3*10^8 meters/second and the fastest anything can go. However, when light hits some other medium, it slows … down. This slowing causes the light to bend. This phenomenon is known as refraction. A simple way to remember how the light bends is with the acronym FST SFA, or Fast Sofa.. A wave moving quickly that slows down as it enters some medium's boundary, bends towards the normal, or perpendicular, of the medium (Fast Slow Towards, or FST)
When light enters a different medium, the amount that the light is bent as it enters the medium is determined by the medium's index of refraction. 5 people found this useful. The speed of light in a vacuum is a universal constant: about 3*10^8 meters/second and the fastest anything can go. However, when light hits some other medium, it slows … down. This slowing causes the light to bend. This phenomenon is known as refraction. A simple way to remember how the light bends is with the acronym FST SFA, or Fast Sofa.. A wave moving quickly that slows down as it enters some medium's boundary, bends towards the normal, or perpendicular, of the medium (Fast Slow Towards, or FST)
An explanation of why refraction occurs when light travels from a medium with a given refractive index to a medium with another is easily explained by the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics (the complete method was developed in 1948 by Richard Feynman). For example, a light ray will refract as it enters and leaves glass, assuming there is a change in refractive index. A ray traveling along the normal (perpendicular to the boundary) will change speed, but not direction. Refraction still occurs in this case.
1 Refraction: 2  is the bending of light as it passes from one medium to another with different densities. 3  amount of refraction depends upon: 4  density of the materials. 5  angle at which the light enters the material. 6  wavelength-causes colors of white light to separate when passing through a prism. Refraction of Light. 1  Refraction: 2  is the bending of light as it passes from one medium to another with different densities. 3  amount of refraction depends upon: 4  density of the materials. 5  angle at which the light enters the material.
REFRACTION-Refraction occurs when the light ray changes mediums. Light traveling through air and then going through water is an example of a light ray changing medium. The speed of the light ray changes when it enters a different medium. In most cases the direction of the light also changes. We say the light bends. If the light travels slower then this medium is called the denser medium. If the light ray travels faster then the medium is called the rarer medium. When light enters a denser medium the ray bends toward the normal-when light enters a rarer medium it is bent away form the normal. light bends quite a bit in water