For the mountain in Australia, see Mount McKay (Australia) . Mount McKay is a mafic sill located south of Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada, on the Indian Reserve of the Fort William First Nation. It is the highest, most northern and best known of the Nor'Wester Mountains. It is a flat-topped hill flanked by steep cliffs on three sides. Mount McKay is composed of shale and greywackes – the Rove Formation – which is covered by the hard, protective 60 m (200 ft) thick diabase cap.
Mount McKay Climbing Notes. Be the first to submit your climbing note! Please submit any useful information about climbing Mount McKay that may be useful to other climbers. Consider things such as access and accommodation at the base of Mount McKay, as well as the logistics of climbing to the summit. Select Mount McKay Location Map Detail:
Mount McKay Scenic Lookout. Towering 1,000 ft. over the city, Mt. McKay is a must on your list of attractions. At the 500 ft. level, the viewing scope and skyline walkway offer a magnificent vista of the city, Lake Superior and surrounding countryside. There is also a picnic area, snack bar and an easy hiking trail to the top of the mountain. Amenities: 27 serviced trailer sites and numerous tent campsites.
The north face of Mount McKay shows evidence that below this cap is another 7.2 m (24 ft) thick sill of very hard diabase. This sill is also an erosional remnant and is 96 m (315 ft) below the first cap and 190 m (620 ft) below the top of the hill – or 242 m (794 ft) above sea level. It is a flat-topped hill flanked by steep cliffs on three sides. Mount McKay is composed of shale and greywackes – the Rove Formation – which is covered by the hard, protective 60 m (200 ft) thick diabase cap.
Stop 1: An aerial view looking south across Thunder Bay to Mount McKay. The mountain is a promontory on an irregular escarpment known as the Nor’Westers, which separates a tableland to the south from lowlands to the north. Photo courtesy of the Ontario Geological Survey. The falls is known as the “Niagara of the North” for its similarity to Niagara Falls. Both the Niagara and Kaministiquia rivers flow across flat-lying and strongly layered sedimentary rocks, then tumble into a gorge. The Kakabeka Falls area is underlain by flat-lying layers of soft shale that erode easily.
I have climbed several different sides of Mt McKay. People can climb straight up the middle of the side facing Thunder Bay starting from the bottom. You can also go up the left side which is on Mission Rd. You can go east from the top of the old Mt McKay Ski Hill Side, there is a trail that will bring you to a tunnel that goes straight through the mountain to the top. The entrance is near the top when climbing up. There is a trail that will take you up either the front or the back of the mountain. 
Located at the city’s southern limits, Mount McKay is Thunder Bay’s very own geological wonder. A trail up the east face delivers hikers to a lookout offering unobstructed views of Thunder Bay, the harbour and the Sleeping Giant. It’s a great place to take a few deep breaths and survey the region’s rich cultural and natural heritage laid out below.
In the shadow of Animikii-wajiw. March 11, 2009 By Chris Corrigan First Nations, Leadership, Open Space 4 Comments. In Thunder Bay on the Fort William reserve there is a distinct volcanic remanant called Mount McKay in English but Animikii-wajiw in Anishnaabemowin. Animikii-wajiw means “thunder mountain” so named because a thunderbird once landed there, ampong other things. There is good news on the Aboriginal title front and it can all lead to good things for First Nations – not without challenge and much effort mind you – but things are looking optimistic on the legal front in a way that is truly unprecedented.
The current English name Mount McKay, evolved from Mackay's Mountain and later, McKay's Mountain, after William Mackay, a Scottish free trader who resided in the Fort William area sometime between 1821 and 1857. Mount McKay is 270 m (890 ft) above Lake Superior and 442 m (1,450 ft) above sea level. It is a flat-topped hill flanked by steep cliffs on three sides. Mount McKay is composed of shale and greywackes – the Rove Formation – which is covered by the hard, protective 60 m (200 ft) thick diabase cap.