Carnatic music, Karnāṭaka saṃgīta or Karnāṭaka saṅgītam is a system of music commonly associated with the southern part of the Indian subcontinent, with its area roughly confined to four modern states of India: Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu. Today, Carnatic music is presented by musicians in concerts or recordings, either vocally or through instruments. Carnatic music itself developed around musical works or compositions of phenomenal composers (see below).
Tillana is a brisk and a lively number performed towards the end of a concert. Usually a carnatic vocal or a Bharatanatyam concert culminates with a Tillana. The lyrics contain sollus like Dheem Nadir Dheem or Dheem Ta na Di tIllana. Most of the Tillana’s include the word ‘Tillana’ in the lyrics. It is predominantly a rhythmic composition. Tillana usually has jatis as a part of the composition and few lines of Sahityam in the charanam followed by Muktams (Patterns of swarams) or Sollus. Tillana consists of a Pallavi, Anupallavi, Sahityam and Cittaswaram
Carnatic Music-Overview 3 2 THALAM In Indian Carnatic Music is a time measure or rhythm cycle. As heart beat is to life for a man, Thaalam lends life for whole of a concert. It is said Sruthi Maata Laya Pitha which means, the drone emanated from the Tambura is Mother to the music and the Thaalam is like father. Carnatic Music-Overview 4 2.2 KAALAM (SPEED) Each composition is rendered at different speeds or kaalam. For example, first speed is the slowest or vilamba kaalam and second speed (twice the first speed) is called Madhyama kaalam and third speed is called Duritha kaalam (twice the second speed).
Carnatic music is usually performed by a small ensemble of musicians, consisting of a principal performer (usually a vocalist), a melodic accompaniment (usually a violin), a rhythm accompaniment (usually a mridangam), and a tambura, which acts as a drone throughout the performance. Today, Carnatic music is presented by musicians in concerts or recordings, either vocally or through instruments. Carnatic music itself developed around musical works or compositions of phenomenal composers (see below).
1 Krithi A krithi is the most commonly used format in carnatic compositions. 2  It comprises of a pallavi, anupallavi, charanam and chittaswaram. 3  The pallavi consists of the first/tag line of the song. 4  It is the line in the song that is repeated multiple times in the composition. 1 Hence varnams are an important part of Carnatic music lessons where one trains to the varnam in different speeds of the thalam that the varnam is set to. 2  Carnatic concerts usually start with a varnam. 3  Thillana Thillana (also called tillana) is a short composition, generally performed at the end of a concert.
A Tillana or thillana is a rhythmic piece in Carnatic music that is generally performed at the end of a concert and widely used in dance performances. A Tillana uses tala-like phrases in the pallavi and anupallavi, and lyrics in the charanam. 
Although improvisation plays an important role, Carnatic music is mainly sung through compositions, especially the kriti (or kirtanam) – a form developed between the 14th and 20th centuries by composers such as Purandara Dasa and the Trinity of Carnatic music. Today, Carnatic music is presented by musicians in concerts or recordings, either vocally or through instruments. Carnatic music itself developed around musical works or compositions of phenomenal composers (see below).
Types of compositions in Carnatic music. 1  Krithi A krithi is the most commonly used format in carnatic compositions. 2  It comprises of a pallavi, anupallavi, charanam and chittaswaram. 3  The pallavi consists of the first/tag line of the song. 4  It is the line in the song that is repeated multiple times in the composition. 1 Hence varnams are an important part of Carnatic music lessons where one trains to the varnam in different speeds of the thalam that the varnam is set to. 2  Carnatic concerts usually start with a varnam. 3  Thillana Thillana (also called tillana) is a short composition, generally performed at the end of a concert.
The main emphasis in Carnatic music is on vocal music; most compositions are written to be sung, and even when played on instruments, they are meant to be performed in gāyaki (singing) style. Today, Carnatic music is presented by musicians in concerts or recordings, either vocally or through instruments. Carnatic music itself developed around musical works or compositions of phenomenal composers (see below).