Snookum shoots off down the road. When he gets near Mathu's house, Snookum sees that the tractor is still running, but Charlie, its operator, is not around. Snookum sees Beau lying in the weeds all bloody. Snookum tells Mathu that he has been ordered to summon everyone to Mathu's house. Mathu tells him to stay away from Beau. Snookum dashes to the houses of Rufe, the Reverend Jameson, and Corrine and gives them all Candy's message. When he arrives at the Marshall House, where Janey lives, he calls to her from the gate. Janey chastises him for yelling so loud and tells him that he should call Lou, Mr. Lou, and Candy, Miss Candy.. When Janey asks what it is all about, Snookum tells her that Beau is lying bloody in Mathu's yard.
(noun). 1. A word use to show endearment to someone you really want to piss off and then shoot in the head with a .22, then dump them off the side of a cliff while whistling Hail to the Chief.. 2. From the Latin origins of snook-meaning super and the Greek words ums-which means duper. 3
1 Snookums can be attracted when plating for Oddie as Oddie can be caught from a Purple, Black and Yellow Star Blossoms. 2  Thus meaning that both Moshlings need three Star Blossoms. 3  There is a 1:18 chance that you will get Snookums when you are planting for Oddie. Biography. Perhaps the cutest Moshlings of all, Baby Tumteedums are sweet little demi-dinos that just want to be loved. Hatched from mysterious marzipan eggs, these wide-eyed critters are always looking for someone (or something) to look after them.
Skookum is a Chinook Jargon word that has come into occasional use in the Pacific Northwest. he's skookum, it conveys connotations of trustworthiness, reliability and honesty as well as (possibly but not necessarily) strength and size. Being called skookum may also mean that someone can be counted on as reliable and hard-working, or is big and strong.
At the turn of the 20th century George McManus wrote a comic strip, The Newlyweds, about a couple and their child, Baby Snookums. Snookums is a variant of snooks, a word that has been floating around for a century or so. 
Snookum could be a young teen, since his brother Toddy finds him playing mama and papa with Minnie. Yank is one of the old black men who meet at Mathu's house. Yank is in his early seventies. He used to break horses and mules thirty-forty years before the events in the novel … . He wears a straw hat draped like a cowboy hat, a faded red polka-dot handkerchief, and his pant legs down in his boots.
A skookum is a variety of mountain giant or monster similar to the Sasquatch or Bigfoot. In the surviving Chinuk-Wawa spoken in Grand Ronde, Oregon, this variant is pronounced differently-skoo-KOOM, but when used in English with this meaning, it is pronounced the same way as the big and strong meaning. he's skookum, it conveys connotations of trustworthiness, reliability and honesty as well as (possibly but not necessarily) strength and size. Being called skookum may also mean that someone can be counted on as reliable and hard-working, or is big and strong.
Chapter 1: George Eliot Jr., aka Snookum. George Eliot, Jr., also known as Snookum, narrates Chapter 1. He is sitting at the kitchen table eating with his siblings, Toddy and Minnie, when he hears Candy outside yelling for Aunt Glo, his grandmother. He tries to get up and see what is happening, but his grandmother orders him back to the table. When he arrives at the Marshall House, where Janey lives, he calls to her from the gate. Janey chastises him for yelling so loud and tells him that he should call Lou, Mr. Lou, and Candy, Miss Candy.. When Janey asks what it is all about, Snookum tells her that Beau is lying bloody in Mathu's yard.
It has a range of positive meanings. The word can mean 'good,' 'strong,' 'best,' 'powerful,' 'ultimate,' or 'brave.' Something can be skookum meaning 'really good' or 'right on! 'excellent!', or it can be skookum meaning 'tough' or 'durable.' A skookum burger is either a big or a really tasty hamburger, or both. he's skookum, it conveys connotations of trustworthiness, reliability and honesty as well as (possibly but not necessarily) strength and size. Being called skookum may also mean that someone can be counted on as reliable and hard-working, or is big and strong.