Start to wean your Lab off the puppy food and onto the adult food bit by bit, no more than half a cup at a time. On the first day of the switch, you might feed a cup and a half of puppy food and a half-cup of adult food. On day seven, you might feed 1-and-a-half cups of adult food and half a cup of puppy food.
One common mistake made by new Labrador puppy owners is to feed their puppy on cows milk. If you have inadvertently bought a puppy that is too young to leave its mother (less than seven weeks old), do phone your vet for advice on proper care and feeding, and take the pup for a check up without delay.
No, grains and carbohydrates are not good for dogs/puppies, you should be feeding him food that is as close to a raw diet as you can. I have a four year old yellow lab and a nine year old golden retriever who both eat Innova Evo.
Changing to adult food. Kibble manufacturers often recommend feeding puppy kibble up to 12 months of age (longer for very large breed dogs). Many breeders and experienced dog owners however, do switch their puppies on to adult food before this, usually at some time after six months.
Feed your puppy 3-4 times a day. Puppies have different nutritional needs than adult dogs. Choose a puppy food that provides the appropriate balance of nutrients your puppy needs. Be sure it is getting the right amount of protein and calcium, and the proper amount of calories.
To a large extent feeding any dog is trail and error and Lab puppies are no exception. Of course for the first three of four weeks of its life a puppy will be weaned by its mum with most breeders beginning to feed their dogs after four weeks.
People ask if it is OK to give puppies eggs, or rice, or milk, and so on. They also want to know how much to feed their puppies, and how often. When I was small, puppies were fed on all sorts of things, including scraps, raw meat, canned puppy food, puppy meal, weetabix and milk, etc. Nowadays feeding your Labrador puppy is usually much simpler.
Most puppy food packaging will tell you to continue feeding the pup on the food for a year before switching to an adult formula. But, most people agree, that the switch should happen much earlier at four months whilst others say puppies should be fed on a good quality adult food right from the start.
1 Dogs should be fed at the same time every day. 2  Feeding at the same time will keep your dog on a bathroom schedule. 3  Ask your vet how many times a day you should feed your dog. 4  Feed your dog the same type and brand of food