These Eiscat Facilities are located at Jicamarca, Peru; near Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod (SURA) and Apatity, Russia; near Kharkov, Ukraine and in Dushanbe, Tadzhikistan. All of these Ionospheric Research Installations use some of the HAARP Technologies. There are phased antenna array transmitters in Norway and Russia. HIPAS in Alaska near Fairbanks is a ionospheric research facility too. There are HF heating facilities located at Platteville, Colorado, and at Ramfjordmoen, in Norway.
Along with a smaller facility located near Fairbanks, Alaska, other ionospheric heater locations include: Puerto Rico, Norway, Russia, Tajikistan, Peru and the Middle East. The latest word is that Russia, China and the United States have set up HAARP-like facilities in Antarctica. Located on an United States Air Force site near Gakona, Alaska, the High-frequency Active Auroral Research Project (HAARP) is the world’s largest and most functional ionospheric heater. Construction began in 1993
Possible HAARP Locations Around The World 1-8-11. Most people never even heard of HAARP, but fact is, HAARP installations exist and are most likely than not, responsible for a lot of foul weather and earthquakes in the past 15 years. Investigate and you will find the facts. Or just stay ignorant and blissful. It's up to you. I identified the HAARP sites two years ago. They left some key ones out: Chile (HAARP earthquake as President was sworn in), Cyprus (Black Sea Storm), Dushanbe Tajikstan (Tien Shan gold belt), and ANTARCTICA-the most important one. Plus, they forgot all the Russian installations-more than any other country.
The most prominent instrument at the HAARP Station is the Ionospheric Research Instrument (IRI), a high-power radio frequency transmitter facility operating in the high frequency (HF) band. The IRI is used to temporarily excite a limited area of the ionosphere. The HAARP program began in 1990. A U.S. senator from Alaska, Republican Ted Stevens, helped win approval for the facility, whose construction began in 1993. In early May 2013, HAARP was temporarily shut down, awaiting a change between contractors who operated the facility.
The HAARP program operated a major sub-arctic facility, named the HAARP Research Station, on an Air Force-owned site near Gakona, Alaska. The HAARP program began in 1990. A U.S. senator from Alaska, Republican Ted Stevens, helped win approval for the facility, whose construction began in 1993. In early May 2013, HAARP was temporarily shut down, awaiting a change between contractors who operated the facility.
The HAARP facility in Gakona, Alaska has shut down pending its transfer to a different contractor working for DARPA. HAARP was shut down in early May 2013, awaiting a change between contractors who operate the facility. 
Facility Description: The HAARP Gakona Facility is located in a relatively remote region of south central Alaska where a variety of ionospheric conditions may occur, ranging from quiet to mid-latitude to auroral. The High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program, jointly sponsored by the Office of Naval Research, the Air Force Research Laboratory, and DARPA, is constructing a new interactive ionospheric research facility in Gakona, Alaska, to conduct both basic and applied research in this scientific discipline.
The High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) facility is located in Gakona, Alaska at 62.39 N, 145.15 W, near mile 11 of the Tok Cutoff Highway. The amplified wave can then be detected in the opposite hemisphere, at the magnetic conjugate point of HAARP in the southern Pacific Ocean (Gołkowski et al., 2010; Gołkowski et al., 2008; Inan et al., 2004). The cartoon in Figure 3 illustrates this setup.
* Tromsoe'tromsø S Heating. Facility These Eiscat facilities are located At, Jicamarca; peru Near, Moscow Nizhny (NOVGOROD) sura And, Apatity; russia Near, Kharkov ukraine and In, Dushanbe. Tadzhikistan all of These Ionospheric Research installations use some of THE Haarp. technologies There are phased antenna array transmitters in Norway and Russia. HIPAS in Alaska near Fairbanks is a ionospheric research facility too. There are HF heating facilities located at Platteville, Colorado, and at Ramfjordmoen, in Norway.