Introduce. Scientists with the Wildlife Conservation. Society/Columbia University’s Human Footprint Project mapped degrees of human influence over every square kilometer of Earth’s surface (1 square kilometer = .39 square mile). • Four factors were evaluated—population, travel routes, land use, and lights. 
A common type of footprint estimates the amount of biologically productive land and sea area necessary to supply the resources a human population consumes, and to assimilate the waste that population produces. In 2007, the Global Footprint Network estimated the global ecological footprint as 1.5 planet Earths; that is, they judged that ecological services were being used 1.5 times as quickly as they were being renewed. Ecological footprint for different nations compared to their Human Development Index. Ecological footprints can be calculated at any scale: for an activity, a person, a community, a city, a region, a nation or humanity as a whole
Answer by Cataclysmic Beefstick. Confidence votes 7.2K. A human footprint is what a person leaves behind when he or she walks in a soft surface such as mud, wet sand, or tracks mud or dirt onto another surface. It is created by the foot touching the ground and pressing into the soft surface
In Human Footprint, it shows all the people you will ever know, how much waste you will produce, the amount of fuel you'll consume and how much you've got to pack in during your 2,475,526,000 seconds on earth. More. Reviews: B+ 17 Fans. 
Footprint Basics-Overview. Human activities consume resources and produce waste, and as our populations grow and global consumption increases, it is essential that we measure nature’s capacity to meet these demands. The Ecological Footprint has emerged as one of the world’s leading measures of human demand on nature
Impacts. Every human produces an individual ecological footprint that is determined largely by the wealth and level of development in the country they live in—more developed countries have a larger footprint on average—but the choices we make in our daily lives also contribute. By adding up all of those withdrawals, we can calculate the human footprint on the planet—a measure of how much we are using the Earth’s natural resources. The withdrawals come in six categories:
The ecological footprint is a measure of human demand on the Earth's ecosystems, the amount of natural capital used each year. In 2007, the Global Footprint Network estimated the global ecological footprint as 1.5 planet Earths; that is, they judged that ecological services were being used 1.5 times as quickly as they were being renewed. Ecological footprint for different nations compared to their Human Development Index. Ecological footprints can be calculated at any scale: for an activity, a person, a community, a city, a region, a nation or humanity as a whole