meaning of sanderson english name in english the name sanderson means alexanders son the name sanderson originated as an english name the name sanderson is most often used as a boy name or male name english name meaning alexanders son origin england
Sanderson is a surname, and may refer to. 1  Alex Sanderson, English rugby union player, brother of Pat Sanderson. 2  Bill Sanderson, Tennessee politician. 3  Brandon Sanderson, American fantasy author. 4  Brenton Sanderson, Australian rules football player and coach. 5  Cael Sanderson, American amateur wrestler. 
Greek Meaning: The name Sanderson is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Sanderson is: Defender of men; protector of mankind. English Meaning: The name Sanderson is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sanderson is: Alexander's son.
The surname spelling has always varied, Sandrisson and Snaderisone being other examples, the modern spellings being Sanderson, Saunderson, Sandeson and Sandison. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Johannes Sandrison. which was dated 1434, at Kincardine, Scotland. during the reign of King James l of Scotland, 1406 - 1437. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
Sanderson meaning, Sanderson popularity, Sanderson hieroglyphics, Sanderson numerology, and other interesting facts. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Sanderson /san-der-son/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys. Sanderson's name origin is Middle English, and Sanderson means son of Alexander. Sanderson is a version of Sanders (Middle English). Sanderman is a common last name. Kreatif forms: Saderson, Sandersonney, Shanderson. 
Sanderson Meaning: the descendant, or son of Sander, a pet form of Alexander (helper of mankind). ©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Sanderson Last Name-Surname-Family Name Sanderson.
Derived from the Ancient Greek name Alexander, meaning the Protector of mankind the name probably dates back before 1300 BC., to the Hittit Tribe. The name was first introduced into Scotland circa 1050 and three Scottish Kings have carried the personal name. As a surname Alexanders Son first appears in Scotland in the mid 15th Century, whilst in 1472, John Sanderson purchased the Lands of Lethindy (Athol). The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Johannes Sandrison. which was dated 1434, at Kincardine, Scotland. during the reign of King James l of Scotland, 1406 - 1437. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.