Dividing the sum of squares of the residual (851.469) by its degrees of freedom (72) yields 11.826. That is the mean sum of squares. If you further take a square root, you'll get Root MSE (3.4289 in the output). Basically, it's a measurement of accuracy. The more accurate model would have less error, leading to a smaller error sum of squares, then MS, then Root MSE. 1 Square them. 2  Add them up, this will give you the Error sum of squares, SS in Stata output. 3  Divide it by the error's degrees of freedom, this will give you the Mean error sum of squares, MS in Stata output. 4  Take a square root of it, and this is the Root MSE.
Mean squared error: the expected value of the square of the error.. Root mean square error: a measure of the difference between values predicted by a model or an estimator and the values actually observed from the thing being modeled or estimated. These differences are also called residuals. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_er.
Is a root square MSE value a value that is interpreted in relation to the data, or is it on a scale of its own (where 0 is none and 1 is a great correlation etc.). I am using SAS to analyze a dataset and I ended up with a root MSE value of 136.125... Answers. Best Answer: The root MSE can take on any positive value. While particular values of MSE other than zero are meaningless in and of themselves, they may be used for comparative purposes.
1 Add them up, this will give you the Error sum of squares, SS in Stata output. 2  Divide it by the error's degrees of freedom, this will give you the Mean error sum of squares, MS in Stata output. 3  Take a square root of it, and this is the Root MSE. 1 Square them. 2  Add them up, this will give you the Error sum of squares, SS in Stata output. 3  Divide it by the error's degrees of freedom, this will give you the Mean error sum of squares, MS in Stata output. 4  Take a square root of it, and this is the Root MSE.
The Root MSE, or root mean squared error, is the square root of 0.427, or the mean squared error. You can find the MSE, 0.427, in right hand side of the subtable in the upper left section of the readout. This subtable is called the ANOVA, or analysis of variance, table. 
(Redirected from Mean square error). In statistics, the mean squared error (MSE) of an estimator measures the average of the squares of the errors, that is, the difference between the estimator and what is estimated. MSE is a risk function, corresponding to the expected value of the squared error loss or quadratic loss. The MSE is the second moment (about the origin) of the error, and thus incorporates both the variance of the estimator and its bias. For an unbiased estimator, the MSE is the variance of the estimator.
Not to be confused with Root-mean-square deviation of atomic positions. The root-mean-square deviation (RMSD) or root-mean-square error (RMSE) is a frequently used measure of the differences between values (sample and population values) predicted by a model or an estimator and the values actually observed. The RMSD of an estimator with respect to an estimated parameter is defined as the square root of the mean square error : For an unbiased estimator, the RMSD is the square root of the variance, known as the standard error
The smaller the Mean Squared Error, the closer the fit is to the data. The MSE has the units squared of whatever is plotted on the vertical axis. Another quantity that we calculate is the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE). It is just the square root of the mean square error. That is probably the most easily interpreted statistic, since it has the same units as the quantity plotted on the vertical axis. Key point: The RMSE is thus the distance, on average, of a data point from the fitted line, measured along a vertical line.