Striped hyenas live in Africa, Arabia, Asia Minor and India in savanna, thorn bush, and stony desert regions. They weigh from 55 to 121 pounds. Striped and brown hyenas are predominantly scavengers, though they do supplement their diets with small prey from insects to foxes. The aardwolf, also, lives in Africa. They live in territorial clans of related individuals, sometimes up to 80 members. Spotted hyenas are hunters and scavengers. Besides flesh, they eat skin, bones, and even animal droppings. Spotted hyenas are 28 to 35 inches tall and weigh 90 to 190 pounds.
The striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena) is a species of true hyena native to North and East Africa, the Middle East, the Caucasus, Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent. 
Hyenas are widespread and found in most habitats. Spotted hyenas are found in all habitats, including savannas, grasslands, woodlands, forest edges, subdeserts, and even mountains up to 13,000 ft. There are three hyena species—spotted, brown, and striped. Spotted hyenas are the largest of the three. Hyenas are fairly large in build and have relatively short torsos with lower hindquarters and sloping backs.
Hyena. There are four species of Hyena: spotted, brown, striped, and the aardwolf. All hyenas are usually nocturnal. The spotted hyena is the most well known. Spotted hyena live in Africa in savannas, grasslands, woodlands, forest edges, subdeserts and mountains. They live in territorial clans of related individuals, sometimes up to 80 members. Spotted hyenas are hunters and scavengers. Besides flesh, they eat skin, bones, and even animal droppings. Spotted hyenas are 28 to 35 inches tall and weigh 90 to 190 pounds.
Spotted Hyenas live in much of central and southern Africa, south of the Sahara Desert. They can survive in a variety of habitats but like to live where there are lots of zebras and antelopes. This includes grasslands, savannas, woodlands, and sometimes even the mountains. 
Hyenas live in clans up to 100 hyenas, with a female hyena acting as matriarch. Unlike other species that live in groups, hyenas fight each other often. The females fight one another for dominance, and the females display aggressive signs to keep the males in line. Although they are relatively small compared to some other African creatures, hyenas are the most common carnivore in Africa. They can weigh between 90 and 190 pounds and stand 28 to 35 inches tall. The spotted hyena has a tan or brown coat with dark spots and a dark face.
Three of the four species of hyena are restricted to sub-Saharan Africa, where they live in drier environments such as savannah, bushland and desert. The fourth species, the Striped Hyena, is found in northern and eastern Africa as well as in Asia from the Middle East to India. 
Other species of Hyenas also live in Asia, Middle East, India. In Hyenas. Three of the four species of hyena are restricted to sub-Saharan Africa, where they live in drier environments such as savannah, bushland and desert. The fourth species, the S … triped Hyena, is found in northern and eastern Africa as well as in Asia from the Middle East to India.
Spotted hyenas are the largest of three hyena species. Brown and striped hyenas are the other two. Although hyenas appear similar to dogs, they are actually more closely related to cats. They live throughout much of Africa and eastwards through Arabia to India. Spotted hyenas are famed scavengers and often dine on the leftovers of other predators. But these hardy beasts are also skilled hunters that will take down wildebeest or antelope. They also kill and eat birds, lizards, snakes, and insects.