[edit] Evolution of the term over the years. The term Gasser is a vulgarization of NHRA's classification that was originally Gas Coupe/Sedan. The main purpose of this classification was to have a place to race cars with seriously modified engines. [edit] Genesis of the term gasser. In the '40s and '50s, the Gas class was instituted to allow the guys with modified motors or engine swaps a class to run in. I used to run a '48 Ford with a modified '51 Mercury flathead in F/Gas. These were still fully functional, street legal cars with full interiors.
The “Gasser Wars” Era occurred during the mid to late 1960’s. Back then, gassers were hugely popular and teams of drag racers competed across the U.S. Many teams were sponsored by engine component manufacturers to promote their speed-related equipment. Most gassers are based on production models from the ‘30s through the ‘60s that have been stripped of extra weight, modified with a solid front axle and “jacked up” with suspension modifications. These changes provide better weight transfer and improved traction on acceleration.
Full Gasser. You complete a full gasser by running the width of a football field four consecutive times. Start on one sideline and sprint to the opposite sideline, touch the sideline and immediately sprint back to the starting line. Touch the starting line and repeat by running down and back. A 1/2-gasser is exactly half of a full gasser. Start on one sideline and sprint to the opposite sideline, touch the line and
Function. The gasser is a specific conditioning drill used by CrossFit Football in conjunction with the workout of the day (WOD) -- and is effective for football players of any ability level, ranging from professional and collegiate athletes to youth or beginning players. A 1/2-gasser is exactly half of a full gasser. Start on one sideline and sprint to the opposite sideline, touch the line and sprint back to the starting line.
A 'Gasser' is the term used in the late 1950's through the 1960's for a vehicle that drag raced simply on gas as fuel (rather than a race fuel) and competed in a heads up drag race in which classes were seperated by engine cubic inches and vehicle weight. Gassers and Fuel Altered cars were the top drag racing classes prior to Top Fuel Dragsters, Funny Cars, and Pro Stock. The Gasser War' years are defined as 1955-1968 when they ruled drag strips across the country. American Gasser has re-created period correct Gassers which are street legal as well as drag strip ready for those who desire to re-live the Glory Days of the Gasser
Typical Gasser car from the 1960's. This 1952 Henry J was built and raced in the 1960's. It is now restored and raced occasionally. A pair of Henry J drag cars at a Nostalgia event in March 2011. [edit] Genesis of the term gasser. In the '40s and '50s, the Gas class was instituted to allow the guys with modified motors or engine swaps a class to run in. I used to run a '48 Ford with a modified '51 Mercury flathead in F/Gas. These were still fully functional, street legal cars with full interiors.
The “gasser” name arose because these cars were drag raced in a “gasoline driven” class, as opposed to using racing fuels such as nitromethane or alcohol. Cars entered in this class were designated in various divisions (A/G, B/G, A/GS, etc.) based on a weight-to-engine cubic inch displacement ratio. Most gassers are based on production models from the ‘30s through the ‘60s that have been stripped of extra weight, modified with a solid front axle and “jacked up” with suspension modifications. These changes provide better weight transfer and improved traction on acceleration.
A “gasser” is a type of hot rod originating on the drag strips of the United States in the late 1950s. Most gassers are based on production models from the ‘30s through the ‘60s that have been stripped of extra weight, modified with a solid front axle and “jacked up” with suspension modifications. These changes provide better weight transfer and improved traction on acceleration.