TUESDAY Q & A: “Frozen shoulder” develops slowly and can take months to heal. Posted by Dana Sparks, Jan 14, 2014. DEAR MAYO CLINIC: I’ve had pain in my right shoulder for a few weeks that has been getting worse rather than better, even though I’m letting it rest. Whether treated or not, the majority of frozen shoulders improve on their own over the course of 6 to 12 months, but sometimes it can be up to 18 months. Without treatment, return of motion generally is gradual, but normal, full-range motion may never return.
Thawing stage — Range of motion in your shoulder begins to improve, but often pain lingers. A diagnosis of frozen shoulder can be distressing, especially given the length of time it may take for resolution of the pain and stiffness. Whether treated or not, the majority of frozen shoulders improve on their own over the course of 6 to 12 months, but sometimes it can be up to 18 months. Without treatment, return of motion generally is gradual, but normal, full-range motion may never return.
Physical therapy is the most common treatment for a frozen shoulder. The goal is to stretch your shoulder joint and strengthen its tendons. It can take anywhere from a few weeks to nine months to see progress. Generally, you must avoid movements that aggravate your condition, such as lifting or reaching up. As a result, your shoulder joint does not have enough space to rotate properly. Common symptoms include swelling, pain, and stiffness. You are more likely to have the condition if you are between the ages of 40 and 60.
Frozen shoulder can sometimes develop after a shoulder or arm injury, such as a fracture, or after having surgery to your shoulder area. This may partly be a result of keeping your arm and shoulder still for long periods of time during your recovery. Treatment. Treatment for a frozen shoulder will vary, depending on the stage of the condition and the severity of your pain and stiffness. A frozen shoulder may get better over time on its own without treatment, but recovery is often slow and can take at least 18 to 24 months. In some people, the condition may not improve for 5 years or more
Frozen shoulder can develop after a shoulder has been immobilized for a period of time due to surgery, a fracture, or other injury. Having patients move their shoulders soon after injury or surgery is one measure prescribed to prevent frozen shoulder. Symptoms. Pain from frozen shoulder is usually dull or aching. It is typically worse early in the course of the disease and when you move your arm. The pain is usually located over the outer shoulder area and sometimes the upper arm.
Frozen shoulder can develop when you stop using the joint normally because of pain, injury, or a chronic health condition, such as diabetes or a stroke. Any shoulder problem can lead to frozen shoulder if you do not work to keep full range of motion. Frozen shoulder occurs: 1  After surgery or injury. Frozen shoulder (adhesive capsulitis) is stiffness, pain, and limited range of movement in your shoulder. It may happen after an injury or overuse or from a disease such as diabetes or a stroke. The tissues around the joint stiffen, scar tissue forms, and shoulder movements become difficult and painful.
The primary frozen shoulder is a disease of long standing. With the treatment as studied and developed by us, it will last eight months on the average. Roughly estimated 60% of primary frozen shoulders will last some eight months, 20% will recover more rapidly, and 20% will take longer. by: J.D. Stenvers, PhD, PT 2009 The primary frozen shoulder I have had an accident with my shoulder, and they say I got it because I didn’t exercise enough. A frozen shoulder comes into existence or it doesn’t. You can’t influence it by exercises.