Dendrobium is actually one of the largest orchid genera. Antelope Type Dendropbium Orchid. Dendrobium species live as epiphytes and lithophytes in New Guinea, Southern China, Thailand, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Tahiti and more. As a result, it’s hard to generalize how to care for these types of orchids.
Originally, this genus included all epiphytic orchids. As knowledge of the different types of orchids expanded, the classification became much more refined; for example, there are now some terrestrial species in the Epidendrum genus, and a great many other species have been moved to other genera. Pleurothallis orchids are a huge genus, with several hundred types of orchids, mostly native to cloud forests in the Andes. They like high humidity, cool temperatures, and hate to dry out. Most are tiny orchids, so you can have a large collection with many types of orchids in a small space!
While all orchids like to have sufficient aeration around their roots, these types absolutely crave it. Dendrobiums: Dendrobiums are popular because they’re relatively easy to care for, and also come in a huge variety of shapes and colors. This unique quality makes the paphiopedilum a very popular orchid type. Oncidiums: Oncidiums are one of the most diverse orchid types. They come in more than a thousand different variations of shapes, sizes,
However, the most common types of orchids for the home are the Phalaenopsis orchids and the Dendrobium orchids; both of which produce blooms of unmatched beauty and strength – with flowers that will remain in bloom for long periods of time. Dendrobium Orchids. There are over 1600 species in the Dendrobium Orchid family, with flowers in every color combination that grow pendant like stems of fragrant flowers. These orchids grow quickly throughout summer, but take a long rest during the winter.
Botany: Popular around the globe for their beauty and variety, orchids are the largest family of plants in the entire world. There are 25,000 - 30,000 different species of orchid, at least 10,000 of which can be found in the tropics. 
These types of Orchids are some of the most common found as household plants. There are over one thousand types of Dendrobium Orchids, and all have different requirements for air, light, and water. They can be found with large or small flowers of just about any color. Laelia Orchid. This Orchid type grows large flowers that can grow to 8-12 inches in some plants. They mostly enjoy bright, indirect sunlight and varieties can be grown in both warm and cool areas. You can also grow this species clinging to bark or in well-draining soil.
Vanda Orchids. The Vanda Orchid is one of the types of Orchids that you will commonly see sold as house plants. These Orchids are easy to grow as long as you provide warmth and a lot of humidity. They produce surface roots that are also used to absorb water in the atmosphere, so humid conditions are a must. Laelia Orchid. This Orchid type grows large flowers that can grow to 8-12 inches in some plants. They mostly enjoy bright, indirect sunlight and varieties can be grown in both warm and cool areas. You can also grow this species clinging to bark or in well-draining soil.
Scroll through the following brief descriptions of all different types of orchids, and see what catches your fancy. For additional information and assorted orchid photos, be sure to follow the links to the individual flowers. You'll be ready to start your orchid collection in no time. Cattleya orchid: This common family of orchids features flowers in the traditional orchid shape, and hybridizers have produced countless varieties. Chysis laevis orchid: A bit temperamental, this orchid prefers not to be repotted and blooms in yellow and violet.
Moth Orchids. The most common type of orchid is probably the moth orchid, or the Phalaenopsis orchids. These are the plants that you can buy from a standard grocery store. Or if you happen to live close by an Asian supermarket, you will find truck-loads of the white or purplish-pink variety. Antelope Type Dendropbium Orchid. Dendrobium species live as epiphytes and lithophytes in New Guinea, Southern China, Thailand, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Tahiti and more. As a result, it’s hard to generalize how to care for these types of orchids.
These plants reward their orchid growers with an extravagant display of colorful blooms. They seem to be sending back out the very sun they soak up. Phalaenopsis: Phalaenopsis orchids, or “moth orchids”, are ever popular among beginner growers because they’re one of the most resilient and sturdy orchid types out there. They can survive many of the inevitable beginner’s mistakes that would kill less hearty plants, and their blossoms put on a great show to boot. This unique quality makes the paphiopedilum a very popular orchid type. Oncidiums: Oncidiums are one of the most diverse orchid types. They come in more than a thousand different variations of shapes, sizes, and colors.