Short for XML Schema Definition, a way to describe and validate data in an XML environment. (A schema is a model for describing the structure of information.) XSD is a recommendation of the W3C. XSD has advantages over earlier XML schema languages, such as DTD. Because XSD is written in XML, there is no need for a parser. XSD defines a richer set of data types such as booleans, numbers, dates and times, and currencies -- which is invaluable for e-commerce applications.
An XML schema is a description of a type of XML document, typically expressed in terms of constraints on the structure and content of documents of that type, above and beyond the basic syntactical constraints imposed by XML itself. There are languages developed specifically to express XML schemas. The Document Type Definition (DTD) language, which is native to the XML specification, is a schema language that is of relatively limited capability, but that also has other uses in XML aside from the expression of schemas.
An XML Schema is a language for expressing constraints about XML documents. There are several different schema languages in widespread use, but the main ones are Document Type Definitions (DTDs), Relax-NG, Schematron and W3C XSD (XML Schema Definitions). 
XSD (XML Schema Definition) is a World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) recommendation that specifies how to formally describe the elements in an Extensible Markup Language (XML) document. Just as in XML and HTML, elements are defined within a set of tags. XSD has several advantages over earlier XML schema languages, such as Document Type Definition (DTD) or Simple Object XML (SOX). XSD is written in XML, which means that it doesn't require intermediary processing by a parser.
An XML Schema is a document which describes another XML document. XML Schemas are used to validate XML documents. An XML schema itself is an XML document which contains the rules to be validated against a given XML instance document. Support for XSD (XML Schema Definition). SQL Server 2005 supports XSD (XML Schema Definition) to perform validations on the structure and value of XML documents. XML columns and variables can be bound to an XSD schema and the Schema Processing Engine will perform validations on the data, based on the schema definition.
The primary purpose of a schema language is to specify what the structure of an XML document can be. This means which elements can reside in which other elements, which attributes are and are not legal to have on a particular element, and so forth. There are languages developed specifically to express XML schemas. The Document Type Definition (DTD) language, which is native to the XML specification, is a schema language that is of relatively limited capability, but that also has other uses in XML aside from the expression of schemas.
XSD (XML Schema Definition) , a recommendation of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), specifies how to formally describe the elements in an Extensible Markup Language (XML) document. It can be used by programmers to verify each piece of item content in a document. Like all XML schema languages, XSD can be used to express a set of rules to which an XML document must conform in order to be considered valid according to that schema.
XML Schema Definition (XSD) language is the current standard schema language for all XML documents and data. On May 2, 2001, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) published XSD in its version 1.0 format. The XML Schema definition language (XSD) enables you to define the structure and data types for XML documents. An XML Schema defines the elements, attributes, and data types that conform to the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) XML Schema Part 1: Structures Recommendation for the XML Schema Definition Language. A type definition for elements that can contain attributes and elements. This data type can contain elements and have attributes. In the remainder of this XSD Starter Kit, we will look at how to get started with XSD.
The schema element contains type definitions (simpleType and complexType elements) and attribute and element declarations. In addition to its built-in data types (such as integer, string, and so on), XML Schema also allows for the definition of new data types using the simpleType and complexType elements. A type definition for elements that can contain attributes and elements. This data type can contain elements and have attributes. In the remainder of this XSD Starter Kit, we will look at how to get started with XSD.