For most organisms, they use oxygen during cellular respiration as an electron acceptor.Basically, the oxygen accepts electrons and turns into water (H 2 0) or carbon dioxide (CO 2). Obligate anaerobic bacteria survive in the absence of oxygen because they use other molecules as their primary electron acceptors. 
There are actually two general types of respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration occurs in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not use oxygen. Both types of cell respiration begin with the process of glycolysis, after which the two diverge. Similarly, under extreme exertion, muscle cells may run out of oxygen. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration that can function without oxygen. In the absence of oxygen, organisms continue to carry out glycolysis, since glycolysis does not use oxygen in its chemical process.
Not to be confused with Lactic acid fermentation. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system.
It can be aerobic respiration in the presence of oxygen or anaerobic respiration. Prokaryotic cells carry out cellular respiration within the cytoplasm or on the inner surfaces of the cells. More emphasis here will be placed on eukaryotic cells where the mitochondria are the site of most of the reactions. Aerobic respiration, or cell respiration in the presence of oxygen, uses the end product of glycolysis (pyruvate) in the TCA cycle to produce much more energy currency in the form of ATP than can be obtained from any anaerobic pathway.
A HealthCorps answered. Aerobic exercise includes rhythmic activities that use a lot of oxygen and large muscles over a period of time, such as jogging, swimming and riding a bike. Anaerobic exercise, on the other hand, does not use oxygen to generate energy. The exercises include intense, short bursts of activity that make the muscles work hard, such as sprinting and lifting weights. Anaerobic exercise would be any activities that do not require oxygen to continue to use fuel sources because they are short in duration generally less than 60 seconds. Examples of aerobic exercise would be jogging, running a marathon, or hiking.
Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors. Cells that use it. Aerobic respiration occurs in most cells. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's need
Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs
Obligate anaerobes may use fermentation or anaerobic respiration. Aerotolerant organisms are strictly fermentative. In the presence of oxygen, facultative anaerobes use aerobic respiration; without oxygen, some of them ferment; some use anaerobic respiration. An anaerobic organism or anaerobe is any organism that does not require oxygen for growth. It may react negatively or even die if oxygen is present.