1 -i, the most common suffix used for Persian surnames. 2  These surnames are in fact adjectives created by the adding suffix -i to person names, location names or other names. See also: Category:Persian masculine given names, Category:Persian feminine given names, Category:Iranian masculine given names and Category:Iranian feminine given names. Since the Islamic conquest of Persia, some names in Iran have been derived from Arabic, although the majority are Persian in origin.
Many Persian names come from the great Persian literature book, Shahnameh (The Epic of Kings). This great book was composed in the 10th century by Ferdowsi and is considered by many the masterpiece of the Persian literature and is treasured by all Iranians. Approximately 10%-15% of all Persian names are from Shahnameh. See also: Category:Persian masculine given names, Category:Persian feminine given names, Category:Iranian masculine given names and Category:Iranian feminine given names. Since the Islamic conquest of Persia, some names in Iran have been derived from Arabic, although the majority are Persian in origin.
Summary. Business professional, experience in strategic planning and business development. Consistently successful in analyzing market trends and capitalize it to create high profit, high visibility partnerships through asset management and new market development with high ethical value. Specialties: Strategic Planning & Business Development.
Shown below is the birth name popularity of Arman for boys. Arman entered the list in 1999 and reached its top position of #981 in the U.S. then, but is not listed currently. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Prominent related forms of Arman are Armando (#400 in 2014) , Armani (#489) and Armand. Arman /ar-man/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced ar-MAHN. It is of Spanish and Russian origin. Short form of Armando; Armani is a related Italian surname made familiar by the men's clothing designer. It is also a common Armenian name. Kreatif forms: Ahman, Armanah, Armanna
Comments are left by users of this website. They are not checked for accuracy. Armand was the name given to a vampire in Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. Before he came to Paris he was called Amadeo he who loves God but his name was changed due the nature of his new position, leader of a coven of vampires. Armand comes from the name Herman, which means leader or military man.. -- Litsbafitb 1/14/2005. Also used in Romania.