Kaya (Malaysian Coconut Egg Jam). Kaya is a delicious Malaysian jam made with coconut, eggs and caramel. Rich and aromatic jam which is perfect for toast and a cup of coffee. Kaya is one of my favorite Malay words. The reason is simple: it carries two of my favorite meanings in Malaysian language
Kaya /kaya/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAH-yah. It is of Japanese, Zulu, Turkish, Hopi and Hindi origin, and the meaning of Kaya is restful place, yew tree, forgiveness; home; stone; willow, wise child; the one with the beautiful body, profile. Kreatif forms: Kalya, Keeya, Kiya. Kaya is an uncommon given name for females but a very popular surname for all people (#21156 out of 150436, Top 14%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Kaya for girls
Kaya in Nautical Flags. Naming a child in the Native American culture is a sacred event only to be performed by the wisest in the group, the elders. Because of the level of ritual that it is given, Native American names are considered especially significant and powerful. Kaya is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kay-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1004 in baby name popularity for girls with 259 occurrences. It ranked 5547 in popular baby names for boys with 16
Kaya Rose Scodelario (born Kaya Rose Humphrey; 13 March 1992) is an English actress. She is known for her breakthrough performance as Effy Stonem in the E4 teen drama Skins and as Teresa Agnes in the Maze Runner film series. 
Kaya, also known as srikaya, seri kaya, is a confiture made of eggs, coconut milk, sugar and infused with the fragrant aroma of pandan leaf. The mere mention of kaya conjures up a lot of my childhood memories. I grew up mostly with my late grandmother—a much celebrated Nyonya cook and kuih (local sweet cake) maker. Kaya is a delicious Malaysian jam made with coconut, eggs and caramel. Rich and aromatic jam which is perfect for toast and a cup of coffee.
What is Kaya. Kaya, is a local jam made from eggs, sugar and coconut milk, and is flavoured by pandan leaves, and later sweetened with sugar. Kaya jam is a very popular spread in Singapore and Malaysia. It was originated from China in the Hainan province. The jam itself tastes sweet and is somewhat creamy, with a hint of coconut and eggs in it. Kaya is originally brown in coloured, however can be artificially coloured into a green spread.
Kaya toast is a well-known snack in Singapore and Malaysia. Kaya toast is prepared with kaya (coconut jam), a topping of sugar, coconut milk and eggs, pandan, and sometimes margarine or butter. It is generally served on toast, and also sometimes on crackers. It is considered a breakfast staple, and remains popular in Singapore. 
In Turkey, Kaya is a very common, traditional boy's name, meaning rock.. In the Balkans, it's a diminutive form of Katerina, but it's spelled Kaja.. In Indonesian, kaya means wealthy.. In Malasia, kaya is a jam made from coconut, eggs and caramel, infused with the fragrance of pandan leaf. In the indigenous language of Equador (Quechuan), kaya means tomorrow.. In ancient Sanskrit, kaya means the physical body or the temperament.