The Northwest Pacific Coastal Indians did not live in tepees as did the Yakima Indians of Eastern Washington. Instead, they lived in longhouses built of thick cedar planks. These homes were also called plank houses. These early people chopped down and split massive cedar trees using beaver teeth and stone axes. To avoid the possibility of this, the family had to move and live elsewhere. Whether space in the plank house was assigned by the father of a family, or by the chief of a tribe, daily life in each plank house was the same. The only thing that varied was the size of the house. Furniture: Furniture was pretty simple. In their private area, each family built bunk beds for sleeping
Plank houses in the northern reaches of the Northwest Coast tended to be smaller, but more finely joined than their southern incarnations. The freezing climate of the north necessitated smaller houses (average 35 ft square) with wooden floors and more tightly-fitted planks for heat-retention. Large villages might contain 80 houses, each holding as many as 100 residents. The indigenous people of the Pacific Northwest constructed their plank homes from red cedar trees (Thuja plicata), with rare use of yellow cedar, spruce or hemlock up North. Houses were often 40-60 feet square.
Grass houses are American Indian homes used in the Southern Plains by tribes such as the Caddos. They resemble large wigwams but are made with different materials. Grass houses are made with a wooden frame bent into a beehive shape and thatched with long prairie grass. Sometimes they are also known as birchbark houses. Wigwams are small houses, usually 8-10 feet tall. Wigwams are made of wooden frames which are covered with woven mats and sheets of birchbark. The frame can be shaped like a dome, like a cone, or like a rectangle with an arched roof.
Replica plank house in the Eyak-Tlingit-Haida-Tsimshian village site, Alaska Native Heritage Center Museum. Due to the nature of this building material, the anthropological documentation for these people is not widespread. The manner of wood harvest and continued use of that harvest was purposeful and sustainable. Interior of a Chinookan plank house, illustration by Wilkes in the 1850s. Many important details are seen here, including the use of a plank floor, a large, central hearth, sleeping and storage bunks, and the drying/smoking rack above the fire. You also see a dog, and a musket propped in the rear left corner.
Archaeology indicates that the Indians of the Northwest Coast began constructing North America's most sophisticated indigenous wooden architecture over 3,000 years ago. Tsimshian community of Kitselas Canyon (British Columbia) was occupied for 10 millennia, and began building huge cedar plank-houses around 985 B.C. Large villages might contain 80 houses, each holding as many as 100 residents. The indigenous people of the Pacific Northwest constructed their plank homes from red cedar trees (Thuja plicata), with rare use of yellow cedar, spruce or hemlock up North. Houses were often 40-60 feet square.
The difference between a wigwam and a wikiup is in the languages of  the Native Americans who built them, rather than in the structures.  The two words mean the same thing: … a structure made with a frame  that is usually arched, and covered with whatever material was  available (such as matting or animal skins). There is a lot of  variation in the materials used.
It doesn't sound like much when you count by fires. But longhouses were really long-they could be over 200 feet long, 25 feet wide, and 25 feet high. That's huge! To get an idea of how big they were, measure the distance from floor to ceiling in your own house. You can imagine something that big took a lot of work to build. Once they had the shape of the longhouse in place, they covered the house with bark. They added a few smoke holes and two doors-one at each end. The Iroquois rigged a flap on the smoke holes. When it snowed or rained, the holes could be opened and closed as needed.
The main difference is that longhouses are much, much larger than wigwams. Longhouses could be 200 feet long, 20 feet wide, and 20 feet high. Inside the longhouse, raised platforms created a second story, which was used for sleeping space. Mats and wood screens divided the longhouse into separate rooms. Sometimes they are also known as birchbark houses. Wigwams are small houses, usually 8-10 feet tall. Wigwams are made of wooden frames which are covered with woven mats and sheets of birchbark. The frame can be shaped like a dome, like a cone, or like a rectangle with an arched roof.
The American Heritage Dictionary defines longhouse as a long communal dwelling, especially of certain Native American, Polynesian, and Indonesian peoples; though the term is also commonly used to describe plank houses in the Pacific Northwest, plank houses are distinct in their use of cedar wood. Interior of a Chinookan plank house, illustration by Wilkes in the 1850s. Many important details are seen here, including the use of a plank floor, a large, central hearth, sleeping and storage bunks, and the drying/smoking rack above the fire. You also see a dog, and a musket propped in the rear left corner.