Asics Running Shoes Reviews. Asics is the Japanese giant of running shoes. The Asics name is an acronym of the latin motto Anima Sana in Corpore Sano which is Healty Mind in a Healty Body. Founded in 1949 by Kirachiro Onitsuka. Asics makes some of the most popular running shoes worldwide, from the cushioned Cumulus and Nimbus to the stability Kayano and GT series.
Today, the company is still known as ASICS and provides shoes to retailers around the globe. The ASICS acronym stands for “Anima Sana in Corpore Sano” or “A Healthy Soul in a Healthy Body.”, an adaptation of the ancient aphorism in Juvenal and elsewhere,  Mens sana in corpore sano . In 1964, Onitsuka listed the company on the Kobe Stock Exchange and later on the exchanges of Osaka and Tokyo. The ASICS stripe was first introduced in 1966 during the pre-olympic trials for the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico.
Asics is the Japanese giant of running shoes. The Asics name is an acronym of the latin motto Anima Sana in Corpore Sano which is Healty Mind in a Healty Body. Asics makes some of the most popular running shoes worldwide, from the cushioned Cumulus and Nimbus to the stability Kayano and GT series.
ASICS (アシックス, Ashikkusu) is a Japanese athletic equipment company which produces footwear and sports equipment designed for a wide range of sports, generally in the upper price range. The name is an acronym for the Latin phrase anima sana in corpore sano which translates as a healthy soul in a healthy body. In recent years their running shoes have often been ranked among the top performance footwear in the market. ASICS bought the outdoor brand Hagloefs haglöfs On july, 12, 2010 FOR 1,000,000,000 (1000000000$.128 7). million
The company's name is an acronym of the Latin phrase Anima Sana In Corpore Sano, meaning you should pray for a sound mind in a sound body.. ASICS makes and markets footwear, sportswear, and uniforms for a number of sports, including basketball, volleyball, track and field, wrestling, and running. As part of its business, ASICS also makes accessories (such as hats, sports bags, and protective gear) and sports apparel; the company sells fashion-oriented items under the Onitsuka Tiger brand. ASICS operates subsidiaries in Australia, China, Europe, and the US.
The company's name is an acronym of the Latin phrase Anima Sana In Corpore Sano, meaning you should pray for a sound mind in a sound body.. ASICS makes and markets footwear, sportswear, and uniforms for a number of sports, including basketball, volleyball, track and field, wrestling, and running. As part of its business, ASICS also makes accessories (such as hats, sports bags, and protective gear) and sports apparel; the company sells fashion-oriented items under the Onitsuka Tiger brand. ASICS operates subsidiaries in Australia, China, Europe, and the US.
Onitsuka Tiger is one of the oldest shoe companies in Japan, tracing its history back to the formation of Onitsuka Co Ltd in 1949 when the 32-year-old former military officer, Kihachiro Onitsuka started his company with the hopes of raising postwar youth self-esteem through athletics. In 1964, Onitsuka listed the company on the Kobe Stock Exchange and later on the exchanges of Osaka and Tokyo. The ASICS stripe was first introduced in 1966 during the pre-olympic trials for the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico.