The annual salary for someone with the job title Histology Technician may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Histology Technician that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Histology Technician are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Histology Technician in the United States is $53,523, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Histology Technician in the United States are expected to make less than $53,523. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Histology Technician that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Histology Technician are expected to make less than the median
Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare)
Histotechnician Salaries. According to data collected by the American Society for Clinical Pathology in 2010, the average income for histology technicians across the U.S. was $22.68 per hour, or $47,174 per year. Supervisors averaged $29.48 per hour, or $61,318 per year. California reported the highest average wage for histology technicians, at $30.44 per hour or $63,315 per year. There was a distinct edge in income for certified technicians, who reported an average of $22.98 per hour, while their uncertified colleagues earned $19.60
Average Mohs Histotechnician Salaries. The average salary for mohs histotechnician jobs is $38,000. Average mohs histotechnician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term mohs histotechnician anywhere in the job listing. The mohs histotechnician salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional mohs histotechnician salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.