Jujube (/ˈdʒuːdʒuːb/ or /ˈdʒuːdʒuːbiː/), or jube, is the name of several types of candy, varying in description on a regional basis. The candies can vary in texture from being hard and resinous to something similar to firm loukoum or gummy candies. 
Chinese date; Chinese jujube; jujube. Hypernyms (jujube is a kind of...): edible fruit (edible reproductive body of a seed plant especially one having sweet flesh). drupe; stone fruit (fleshy indehiscent fruit with a single seed: e.g. almond; peach; plum; cherry; elderberry; olive; jujube). 2. dark red plumlike fruit of Old World buckthorn trees. 3. chewy fruit-flavored jellied candy (sometimes medicated to soothe a sore throat). Familiarity information: JUJUBE used as a noun is uncommon.
Jujube (noun). the sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean and African species of small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especially the Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z. Lotus. The last named is thought to have furnished the lotus of the ancient Libyan Lotophagi, or lotus eaters. Origin: [F., fr. Ziziphus jujuba, commonly called jujube, red date, Chinese date, Korean date, or Indian date is a species of Ziziphus in the buckthorn family, used primarily as a shade tree that also bears fruit.
Ziziphus zizyphus-MHNT. Ziziphus jujuba (from Greek ζίζυφον, zizyphon), zízyphon commonly called (/jujube/ ; ˈdʒuːdʒuːb sometimes), jujuba red, Date chinese, Date korean, date Or indian date is a species Of ziziphus in the buckthorn (Family), rhamnaceae used primarily as a shade tree that also bears. fruit It is a small deciduous tree or shrub reaching a height of 5–12 metres (16–39 ft), usually with thorny branches. The leaves are shiny-green, ovate-acute, 2–7 centimetres (0.79–2.76 in) wide and 1–3 centimetres (0.39–1.18 in) broad, with three conspicuous veins at the base, and a finely toothed margin.
Definitions. 1  any of several Old World spiny rhamnaceous trees of the genus Ziziphus, esp Z. jujuba, that have small yellowish flowers and dark red edible fruits. noun. 1  any of several Old World spiny rhamnaceous trees of the genus Ziziphus, esp Z. jujuba, that have small yellowish flowers and dark red edible fruits. 2  See also Christ's-thorn.
Medical Definition of JUJUBE. 1. a: an edible drupaceous fruit of any of several trees (genus Ziziphus) of the buckthorn family; especially: one of an Asian tree (Z. jujuba) b: a tree producing this fruit. 2. : a fruit-flavored gumdrop or lozenge. ADVERTISEMENT
The noun JUJUBE has 3 senses: 1. spiny tree having dark red edible fruits. 2. dark red plumlike fruit of Old World buckthorn trees. 3. chewy fruit-flavored jellied candy (sometimes medicated to soothe a sore throat). Familiarity information: JUJUBE used as a noun is uncommon.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: jujube (Noun). The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean and African species of small trees. jujube (Noun). Ziziphus jujuba, commonly called jujube, red date, Chinese date, Korean date, or Indian date is a species of Ziziphus in the buckthorn family, used primarily as a shade tree that also bears fruit.