The flag as we know it was born not as a symbol, but as a very practical banner. The commanders of the Confederate army in Virginia (then known at the Army of the Potomac) sought a distinctive emblem as an alternative to the Confederacy’s first national flag—the Stars and Bars—to serve as a battle flag. 
The poll shows that 57% of Americans see the flag more as a symbol of Southern pride than as a symbol of racism, about the same as in 2000 when 59% said they viewed it as a symbol of pride. Opinions of the flag are sharply divided by race, and among whites, views are split by education. Story highlights. 1  About 57% of Americans see the Confederate flag more as a symbol of Southern pride than as a symbol of racism, the poll says. 2 
The racist massacre in a South Carolina church has tipped the balance in a decades-old tug of war over the meaning of the Confederate battle flag. Its champions have argued it's a symbol of Southern culture, the historic flag of the South. The first national flag of the Confederate States of America was created in 1861 and had seven stars to represent the breakaway states South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Texas.
The Confederate battle flag was one of several flags used during the Civil War. The first was discarded because it looked too much like the American flag. The third was discarded because the white got dirty easily and could resemble a flag of surrender. In the aftermath of a shooting apparently motivated by white supremacy, even as South Carolina's state flag and the American flag were lowered to half-staff, the Confederate flag continued to fly. The flag hasn't come down just yet.
Historic meaning of the Confederate flag still strong Jason Pressberg / Columnist The Confederate flag is still a symbol of southern pride. Visiting Wal-Mart, you'll find it on bumper stickers, hats and t-shirts of the local Elon and Burlington customers that shop there. Many Elon students also have Confederate flag bumper stickers and paraphernalia.
First, we must understand that symbols like the Confederate Flag have no intrinsic meaning. The meanings symbols carry is that which humans attach from their own learning. Thus, any viewer of a symbol is free to assign it any range of meanings. The symbol itself, then is constant, but the value symbolized is not. 
The Confederate battle flag (as I assume you're talking about) is a symbol of resistance to tyranny, and the right of self government. When the South seceded from the union (that it voluntarily entered), it did so in accordance with the same guarantees of self-government that the original thirteen colonies. 
The confederate flag is a symbol or racism. The confederate flag may have started by being a symbol of succession, but it was also the brand to show off white power. It is a symbol of a time when white people wanted to keep slavery and not participate with the American belief that all men are created equal. The flag stirs feelings of slavery, discrimination, and hate and thus racism has found its symbol in the confederate flag.
The flag was based on the saltire, a common flag symbol sometimes called the Southern cross. As historian John Coski writes in The Confederate Battle Flag: America's Most Embattled Emblem, Southerners weren't shy about enlisting the design in the cause of white supremacy. In the aftermath of a shooting apparently motivated by white supremacy, even as South Carolina's state flag and the American flag were lowered to half-staff, the Confederate flag continued to fly. The flag hasn't come down just yet.
Jason Pressberg / Columnist. The Confederate flag is still a symbol of southern pride. Visiting Wal-Mart, you'll find it on bumper stickers, hats and t-shirts of the local Elon and Burlington customers that shop there. Many Elon students also have Confederate flag bumper stickers and paraphernalia