Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Braxton in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Braxton in Nautical Flags page. The evolution of English names in the U.K. can be traced to the various conquests and ruling power changes of its early history. The evolution of English names in America has been more influenced by the various influxes of immigrants from different parts of the world during different times in its history.
The name Braxton is of English origin, and it means Brock's Town . It's a name commonly given to boys. Braxton Bragg is a military person. According to the 2007 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Braxton ranks #65 in popularity as a baby boy's name in Arkansas.
Braxton is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Brax-ton. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 121 in baby name popularity for boys with 3320 occurrences. It ranked 4766 in popular baby names for girls with 29 occurrences. The evolution of English names in the U.K. can be traced to the various conquests and ruling power changes of its early history. The evolution of English names in America has been more influenced by the various influxes of immigrants from different parts of the world during different times in its history.
English Meaning: The name Braxton is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Braxton is: Brock's town. American Meaning: The name Braxton is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Braxton is: Brock's town.
[ 2 syll. brax-ton, br-axt-on ] The baby girl name Braxton is also used as a boy name, with the latter form being far more popular. It is pronounced BR AH KSTahN †. Braxton has its origins in the English language. The meaning of Braxton is 'brock's town'. See Braxton for more information. Forms of Braxton include the names Braxten and Braxtyn. Braxton is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Braxton has primarily been a boy name in the last century. A baby name that sounds like Braxton is the name Braxty
Braxton is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#2938 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Braxton for boys. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Braxton and associated names. Prominent alternative forms of Braxton (#121 last year) are Brandt, Brant, Brantley (#120 last year) , Brock (#417) and Paxton (#260) .
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. The evolution of English names in the U.K. can be traced to the various conquests and ruling power changes of its early history. The evolution of English names in America has been more influenced by the various influxes of immigrants from different parts of the world during different times in its history.
Braxton /brax-ton/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Braxton is Brock's town. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Braxton and associated names. Prominent alternative forms of Braxton (#121 last year) are Brandt, Brant, Brantley (#120 last year) , Brock (#417) and Paxton (#260) .
[ 2 syll. brax-ton, br-axt-on ] The baby boy name Braxton is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is BR AH KSTahN †. Braxton is used predominantly in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Old English. The name is of the meaning Bracca's town, Brock's town. It is from the element ' tun ' which means town, settlement, homestead. Braxton is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1980s; before that, it was of sporadic use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.148% of baby boys were given the name Braxton. Its ranking then was #125