Crude oil is a mixture of substances which are mostly hydrocarbons. A hydrocarbon is a compound containing hydrogen and carbon only. Remember the above sentence, you will probably need it in the exam. Do not forget the word only at the end! Since crude oil is a mixture of different hydrocarbon compounds, the different hydrocarbons will have different boiling points.
Medical Definition of HYDROCARBON. : an organic compound (as acetylene, benzene, or butane) containing only carbon and hydrogen and often occurring in petroleum, natural gas, coal, and bitumens. Full Definition of HYDROCARBON. : an organic compound (as acetylene or butane) containing only carbon and hydrogen and often occurring in petroleum, natural gas, coal, and bitumens. See hydrocarbon defined for English-language learners. See hydrocarbon defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Hydrocarbon Definition: A hydrocarbon is a substance consisting only of carbon and hydrogen atoms. 
1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 1 The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 2  Saturated hydrocarbons are the basis of petroleum fuels and are found as either linear or branched species. 3  Substitution reaction is their characteristics property (like chlorination reaction to form chloroform).
Definition. Organic compound (such as benzene, methane, paraffins) made of two elements carbon and hydrogen and found in coal, crude oil, natural gas, and plant life.
2.1 DEFINITION OF TOTAL PETROLEUM HYDROCARBONS. TPH is defined as the measurable amount of petroleum-based hydrocarbon in an environmental media. It is, thus, dependent on analysis of the medium in which it is found (Gustafson 1997). Since it is a measured, gross quantity without identification of its constituents, the TPH “value” still represents a mixture
Noun. 1. hydrocarbon-an organic compound containing only carbon and hydrogen. chlorobenzene-a colorless volatile flammable liquid with an almond odor that is made from chlorine and benzene; used as a solvent and in the production of phenol and DDT and other organic compounds. 
hydrocarbon. Organic compound (such as benzene, methane, paraffins) made of two elements carbon and hydrogen and found in coal, crude oil, natural gas, and plant life.
In organic chemistry, a hydrocarbon is an organic compound consisting entirely of hydrogen and carbon. Hydrocarbons from which one hydrogen atom has been removed are functional groups, called hydrocarbyls. 1 The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 2  Saturated hydrocarbons are the basis of petroleum fuels and are found as either linear or branched species. 3  Substitution reaction is their characteristics property (like chlorination reaction to form chloroform).