If you are clicking the Delete button from the Home tab's Cells group, click the lower half of the button to expose more Delete options. The Delete button will default to the last Delete command used and this would appear to be Delete Sheet Rows. If you specifically choose Delete Cells ... you should get the interrogative dialog that you are familiar with. Another option would be to select your cells and right-click, Delete.
 Select the row and then go to the Home tab  Go to the Cells group.  Select Delete.  Select Delete Sheet Rows. * If you select the row and then hit the Delete key on your keyboard, you will delete the contents of the row, but not the row itself. To delete a column  Select the column and then go to the Home tab.  Go to the Cells group.  Select Delete  Select Delete Sheet Columns. The Tab key takes you to each of the selected cells in the order that you selected them. Selecting entire row or column – click the row number or column letter. Selecting all cells – to select all of the cells, click on the blank gray button to the left of the A and above the 1. Ctrl + Home takes you back to cell A1.
Delete a cell. Select the cell that you want to delete by clicking its left edge. Under Table Tools, click the Layout tab. In the Rows & Columns group, click Delete, and then click Delete Cells. Click one of the following options: Click. To do this. Shift cells left. Delete a cell and shift all other cells in that row to the left. Note Word does not insert a new column
You can also select cells in a row or column by selecting the first cell and then pressing CTRL+SHIFT+ARROW key (RIGHT ARROW or LEFT ARROW for rows, UP ARROW or DOWN ARROW for columns). Note If the row or column contains data, CTRL+SHIFT+ARROW key selects the row or column to the last used cell. To delete selected cells, click the arrow next to Delete, and then click Delete Cells. To delete selected rows, click the arrow next to Delete, and then click Delete Sheet Rows. To delete selected columns, click the arrow next to Delete, and then click Delete Sheet Columns. Tip You can right-click a selection of cells, click Delete, and then click the option that you want. You can also right-click a selection of rows or columns and then click Delete. If you are deleting a cell or a range of cells, in the Delete dialog box, click Shift cells left, Shift cells up, Entire row, or Entire column. If you are deleting rows or columns, other rows or columns automatically shift up or to the left
I am looking for code that will automatically do this sequence of events for me: Select the range (D22:M667). Edit. Go To. Special. Blanks. Edit. Delete. Shift Cells Left. Basically, i want to delete all empty cells and move them to the left. 
When you select a number of cells (not entire rows or columns) and then choose to delete those cells, there are two directions that remaining cells can move: to the left or up. If the selected cells include fewer rows than columns, then Excel offers to move the remaining cells to the left. In all other situations (the number of rows is greater than or equal to the number of columns), then Excel offers to move the remaining cells up, by default. If you are a mouse person, you may want to create a couple of macros that achieve the desired effect, and then assign those macros to shortcut keys that can pull them up quickly. The following macro will delete the selected cells and shift the remaining cells to the left:
Select the first cell or range of cells, and then hold down CTRL while you select the other cells or ranges. You can also select the first cell or range of cells, and then press SHIFT+F8 to add another nonadjacent cell or range to the selection. To stop adding cells or ranges to the selection, press SHIFT+F8 again. To delete selected cells, click the arrow next to Delete, and then click Delete Cells. To delete selected rows, click the arrow next to Delete, and then click Delete Sheet Rows. To delete selected columns, click the arrow next to Delete, and then click Delete Sheet Columns. Tip You can right-click a selection of cells, click Delete, and then click the option that you want. You can also right-click a selection of rows or columns and then click Delete. If you are deleting a cell or a range of cells, in the Delete dialog box, click Shift cells left, Shift cells up, Entire row, or Entire column. If you are deleting rows or columns, other rows or columns automatically shift up or to the left
Answers. Best Answer: right click on the cell (or select all the cells to delete and then right click on the selection) On the menu that opens up click delete. Another menu opens and you choose shift cells left and o.k. Source(s): wvl · 8 years ago.