Cat Greenleaf is host of NBC's Emmy Award-winning series Talk Stoop with Cat Greenleaf. Greenleaf started her career as an airborne traffic reporter for KGO radio in San Francisco in 1999.
NBCNewYork's on-air reporter, Cat Greenleaf, leads an artfully integrated home and work life. She interviews all sorts of people--actors, musicians, athletes, politicians--on her own Brooklyn stoop. And she is lucky in real estate: She acquired her Cobble Hill brownstone at a huge discount from a pay-it-forward seller.
View Resume | Official Photos ». Cat Greenleaf is host of NBC's Emmy Award-winning series Talk Stoop with Cat Greenleaf. Greenleaf started her career as an airborne traffic reporter for KGO radio in San Francisco in 1999. The next year she moved back to the East Coast and reported traffic on NY1, which segued into hard news reporting for RNN TV in Queens, NY. NYC TV took ...
Talk Stoop with Cat Greenleaf is an interview program hosted by Cat Greenleaf that airs on NBC. On the show Greenleaf interviews actors, musicians, athletes, politicians, and others on the stoop of her Brooklyn brownstone.
Born in White Plains, New York, Greenleaf started her career as an airborne traffic reporter for KGO (AM) radio in San Francisco in 1999. The next year, she moved back to the East Coast and reported traffic on NY1, then moved to news reporting on WRNN-TV in Queens, New York.
Catherine Kaye Cat Greenleaf (born March 13, 1972) is the host of NBC’s three time Emmy Award –winning series Talk Stoop with Cat Greenleaf, on which celebrities come to Greenleaf's stoop in Brooklyn and sit for a 15–20 minute interview covering career highlights, life story, issues of the day, and current projects.
A family woman to the bone, Cat really hit the work-from-home jackpot when she created Talk Stoop with Cat Greenleaf, where she interviews celebrities on the stoop of her Brooklyn brownstone. It was both a whim and a gamble for NBC and Cat, but after three Emmys, that bet has certainly paid off.