Linoleum vs. Vinyl Flooring. With the large variety of flooring available, it can be easy to get lost in the specifics of how exactly one type of flooring differs from another. One common question that consumers have when looking for flooring is what the difference is between linoleum and vinyl flooring. 
Asbestos can be found in this kind of flooring, especially when the linoleum is a rigid crest type of material. In the softer version asbestos is less commonly found. The backing of this flooring is normally green colored, and it's most of the time negative for asbestos testing. Like Bookmark May 17, 2010 at 5:53PM. 
Installing linoleum can be complicated, in part, because linoleum is stiffer and harder to work with than vinyl sheet and other flooring types. Linoleum flooring is very durable – that’s one of the reasons it was such a popular flooring in the early-to mid-20th century. Homeowners knew when they installed a linoleum floor, it would stand the test of time. Today, durability is still a key feature of Armstrong linoleum floors. LINOLEUM FLOORING DURABILITY. Linoleum flooring is very durable – that’s one of the reasons it was such a popular flooring in the early-to mid-20th century. Homeowners knew when they installed a linoleum floor, it would stand the test of time. Today, durability is still a key feature of Armstrong linoleum floors.
Linoleum tiles are relatively easier to handle and can be installed over an existing floor provided it is smooth and well attached to the sub–floor. Installing a floor using linoleum tiles can be done by a DIY enthusiast exercising due care. Plank linoleum comes in the form of planks that are the easiest to install. Floating linoleum planks are of the click type that joins together very easily. A floating linoleum floor requires no adhesive either. Linoleum flooring is available in an attractive range of all colors and a wide choice of patterns.
Linoleum from around the 1950s. Linoleum, also called Lino, is a floor covering made from materials such as solidified linseed oil (linoxyn), pine rosin, ground cork dust, wood flour, and mineral fillers such as calcium carbonate, most commonly on a burlap or canvas backing; pigments are often added to the materials. The finest linoleum floors, known as 'inlaid', are extremely durable; they were made by joining and inlaying solid pieces of linoleum. Cheaper patterned linoleum came in different grades or gauges, and were printed with thinner layers which were more prone to wear and tear.
The better grades were commonly called battleship linoleum.. This grade was actually used for flooring in warships. However, it proved unsuitable because it was highly flammable. There are several types of linoleum in use, based on what they are made of and their colors and shapes or patterns. 1  Sheet Linoleum – The most popular choice for linoleum flooring. 2  Sheet linoleum is available in the widest selection of patterns and colors and comes in 6'6 rolls, making it incredibly complex to install. 
Linoleum. Linoleum is a durable, environmentally friendly flooring type, loved for its vivid and deep colors. You’ll find that linoleum enhances many looks with its traditional marbled patterns and unique, graphic designs. Vinyl Sheet. Vinyl sheet flooring comes in a variety of looks from natural stone or wood looks, to patterned designs—all at an affordable price. A great combination of beauty and function, vinyl sheet is a durable and easy-to-clean floor type that can be installed anywhere in the home.
linoleum floor types. Linoleum is one of the more straightforward types of flooring. Before you go shopping, all you'll really need to know is what color you want and where you want to have it installed. The good news about linoleum is that it's recommended for installation in most household areas. Use this section to learn about different linoleum types so you know exactly what you want when shopping.