Definition of decay. Change of an element into a different element, usually with some other particle(s) and energy emitted. Search the Dictionary. 
Alpha decay is one type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms (or decays) into an atom with a mass number decreased by 4 and atomic number decreased by 2. Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way about. The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, causing a proton to convert into a neutron in a process called electron capture.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of decay): alpha decay (radioactive decay of an atomic nucleus that is accompanied by the emission of an alpha particle). beta decay (radioactive decay of an atomic nucleus that is accompanied by the emission of a beta particle). • DECAY (verb). 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Beta Decay Definition: Beta decay refers to the spontaneous radioactive decay where a beta particle is produced. There are two types of beta decay where the beta particle is either an electron or a positron. β - decay occurs when an electron is the beta particle. An atom will β - decay when a neutron in the nucleus converts to a proton by the reaction. Z X A → Z Y A+1 + e - + antineutrino. where X is the parent atom, Y is the daughter atom, Z is the atomic mass of X, A is the atomic number of X.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: Alpha decay is the spontaneous radioactive decay where an alpha particle is produced. An atom that undergoes alpha decay will reduce its atomic mass by 4 and become the element two atomic numbers less. The general reaction for alpha decay is. Z X A → Z-4 Y A-2 + 4 He 2.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting radiation. A material that spontaneously emits such radiation — which includes alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays and conversion electrons — is considered radioactive. Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way about. The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, causing a proton to convert into a neutron in a process called electron capture.
radioactive decay-the spontaneous disintegration of a radioactive substance along with the emission of ionizing radiation. disintegration, decay. alpha decay-radioactive decay of an atomic nucleus that is accompanied by the emission of an alpha particle. beta decay-radioactive decay of an atomic nucleus that is accompanied by the emission of a beta particle. nuclear reaction - (physics) a process that alters the energy or structure or composition of atomic nuclei. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. ra·di·o·ac·tive decay. The spontaneous breakdown of a radioactive nucleus into a lighter nucleus. Radioactive decay causes the release of radiation in the form of alpha particles, beta particles, or gamma rays. The end result of radioactive decay is the creation of a stable atomic nucleus.
If the beta decay is negative, it means that an electron is emitted from the atom, then a neutron has to be converted to a proton, and the atomic number is increased by one, changing the atom to a new element; the isotope number stays the same, but the mass of the atom is reduced. If the beta decay is positive, it usually means a proton is turned into a neutron by capturing an electron from the atom's innermost shell; this reduces the atomic number by one, changing the element, but the isotope number stays the same and the emission is a neutrino.
By contrast, there are radioactive decay processes that do not result in a nuclear transmutation. The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in a process called gamma decay, or be used to eject an orbital electron by its interaction with the excited nucleus, in a process called internal conversion. Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way about. The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, causing a proton to convert into a neutron in a process called electron capture.