Protein helps repair the damaged tissue from your wound. You'll want to take in more protein than usual to help the healing process. This means 2 to 3 servings of protein a day, with each serving containing at least 2 to 3 ounces of meat (1 cup of beans or 2 tablespoons of peanut butter are alternatives). Vitamin C. Vitamin C is an important antioxidant for wound healing. It increases the strength of the wound as it heals, and it helps with the creation of collagen in the skin. Vitamin C is also important in the creation of new blood vessels, and it helps with iron absorption.
Review Review Nutrition plays a vital role in the prevention and treatment of wounds and ulcers. This article outlines the role of nutrition in the prevention of wounds and the function of key nutrients in tissue viability. It describes how malnutrition can impair the healing process. Practical advice is provided enabling healthcare workers to assess and manage malnutrition in this complex patient group.
Good nutrition is needed to help heal both types of wounds. What You Need to Know Eating a variety of healthy foods is needed for wound healing. Your body needs more calories, protein, vitamins A and C, and the mineral zinc to help with the healing process. • Increase the amount of calories you eat. 
Proper Nutrition in Wound Healing. Protein is the most important aspect of your diet when healing from a wound. Energy (calories from carbohydrates and fats), amino acids, antioxidants and minerals (zinc) are also important. Vitamin C. Vitamin C is an important antioxidant for wound healing. It increases the strength of the wound as it heals, and it helps with the creation of collagen in the skin. Vitamin C is also important in the creation of new blood vessels, and it helps with iron absorption.
1 Vitamins – Vitamins are essential to build new tissue, to maintain tissue health, and to aid in normal immune function. 2  In terms of wound care, Vitamin A (retinol), Vitamin C (ascorbic acid), Vitamin K, Vitamin B complex, and Vitamin E are particularly important. 1 – 4. 1  Water – Water is essential to wound healing because a fluid environment is necessary for all cell functions. 2  Even in the absence of other nutritional deficits, dehydration will still result in impaired wound healing.
Egg yolk is high in vitamin A, which promotes collagen synthesis and supports healthy wound healing. In order for your body to heal properly and stave off wound infection, it must maintain healthy levels of vitamins and nutrients. 
Even a small wound can alter the way your body metabolizes nutrients. As the body attempts to heal itself from a wound, it will create stress hormones and divert extra resources – carbohydrates, fats, proteins, antioxidants and more – to the creation of new tissue. This is referred to as the catabolic phase of healing. Vitamin C. Vitamin C is an important antioxidant for wound healing. It increases the strength of the wound as it heals, and it helps with the creation of collagen in the skin. Vitamin C is also important in the creation of new blood vessels, and it helps with iron absorption.
As we mentioned last week, a number of key nutrients are essential for both the prevention and management of chronic wounds. This week we will briefly review the major categories of nutrients, and describe their importance in wound care. 1 – 4. 1  Water – Water is essential to wound healing because a fluid environment is necessary for all cell functions. 2  Even in the absence of other nutritional deficits, dehydration will still result in impaired wound healing.
Nutrients provide fuel for healing. For a wound to heal successfully, patients need adequate amounts of nutrients, including carbohydrates, protein, fat, vitamins, and minerals. Those who don't meet their nutritional needs are at risk for delayed wound healing and other wound-related complications. To avoid malnutrition and wound complications, patients need adequate calories, protein, and fluid. Based on input from your history and physical assessment, a dietitian will determine the amounts of carbohydrates, protein, fat, vitamins, and minerals that your patient will need for wound healing.
Vitamins can help the body heal wounds Photo Credit Daily Vitamins and Minerals image by LynWatanabe.com from Fotolia.com. Wounds heal in a pattern--the bleeding stops, the body sends special chemicals to the injured site to repair cells, blood vessels regrow and new tissue forms. The body needs vitamin B1, also called thiamine, to break down carbohydrates and proteins. A deficiency in thiamine results in less collagen production needed for wounds to heal. Vitamin C helps the body to absorb thiamine and coffee and tea can reduce the amount of thiamine in the body.