Camila is a variant form of the English, Finnish, German, Italian, Scandinavian, and Spanish name Camilla in the Czech, English, Portuguese, and Spanish languages. Camila is also a variant form of the French and English name Camille in the Italian language. Camila is very popular as a baby girl name, and it is also perceived as trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of very light use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2011, 0.258% of baby girls were named Camila. It was #48 in rank then
French Meaning: The name Camila is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Camila is: Free-born; noble. Latin Meaning: The name Camila is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Camila is: Free-born; noble. American Meaning: The name Camila is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Camila is: Free-born; nobl
French name. In French, the name Camila means-Free-born; noble. Variant of Camilla.. Other origins for the name Camila include-French, Italian, Spanish.The name Camila is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-Free-born; noble. Variant of Camilla.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Camila. Camila is the Spanish and Portuguese form of Camilla, both of which are derived from an Old Roman family name Camillus, which itself developed from a cognomen originally derived from a nickname. Popularity of the Name Camila. The spelling of Camila in America hasn’t been around for very long. It first debuted on the U.S. female naming charts in 1997. Incidentally, however, the Spanish version Camila is now more popular than both Camilla (English) and Camille (French).
Camilla /cam-il-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ka-MEEL-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Camilla is helper to the priest. Feminine of the old Roman family name Camillus, of obscure origin. Literary: Camilla was the name of a warrior maiden, Queen of the Volscians, who fought in the army of Aeneas in Roman poet Virgil's Aeneid. 
Meanings and history of the name Camila : | Edit. Of Latin origin, means attendant or alter server. Other spellings/variations: Camilla, Camilah, Kamila, Kamilah, Khamilah, Kamilla. The Arabic form Kamilah (كاملة) means perfect. Comments and insights on the name Camila: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Camila: | Edit. I regularly watch after a little girl named Camila and she is very playful and full of energy.
The name Camila has the following meaning: A form of Camilla, it is the feminine form of Camillus. Said to have been used in reference to young female ceremonial attendants in Ancient Rome. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. Camila originates from the Italian language. See other suggested Italian girl baby names. See worldwide popularity rankings of Camila as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby girl name, Camila is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 297 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . In 2009, the name Camila rose in popularity, moving up the USA Top 1000 charts in Year 2009, by 4 plac