Campylobacter is considered by many to be the leading cause of enteric illness in the United States (20,26). Campylobacter species can cause mild to severe diarrhea, with loose, watery stools often followed by bloody diarrhea (7,20).
CAMPY-BAP. Campy-BAP is a blood agar that is highly selective for the growth of Campylobacter species. It contains several antibiotics which inhibit the growth of Gram-positve bacteria as well as most Gram-negative organisms.
Incubate uninoculated representative plates at 35 – 2°C for 72 h and examine for microbial contamination. PRODUCT INFORMATION IV INTENDED USE Campy CVA Agar is a selective medium used in the primary isolation and cultivation of Campylobacter jejuni from human fecalspecimens.
Limitations of the Procedure 1. Due to the presence of 15 mg/L of cephalothin, growth of C. fetus subsp. fetus will be inhibited on Campylobacter Agar with 5 Antimicrobics and 10% Sheep Blood; therefore, this medium is not recommended for the isolation or culture of this subspecies.2.
Brownish-black colonies surrounded by a black zone are positive. Oxgall (bile) is inhibitory agent. Ferric citrate is indicator. Blood Agar (BAP): consists of a basal medium such as TSA enriched with 5% defibrinated sheep blood or in some locations, horse blood. This is the most commonly used medium, and supports the growth of most of the common fastidious organisms, as well as, all of the less fastidious organisms (e.g., coliforms).
Growth Medium contains nutrients (macronutrients, micronutrients, growth factors) to allow for the growth of microorganisms. Media can come in 2 forms: : 1  allows for the growth of broth cultures. : 2  allows for microorganisms to grow and become visible colonies. 3  To make solid media, a solidifying agent, , 4  is required.
BBL ž Campy CVA Agar L007355 ł Rev. 05 ł January 2006 QUALITY CONTROL PROCEDURES I INTRODUCTION Campy CVA Agar is a selective medium for the primary isolation of Campylobacter jejuni from stool specimens. II PERFORMANCE TEST PROCEDURE 1.