Everybody wants a classic short bed pickup. Unfortunately short beds are hard to find for a good price... but, long beds are a dime-a-dozen, and cheap! The solution?...chop a long bed down!
Sellers know this and the price gap between a short-bed of decent caliber and a long-bed of the same quality is rapidly widening. For those looking to build a truck from the ground up or perform a mild restoration, the price point of a long-bed truck becomes very attractive. Shortening the Frame. 01 The long-bed C-10 showed up just the way any builder would want it, already stripped with just the cab and bed remaining on the long frame. 02 Sean started disassembling the bed by removing the tailgate and hardware.
Naughty boy is correct. The best you could do would be to take the bed off your truck and install a flatbed built to the length you desire, a factory box is out of the question due to wheelbase requirements for the 8 foot long box, a wheelbase your truck does not have. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You cannot change the bed length without changing the entire frame and driveshaft. There is more room between the front and rear wheels on a long bed, if you put the long bed on the short truck the wheels wont line up with the wheel openings in the bed sides.
With some planning, cutting and welding, a long-bed can be converted to a short-bed. The upfront savings on the long-bed can then be spent on new short-bed sheet metal that likely would have needed to be replaced or repaired anyway. Shortening the Frame. 01 The long-bed C-10 showed up just the way any builder would want it, already stripped with just the cab and bed remaining on the long frame. 02 Sean started disassembling the bed by removing the tailgate and hardware.
One concern with putting a shortbox camper on a long box truck is where the center of gravity lines up once its on the truck. You want the COG of the camper to be in front of the rear axles. Using a short box camper and putting a spacer in may push the COG behind the rear axles which makes the truck less stable. These compartments prevent the camper from going all the way in on a long bed truck-they would hit the tail lights before the camper bumpers touch the front of the box. A spacer can be anything that goes between the bumpers and
Jan 12 2012, 10:51 PM. My Lance 805 short bed camper was installed on a truck with an 8 foot box before I bought it. The camper has removeable storage compartments which allow it to be installed in an 8 foot box without any problem, without having to install spacers so it doesn't affect the centre of gravity. These compartments prevent the camper from going all the way in on a long bed truck-they would hit the tail lights before the camper bumpers touch the front of the box. A spacer can be anything that goes between the bumpers and
The installation will be essentially the same on a short or long bed truck, the difference being the measurements that need to be taken to install the hitch in the correct position so be sure to use the measurements for a long bed pickup. expert reply by: Bob G. If your F-350 is a Super Duty and is a 1999 or newer vehicle you can use a custom installation kit. The Fifth Wheel Trailer Hitch Custom Installation Kit with Brackets and Rails-Ford Super Duty, item # RP50082-58, will work on the 1999 - 2010 Ford F-250 and F-350 Super Duty with 6-1/2 ft. or 8 ft. Bed.
Remove the bed from the vehicle. Place it on either saw horses or jack stands, depending on what you have. Make sure the bed is secure and that the stands can support your weight as well. You're going to need access to every side of the bed, so be sure you can move around it easily. Mark where you'd like to cut. Depending on the year of Chevy truck, sometimes the difference between the long bed and short bed models is before the rear fender well. In other years, it's both before and after the wheel wells. If it's both, just repeat the process for the other side. 
That basically covers the frame, all that’s left is the reassembly details. Holes will have to drilled in the side of the frame to mount the gas tank brackets. You will need a tank from a short bed truck (16 gallon) to accomplish this, the long bed tank is too big to fit (it is 20 gallons). On this latest one I did, I am using a short stepside bed. 