There are several causes of corneal ulcers in dogs. The most common cause is trauma. An ulcer may result from blunt trauma, such as a dog rubbing its eye on the carpet, or due to a laceration, such as a cat scratch or a contact with a sharp object. Another common cause is chemical burn of the cornea. 
If your doctor suspects that bacteria are the cause of your corneal ulcer, usually treatment includes frequent application of topical antibiotics, with or without initial cultures. The location and size of the ulceration will guide your eye doctor in determining the need for cultures. Most cases of corneal ulcer are due to a bacterial infection that invades the cornea  often following eye injury, trauma or other damage. A corneal ulcer can result from an infection following damage from an eye injury or irritation from an ill-fitting or dirty contact lens.
Tiny tears to the cornea may also cause corneal ulcers. These tears can come from direct trauma, scratches or particles such as sand, glass or small pieces of metal. Such injuries damage the cornea and make it easier for bacteria to invade and cause an ulcer. 1 Bacterial infections cause corneal ulcers and are common in people who wear contact lenses. 2  Viral infections are also possible causes of corneal ulcers. 3  Such viruses include the herpes simplex virus (the virus that causes cold sores) or the varicella zoster virus (the virus that causes chickenpox and shingles).
Tiny cuts or scratches in the corneal surface may become infected and lead to corneal ulcers. For example, metal, wood, glass, or almost any type of particle that strikes the cornea can cause minor trauma. Such injuries damage the corneal surface and make it easier for bacteria to invade and cause a corneal ulcer. Most corneal ulcers are caused by infections. Bacterial infections cause corneal ulcers and are common in people who wear contact lenses. Bacteria can directly invade the cornea if the corneal surface has been disrupted. Some bacteria produce toxins that can cause ulceration of the cornea.
1 Tiny tears to the cornea may also cause corneal ulcers. 2  These tears can come from direct trauma; scratches; or particles, such as sand, glass, or small pieces of steel. 3  Such injuries damage the cornea and make it easier for bacteria to invade and cause a serious ulcer. 1 People who contract this type of infection have been treated with steroid eyedrops or are wearing contact lenses which are not properly disinfected. 2  Tiny tears to the cornea may also cause corneal ulcers. 3
(Redirected from Ulcerative keratitis). For the condition in animals, see Corneal ulcers in animals. Corneal ulcer, or ulcerative keratitis, is an inflammatory or more seriously, infective condition of the cornea involving disruption of its epithelial layer with involvement of the corneal stroma. It is a common condition in humans particularly in the tropics and the agrarian societies. Corneal ulcers are a common human eye disease. They are caused by trauma, particularly with vegetable matter, as well as chemical injury, contact lenses and infections. Other eye conditions can cause corneal ulcers, such as entropion, distichiasis, corneal dystrophy, and keratoconjunctivitis sicca (dry eye).
Corneal ulcer. A corneal ulcer is usually due to a bacteria or virus causing a painful, red eye. The corneal ulcer may feel like something is in the eye irritating it and there may be increased sensitivity to light. People who get a lot of cold sores often develop corneal ulcers. 1 Bacterial infections cause corneal ulcers and are common in people who wear contact lenses. 2  Viral infections are also possible causes of corneal ulcers. 3  Such viruses include the herpes simplex virus (the virus that causes cold sores) or the varicella zoster virus (the virus that causes chickenpox and shingles).
Scraping the Ulcer. If your doctor spots an ulcer on your cornea, he or she will further investigate to find out what caused it. Your doctor may determine the cause by numbing your eye with eye drops, then gently scraping the ulcer to obtain a sample of it. He will test the sample to find out if it contains bacteria, fungi, or a virus. At the front of the eye is a clear layer of tissue called the cornea. The cornea is the window of your eye and permits light to enter the eye. Tears constitute the natural defense against bacteria, viruses, or fungi for the cornea. A corneal ulcer is an open sore that forms on the cornea, usually caused by infection
1 Bacterial infections cause corneal ulcers and are common in people who wear contact lenses. 2  Viral infections are also possible causes of corneal ulcers. 3  Such viruses include the herpes simplex virus (the virus that causes cold sores) or the varicella virus (the virus that causes chickenpox and shingles). 1 People who contract this type of infection have been treated with steroid eyedrops or are wearing contact lenses which are not properly disinfected. 2  Tiny tears to the cornea may also cause corneal ulcers. 3  These tears can come from direct trauma; scratches; or particles, such as sand, glass, or small pieces of steel.