The BSB is a six-digit code. The format of the BSB code originally was for the first two digits to indicate the bank and the other four digits to specify the branch of that financial institution, the first digit of which was the state code indicating the state where the branch was located. The BSB identifier consists of six numerals, the first two or three of which is a bank identifier. The BSB identifier is used for processing of paper and electronic transactions, but not in payment card numbering.
Welcome to BSB LOOKUP Looking for a BSB Number or want to know which bank it belongs to? Start by typing in the BSB Number or the location of the Branch you are looking for. 
A Bank State Branch (BSB) number is the name used in Australia for a bank code, which is a branch identifier. BSB is used as an identifier consisting of a six digit numerical code that identifies an individual branch of an Australian financial institution. 
A BSB (Bank-State-Branch) is a 6-digit number that identifies banks and branches in Australia. Your account number is unique to you, and how your account is identified. Your account number follows your BSB. To make a funds transfer, you'll need both your recipient's BSB and account number. If you are a Commonwealth Bank customer, there are a few ways to find your BSB and account number: 1  The bank will have notified you of both your BSB and account number after you opened your account. 2  Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page.
1 Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page. 2  Use our locator tool to search for the branch, select a branch in the map to find the BSB number; or. 3  Visit any Commonwealth Bank branch. If you are a Commonwealth Bank customer, there are a few ways to find your BSB and account number: 1  The bank will have notified you of both your BSB and account number after you opened your account. 2 
For international transfers, a SWIFT code is used in addition to the BSB and account number. The BSB identifier consists of six numerals, the first two or three of which is a bank identifier. The BSB identifier is used for processing of paper and electronic transactions, but not in payment card numbering.
APCA is the official issuer & custodian of BSB Numbers in Australia. A BSB Number is a unique number which identifies both the Financial Institution and the point of representation of a particular account in Australia. It is frequently used in electronic banking. You can search for a BSB and its details or download the entire BSB directory by clicking on the BSB Search button below. 
A Bank State Branch (BSB) number is the name used in Australia for a bank code, which is a branch identifier. BSB is used as an identifier consisting of a six digit numerical code that identifies an individual branch of an Australian financial institution. The BSB is normally used in association with the bank account number. For international transfers a SWIFT identifier is used in addition to the BSB identifier and a
BSB is a 6 digit numeric code used for identifying a branch of an Australian or New Zealand bank or financial institution. BSB stands for Bank State Branch. 
A Bank State Branch (often referred to as  BSB ) is the name used in Australia for a bank code, which is a branch identifier. The BSB is normally used in association with the account number system used by each financial institution. The structure of the BSB + account number does not permit for account numbers to be transferable between financial institutions. The BSB identifier consists of six numerals, the first two or three of which is a bank identifier. The BSB identifier is used for processing of paper and electronic transactions, but not in payment card numbering.