Locate the central building ground. 7. Use a grounding wire (#10 copper or #8 aluminum) that will extend from the grounding block to the central building ground. Attach the grounding wire to the grounding block by placing it through the wire hole in the grounding block and tightening the screw. Grounded interior metal cold water pipe within five feet of the point where it enters the building. Grounded metallic service raceway. Grounded electrical service equipment enclosure. Eight-foot grounding rod driven into the ground (only if bonded to the central building ground by #6 or heavier bonding wire).
1 A satellite dish mast must be grounded with at least a 17 Awg copper coated steel wire. 2  The coax must be grounded as close to Point-Of-Entry as possible and the ground wire must be no smaller than 10 Awg Solid Copper. 3  Article 810 says 10 Awg, but Article 820 says 14 Awg. 4  To meet both requirements, you should use 10 Awg. 1 (no aluminum). 2  The Ground wire must be insulated. 3  The Ground wire must not be smaller than 14 Gauge, and shall have a current-carry capacity approximately equal to that of the outer conductor (shield), but no larger than 6 gauge. 4  The ground wire shall not be longer than 20 feet.
Then I must ground the grounding block to a proper grounding source. A1. Both the dish and the lead-in cable must be grounded in accordance with 810.21 and the messenger ground wire (that is part of the cable to the dish) can be used for this purpose as you described. Q3. I want to install a 2-way satellite system on the patio of my apartment that is enclosed on three sides. The installer want to ground the dish to a metal rod that is driven into the ground (which is not feasible from the third floor). There is no cold water piping outside the apartment.
Route the grounding wire from the grounding block to the central building ground, and connect to the central building ground. Cable Routing Tips. If you are routing the. If you are routing the wire or cable above the ground, use cable clips to secure the two to a wall or surface. Grounded interior metal cold water pipe within five feet of the point where it enters the building. Grounded metallic service raceway. Grounded electrical service equipment enclosure. Eight-foot grounding rod driven into the ground (only if bonded to the central building ground by #6 or heavier bonding wire).
I recently ran across a DirecTV system that does not appear to be properly grounded. The dish's mounting arm (on the home) is connected using a 14 AWG insulated copper which is connected to a grounding block on the other end. The DirecTV system coax (RG-6) runs from the dish to this junction terminal (like a multiple barrel connector for multiple runs of coax) and other pieces of RG-6 run into the home to the receivers.
3. Make a 3- 5 drip loop using cable clips at the grounding block. This will prevent water from running into the connection at the grounding block. 4. Place some silicone grease on the connector and connect the coaxial cable to the grounding block. 5. Secure the messenger (ground) wire to the grounding block. Grounded interior metal cold water pipe within five feet of the point where it enters the building. Grounded metallic service raceway. Grounded electrical service equipment enclosure. Eight-foot grounding rod driven into the ground (only if bonded to the central building ground by #6 or heavier bonding wire).
What he didn't know is that the home has plastic plumbing. It appears the DirecTV system (the dish and grounding block, in particular) is bonded to plastic plumbing and there is no ground rod or no grounding line from the DirecTV grounding block to the home's driven ground rod. The home's driven rod is approx. 50' away from the dish. The DirecTV system coax (RG-6) runs from the dish to this junction terminal (like a multiple barrel connector for multiple runs of coax) and other pieces of RG-6 run into the home to the receivers.
... If the system is grounded elsewhere, such as at a multiswitch, adding the 2nd ground block will not provide any more or less grounding protection. Also note that the grounding with a ground block (or multiswitch) will not also ground the dish antenna. They both must be grounded to meet code. Also note that each coax conductor should also pass thru a ground block where it enters the premises.
The Main Reason To Ground. For most of us, it is required by law. If a home burns, the insurance company look for someone to blame. If a professional installer installs a system and fails to ground properly, the insurance company will look to see if the lack of ground caused, or contributed to the fire. Every satellite installer can buy coax with a 17 Awg CCS ground wire attached. The cost to ground a mast is pennies. There is no financial barrier to properly grounding a satellite system mast. Coax cables can pickup charges by inductance from lightning activity in the area. A coax ground wire should be 10 Awg, and under 20 feet