1 Backflush FlexTip™ products have a soft 1mm silicone tip for aspiration at the retina surface. 2  Backflush Brush products have a soft 1.5mm silicone brush tip for gentle brushing and manipulation of the retina. Put aspiration control at the tip of your finger. 1  Backflush Cannula products have a blunt cannula forgeneral aspiration. 2 
MedOne is the market leader in single use cannula products for retina surgery. Our focus is on products for small gauge surgery, including 23g and 25g surgical systems. We offer the widest range of cannula products for small gauge surgery, allowing you to tackle a wide variety of cases using your small gauge surgical system. Our innovative PolyTip® VFI cannulas enable fast and easy injection of silicone oil for 23g and 25g cases. 
1 Backflush instrument with blunt needle, active aspiration 27 gauge / 0.4 mm. Dutch Ophthalmic, USA. Read More. 1  Description: Backflush instrument with blunt needle, active aspiration 27 gauge / 0.4 mm. 2 
Eye Technology is proud to offer an extensive range of instruments including the Backflush instrument range with sterile and re-usable accessories. The instruments are crafted from Titanium for added durability as well as non-corrosion. 
The backflushing system reverses the flow of the carrier gas after the target compound is detected to discharge residual components in the column from the injection port. 
1 Description: Backflush instrument with blunt needle, active aspiration 27 gauge / 0.4 mm. 2  Backflush instrument with blunt needle, active aspiration 27 gauge / 0.4 mm. Dutch Ophthalmic, USA. Read More. 1 
Backflush instruments combine our high precision ergonomic handle with our most popular cannulas into one convenient instrument. Put aspiration control at the tip of your finger. 1  Backflush Cannula products have a blunt cannula forgeneral aspiration. 2  Backflush FlexTip™ products have a soft 1mm silicone tip for aspiration at the retina surface.
1 Backflush Cannula products have a blunt cannula forgeneral aspiration. 2  Backflush FlexTip™ products have a soft 1mm silicone tip for aspiration at the retina surface. 3  Backflush Brush products have a soft 1.5mm silicone brush tip for gentle brushing and manipulation of the retina. Put aspiration control at the tip of your finger. 1 
GRIESHABER ® DSP instruments are a line of single-use vitreoretinal micro-instruments which are used in ophthalmic surgery, for cases either in the anterior or the posterior segment. The GRIESHABER ® Advanced Backflush Handles DSP are a family of instruments for fluid and gas handling in vitreoretinal surgery. Caution: Federal (USA) law restricts this device to sale by, or on the order of, a physician. The GRIESHABER ® Advanced Backflush DSP is designed to meet your needs for multi-purpose active and passive vacuum/extrusion. The product is available in 25G, 23G, and 20G. Contact your Alcon vitreoretinal sales manager for a product evaluation today.
Warnings and Precautions: CONSTELLATION® Vision System. 1  The disposables used in conjunction with ALCON ® instrument products constitute a complete surgical system. 2  Attach only consumables supplied by Alcon to console and cassette luer fittings. 3  Mismatch of consumable components and use of settings not specifically adjusted for a particular 4  ... Vitr The GRIESHABER ® Advanced Backflush DSP is designed to meet your needs for multi-purpose active and passive vacuum/extrusion. The product is available in 25G, 23G, and 20G. Contact your Alcon vitreoretinal sales manager for a product evaluation today.