def·i·ni·tion. n. 1. a. A statement of the meaning of a word, phrase, or term, as in a dictionary entry. b. A statement or description of the fundamental character or scope of something: [The panel] calls for a clearer definition of the status of people captured in American military operations (Economist). 2.
The Latin word terminus, meaning “ boundary ” or “ limit, ” gives us the root termin or term. Words from the Latin terminus have something to do with boundaries or limits. A term is a limited period of time during which something, such as school, occurs or exists. To de termin e is to set exact boundaries for something.
The term spam can also be used to describe any unwanted email from a company or website -- typically at some point a user would have agreed to receive the email via subscription list opt-in -- a newer term called graymail is used to describe this particular type of spam.
The term science also refers to the organized body of knowledge people have gained using that system. Less formally, the word science often describes any systematic field of study or the knowledge gained from it. Get great science articles each month with the. Science Made Simple newsletter.
1 Since the point of a definition is to explain the meaning of a term to someone who is unfamiliar with its proper application, the use of language that doesn't help such a person learn how to apply the term is pointless. 2  Thus, happiness is a warm puppy may be a lovely thought, but it is a lousy definition.
1. a. A statement of the meaning of a word, phrase, or term, as in a dictionary entry. b. A statement or description of the fundamental character or scope of something: [The panel] calls for a clearer definition of the status of people captured in American military operations (Economist).
definition. n. 1. a formal and concise statement of the meaning of a word, phrase, etc. 2. the act of defining a word, phrase, etc. 3. specification of the essential properties of something, or of the criteria which uniquely identify it. 4. the act of making clear or definite.