Most professional breeders of pedigree dogs will not allow their pups to go to their new homes until they are twelve weeks old, although some breeders see eight weeks as a fair time to allow the puppies to leave, and taking home a puppy at eight weeks old is not uncommon.
What is the right age to take a puppy home? 8 weeks is the minimum age pups should leave for new homes. Puppies go through five critical periods...and it's very important that they remain with their mother and littermates until 7-1/2 to 8 weeks of age.
Puppies usually go to new homes from the age of about 6-8 weeks. This means that about 3 to 5 weeks of the critical socialisation time is spent with the breeder. During this time, puppies should be exposed to a whole range of different encounters and experiences to equip them for life in the human world.
For those puppies that are a little unsure of themselves, at this age interaction should be gentle and reassuring. Do not overwhelm puppies between eight and ten weeks of age. That is the age to explore their new home.
Eight weeks of age has long been accepted as the optimal time to acquire a new pup. By eight weeks, sufficient dog-dog socialization has taken place with mother and litter mates to tide the puppy over until he is old enough to safely meet and play with other dogs in puppy class and dog parks.
When people come to visit the puppies, the breeder should be grading the prospective owner at the same time the prospective owner is grading the breeder and puppies. The puppies should be ready to go to their new homes at 7-8 weeks of age. When the prospective owners come to visit, make sure the entire family comes. The breeder should see how all the children interact with each other and their parents.
The countdown is on... Puppies will be beginning to leave for their new homes between 9 and 12 weeks of age. By 8.5 to 9 weeks puppies are usually ready to leave their littermates and are ready for individual attention.
Puppies may be placed in new homes once they are eating well on their own. However, they will be better adjusted and make better pets by staying and interacting with littermates and the Mom-dog until they are at least eight weeks old--older generally is better.