Types of water pollution. Water pollution can come from a number of different sources. If the pollution comes from a single source, such as an oil spill, it is called point-source pollution. If the pollution comes from many sources, it is called nonpoint-source pollution. Most types of pollution affect the immediate area surrounding the source. Sometimes the pollution may affect the environment hundreds of miles away from the source, such as nuclear waste, this is called transboundary pollution.
The main types of pollution gases in the air are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, methane, sulfur dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and nitrogen oxides. Read related articles on air pollution facts: 1  air pollution statistics. 2  car pollution facts. Read more about the types of environmental pollution in the air. The most common sources of air pollution include the burning of fossil fuels and other materials in oil refineries, power plants, factories, automobiles and other forms of transportation, as well as the incinerators.
Photo Source. According to the dictionary, air pollution is the contamination of air by smoke and harmful gases, mainly oxides of carbon, sulfur, and nitrogen. (And maybe by that smelly uncle.) Some examples of air pollution include: 1  Exhuast fumes from vehicles. Mostly, visual kinds of environmental pollution are annoying and ugly, although some may say they are also depressing, and they of course affect the surrounding landscape with the changes they cause. When a man throws an empty cigarette package from an automobile, he is liable to a fine of $50.
In few words pollution is just destroying natural environment.they are of different types.air pollution,water pollution,sound pollution,soil pollution and so on....... Confidence votes 1. oxide. There are many different kinds of pollutants, but some of the more larger problems result from: Greenhouse gases-Carbon dioxide and methane are two of the most important of these gases, called greenhouse gases because they trap heat in the earth's atmosphere.
Commonly it is defined as the type of air pollution that is generated due to the different types of fuel consumption by the vehicles or when the forest are burnt different types of gases are evolved that are mixed with the air and pollute the air. Types Of Air Pollution. Air pollution is one of the major problems of the present world. There are so many causes that can pollute the air completely and spread different types of dangerous diseases. On the basis of the different causes of air pollution it can be distinguished into different types.
Finally, air pollution can take the form of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide or sulfur dioxide, which are warming the planet through the greenhouse effect. According to the EPA, the greenhouse effect is when gases absorb the infrared radiation that is released from the Earth, preventing the heat from escaping. 
Another type of air pollution that pollutes the environment as a result of the industrial processes is called as industrial pollution. Commonly it is characterized due to the working of the thermal plants and also the different plants that are used to manufacture different types of fertilizers or pesticides. Types Of Air Pollution. Air pollution is one of the major problems of the present world. There are so many causes that can pollute the air completely and spread different types of dangerous diseases. On the basis of the different causes of air pollution it can be distinguished into different types.
Some types of air pollution are as follows. Smog: The first type of the air pollution is the smog. It is defined as when the smoke present in the atmosphere after emitting from different sources is combined with the fog present in the air, a mixture formed that is referred to as smog. Types Of Air Pollution. Air pollution is one of the major problems of the present world. There are so many causes that can pollute the air completely and spread different types of dangerous diseases. On the basis of the different causes of air pollution it can be distinguished into different types.
by V.Shalem Pravas. Different Types of pollution are categorized based on the part of the environment which they affect or result which the particular pollution causes. Each of these types has its own distinctive causes and consequences. 