That said, the average basal temperature for humans is 98.6º F. Read on to learn how your body temperature changes during pregnancy and what you can do about it. If you notice a rise in your BBT two weeks after ovulation, chances are high that you have conceived. The rise is however not too high and on average your BBT will only rise by 0.4ºF. If for example your average BBT is 98.6ºF, it would rise to 99ºF and this rise could continue for the first few months of pregnancy. If you do not conceive, your temperature will go down to normal during menstruation.
The average normal body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. This temperature varies throughout the day. In women, body temperature also fluctuates according to hormonal changes that take place during the month and as such provides indication regarding the fertility cycle. If the body temperature of a pregnant woman increases to 100 degrees or more it could be detrimental to the health of the growing baby. Raised body temperature during the first trimester can increase the chances of birth defects in the baby and even cause other complications.
Body Temperature During Pregnancy. If you notice a rise in your BBT two weeks after ovulation, chances are high that you have conceived. This is one of the first signs of pregnancy even before the missed period sign. Although pregnancy affects the BBT, this is only experienced during the first trimester. The rise is however not too high and on average your BBT will only rise by 0.4ºF. If for example your average BBT is 98.6ºF, it would rise to 99ºF and this rise could continue for the first few months of pregnancy. If you do not conceive, your temperature will go down to normal during menstruation.
It's not uncommon for body temp to elevate from what your normal pre-pregnancy temp was. Elevated levels of progesterone, combined with an increased metabolism, will raise your body temp a little during the entire pregnancy. Temps higher than 100.4 F should be reported to your Dr. For temps 102 F or higher, go to the emergency room. I am 7 weeks pregnant and have and elevated temp for over a week now. Anywhere from 98.9- 100.4. There are variances between the tympanic and rectal with the ear temp being almost always 100.4 in one ear and 99.4 in the other ear.
Although 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit is considered a normal body temperature, during pregnancy, especially in the first trimester pregnant women experience slightly higher body temperatures which is considered absolutely normal. If the body temperature of a pregnant woman increases to 100 degrees or more it could be detrimental to the health of the growing baby. Raised body temperature during the first trimester can increase the chances of birth defects in the baby and even cause other complications.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below 98.6°F (37°C) . Also, your normal body temperature changes by as much as 1°F (0.6°C) throughout the day, depending on how active you are and the time of day. Body temperature is very sensitive to hormone levels and may be higher or lower when a woman is ovulating or having her menstrual period.
Is it normal that women who are pregnant have a slightly higher body temperature than non pregnant women? I been kinda sick and was worried. I had 98.7 on the thermometer by mouth and I thought that you usually add 1 to it so that would have been 99.7 but wanted to know if this was a normal temperature while pregnant? 
Low body temperature during the first trimester of pregnancy could mean low levels of progesterone which could in turn indicate a risk of miscarriage. If the body temperature of a pregnant woman increases to 100 degrees or more it could be detrimental to the health of the growing baby. Raised body temperature during the first trimester can increase the chances of birth defects in the baby and even cause other complications.
Pregnancy is an exciting yet confusing period for expectant mothers. This is because the body undergoes many changes. A lot of first time mothers are unsure about the body changes to expect and this could lead to a lot of confusion and anxiety. One of the major changes that takes place is a rise in body temperature. The rise is however not too high and on average your BBT will only rise by 0.4ºF. If for example your average BBT is 98.6ºF, it would rise to 99ºF and this rise could continue for the first few months of pregnancy. If you do not conceive, your temperature will go down to normal during menstruation.