Your TV probably doesn’t offer a headphone jack, so you’ll need an adapter that can connect your headphones to the type of audio output it offers. Check which types of audio output your TV supports for this — examine its specifications or just peek at the back of your TV set and see what’s there. Old-style RCA audio output is becoming less common, but it’ll work really well if your TV has it. RCA audio is analog, just like a standard pair of headphonse with a 3.5mm audio jack. This means you can just purchase a cheap RCA-to-3.5mm adapter and use it to connect a pair of headphones to the back of your TV. Amazon sells the adapter you’ll need for only $1.50. Use this to connect headphones to your TV
When using HDMI in Windows 7 you may want to distinguish between your audio and video source. For example, you may want the video to be transported over HDMI but the audio source to come from your computer headphone jack. (Ex: display to HDMI and pair of headphones to headphone jack). Click Start (blue Windows logo) and select Control Panel from the list of options on the right hand side. Select the category labeled Hardware and Sound.
In reply to: How can I use headphones on tvs without output jacks. Here's my advice: odds are you have an digital/optical out on the back of your television that is a small sqaurish shaped hole where an optical cable, normally used for connecting an external receiver or game console, plugs in. In reply to: How can I use headphones on tvs without output jacks. You can open up the back of the TV, find the internal wires going to the TV speakers, cut them, and splice in your own wires leading out of the back of the TV, ending them in whatever connectors you need for your headphones.
RC. RC. I'm trying to run HDMI to a projector (via HDMI-DVI adapter) for video, and Composite (RCA Red & White by using the headphone jack and a splitter cable) to an older theater-in-a-box type receiver for audio. But when I plug in the HDMI cable, the headphone jack shuts off-no sound. Michel, Apparently it's not possible to output sound through both the HDMI and the headphone jack simultaneously. But If you want to watch video through HDMI and listen via headphone jack do this: That works for me.
In this video I show you how to use head phones without a jack and with a HDMI cabel! Edit: to clear up confusion, this will only work with a game console or DVD/Blueray player! 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
In order to use your headphones with your TV, your TV would have to have an audio out port, which it does not appear to have. You need to connect the headphone's wireless receiver to the audio output of your PS3. -Wolf sends. m. 1 I only have one Digital Audio out on TV and surround sound, how to get wireless headphones to work-Tech Support. 2  I have a LG TV with an audio output jack that is Optical Digital Audio Out. 3  I want to hook these to my wireless headphone rec
Instructions. Make sure the appropriate devices are connected to the HDMI port and headphone jack on your computer. (Ex: display to HDMI and pair of headphones to headphone jack). Click Start (blue Windows logo) and select Control Panel from the list of options on the right hand side. Select the category labeled Hardware and Sound. Under Sound, select the option Manage audio devices.