(2) The Company is duly incorporated ... (3) The Company is a corporation ... The first two mean the same thing; the third permits reliance on the de facto incorporationdoctrine). See also California Report, supra note 1, at 1032-33.20. 
Similarly, “An opinion that a company has been ‘duly organized’ means that the company has been duly incorporated and that it has taken additional steps to establish its basic organizational structure.” Id. at § 6.3. The phrases duly incorporated and duly organized feature in contracts as well as in legal opinions. So when duly occurs in a term of art with broader substantive implications, leave duly alone. But outside of those contexts, duly is usually redundant. As in the first example above, duly is often paired with validly. So here goes. According to Black’s Law Dictionary, duly is an adverb meaning “In a proper manner; in accordance with legal requirements.” But usually, the verb or verb phrase that duly modifies itself incorporates the notion of “in a proper manner,” making du
In legal parlance, the owners of a company are normally referred to as the members. In a company limited or unlimited by shares (formed or incorporated with a share capital), this will be the shareholders. In a company limited by guarantee, this will be the guarantors. 1 Specifically, a limited company is a  company in which the liability of each shareholder is limited to the amount individually invested with corporations being the most common example of a limited company.. 2  This type of company is common in England and many English-speaking countries.
In the United States, a company may be a  corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, fund, or organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and (in an official capacity) any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or similar official, or liquidating agent, for any of the foregoing. 1 Specifically, a limited company is a  company in which the liability of each shareholder is limited to the amount individually invested with corporations being the most common example of a limited company.. 2  This type of company is common in England and many English-speaking countries.
Incorporation. If you choose to use a corporate entity to structure your business, you must adhere to the relevant statutes in the state you want to create the entity in. Most jurisdictions require you to file articles of incorporation as the first step to corporate formation. Tax Rules. A business that uses the LLC structure need not incorporate to be taxed as a corporation. The Internal Revenue Service allows all LLCs to elect corporate tax treatment by filing IRS Form 8832.
1 Like a corporation it has limited liability for members of the company, and like a partnership it has flow-through taxation to the members and must be dissolved upon the death or bankruptcy of a member. 2  An unlimited company with or without a share capital. 1 Specifically, a limited company is a  company in which the liability of each shareholder is limited to the amount individually invested with corporations being the most common example of a limited company.. 2  This type of company is common in England and many English-speaking countries.
The most common type of corporation in the U.S. is the C Corporation. By forming a C Corporation, business owners create a separate legal structure that helps shield their personal assets from judgments against the company. C Corporations have a specific structure that includes shareholders, directors, and officers. The C Corporation is a time-tested business formation. Now that you are aware of the pros and cons of a C Corporation and if you wish to start one, The Company Corporation can help you form your new C Corporation in any state or the District of Columbia. We'll help you complete Articles of Incorporation for your business and file them with the state.
IBOC » Topics » (a) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the state of its incorporation. This excerpt taken from the IBOC 8-K filed Dec 23, 2008. (d) The shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Warrant and when so issued in accordance with the terms of the Warrant will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
Best Answer: When something is done duly it means done in the proper manner. So in the case of a duly incorporated corporation it means that the company has filed all of the necessary paper work to become a legal corporation. Source(s): ... 