Ducks are delicious birds, and many animals like to eat them. Almost any four-footed predator will eat a duck whenever it gets a chance. Foxes and weasels are just two of the many mammalian predators that ducks must face. Snakes also eat ducks, and so do birds of prey such as hawks, owls and eagles. Snapping turtles like to eat baby ducks.
Dogs, raccoons, opossums, foxes, snakes, and all manner of birds of prey (including wading birds such as herons). I've seen snapping turtles eat struggling ducklings too … in the water. With the exception of predatory birds, most predators are a danger to nests as well. A duck is both predator and prey. A duck eats living organisms such as small fishes (not to mention insects and grasses), which makes it a predator. Ducks are also preyed up … on by foxes, wolves, and hawks. 3 people found this useful.
Birds from Predators. Natural predators are every where, It's one of Nature's laws. Nesting birds are very vulnerable to all kinds of prey animals, especially cats. As are fledglings and birds roosting for the night. Bell collars on cats offer birds little protection as cats they learn to walk without a single jungle
Dogs, raccoons, opossums, foxes, snakes, and all manner of birds of prey (including wading birds such as herons). I've seen snapping turtles eat struggling ducklings too … in the water. With the exception of predatory birds, most predators are a danger to nests as well. A duck is both predator and prey. A duck eats living organisms such as small fishes (not to mention insects and grasses), which makes it a predator. Ducks are also preyed up … on by foxes, wolves, and hawks
one predator of a duck is the wolf, others would be foxes, raccoons, snakes, sharks, weasels, hawks, owls, eagles, cats, dogs, rats, large fish (especially for ducklings), turtles, coyotes, Tasmanian devils, seals, killer whales, mountain lions, badgers, falcons, shoebills, storks, herons, and wolverines. A duck is both predator and prey. A duck eats living organisms such as small fishes (not to mention insects and grasses), which makes it a predator. Ducks are also preyed up … on by foxes, wolves, and hawk
Birding.com. Wood Ducks are best known by the bright colors that males show during the breeding season. A combination of purple, green, blue, red, white, and black make this a fascinating and beautiful animal. Female Wood Ducks, and males outside of breeding season, have much plainer coloring of brown and gray. 
The ducks predator is the pelican,and,wolf, foxes, raccoons, snakes, sharks, weasels, hawks, owls, eagles, cats, dogs, rats, large fish (especially for ducklings), turtles, co … yotes, Tasmanian devils, seals, killer whales, mountain lions, badgers, falcons, shoebills, storks, herons, and wolverines. A duck is both predator and prey. A duck eats living organisms such as small fishes (not to mention insects and grasses), which makes it a predator. Ducks are also preyed up … on by foxes, wolves, and hawk
The ducks predator is the pelican,and,wolf, foxes, raccoons, snakes, sharks, weasels, hawks, owls, eagles, cats, dogs, rats, large fish (especially for ducklings), turtles, co … yotes, Tasmanian devils, seals, killer whales, mountain lions, badgers, falcons, shoebills, storks, herons, and wolverines. A duck is both predator and prey. A duck eats living organisms such as small fishes (not to mention insects and grasses), which makes it a predator. Ducks are also preyed up … on by foxes, wolves, and hawks. 3 people found this useful.
one predator of a duck is the wolf, others would be foxes, raccoons, snakes, sharks, weasels, hawks, owls, eagles, cats, dogs, rats, large fish (especially for ducklings), tur … tles, coyotes, Tasmanian devils, seals, killer whales, mountain lions, badgers, falcons, shoebills, storks, herons, and wolverines. A duck is both predator and prey. A duck eats living organisms such as small fishes (not to mention insects and grasses), which makes it a predator. Ducks are also preyed up … on by foxes, wolves, and hawks. 3 people found this useful.