1 Medial epicondylitis (golfer's elbow) : Medial epicondylitis is inflammation at the point where the tendons of the forearm attach to the bony prominence of the inner elbow. 2  As an example, this tendon can become strained in a golf swing, but many other repetitive motions can injure the tendon. 
Forearm pain refers to any type of pain or discomfort of the arm between the wrist and the elbow. Pain in the forearm can arise from injury or inflammation that affects any of the tissues of the forearm, including the muscles, bones, blood vessels, tendons, and skin. Forearm pain can happen to anyone and is often related to a traumatic or repetitive use injury. Treatment for forearm pain depends on the cause of the pain. Mild forearm pain may go away with rest, home remedies, such as cold compresses, or over-the-counter pain medications. In more serious cases, forearm pain may require medical treatment, such as prescription medication, surgery, or physical therapy
Medial elbow pain is pain on the inside of the elbow and can arise from a number of causes. Golfer's elbow or throwers elbow is probably the most common name given to pain on the inside of the elbow and refers to inflammation or degeneration of the flexor tendon on the inside of the elbow. 
Definition. Golfer's elbow is a condition that causes pain where the tendons of your forearm muscles attach to the bony bump on the inside of your elbow. The pain might spread into your forearm and wrist. Golfer's elbow is similar to tennis elbow, which occurs on the outside of the elbow. It's not limited to golfers
The elbow is the joint where three long bones meet in the middle portion of the arm. The bone of the upper arm (humerus) meets the inner bone of the forearm (ulna) and the outer bone of the forearm (radius) to form a hinge joint. The radius and ulna also meet in the elbow to allow for rotation of the forearm. The elbow functions to move the arm like a hinge (forward and backward) and in rotation (twisting outward and inward). The biceps muscle is the major muscle that flexes the elbow hinge.
1 Medial Epicondylitis (Golfer's Elbow). 2  Medial epicondylitis is inflammation at the point where the tendons of the forearm attach to the bony prominence of the inner elbow. 3  As an example, this tendon can become strained in a golf swing, but many other repetitive motions can injure the tendon. 1 In severe cases, surgery might be recommended. 2  Medial Epicondylitis (Golfer's Elbow). 3
Golfers Elbow. Golfer’s elbow is a common cause of pain on the inside of the elbow. Symptoms are a gradual onset of pain at the bony part on the inside of the elbow. General weakness in the wrist and pain when gripping may also be felt. Medial Elbow Ligament Sprain. Injury to the ligament on the inside of the elbow results in a sudden onset of elbow pain with local swelling and tenderness when pressing in on the inside of the elbow. Overuse can also be a cause such as in throwing sports.
1 Medial epicondylitis is inflammation at the point where the tendons of the forearm attach to the bony prominence of the inner elbow. 2  As an example, this tendon can become strained in a golf swing, but many other repetitive motions can injure the tendon. 1 In severe cases, surgery might be recommended. 2  Medial Epicondylitis (Golfer's Elbow). 3 
Tendons connect muscles in your forearm to the bones in your wrist and elbow. Damage to these tendons -- called tendinitis or tendinopathy -- often occurs with overuse of your forearm muscles. Tendon injury causes pain near your elbow or wrist joints, where the tendon attaches to the bone. 