Float Fire 82 is a very versatile product that can also be used in many applications other than glass fusing. It is similar to flashed glass because the color is on one side of the glass. This makes Float Fire 82 a wonderful glass for glass sandblasting and glass etching. 
Use of float glass at Crystal Palace railway station, London. Float glass is a sheet of glass made by floating molten glass on a bed of molten metal, typically tin, although lead and various low melting point alloys were used in the past. This method gives the sheet uniform thickness and very flat surfaces. Tin is suitable for the float glass process because it has a high specific gravity, is cohesive, and is immiscible with molten glass. Tin, however, oxidises in a natural atmosphere to form tin dioxide (SnO 2). Known in the production process as dross, the tin dioxide adheres to the glass.
Building industry. Float glass is used for smaller windows in domestic housing. Larger windows are made from toughened glasses. Glass is used for windows for aesthetic and functional reasons, allowing the occupants to see out and at the same time allowing light in. Commercial glazing. Float glass is becoming more and more popular in commercial applications as it allows structures to be constructed that give the impression of being outside with the benefits of being inside protected from the elements (with the exception of the sun).
1 Some float glass has no tin side. 2  Some glass that is thought to be float is actually horticultural glass. 3  Horticultural glass is a rolled glass, therefore it has no tin side. 4  This glass is also very prone to devit. 5  Check with your supplier to be sure the glass you are purchasing is either float or horticultural. 1 Float glass is stiffer and therefore slower to soften. 2  Some float glass has no tin side. 3  Some glass that is thought to be float is actually horticultural glass. 4  Horticultural glass is a rolled glass, therefore it has no tin side. 5  This glass is also very prone to devit.
Float glass is more commonly known as window glass. Because it is inexpensive and sometimes free, it is a popular glass to use in glass fusing. There is a rainbow pallet of compatible frit and powders to use for decorating and embellishing float glass. Please note: All float or window glass may not have the same COE. 1 Float glass is stiffer and therefore slower to soften. 2  Some float glass has no tin side. 3  Some glass that is thought to be float is actually horticultural glass. 4  Horticultural glass is a rolled glass, therefore it has no tin side. 5  This glass is also very prone to devit.
Annealed glass. Annealed glass is the basic flat glass product that is the first result of the float process. It is common glass that tends to break into large, jagged shards. It is used in some end products and often in double-glazed windows. 
Glass floats, glass fishing floats, or Japanese glass fishing floats are popular collectors' items. They were once used by fishermen in many parts of the world to keep their fishing nets, as well as longlines or droplines afloat. These glass floats are no longer being used by fishermen, but many of them are still afloat in the world's oceans, primarily the Pacific. They have become a popular collectors' item for beachcombers and decorators. Replicas are also being manufactured.
Clear float glass is flat glass made by floating molten glass on a bed of molten tin and then passing it through the annealing lehr, where it cools gradually and comes out with uniform thickness and flat surface. 