Metal Roofing is available in a variety of materials. These metals bring a combination of strength, flexibility, and longevity that will compliment any home. For each 12 inches of run (eave to ridge) the roof must rise-up at least 3 inches. There are low-slope water tight metal roof systems that can be applied to flatter roofs and many of the MRA manufacturers produce those types as well.
To create standing seam metal roofing, the most popular type of metal roofing, a metal roofing coil is fed into a roll former. As the roll former performs a series of rolls, bends and curves are formed in the metal. The desired width of the panel can be entered into the machine. Most panels measure 12, 16 or 20 inches. 1 You can then use the eave to align your metal roof panels with a 3-4-5 triangle measurement. 2  These panels will run from top to bottom, and you should leave a trough of four to six inches in the valley through which water can run. 3  Next, you will install trim.
While non-metal roofs come with an average lifespan of 17 years, a metal roof can last up to three times that long. The national average cost for installing metal roofing is $16,453. But the average resale value for a metal roof is $14,141, meaning that you can recoup nearly 86% of your roofing costs. 1 You can then use the eave to align your metal roof panels with a 3-4-5 triangle measurement. 2  These panels will run from top to bottom, and you should leave a trough of four to six inches in the valley through which water can run. 3  Next, you will install trim.
Alloys (metals blended together or with other products) are most commonly seen around the home, but some metals are seen in their pure form. The most common presentation of metal in the home is in the electroplated form, where a thin layer of metal is fused by electrolysis to an object. Learn about the types of metals that are used in domestic construction and understand what they are used for. Find out why particular metals are used and which metals are used to make alloys that are used in a home.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. If its different 'types' of metals you're looking for, here are a few: -Base metals: a metal that oxidizes easily and reacts with HCL to form hydrogen. ex. iron, zinc, nickel-Alloys: An alloy is a mixture of two or more elements in solid solution in which the major component is a metal. Ex. brass (copper+zinc), steel (iron +carbon) -Noble metals: metals that are resistant to corrosion.
If you've ever seen steel, a popular material for construction and consumer products, it certainly looks and feels like a hard metal. But looks can be deceiving. In fact, the difference between metal and steel is highly overlooked in a world that often thinks of steel as a type of metal. Even in a professional capacity, these terms are used together. Steel is commonly used as a buil­ding material and metal buildings, as they are referred to, are often made of steel. Some common metals are titanium, copper and nickel. Steel, on the other hand, is an alloy of iron with varying amounts of carbon content (from 0.5 to 1.5 percent) [source: Merriam-Webster ]. Steel, being an alloy and therefore not a pure element, is not technically a metal but a variation on one instead.
From natural materials like slate and wood to manmade products such as asphalt, sheet metal, and plastic polymers; there are more types and styles of roofing to choose from today than ever before. While each has its advantages and shortcomings, they all can add a distinctive design element to your home. 
Summary: The uses of common metals in a home. Learn about the types of metals that are used in domestic construction and understand what they are used for. Find out why particular metals are used and which metals are used to make alloys that are used in a home.
This happens when oxygen (usually from the air) reacts with a metal. Metals with a higher reactivity (such as magnesium, aluminum, iron, zinc, and tin) are much more prone to this kind of chemical destruction, or corrosion. When oxygen reacts with a metal, it forms an oxide on the surface of the metal. In some metals, like aluminum, this is a good thing. 
As with other metals, Platinum is commonly mixed with other metals. However, for a piece of jewelry to be labeled as platinum it must have a minimum level of purity of at least 95% pure platinum. A purity level of less than 95% would require the metal be identified as a Platinum alloy. A Ferrous metal is one that contains Iron, while a non-ferrous metal does not. Since these forms of metals tend to rust, most jewelry is created with non-ferrous metals. Normally, most jewelry is made from non-ferrous metals with the exception of steel jewelry.