Hirschsprung* disease (HD) is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction. Constipation means stool moves through the intestines slower than usual. Without a signal to push stool along, stool will remain in the large intestine. 1  In a healthy large intestine the nerve cells are found throughout the large intestine. 2  Short-segment Hirschsprung disease. 3  Long
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Hirschsprung disease is considered to be curable when performing definitive surgery. However, the postoperative bowel function is not always satisfactory. The long-term postoperative function of bowel evacuation and the quality of life of such patients are considered to be important. 
Hirschsprung disease is a problem in the intestines that keeps stool (feces) from moving forward. Healthy intestines squeeze with a wave-like motion to move stool along the digestive tract. Special nerve cells (ganglion cells) help the intestines make this motion. 
People with Hirschsprung disease have constipation because they lack nerve cells in a part or all of the large intestine. The nerve cells signal muscles in the large intestine to push stool toward the anus. Without a signal to push stool along, stool will remain in the large intestine. 1  In a healthy large intestine the nerve cells are found throughout the large intestine. 2  Short-segment Hirschsprung disease. 3  Long-segment Hirschsprung disease.
Long-segment Hirschsprung disease means most or all of the large intestine, and sometimes the last part of the small intestine, lacks nerve cells. In a person with Hirschsprung disease, stool moves through the large intestine until it reaches the part lacking nerve cells. Without a signal to push stool along, stool will remain in the large intestine. 1  In a healthy large intestine the nerve cells are found throughout the large intestine. 2  Short-segment Hirschsprung disease. 3  Long
Hirschsprung's disease is a birth defect that affects the nerve cells in the large intestine. These nerve cells control the muscles that normally push food and waste through the large intestine. In babies who have Hirschsprung's disease, the muscles in the wall of the large intestine don't relax, which prevents stool from passing. This can lead to trapped stool, infection, pain and swelling, and bowel problems. A doctor may think that a child has the disease based on the child's symptoms and the results of a physical exam. Other tests may be done to confirm the diagnosis, such as: 1  A tissue sample from the rectum (biopsy) . 2  An abdominal X-ray. 3  An X-ray of the large intestine (barium enema) . 4  Anorectal manometry.
Children with Hirschsprung disease need surgery, regular follow-up visits and sometimes other treatment. At Seattle Children’s, our surgeons partner closely with other experts from Reconstructive Pelvic Medicine to provide all the care your child needs. But surgery doesn’t cure Hirschsprung disease. Some children will have bowel problems — like constipation or fecal incontinence (“accidents”) — off and on throughout their lives. Ongoing care from an expert team can help with these problems.
In Hirschsprung's disease, the migration is not complete and part of the colon lacks these nerve bodies that regulate the activity of the colon. The affected segment of the colon cannot relax and pass stool through the colon, creating an obstruction. Typically, Hirschsprung's disease is diagnosed shortly after birth, although it may develop well into adulthood, because of the presence of megacolon, or because the baby fails to pass the first stool (meconium) within 48 hours of delivery.
Hirschsprung's disease or Hirschsprung disease (HD), also called congenital megacolon or congenital aganglionic megacolon, is a form of megacolon that occurs when part or all of the large intestine or antecedent parts of the gastrointestinal tract have no ganglion cells and therefore cannot function. Typically, Hirschsprung's disease is diagnosed shortly after birth, although it may develop well into adulthood, because of the presence of megacolon, or because the baby fails to pass the first stool (meconium) within 48 hours of delivery.
Hirschsprung's disease is a condition that causes a baby to be born with nerve cells in his or her intestines missing. Sometimes the missing nerve cells affect only a small part of the bowel. In other cases, large sections of the nerve cells are missing. Hirschsprung's disease causes 15 to 20% of intestinal obstructions that occur in newborns. Most babies with Hirschsprung's are diagnosed within the first six weeks after birth.