Sweet vermouth is the Italian style, with a slightly sweet, somewhat spicy flavor. Its reddish-brown tint comes from the addition of caramel, and it can range in color from ruby to dark amber. Sweet vermouth is served as an aperitif, or used in such classic mixed drinks as the Manhattan, the Negroni, and the Americano. There are two primary styles of vermouth: sweet (red) and dry (white). Drinks made with half sweet vermouth and half dry vermouth are referred to as “perfect”—a perfect Manhattan, for example. Vermouth can be kept in the refrigerator for up to three months after opening.
Historically, there have been two main types of vermouth, sweet and dry. Resulting from demand and competition, vermouth manufacturers (e.g., Noilly Prat and Cinzano) have created additional styles, including extra-dry white, sweet white (bianco), red, amber (ambre or rosso), and rose. rosé The name vermouth is the French pronunciation of the German word Wermut for wormwood that has been used as an ingredient in the drink over its history. Fortified wines containing wormwood as a principal ingredient existed in Germany around the 16th century.
There are a variety of different styles of Vermouth, including Dry Vermouth, which is a common ingredient in the Martini, and Sweet Vermouth, which is usually red in color thanks to the addition of certain herbs and caramelized sugars. Dolin Sweet Vermouth. Dolin Sweet Vermouth is a subtle, well-balanced vermouth that hails from the French Alps. It's infused with herbs and spices native to the area, giving it a unique flavor that suits a wide variety of cocktails. This vermouth is subtle, mildly bittersweet, and has complex aromatics.
Vermouth is a fortified wine that is aromatized with a variety of herbs and spices. There are a few varieties of vermouth available, the most common are dry vermouth and sweet vermouth. It is a common ingredient in fancier cocktails, including many 'martini' recipes. Sweet Vermouth. (also known as Red Vermouth or Italian Vermouth). Sweet vermouth is just that, sweet. It has a much sweeter profile than other vermouths and can include up to 15% sugar. Sweet vermouth can also have a notable vanilla aroma mixed with bright floral notes.
Sweet vermouths usually contain 10–15% sugar. The sugar content in dry vermouths generally does not exceed 4%. Dry vermouths usually are lighter in body than sweet vermouths. In addition to pale and red vermouths, there exists golden and rose rosé, versions but these are not as internationally. popular The name vermouth is the French pronunciation of the German word Wermut for wormwood that has been used as an ingredient in the drink over its history. Fortified wines containing wormwood as a principal ingredient existed in Germany around the 16th century.
You don t have to mix this type of sweet vermouth with other ingredients to enjoy its flavor. Cinzano Sweet Vermouth is fabulous served with a splash of soda and the optional lemon peel or straight up. Martini & Rossi is a brand known for its dry vermouth, as well as the following two sweet vermouth varieties. Martini & Rossi Bianco first came onto the drinking scene in 1910. While most sweet vermouths are red, this type is considered to be white, although its color is actually that of soft straw. 
There are two primary styles of vermouth: sweet (red) and dry (white). All vermouths are derived from white wines. Sweet vermouth (created in Italy) has a slightly sweet flavor and a reddish brown color from the addition of caramel. Sweet vermouth is is served as an aperitif and used in slightly sweet cocktails. Dry vermouth or French vermouth is also served as an aperitif and is used in dry cocktails, like martinis. Drinks made with half sweet and half dry vermouth are referred t as perfect, as in a perfect Manhattan
Sweet vermouth. Sweet Vermouth is available in white (bianco) as well as red (rosso) colors, although more traditionally red. It is the original type of Vermouth used in popular cocktails such as the Manhatten, as well as a aperitif, and is approx. 15% alcohol content. view recipes with s