Virulent bacteria [edit]. The ability of bacteria to cause disease is described in terms of the number of infecting bacteria, the route of entry into the body, the effects of host defense mechanisms, and intrinsic characteristics of the bacteria called virulence factors. The pathogenicity of an organism-its ability to cause disease-is determined by its virulence factors. The noun virulence derives from the adjective virulent. Virulent can describe either disease severity or a pathogen's infectivity.
The collection of a variety of bacteria on a surface such as a tooth surface because of cell-to-cell recognition of genetically distinct bacterial types. Many of these interactions appear to be mediated by a lectin on one bacterium that interacts with a complementary carbohydrate receptor on another bacterium. 
The typical structure of a bacterial adhesion is that of a fimbria or pili. The bacterial adhesion consists primarily of an intramembranous structural protein which provides a scaffold upon which several extracellular adhesins may be attached. “A large number of bacterial adhesins with individual receptor specificities have been identified.” Many bacterial pathogens are able to express an array of different adhesins. Expression of these adhesins at different phases during infection play the most important role in adhesion based virulence.
Most fimbria of gram-negative bacteria function as adhesins, but in many cases it is a minor subunit protein at the tip of the fimbriae that is the actual adhesin. In gram-positive bacteria, a protein or polysaccharide surface layer serves as the specific adhesin. “A large number of bacterial adhesins with individual receptor specificities have been identified.” Many bacterial pathogens are able to express an array of different adhesins. Expression of these adhesins at different phases during infection play the most important role in adhesion based virulence.
In chemistry and physics, cohesion refers to the sticking together of alike molecules, such as water molecule being attracted to another water molecule. Cohesion also causes water molecules to form drops. Together with adhesion, It helps to explain the occurrence of surface tension and capillary action. In botany, cohesion pertains to the fusion of plant parts, such as in syncarpy. Word origin: From Latin cohaesus, past participle of cohaerēre, to cling together.
During the bacterial lifespan, a bacterium is subjected to frequent shear-forces. In the crudest sense, bacterial adhesins serve as anchors allowing bacteria to overcome these environmental shear forces, thus remaining in their desired environment. “A large number of bacterial adhesins with individual receptor specificities have been identified.” Many bacterial pathogens are able to express an array of different adhesins. Expression of these adhesins at different phases during infection play the most important role in adhesion based virulence.
Adhesion. Definition. noun. (physics, chemistry) The force of attraction between unlike molecules, or the attraction between the surfaces of contacting bodies. (cell biology) The binding of a cell to another cell, or a cell to a surface, via specific cell adhesion molecules. Supplement. Adhesion may refer to the joining of two different substances due to attractive forces that hold them. For instance, cohesion causes water to form drops and adhesion keeps the water drops on the surfaces of leaves and flowers in place.
Specific adherence involves complementary chemical interactions between the host cell or tissue surface and the bacterial surface. In the language of medical microbiologist, a bacterial adhesin attaches covalently to a host receptor so that the bacterium docks itself on the host surface. Proteins that form the outermost cell envelope component of a broad spectrum of bacteria, enabling them to adhere to host cell membranes and environmental surfaces in order to colonize. Glycocalyx. A layer of exopolysaccharide fibers on the surface of bacterial cells which may be involved in adherence to a surface.
In its simplest form, bacterial adherence or attachment to a eucaryotic cell or tissue surface requires the participation of two factors: a receptor and an ligand. The receptors so far defined are usually specific carbohydrate or peptide residues on the eucaryotic cell surface. Proteins that form the outermost cell envelope component of a broad spectrum of bacteria, enabling them to adhere to host cell membranes and environmental surfaces in order to colonize. Glycocalyx. A layer of exopolysaccharide fibers on the surface of bacterial cells which may be involved in adherence to a surface.