The Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) occurs naturally only in southern Texas. It has been introduced in other locations, where it is considered an invasive species that sometimes creates problems through competition with native species, damage to property, and transmission of disease. Muscovy ducks feed on the roots, stems, leaves, and seeds of aquatic and terrestrial plants, including agricultural crops. They also eat small fishes, reptiles, crustaceans, insects, millipedes, and termites. Muscovy ducks live alone or in groups of 4 to 12, rarely in large flocks.
Muscovy Ducks are an invasive bird species common in Southeast Florida. They often form large flocks in urban and suburban settings, in lawns and landscaping, and around lakes and ponds. Wildlife Removal Services-We are a condominium complex located on Snapper Creek Canal in Dadeland, Miami. We have a serious problem with Muscovy ducks-too many of them creating a lot of mess on our property. We want to receive your proposal for trapping and removing these ducks.
Muscovy ducks were intentionally introduced to urban parks and lakes. Muscovy ducks are located in 19 states in the U.S., including Texas. This species is known to occur in all five counties of the Lower Galveston Bay watershed (Brazoria, Chambers, Galveston, Harris, and Liberty) (Johnson 2009). Male Muscovy ducks have a red fleshy outgrowth (caruncle) over their eyes and at the base of the bill. The calling sounds of the Muscovy duck are atypical of most duck species. The male's call is a loud, dry hiss, and the female's is a quiet coo
Feral populations, particularly in Florida, are said to present problems. Feral Muscovy ducks are wary and associate little with other species. Muscovy ducks feed on the roots, stems, leaves, and seeds of aquatic and terrestrial plants, including agricultural crops. They also eat small fishes, reptiles, crustaceans, insects, millipedes, and termites. Muscovy ducks live alone or in groups of 4 to 12, rarely in large flocks.
The Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) is a large duck native to Mexico, Central, and South America. In some regions the name Barbary duck is used for domesticated and Muscovy duck for wild birds; in other places Barbary duck refers specifically to the dressed carcass, while Muscovy duck applies to living C. moschata, regardless of whether they are wild or domesticated.
The Muscovy is a large duck native to South America, Central America, and Mexico. Due to a recent northward expansion of the range of the species, there is a small natural population in three counties in southern Texas in which natural breeding of wild birds has been confirmed. Muscovy ducks feed on the roots, stems, leaves, and seeds of aquatic and terrestrial plants, including agricultural crops. They also eat small fishes, reptiles, crustaceans, insects, millipedes, and termites. Muscovy ducks live alone or in groups of 4 to 12, rarely in large flocks.
Additionally, these ducks may host and pass diseases to native ducks (Johnson 2009). Muscovy ducks are large, with males weighing from 10-15 pounds (lbs) and females weighing 5-10 lbs, with long, flat tails and large claws. They can be solid white or black, or have a mottled appearance. Male Muscovy ducks have a red fleshy outgrowth (caruncle) over their eyes and at the base of the bill. The calling sounds of the Muscovy duck are atypical of most duck species. The male's call is a loud, dry hiss, and the female's is a quiet coo
Species Account: Muscovy Ducks are native to Central and South America, but the feral form in Florida is a heavier bodied, domesticated duck. Domestic birds brought into Florida have escaped or been released and subsequently formed feral populations in close association with humans. Muscovy Ducks can be a nuisance to landowners because of their droppings and aggressive behavior. For information about how to handle problems visit our nuisance muscovies website. They feed on aquatic plants, grasses, seeds, insects (Johnsgard 1978), and human handouts.
Feral Muscovy ducks are found in New Zealand, Australia, and in parts of Europe. They are a large duck, with the males about 76 cm (30 in) long, and weighing up to 7 kg (15 lb). Females are considerably smaller, and only grow to 3 kg (6.6 lb), roughly half the males' size. In some regions the name Barbary duck is used for domesticated and Muscovy duck for wild birds; in other places Barbary duck refers specifically to the dressed carcass, while Muscovy duck applies to living C. moschata, regardless of whether they are wild or domesticated.
Muscovy ducks have been introduced into urban and suburban areas in Florida where they often occur in high densities. These birds were illegally released primarily by private individuals for ornamental purposes or as pets. For more information on the prohibition of releasing or relocating muscovy ducks, please see the Federal Control Order below (50 CFR 21.25 (b)(8)(i) and 50 CFR 21.54, paragraph c).