Because continental crust is less dense than oceanic crust it floats higher on the mantle, just like a piece of Styrofoam floats higher on water than a piece of wood does. The mantle, oceanic crust and continental crust have different densities because they are made of different kinds of rock with different densities. Layers that are less dense, such as the crust, float on layers that are denser, such as the mantle. Both oceanic crust and continental crust are less dense than the mantle, but oceanic crust is denser than continental crust. This is partly why the continents are at a higher elevation than the ocean floor
Oceanic crust is mostly basaltic, which is denser, while continental crust is made from mostly basaltic and sedimentary rocks, which are less dense. This difference in density … is why the oceanic crust sinks lower and the continental crust rides higher on the mantle. Continental crust underlies the continents and is mainly composed of granite rock. Average thickness is about 35 km. Oceanic crust underlies the oceans and is mainly compos … ed of Basalt rock. Average thickness is about 7 km.
Because continental crust is less dense than oceanic crust it floats higher on the mantle, just like a piece of Styrofoam floats higher on water than a piece of wood does. The mantle, oceanic crust and continental crust have different densities because they are made of different kinds of rock with different densities. 
;) Well, I'll try to be: 1. Continents are made up mostly of intrusive or plutonic granitic rocks, oceanic crust of extrusive or volcanic basaltic rocks. Example: compare some Himalayan rock with a hardened lava fragment from Mauna Loa in Hawaii. 2. 2. Continental rocks are lighter and of greater volume-they therefore protrude above the oceanic crust, if you dig very deep down they also have deeper roots. The oceanic crust is denser but thinner.
1.The oceanic crust is made up of basalt while the continental crust is made up of granite. 2.The oceanic crust is thinner while the continental crust is much thicker. 3.The oceanic crust is denser than the continental crust. 4.The continental crust has greater buoyancy than the oceanic crust. 5.Recycling is present in the oceanic crust while this procedure is absent in the continental crust.
The density of the oceanic crust is about 3.0 g/cm3. The continental crust has a lower density. This difference in the average densities allows many natural phenomenon to occur on and below the surface of the Earth. The oceanic crust scarcely floats on the mantle. The oceanic crust undergoes a peculiar phenomenon. 2.The oceanic crust is thinner while the continental crust is much thicker. 3.The oceanic crust is denser than the continental crust. 4.The continental crust has greater buoyancy than the oceanic crust. 5.Recycling is present in the oceanic crust while this procedure is absent i
Oceanic crust is mostly basaltic, which is denser, while continental crust is made from mostly basaltic and sedimentary rocks, which are less dense. This difference in density … is why the oceanic crust sinks lower (thus the oceans) and the continental crust rides higher (thus the continents) on the mantle. Oceanic crust is mostly basaltic, which is denser, while continental crust is made from mostly basaltic and sedimentary rocks, which are less dense. This difference in density … is why the oceanic crust sinks lower and the continental crust rides higher on the mantle.
Continental crust is also less dense than oceanic crust, whose density is about 2.9 g/cm 3. Continental crust is considerably thicker than oceanic crust, mostly 25 to 70 km versus the average thickness of the oceanic crust of around 7–10 km. About 40% of Earth's surface is now overlaid by continental crust. Continental crust makes up about 70% of the volume of Earth's crust