Celtic name. In Celtic, the name Kane means-Warrior. Intelligent. Popular as a first name in Australia.. Other origins for the name Kane include-Celtic, Irish, Japanese, Irish, Welsh, French, Gaelic.The name Kane is most often used as a boy name or male name. Celtic Name Meaning
Kane is an unusual first name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#636 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Kane for boys. Kane was first listed in 1993 and reached its peak rank of #436 in the U.S. in 2008, and is presently at #477. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of Kane and affiliated names. Cain (#727 in 2014) is the only other popular related form of Kane (#477 in 2014) . Adoption of these boy names is at its most widespread presently (usage of 0.398%). Cain (#727) and Kane (#477) are two of the more chic birth names here.
Kane's origin is Welsh. Here, the meaning is beautiful. Kane is of French origin. Meaning: from Caen. The first name has sometimes been derived from the surname, which is itself from the name of the northwestern French town Caen. Kane is of Hawaiian origin. Meaning: man, the eastern sky. Kane is used chiefly in the English language and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name's meaning is little battle. The name can be of multiple origins, but the Old Irish derivation is most common. The name was first adopted in the mid -20th century, and it has been popular in Australia
Recorded as Kain, Kane, Kann, and Kayne, this interesting surname is regarded as English, but has several possible origins. Firstly, it may be of Old French origin, either a nickname for a tall, thin man, as some fifteen percent of all surnames are known to come from a nickname source. 
Meaning of Kane. Japanese name. In Japanese, the name Kane means-Putting together; money. Surname.. Other origins for the name Kane include-Japanese, Irish, Celtic, Irish, Welsh, French, Gaelic.The name Kane is most often used as a boy name or male name. Japanese Name Meaning-Putting together; money. Surname.
The name Kane is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kane is: Fighter. American Meaning: The name Kane is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kane is: Fighter. Gaelic Meaning: The name Kane is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kane is: Tribute. Celtic Meaning: The name Kane is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Kane is: Warrior. Intelligent. Popular as a first name in Australia. French Meaning: The name Kane is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Kane is: Field of combat. From the place name 'Caen'. Popular as a first name in Australia.
Kane /kane/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced kayn. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kane is battle. Anglicized form of Cath n, derived from cath. Kane (kah-NAY) is also a Japanese surname meaning putting together; money. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of Kane and affiliated names. Cain (#727 in 2014) is the only other popular related form of Kane (#477 in 2014) . Adoption of these boy names is at its most widespread presently (usage of 0.398%). Cain (#727) and Kane (#477) are two of the more chic birth names here.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kane. Kane is the transferred use of an English surname derived from an old Irish personal name Cathan cathán from The “gaelic” cath “meaning battle plus the diminutive “-suffix” an “án meaning”. Little Battler’The (O’Cathains) catháins o kanes Were a prominent Ulster. sept in ireland Etymology & Historical Origin-Kane. Kane is the transferred use of an English surname derived from an old Irish personal name Cathan cathán from The “gaelic” cath “meaning battle plus the diminutive “-suffix” an “án meaning”. little battler