Air Canada rouge, Air Canada’s leisure airline, operates flights to select vacation destinations in the U.S., the Caribbean, Central America and Europe from Toronto and Montreal. Earn MileagePlus miles on all qualifying Air Canada flights, as noted in the charts below.
You can use your miles for a one-class upgrade for a purchased ticket on most Delta-operated flights and certain Air France/KLM-operated flights. Mileage Upgrade Awards do not apply on all fares. All Awards are subject to availability, and additional taxes and fees may apply.
United Airlines does fly its own planes directly from the US to Montreal, but since Air Canada is a Star Alliance partner of United, you can also use your United miles to fly on Air Canada. For example, United Airlines doesn’t fly from Los Angeles to Montreal.
Star Alliance Upgrade Awards can be booked for most flights* marketed and operated by Air Canada or Air Canada Express (operated by Jazz only) provided you've purchased a Latitude (booking classes Y or B) or Premium Economy (booking class O) fare. *Exceptions:
2. United Airlines does fly its own planes directly from the US to Montreal, but since Air Canada is a Star Alliance partner of United, you can also use your United miles to fly on Air Canada. For example, United Airlines doesn’t fly from Los Angeles to Montreal.
Air Canada. Air Canada is Canada's largest airline with hubs in Calgary, Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver. Air Canada and its regional affiliate Jazz provide scheduled service to more than 150 destinations on five continents, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America and South America.
The MileagePlus program offers a wide variety of options for booking air travel, upgrading to a premium cabin and adding miles to your account. You can even use your miles to fly or upgrade with Star Alliance TM and other airline partners.
Now that Air Canada is participating in Star Alliance Upgrade Awards, you can use the miles you've earned with participating Star Alliance frequent flyer programs to upgrade to our Business Class International or Business Class cabins on eligible Air Canada and Air Canada Express (operated by Jazz only) flights.
Downgrades on e-Upgrades. I’m finding Air Canada’s e-Upgrades less and less useful. With Air Canada elite status you get a certain number of ‘e-Upgrade” credits which you can use to upgrade flights from economy to business class. Of course, there are only so many seats in business, so the upgrade is far from guaranteed.