From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bacillus cereus is an endemic, soil-dwelling, Gram-positive, rod-shaped, motile, beta hemolytic bacterium. Some strains are harmful to humans and cause foodborne illness, while other strains can be beneficial as probiotics for animals. It is the cause of  fried rice syndrome, as the bacteria are classically contracted from fried rice dishes that have been sitting at room temperature for hours (such as at a buffet). B. cereus bacteria are facultative anaerobes, and like other members of the genus Bacillus, can produce protective endospores
Bacillus cereus. This type of bacterium is responsible for food poisoning although it has a positive effect in the form of a probiotic food additive for animals. Bacillus cereus or B. cereus for short causes food poisoning as a result of improperly prepared and stored food. This allows these bacteria to multiply and produce ‘enterotoxins’ which are the direct cause of this illnes
B. cereus is a also found in the gut microflora of invertebrates, and is an intestinal symbiont of arthropods where it exhibits filamentous growth in sow bugs, roaches, and termites [22]. Arthropods consume feces or soil with spores or cells of B. cereus. Genes present within the chromosome associated with B. cereus virulence include genes encoding for non-hemolytic enterotoxins, channel-forming type III hemolysins, phospholipase C, a perfringolysin O (listeriolysin O), and extracellular proteases [6].
Bacillus cereus and other Bacillus spp. Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, facultatively aerobic sporeformer whose cells are large rods and whose spores do not swell the sporangium. 
In addition, Bacillus cereus is an opportunistic human pathogen and is occasionally associated with infections, causing periodontal diseases and other more serious infections [5]. Immunocompromised patients are susceptible to bacteremia, endocarditis, meningitis, pneumonia, and endophthalmitis [6]. Genes present within the chromosome associated with B. cereus virulence include genes encoding for non-hemolytic enterotoxins, channel-forming type III hemolysins, phospholipase C, a perfringolysin O (listeriolysin O), and extracellular proteases [6].
Bacillus cereus is an aerobic spore-forming bacterium that is commonly found in soil, on vegetables, and in many raw and processed foods. B. cereus food poisoning may occur when foods are prepared and held without adequate refrigeration for several hours before serving, with B. cereus 6 cells/g. Foods incriminated in past outbreaks include cooked meat and vegetables, boiled or fried rice, vanilla sauce, custards, soups, and raw vegetable sprouts. Two types of illness have been attributed to the consumption of foods contaminated with B. cereus.
Bacillus cereus is a 1 x 3-4 µm, rod shaped, Gram-positive bacterium. Its cell structure consists of an inner membrane and a thick peptidoglycan which functions to maintain cell shape [10]. Genes present within the chromosome associated with B. cereus virulence include genes encoding for non-hemolytic enterotoxins, channel-forming type III hemolysins, phospholipase C, a perfringolysin O (listeriolysin O), and extracellular proteases [6].
Bacillus cereus type II food poisoning: Introduction. Bacillus cereus type II food poisoning: Bacillus cereus is a bacterium that can cause food poisoning symptoms such as vomiting and diarrhea. There are two types: Type I causes mainly vomiting and is associated with fried rice whereas type II causes mainly diarrhea and is associated with meats, cereals, vegetables and milk. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Bacillus cereus type II food poisoning is available below.
SYNONYM OR CROSS REFERENCE: Bacillus cereus food-poisoning. CHARACTERISTICS: 1.4 µm gram-positive rods, usually appear as pairs and short chains. B. cereus are facultative anaerobes that are motile and able to form endospores, have colonial morphology of about 2-7 mm in diameter, and have a white granular texture. 
Introduction. Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, aerobic-to-facultative,spore-forming rod widely distributed environmentally and bearinga close phenotypic and genetic (16S rRNA) relationships to several other Bacillus species, especially B. anthracis. B. cereus may be the most common aerobic spore bearer in manytypes of soil and in sediments, dust, and plants. B. cereus is also frequently present in food production environments dueto the adhesive nature of its endospores.