Certain breeds of cattle, such as the Holstein-Friesian, are used to produce milk, which can be processed into dairy products such as milk, cheese or yogurt. Dairy cattle are usually kept on specialized dairy farms designed for milk production. 
Holstein cows produce more pounds of milk than any of the other dairy breeds, with the average Holstein producing around 23,000 pounds of milk, or 2,674 gallons, of milk each lactation, which averages out to about 75 pounds, or almost 9 gallons of milk per cow per day. Holstein cattle are the most prominent of the seven major dairy breeds in the United States, easily recognizable by their distinctive black and white markings. Cows of Holstein descent make up over 90% of the cows on U.S. dairy farms.
Holstein Friesians (often shortened as Friesians in Europe, and Holsteins in North America) are a breed of cattle known today as the world's highest-production dairy animals. Breeders imported specialized dairy Holsteins from the United States to cross with the European black and whites. For this reason, in modern usage, Holstein is used to describe North or South American stock and its use in Europe, particularly in the North. Friesian denotes animals of a traditional European ancestry, bred for both dairy and beef use. Crosses between the two are described by the term Holstein-Friesian
Holstein heifers can be bred at 13 months of age, when they weigh about 800 pounds. It is desirable to have Holstein females calve for the first time between 23 and 26 months of age. Physical Characteristics. Holsteins are large, stylish animals with color patterns of black and white or red and white. A healthy Holstein calf weighs 90 pounds or more at birth. A mature Holstein cow weighs about 1,500 pounds and stands 58 inches tall at the shoulder.
Holstein cattle are most quickly recognized by their distinctive color markings and outstanding milk production. Physical Characteristics. Holsteins are large, stylish animals with color patterns of black and white or red and white. A healthy Holstein calf weighs 90 pounds or more at birth. A mature Holstein cow weighs about 1,500 pounds and stands 58 inches tall at the shoulder.
Originally, this breed was known as Holstein-Friesians but is now known more simply as Holsteins. Friesian cattle still exist today but are separate from the Holstein breed. There are Friesian breeds from the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Holland and these animals tend to be smaller bodied than Holstein cattle. The Holstein breed is known for high milk production but has less butterfat and protein based on percentage in the milk, compared other breeds. Holstein cows originated in the Netherlands approximately 2,000 years ago.
1 Holstein cows give more milk than any other dairy breed in the U.S. The average Holstein cow produces around 23,000 pounds of milk, or 2,674 gallons, of milk each lactation. 2  With a standard lactation lasting 305 days, that comes out to 75 pounds, or almost 9 gallons of milk per cow per day. Holstein cattle are the most prominent of the seven major dairy breeds in the United States, easily recognizable by their distinctive black and white markings. Cows of Holstein descent make up over 90% of the cows on U.S. dairy farms.
In 1885, Holstein breeders formed the Holstein-Friesian Association of America, today known as Holstein Association USA, Inc. Holstein dairy farmers use the association’s identification, performance, genetic, management and marketing services to improve the profitability of their dairy herds. 
CLASS A is for a typical representative of the Holstein or Friesian breed, as to type, size and constitution, with no obvious signs of crossbreeding, or be proved from its breeding records to contain between 50% and 74.9% Holstein genes or Friesian genes. Breeders imported specialized dairy Holsteins from the United States to cross with the European black and whites. For this reason, in modern usage, Holstein is used to describe North or South American stock and its use in Europe, particularly in the North. Friesian denotes animals of a traditional European ancestry, bred for both dairy and beef use. Crosses between the two are described by the term Holstein-Friesian