bridge. 1. a fixed partial denture; see illustration. A bridge unit serves to restore a functional unit by replacing one or more missing teeth. A fixed bridge consists of abutment and pontic teeth splinted together. flush bridge The bridge of a spectacle frame with zero projection. inset bridge A spectacle frame so shaped that the bearing surface of the bridge is behind the plane of the lenses. keyhole bridge Bridge of a spectacle frame with pads, looking like the outline of the upper part of a keyhole.
bridging hepatic fibrosis. Definitions: 1. area of liver fibrosis that bridges adjacent portal areas to central veins due to excess deposition of collagen determined by microscopic review of liver tissue sample. The definition information for bridging hepatic fibrosis is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
bridging. Etymology: AS, brycg. 1 a nursing technique of positioning a patient so that bony prominences are free of pressure on the mattress by using pads, bolsters of foam rubber, or pillows to distribute body weight over a larger surface. Traumatology. The spanning of breaks in the skin by blood vessels, seen after a blunt object strikes tightened skin, rupturing the epidermis and dermis while blood vessels—being more mobile—remain intact, thereby “bridging” the gap.
Medical Definition of CROSSBRIDGE. : the globular head of a myosin molecule that projects from a myosin filament in muscle and in the sliding filament hypothesis of muscle contraction is held to attach temporarily to an adjacent actin filament and draw it into the A band of a sarcomere between the myosin filaments.
Myocardial bridge: Literally a bridging of heart muscle over one of the major arteries to the heart (usually the left anterior descending artery). The heart has formed in this abnormal design from birth, whereby the artery is actually 'tunneled' through a part of the heart muscle. 
Bridges may be fixed or removable. A fixed bridge (a partial denture) is a prosthetic replacement of one or more missing teeth; it is cemented (or otherwise attached) to the neighboring teeth or may be implanted in the space. Bridge: A set of one or more false teeth supported by a metal framework, used to replace one or more missing teeth.
bridging. Cardiology A term for the systolic narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery seen by angiography as an isolated finding during cardiac catheterization or in Pts with CAD, left ventricular hypertrophy or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Traumatology. The spanning of breaks in the skin by blood vessels, seen after a blunt object strikes tightened skin, rupturing the epidermis and dermis while blood vessels—being more mobile—remain intact, thereby “bridging” the gap.
1. An anatomical structure resembling a bridge or span. 2. The upper part of the ridge of the nose formed by the nasal bones. 3. A fixed or removable replacement for one or several but not all of the natural teeth, usually anchored at each end to a natural tooth. flush bridge The bridge of a spectacle frame with zero projection. inset bridge A spectacle frame so shaped that the bearing surface of the bridge is behind the plane of the lenses. keyhole bridge Bridge of a spectacle frame with pads, looking like the outline of the upper part of a keyhole.