Most mercury is chemically bound to other materials in the form of ores. The most common ore is red mercury sulfide (HgS), also known as cinnabar. Other mercury ores include corderoite (Hg 3 S 2 Cl 2), livingstonite (HgSb 4 S 8), montroydite (HgO), and calomel (HgCl). There are several other
Occurrence and extraction of Hg from Cinnabar. Mercury is extracted from the ore cinnabar, HgS. Traditionally the ore was heated in a wood fire and the mercury was collected from the ashes. However, modern methods are much more efficient. The cinnabar is crushed and separated, and then it is heated with a stream of ai
6. In a method of extracting mercury from cinnabar ore, the steps which consist in finely pulverizing cinnabar ore, reacting upon it with a sulphide of barium and a sulphhydrate in the presence of water, and then reacting upon the double water soluble sulphide of mercury formed with an acid to produce mercuric sulphide. 8. In a method of extracting mercury from cinnabar ore, the step which consists in reacting upon the finely divided ore with a sulphide of barium and sulphhydrate of sodium in the presence of water, thereby causing the formation of a double water soluble sulphide of mercury. Signed by me, this 5th day of March, 1926.
Extraction. Mercury is extracted from cinnabar by a simple process of heating and collecting the vapors. In conventional factories, the rock is ground up into a fine powder, which is then heated. The sulfur in cinnabar reacts with the oxygen in the air forming sulfur dioxide
As the most common source of mercury in nature, cinnabar has been mined for centuries, even as far back as the Neolithic Age. During the Roman Empire it was mined both as a pigment, and for its mercury content. To produce liquid mercury (quicksilver), crushed cinnabar ore is roasted in rotary furnaces. Pure mercury separates from sulfur in this process and easily evaporates. A condensing column is used to collect the liquid metal, which is most often shipped in iron flasks. 
Mercury can be obtained from cinnabar by heating the cinnabar ore in a current of air and condensing the mercury vapour formed. Due to its relatively low boiling point mercury can be easily purified by vacuum distillation. The reaction of mercury sulphide with oxygen is shown below: This ore is bright red in colour and small droplets of mercury metal can sometimes be found within the ore itself. The main areas for cinnabar mining are in Italy and Spain which provide 50% of the worlds mercury.
Most mercury forms in a sulfide ore called cinnabar, but mercury is also frequently found in small amounts in other ores. A common method for separating mercury from cinnabar is to crush the ore and then heat it in a furnace in order to vaporize the mercury. This vapor is then condensed into liquid mercury form. 
The process for extracting mercury from its ores has not changed much since Aristotle first described it over 2,300 years ago. Cinnabar ore is crushed and heated to release the mercury as a vapor. The mercury vapor is then cooled, condensed, and collected. The most common ore is red mercury sulfide (HgS), also known as cinnabar. Other mercury ores include corderoite (Hg 3 S 2 Cl 2), livingstonite (HgSb 4 S 8), montroydite (HgO), and calomel (HgCl).