1 is a neutral oxide which burns in air to give carbon dioxide, 2  is a good reducing agent, and is used for that purpose in industry, 3  and, is an important industrial gas, which is widely used as a fuel. 4  It is also an important reducing agent in the chemical industry. 1 Relative density: 1.25. 2  is a flammable and highly toxic gas, 3  is a neutral oxide which burns in air to give carbon dioxide, 4  is a good reducing agent, and is used for that purpose in industry, 5
Learn more about carbon uses, the carbon atom, carbon properties, hydrocarbons, carbon structure, carbon fiber, carbon monoxide, your carbon footprint and other amazing carbon facts. Carbon is a chemical element with the symbol C and atomic number 6. The word carbon comes from the Latin word carbo, meaning coal. Carbon monoxide (CO) is very toxic to both humans and animals. It forms in conditions when there is not enough oxygen to form carbon dioxide (CO 2). In many countries around the world, carbon monoxide poisoning is the most common kind of fatal poisoning.
Carbon monoxide is colorless, odorless, and tasteless, but highly toxic. It combines with hemoglobin to produce carboxyhemoglobin, which usurps the space in hemoglobin that normally carries oxygen, but is ineffective for delivering oxygen to bodily tissues. Worldwide, the largest source of carbon monoxide is natural in origin, due to photochemical reactions in the troposphere that generate about 5 × 10 kilograms per year. Other natural sources of CO include volcanoes, forest fires, and other forms of combustion.
Carbon dioxide (chemical formula CO2) is a colorless, odorless gas vital to life on Earth. This naturally occurring chemical compound is composed of a carbon atom covalently double bonded to two oxygen atoms. 
The chemical formula is CO. When we breathe carbon monoxide the oxygen combines with hemoglobin and creates carboxyhemoglobin. When the red blood cells containing this carboxyhemoglobin reach the lungs, they cannot release the carbon (which should be carbon dioxide) and collect fresh oxygen. Carbon dioxide is made up of 1 carbon atom and 2 oxygen atoms. Carbon monoxide is made up of 1 carbon atom and 1 oxygen atom. Carbon monoxide is flammable whereas carbon dio … xide is used to extinguish fires.
1 The chemical properties of carbon monoxide are that it. 2  Melting Point : -199 degC. 3  Boiling Point : -91.5 degC. 4  Relative density: 1.25. 5  is a flammable and highly toxic gas, 6  is a neutral oxide which burns in air to give carbon dioxide, 7  is a good reducing agent, and is used for that purpose in industry, 1 Relative density: 1.25. 2  is a flammable and highly toxic gas, 3  is a neutral oxide which burns in air to give carbon dioxide, 4  is a good reducing agent, and is used for that purpose in industry, 5  and, is an important industrial gas, which is widely used as a fuel.
Carbon Monoxide is a gas formed from carbon and oxygen. It has the  formula CO. Carbon dioxide another gas formed from carbon and  oxygen, has the formula CO 2.   A gas, … the molecules of which are made up of one carbon atom bonded  with one oxygen atom. Carbon monoxide gas is clear, odorless and  lethal when inhaled in LOW concentration. Carbon dioxide is made up of 1 carbon atom and 2 oxygen atoms. Carbon monoxide is made up of 1 carbon atom and 1 oxygen atom. Carbon monoxide is flammable whereas carbon dio … xide is used to extinguish fires.
Carbon monoxide consists of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, connected by a triple bond that consists of two covalent bonds as well as one dative covalent bond. It is the simplest oxocarbon and is isoelectronic with the cyanide anion, the nitrosonium cation and molecular nitrogen. Worldwide, the largest source of carbon monoxide is natural in origin, due to photochemical reactions in the troposphere that generate about 5 × 10 kilograms per year. Other natural sources of CO include volcanoes, forest fires, and other forms of combustion.
Summary: Carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide are both colorless and odorless gases. Carbon monoxide has a molecular formula of CO while carbon dioxide is CO2. Carbon monoxide is composed of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom while carbon dioxide is composed of one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms. If carbon dioxide is produced by plants and the combustion of organic materials, carbon monoxide is formed by the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels such as gas, coal, oil, and wood used in engines, gas fires, open fires, water heaters, and solid fuel appliances such as wood stoves.
Carbon monoxide has CO as its chemical formula, and it has a single carbon atom triple bonded to a single oxygen atom. The carbon symbol is C and the oxygen symbol is O. The m … ono-prefix indicates one or single. Carbon dioxide is made up of 1 carbon atom and 2 oxygen atoms. Carbon monoxide is made up of 1 carbon atom and 1 oxygen atom. Carbon monoxide is flammable whereas carbon dio … xide is used to extinguish fires.