Richard Nixon, the 37th President of the US, resigned due to his involvement in the Watergate incident and his impending impeachment. He was succeeded on August 9, 1974 by Gerald Rudolph Ford Jr. Richard M. Nixon is the only US President to have resigned from office. Hew was replaced by his VP, Gerald R. Ford. Ford is the only person to have been VP and President, not … elected to either office. 2 people found this useful.
Two U.S. vice presidents have resigned from office. John Calhoun resigned in a policy dispute with the president, and Spiro Agnew resigned after it was discovered he’d been taking bribes. Spiro Theodore Agnew was the 39th Vice President of the United States, serving under President Richard Nixon. Agnew was under investigation by the United States Attorney’s office on charges of extortion, tax fraud, bribery and conspiracy in 1973, and he was formally charged with having accepted bribes totaling more than $100,000. Agnew is the only U.S. Vice President in history to resign because of criminal charges.
Richard Nixon was elected the 37th President of the United States (1969-1974) after previously serving as a U.S. Representative and a U.S. Senator from California. Nixon denied any personal involvement, but the courts forced him to yield tape recordings which indicated that he had, in fact, tried to divert the investigation. As a result of unrelated scandals in Maryland, Vice President Spiro T. Agnew resigned in 1973.
Richard Nixon, the 37th President of the US, resigned due to his involvement in the Watergate incident and his impending impeachment. He was succeeded on August 9, 1974 by Ger … ald Rudolph Ford Jr. The impeachment charges grew from illegal   acts during and after his reelection campaign in 1972. Richard Nixon (37th President, 1969-1974) was the only President to date to resign from office. He did so because of pending impeachment proceedings against him, following Con … gressional hearings on criminal acts by the administration
Richard Milhous Nixon, 37th President of the United States, is the first and only president to resign the office. Nixon resigned on August 9, 1974, facing almost certain impea … chment and likely conviction. His resignation was the culmination of the so-called Watergate scandal. Richard Nixon (37th President, 1969-1974) was the only President to date to resign from office. He did so because of pending impeachment proceedings against him, following Con … gressional hearings on criminal acts by the administration
Less than a year before Richard M. Nixon’s resignation as president of the United States, Spiro Agnew becomes the first U.S. vice president to resign in disgrace. The same day, he pleaded no contest to a charge of federal income tax evasion in exchange for the dropping of charges of political corruption. A+E Networks. 
AP File Photo. Richard Milhous Nixon announced last night that he will resign as the 37th President of the United States at noon today. Vice President Gerald R. Ford of Michigan will take the oath as the new President at noon to complete the remaining 2 1/2 years of Mr. Nixon's term. 
Richard Milhous Nixon (January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994) was the 37th President of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974 when he became the only U.S. president to resign the office. 
WASHINGTON. BREAKING NEWS *** President Barack Obama has resigned the Presidency of the United States! President Barack Obama has shocked the nation! He called the White House Staff into the Oval Office and announced that he is going to resign as President of the United States. He has conceded the election to Mitt Romney.