In Spain, the stopgap to late-night dinners is bar snacks like patatas bravas, crisp potatoes blanketed in mayonnaise and a thick spicy tomato sauce. Fry tomato mixture, stirring occasionally, until slightly reduced, about 5 minutes; set bravas sauce aside. Heat 2 canola oil in a 6-qt. saucepan until a deep-fry thermometer reads 220°. Add potatoes all at once to oil; cook until tender and pale golden, 35–40 minutes.
In a saucepan, heat 3 tablespoons olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and saute sauté until the onion is. Soft turn off the, heat and add the, Paprika tabasco, sauce and, thyme stirring. Well transfer to a bowl and add the ketchup and. mayonnaise In a saucepan, heat 3 tablespoons olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and saute sauté until the onion is. Soft turn off the, heat and add the, Paprika tabasco, sauce and, thyme stirring. well
[paˈtataz ˈβɾaβas]), also called patatas a la brava or papas bravas, is a dish native to Spain, often served as a tapa in bars. It typically consists of white potatoes that have been cut into irregular shapes of about 2 centimeters, then fried in oil and served warm with a sauce such as a spicy tomato sauce or an aioli. 
In Spain, the stopgap to late-night dinners is bar snacks like patatas bravas, crisp potatoes blanketed in mayonnaise and a thick spicy tomato sauce; the atmospheric Bar Mut in Barcelona serves this exemplary version. Fry tomato mixture, stirring occasionally, until slightly reduced, about 5 minutes; set bravas sauce aside. Heat 2 canola oil in a 6-qt. saucepan until a deep-fry thermometer reads 220°. Add potatoes all at once to oil; cook until tender and pale golden, 35–40 minutes.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Place a baking sheet in the oven. Heat a tablespoon of oil in a small saute pan over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and cook until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the paprika and cook for 30 seconds. Let cool slightly. Combine the onion mixture, mayonnaise, tomato, hot pepper sauce, and vinegar in a food processor and process until smooth, season with salt and pepper. 
1 Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. 2  Cook and stir onion with 1 teaspoon salt in the hot oil until onion has softened, 3 to 4 minutes. 3  Add garlic, chile, and smoked paprika; simmer for 1 to 2 minutes. 4  Stir in tomatoes and return to a simmer. 1 Drain on paper towels. 2  Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. 3  Cook and stir onion with 1 teaspoon salt in the hot oil until onion has softened, 3 to 4 minutes. 4  Add garlic, chile, and smoked paprika; simmer for 1 to 2 minutes. 5  Stir in tomatoes and return to a simmer.
Patatas bravas is one of the most common Spanish tapas that you will find if you decide to visit Spain. They are sold in nearly every bar and are a great dish to share between friends and family, or even classmates from a Spanish language school. Patatas bravas are originally from Madrid, where it was created and patented. Potatoes are cut in irregular chunks of approximately 2 cm, fried and dressed in a spicy tomato sauce that is poured over the them and served very hot.
Preparation. Heat 2 Tbsp. olive oil in a small saucepan over medium heat. Add onion and garlic and cook, stirring often, until translucent, about 8 minutes. Add bay leaf and next 3 ingredients and cook, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes. Stir in 1 1/2 cups water and bring to a boil, whisking constantly. Reduce heat to low and simmer until flavors meld, about 10 minutes.
1 For the sauce: heat the oil in a pan, add the onion and stir-fry for 5 minutes until softened. 2  Add the garlic, tomatoes, tomato sauce, paprika, chilli powder, spices, sugar and salt (as needed) and bring to the boil, stirring. 3  Simmer for 10 minutes until pulpy. 4  Let it cool for a bit and blend it to a puree. Directions. 1 