The single flowers of the Carnations species, Dianthus caryophyllus have 5 petals and vary from white to pink to purple in color. Border Carnation cultivars may have double flowers with as many as 40 petals. When grown in gardens, Carnations grow to between 6 and 8.5 cm in diameter. Carnations are also commonly referred to by their scientific name,  Dianthus , the name given by the Greek botanist Theopharastus. Carnations got the name Dianthus from two Greek Words - dios, referring to the god Zeus, and anthos, meaning flower. Carnations are thus known as the . The Flowers of God 
The color of the carnation’s flowers can be green, blue, purple, red, white and yellow. It is possible to turn carnations any color you wish by adding dye to the water you give white carnations. Carnations come in three main types, These include: 1  Large flowered carnations that grows with one big flower on every stem. The scientific name of the carnation flower is “Dianthus, which is what florists and biologists in the scientific community commonly refer to them as.
Carnation flowers are one of the more beautiful flowers used by florists when creating arrangements like boutonnieres, corsages and bouquets. Carnation flowers can be red, pink, white, purple, green and more. The popularity of the carnation is largely due to their beauty, but also because they are long lasting. The scientific name of the carnation flower is “Dianthus, which is what florists and biologists in the scientific community commonly refer to them as.
Carnations are easy to grow. Carnations grow 18 to 24 tall, and produce a spicy clove-like fragrance. There are over 300 species of Carnations, and hundreds more of hybrid varieties. Though each hybrid comes in a different color, white, pink and red are the most common ones. Carnations come as annual, biennial and perennial varieties. 
Dianthus caryophyllus, carnation or clove pink, is a species of Dianthus. It is probably native to the Mediterranean region but its exact range is unknown due to extensive cultivation for the last 2,000 years. It is a herbaceous perennial plant growing to 80 cm tall. Although originally applied to the species Dianthus caryophyllus, the name Carnation is also often applied to some of the other species of Dianthus, and more particularly to garden hybrids between D. caryophyllus and other species in the genus.
Dianthus is a genus of about 300 species of flowering plants in the family Caryophyllaceae, native mainly to Europe and Asia, with a few species extending south to north Africa, and one species (D. repens) in arctic North America. Cultivation [edit]. Dianthus species have been extensively bred and hybridised to produce many thousands of cultivars for garden use and floristry, in all shades of white, pink, yellow and red, with a huge variety of flower shapes and markings. They are often divided into the following main groups:-
The Carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) is a flowering plant native to the Near East and has been cultivated for the last 2,000 years. Its original natural flower colour was pinkish-hued, but later, cultivars of other colours, including red, white, yellow and greenish, have been developed. Although originally applied to the species Dianthus caryophyllus, the name Carnation is also often applied to some of the other species of Dianthus, and more particularly to garden hybrids between D. caryophyllus and other species in the genus.