The word tropism, from the Greek tropos, or turn, describes the turning or directional growth of an organism. It most frequently describes the directed growth of plants. This directional growth is controlled at a distance from the bending tissue using plant hormones. In plants, a tropism refers to the growth of a plant in response to an external stimulus. Plants can grow either towards or away from stimuli. The curving of plants is frequently due to differential growth, where different sides of a stem or root grow at different rates.
A tropism (from Greek τροπή, trope, a turning) is a biological phenomenon, indicating growth or turning movement of a biological organism, usually a plant, in response … to an environmental stimulus. Growth towards the stimulus is called a positive tropism. Growth away … from the stimulus is called a negative tropism.   The response to light is called phototropism. Shoots are positively phototropic, roots are negatively phototropic.   The response to gravity is called gravitropism (or sometimes geotropism).
1 Tropism – growth in response to a stimulus. 2  Positive tropism – towards the stimulus. 3  Negative tropism – away from the stimulus. 4  Phototropism – growth in response to the direction of light. Positive phototropism in plant stems. 1 
There are different types of tropisms: Positive phototropism in plant stems. 1  Tropism – growth in response to a stimulus. 2  Positive tropism – towards the stimulus. 3  Negative tropism – away from the stimulus. 4  Phototropism – growth in response to the direction of light.
Tropism is a developmental abnormality of the facet joint facing or orientation, making it a condition that can cause you stress and pain. So if you notice pain on one side of your low back when you twist the wrong way or bend to pick something up, tropism may be your condition. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2012). Phycomyces, a fungus, exhibiting phototropism. A tropism (from Greek τρόπος, tropos, a turning) is a biological phenomenon, indicating growth or turning movement of a biological organism, usually a plant, in response to an environmental stimulus. In English, the word tropism is used to indicate an action done without cognitive thought: However, tropism in this sense has a proper, although non-scientific, meaning as an innate tendency, natural inclination, or propensity to act in a certain manner.
A tropism is a growth response whose direction is determined by the direction of the stimulus.   Growth towards the stimulus is called a positive tropism. Growth away … from the stimulus is called a negative tropism.   The response to light is called phototropism. Shoots are positively phototropic, roots are negatively phototropic.   The response to gravity is called gravitropism (or sometimes geotropism).
Plants use direct environmental stimuli for orientation in growth and movement. This is called tropism. The responses of the plant may be toward (positive) or away (negative) from the external stimulus or stimuli. Click the links below to learn more about the different types of stimuli and the plants reaction to it: Phototropism-Reaction to light and different wavelengths
Tropisms are usually named for the stimulus involved (for example, a phototropism is a reaction to sunlight) and may be either positive (towards the stimulus) or negative (away from the stimulus). In English, the word tropism is used to indicate an action done without cognitive thought: However, tropism in this sense has a proper, although non-scientific, meaning as an innate tendency, natural inclination, or propensity to act in a certain manner.