1 Birds can cost anywhere from $80 for a tail mount, all the way up to $650 for a turkey that is in a “fly mode.”. 2  For fish, most taxidermists are going to charge per inch. 3  This can range from $11 to $22 per inch depending on what type of fish it is. Taxidermy is the art of mounting or reproducing animals for display in a place such as a home or commercial atmosphere such as a restaurant. Some of the most common animals that are mounted include deer, fish, birds, as well as other various mammals and reptiles. Taxidermy caters mainly to hunters and fishermen
E-MAIL for Special Price. To cover the increased cost of utilities and shipping as well as materials such as paint, driftwood, tanning & foam products, I have had to increase most prices approx. 5% this year. ALL PRICES HERE ARE FOR MOUNTS PICKED UP AT OUR STUDIO. SHIPPING COMPLETED MOUNTS IS ALWAYS EXTRA. 
Average fish shipping charges! All depends on how far you are from Texas as to what the shipping charge is. Average shipping cost For fish up to 29 it's about $40 up to 39 $55 up to 49 $80.00 50 to 60 $175.00 61 to 70 $250.00 50 and up we add a crating fee for freight shipping! Shipping cost varies wildly, each fish is a dfferent cost due to size and shape. You get charged exact shipping cost plus crating cost.
in a breakdown of a taxidermist s actual costs vs profit, we can use the whitetail shoulder mount as an example. the median price range for a whitetail shoulder mount is $400. the cost to have a cape professionally tanned is approximately $50. the form that the hide is placed on costs $60. eyes and ears are about $30. most of us taxidermy shops feel uncomfortable with a turn-around time of anything over a year. if you have taxidermists in your area that have a backlog of 2 years' work, you know that there is room for another taxidermist in your area. obtain pricelists from local taxidermists and compare.
1 For fish, most taxidermists are going to charge per inch. 2  This can range from $11 to $22 per inch depending on what type of fish it is. 3  Life sized mounts are going to cost considerably more. 4  For example, a life sized squirrel can cost anywhere from $180 to $330, while a raccoon or fox can cost $400 to $615. Taxidermy is the art of mounting or reproducing animals for display in a place such as a home or commercial atmosphere such as a restaurant. Some of the most common animals that are mounted include deer, fish, birds, as well as other various mammals and reptiles. Taxidermy caters mainly to hunters and fishermen
profit margins on taxidermy work generally run 50% to 75%. that is, you can plan on your tanning costs, supply costs, form costs, etc. to be 1/4 to 1/2 of your retail price. most of us taxidermy shops feel uncomfortable with a turn-around time of anything over a year. if you have taxidermists in your area that have a backlog of 2 years' work, you know that there is room for another taxidermist in your area. obtain pricelists from local taxidermists and compare.
The cost of taxidermy is going to depend on the size of the animal, the portion of the animal you want preserved, and other various factors. 1  On average, the prices can range anywhere from $65 to as much as $4,000 or more. Taxidermy is the art of mounting or reproducing animals for display in a place such as a home or commercial atmosphere such as a restaurant. Some of the most common animals that are mounted include deer, fish, birds, as well as other various mammals and reptiles. Taxidermy caters mainly to hunters and fishermen
These mounts utilize an artificial skull so all that's needed is the antlers. Sheds can also be mounted with this system. A hanger is included with the mount or it can also be mounted to various plaques to jazz it up. ----------------------------. Add $20 for solid oak plaque for a European, Skull or Antler mount. ----------------------------. Add $30 for a solid walnut panel for a European, Skull or Antler mount. 
Martinez Brothers charges cat owners $175 to $350 for a tanned hide, which is the same price as the hide of a bobcat. A whole mounting starts at $1,000; the final cost depends on species and size. This is simpler than taxidermy, which involves a complicated process of tanning the hide and reshaping the animal in a lifelike position by filling the hide with polyurethane foam. In freeze-drying, all moisture is removed from the carcass while it is frozen in a vacuum chamber.