Salary results for Banker in London. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. 
Pay by Experience Level for Personal Banker. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Personal Bankers with more experience do not necessarily bring home bigger paychecks. 
Average Personal Banker Salaries. The average salary for personal banker jobs is $45,000. Average personal banker salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term personal banker anywhere in the job listing.
Investment Banking Salaries and Bonus. One of the big perks to the 80-100 hour work weeks is that investment bankers get paid a lot. Let’s face it, if you’re going to work 7 days a week you better be getting paid well for it. 
French and Japanese banks pay lower salaries. Recruiters say banks like Nomura and SocGen lag behind the average ranges above. At SocGen, for example, analysts salaries match the likes of Goldman and J.P. Morgan, but associate salaries can be lower by £10k to £15k. Morgan Stanley pays the highest salaries. Recruiters in London are unanimous in the verdict: banking salaries are highest at Morgan Stanley. The US bank has raised the bar in salary terms and consistently pays at the top end of the ranges above.
Investment Banker Salary Averages, Updated for 2015. How times have changed since the financial crisis led to reductions in investment banking bonuses and a huge drop in recruiting. More and more investment banks are increasing base salaries in 2015 to remain competitive and increase retention. 
Banker Salary. Banker average salary is $166,577, median salary is $200,000 with a salary range from $22,006 to $300,000. Banker salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Banker salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference onl
Salary results for Banker. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares.