Earth cutaway from core to crust, the asthenosphere lying between the upper mantle and the lithospheric mantle (detail not to scale). The asthenosphere (from Greek ἀσθενής asthenḗs 'weak' + sphere) is the highly viscous, mechanically weak and ductilely deforming region of the upper mantle of the Earth. It lies below the lithosphere, at depths between approximately 80 and 200 km (50 and 120 miles) below the surface. The Lithosphere-Asthenosphere boundary is usually referred to as LAB. The asthenosphere is generally solid, although some of its regions could be melted (e.g. below mid-ocean ridge). In the old oceanic mantle the transition from the lithosphere to the asthenosphere, the so-called lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary (LAB) is shallow (about 60 km in some regions) with a sharp and large velocity drop (5-10%).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The mesosphere refers to the mantle in the region under the lithosphere and the asthenosphere, but above the outer core. The upper boundary is defined as the sharp increase in seismic wave velocities and density at a depth of 660 kilometers (410 mi). 
The asthenosphere is a part of the upper mantle just below the lithosphere that is involved in plate tectonic movement and isostatic adjustments. In the old oceanic mantle the transition from the lithosphere to the asthenosphere, the so-called lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary (LAB) is shallow (about 60 km in some regions) with a sharp and large velocity drop (5-10%).
asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the ductile part of the earth just below the lithosphere, including the upper mantle. The asthenosphere is about 180 km thick. (Image courtesy of Massey University). Share this page: 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Asthenosphere. Introduction. The asthenosphere is the layer of the Earth that lies below the lithosphere. It is a layer of solid rock that has so much pressure and heat the rocks can flow like a liquid. The rocks are less dense than the rocks in the lith
asthenosphere. asthenosphere (ăsthēnˈəsfēr) [ key ], region in the upper mantle of the earth's interior, characterized by low-density, semiplastic (or partially molten) rock material chemically similar to the overlying lithosphere. The asthenosphere is generally located between 45–155 miles (72–250 km) beneath the earth's surface, though under the oceans it is usually much nearer the surface and at mid-ocean ridges rises to within a few miles of the ocean floor.
asthenosphere. n. 1. (Geological Science) a thin semifluid layer of the earth (100-200 km thick), below the outer rigid lithosphere, forming part of the mantle and thought to be able to flow vertically and horizontally, enabling sections of lithosphere to subside, rise, and undergo lateral movement. See also isostasy. The upper part of the Earth's mantle. The asthenosphere lies beneath the lithosphere and consists of several hundred miles of partially molten rock. Because it is partially molten, seismic waves passing through this layer have slow velocities. Compare atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere
Mechanical properties - 'lithosphere' and 'asthenosphere'. We may think we know what we mean by the Earth's 'tectonic plates', but there is more to a tectonic plate that just 'crust'. A clue to this may be found in the other name for 'tectonic plate', which is ' lithospheric plate '. The rocks above the asthenosphere, being the uppermost mantle plus the overlying crust (either continental or oceanic) behave mechanically as one, and comprise what geologists call the 'lithosphere'. The lithosphere moves as one over the weaker, plastic asthenosphere.