Sulfites or sulphites are compounds that contain the sulfite ion SO 3 2− . The sulfite ion is the conjugate base of bisulfite. Although its acid (sulfurous acid) is elusive, its salts are widely used. Sulfites are substances that naturally occur in some foods and the human body. In general, white wines contain more sulfites than red wines and sweeter wines contain more sulfites than drier ones. In the United States, wines bottled after mid-1987 must have a label stating that they contain sulfites if they contain more than 10 parts per million.
Sulfites are used as a food preservative or enhancer. They may come in various forms, such as: 1  Sulfur dioxide, which is not a sulfite, but a closely related chemical oxide. 2  Potassium bisulfite or potassium metabisulfite. 3  Sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite or sodium sulfite. In general, white wines contain more sulfites than red wines and sweeter wines contain more sulfites than drier ones. In the United States, wines bottled after mid-1987 must have a label stating that they contain sulfites if they contain more than 10 parts per million.
The term ‘sulfites’ is an inclusive term for sulfur dioxide (SO2) . SO2 is a preservative and widely used in winemaking (and most food industries), because of its antioxidant and antibacterial properties. SO2 plays a very important role in preventing oxidization and maintaining a wine’s freshness. Another surprising fact is that wine contains about ten times less sulfites than most dried fruits, which can have levels up to 1000 ppm. So if you regularly eat dried fruit and do not have any adverse reaction you are probably not allergic to sulfites.
Myth #1: Sulfites in wine cause headaches. Medical research is not definitive on the relationship between sulfites and headaches. There are many other compounds in wine such as histamines and tannins that are more likely connected to the headache effect (not to mention alcohol!). Another surprising fact is that wine contains about ten times less sulfites than most dried fruits, which can have levels up to 1000 ppm. So if you regularly eat dried fruit and do not have any adverse reaction you are probably not allergic to sulfites.
For wine making, sulfites, also known as sulphites, have been used for centuries. Sulfites within the range of six and 6,000 ppm can be found in everyday foods: canned tuna, pizza dough, jams, gelatin, trail mix, cheese, deli meat and even prescription pills. Wine is one of the few products that carries the words “contains sulfites” on its label. Headaches have not been shown to be a common allergic reaction to sulfites in wine. In fact, more sulfites are generally added to white wines than red wines and most headache sufferers complain after drinking red wines. Headaches are most likely due to other chemicals found in conventional wines. Little is known about sulfites and how people react specifically to them but more research is on the way
Sulfur dioxide (SO2), or sulfites as they are best known in the wine world, is a chemical compound that occurs naturally at low levels during the process of wine fermentation. 
Sulfites are a common additive in many foods and drugs. Sulfites also occur naturally in some foods. Unfortunately, 5%-10% of people with asthma are also allergic to sulfites. An allergy is an increased sensitivity to a specific substance (called an allergen). The combination of asthma and sulfites can be dangerou
A. Sulfites are a group of sulfur-based compounds that may occur naturally or may be added to food as an enhancer and preservative. The FDA estimates that one out of 100 people is sensitive to the compounds. A person can develop sensitivity to sulfites at any time in life, and the trigger for the sensitivity is unknown. For a person who is sensitive to sulfites, a reaction can be mild or life threatening. In 1986, the FDA banned the use of sulfites on fruits and vegetables that are eaten raw, such as lettuce or apples. They also occur naturally in the process of making wine and beer. Avoiding foods that contain or are likely to contain sulfites is the only way to prevent a reaction. If you are sensitive to sulfites, be sure to read the labels on all food items.
Although sulfites are no longer used on most fresh foods, they still can be found in a variety of cooked and processed foods. They also occur naturally in the process of making wine and beer. Avoiding foods that contain or are likely to contain sulfites is the only way to prevent a reaction. If you are sensitive to sulfites, be sure to read the labels on all food items.