Coal is a combustible rock and along with oil and natural gas it is one of the three most important fossil fuels. Coal has a wide range of uses; the most important use is for the generation of electricity. Coal forms from the accumulation of plant debris, usually in a swamp environment. When plant debris dies and falls into the swamp the standing water of the swamp protects it from decay. Swamp waters are usually deficient in oxygen, which would react with the plant debris and cause it to decay. Anthracite is the highest rank of coal. It has a carbon content of over 87% on a dry ash-free basis. Anthracite coal generally has the highest heating value per ton on a mineral matter 
The harder forms, such as anthracite coal, can be regarded as metamorphic rock because of later exposure to elevated temperature and pressure. Coal is composed primarily of carbon along with variable quantities of other elements, chiefly hydrogen, sulfur, oxygen, and nitrogen. 1 Steam coal is a grade between bituminous coal and anthracite, once widely used as a fuel for steam locomotives. 2  In this specialized use, it is sometimes known as sea-coal in the US. 3  Small steam coal (dry small steam nuts or DSSN) was used as a fuel for domestic water heating.
Anthracite is a better type of coal than bituminous, anthracite is the best type of coal because it is the purest type of coal as it has the highest amount of carbon content p … resent in it. It is made up of 90-95% of carbon content, so, it has a higher calorific value and burns without a smoke. Anthracite is relatively a harder, an older and a purer type of coal as compared to bituminous. Anthracite also burns without a smoke, so it is cleaner and is a more eco-friendly fuel. The only advantage bituminous has over anthracite is that it is present in more quantity than anthracite which is unfortunate because 70-75% of all coals are bituminous and anthracite covers only 5% of all types of coals.
Coal is extracted from the ground by coal mining, either underground by shaft mining, or at ground level by open pit mining extraction. Since 1983 the world top coal producer has been China. In 2011 China produced 3,520 million tonnes of coal – 49.5% of 7,695 million tonnes world coal production. 1 Steam coal is a grade between bituminous coal and anthracite, once widely used as a fuel for steam locomotives. 2  In this specialized use, it is sometimes known as sea-coal in the US. 3  Small steam coal (dry small steam nuts or DSSN) was used as a fuel for domestic water heating.
Coal is primarily used as a solid fuel to produce electricity and heat through combustion. World coal consumption was about 7.25 billion tonnes in 2010 (7.99 billion short tons) and is expected to increase 48% to 9.05 billion tonnes (9.98 billion short tons) by 2030. 1 Steam coal is a grade between bituminous coal and anthracite, once widely used as a fuel for steam locomotives. 2  In this specialized use, it is sometimes known as sea-coal in the US. 3  Small steam coal (dry small steam nuts or DSSN) was used as a fuel for domestic water heating.
Definition. Black lung disease is the common name for coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP) or anthracosis, a lung disease of older workers in the coal industry, caused by inhalation, over many years, of small amounts of coal dust. The only way to prevent black lung disease is to avoid long-term exposure to coal dust. Coal mines may help prevent the condition by lowering coal dust levels and providing protective clothes to coal miners. A light micrograph of a human lung containing particles of inspired coal dust (anthracosis).
Black lung disease is a common name for any lung disease that develops from inhaling coal dust. This name comes from the fact that those with the disease have lungs that look black instead of pink. Medically, it is a type of pneumoconiosis called coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP). 
Description. The risk of having black lung disease is directly related to the amount of dust inhaled over the years; the disease typically affects workers over age 50. Its common name comes from the fact that the inhalation of heavy deposits of coal dust makes miners lungs look black instead of a healthy pink. The only way to prevent black lung disease is to avoid long-term exposure to coal dust. Coal mines may help prevent the condition by lowering coal dust levels and providing protective clothes to coal miners. A light micrograph of a human lung containing particles of inspired coal dust (anthracosis).
Coal is the largest source of energy for the generation of electricity worldwide, as well as one of the largest worldwide anthropogenic sources of carbon dioxide releases. In 1999, world gross carbon dioxide emissions from coal usage were 8,666 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. 1 Steam coal is a grade between bituminous coal and anthracite, once widely used as a fuel for steam locomotives. 2  In this specialized use, it is sometimes known as sea-coal in the US. 3  Small steam coal (dry small steam nuts or DSSN) was used as a fuel for domestic water heating.
Coal dust in energy generation [edit]. For use in thermal power plants, coal is ground into dust using a device called a powdered coal mill. The resulting product, called powdered coal or pulverized coal, is then generally used in a fossil fuel power plant for electricity generation. Pulverised coal is a significant dust explosion hazard, as large quantities are suspended in air for transfer from the mill to the power plant. Coal dust suspended in air is explosive—coal dust has far more surface area per unit weight than lumps of coal, and is more susceptible to spontaneous combustion. As a result, a nearly empty coal store is a greater explosion risk than a full one.