Autonomic neuropathy is a group of symptoms that occur when there is damage to the nerves that manage every day body functions such as blood pressure, heart rate, sweating, bowel and bladder emptying, and digestion. Autonomic neuropathy is a group of symptoms, not a specific disease.
Also known as autonomic response specificity-individual response stereotypy. AUTONOMIC REACTIVITY: A person showing high autonomic reactivity would likely response in a more physiological manner than a person with low autonomic reactivity.. No related posts.
In his classic description of the adrenal response, Walter Cannon suggested that the autonomic nervous system served rather like a support system. An emotion-provoking stimulus triggers the appropriate emotion and thence the autonomic nervous system (ANS) into action such as fight or flight.
Given the possible linkages of autonomic reactivity to psychopathology, the purpose of this study was to examine a new reactivity assessment protocol for children aged 4-8 years and to seek measures of autonomic response that could identify children with early signs of developmental psychopathology.
Autonomic hyperreflexia is an abnormal, overreaction of the involuntary (autonomic) nervous system to stimulation. This reaction may include: 1  Change in heart rate. 2  Excessive sweating.
The autonomic nervous system (ANS or visceral nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system that acts as a control system functioning largely below the level of consciousness, and controls visceral functions.
Abstract. No evidence was found to support the hypothesis that neurotic patients demonstrate over-reactivity of the autonomic nervous system in response to stressful stimuli, or that introverts and extraverts are characterised by ease and difficulty respectively with which they form conditioned responses.
1. the extent or level to which an organism responds physiologically to a stimulus, such as a stressor in the environment. 2. a pattern of autonomic nervous system responses that become characteristic of an individual throughout life.