The giant sequoia is the fastest growing conifer on earth given the right conditions. We expect 4 feet of upward growth in the third year for trees in large pots and one-inch plus growth rings. They have the potential to grow faster every year. Giant sequoias grow rapidly tall and less dense when the rising and setting sun is blocked. Failure to keep the soil moist results in a dead tree. Sequoias require moist, rich, balanced ph, and well-drained soil. Permanently swampy or muddy soil will not work. Our website gallery at http://www.giant-sequoia.com/gallery/ shows giant sequoias growing in many different places around the US and the world.
Overview. Sequoia trees (Sequoiadendron giganteum) grow to approximately 300 feet. These giant trees may live to be 3,000 years old. Also known as sierra redwood trees, sequoias make useful trees in windbreaks and screens. These big trees, native to California, thrive in moist, well-drained soils. Sequoia trees (Sequoiadendron giganteum) grow to approximately 300 feet. These giant trees may live to be 3,000 years old. Also known as sierra redwood trees, sequoias make useful trees in windbreaks and screen
When you'll be, hopefully, an elderly person, your giant sequoia will only have grown through his first toddler years. In one human life the giant sequoia is able to reach a girth of 4 to 5 m (13 to 16 ft). Do you want to plant one anyway? Please go ahead and think about the next generations, that will hopefully be able to see this tree as a true giant. On this image, the baby giant sequoia is a week and a half old. The height is about 2 cm (an inch). The first, careful steps in the life of a beautiful and fascinating tree, that is likely to become a giant that will outlive me multiple times. Photo diary of the little giant redwood shown above.
There are three different Redwoods trees (true species)-. Coast Redwood, Giant Sequoia. Dawn Redwood. The Coast Redwood is found mostly along the California coast and a few along the southern Oregon coast. These giant Coast Redwoods can reach over 300 feet tall and over 20 feet across, and be over 4,000 years old. The growth rates will vary, but the Coastal and Dawn Redwoods can grow fairly fast, so a good-sized tree is possible in just a few years. The Giant Sequoia is fairly slow growing, but still can become a reasonable size with not too long a wait. The Sequoia is also a popular bonsai tree.
Rate of Growth. Coast redwoods may put on six, eight or even more feet of height in a single season whereas the giant sequoia is more likely to grow about two feet in height per year throughout its first fifty to one hundred years. On the other hand, the massive trunk of the giant sequoia continues to grow-increasing its overall volume-at a rate far surpassing that of any other tree. Growth rings one half inch in thickness are common in young giant sequoias under optimal conditions. This amounts to an increase of one inch of diameter per year.
The distance between newly planted sequoias depends on what you are trying to achieve. If you are seeking screening for privacy or windbreaks they can be planted as close together as six feet. If you are attempting to grow specimen giants, 30 to 60 feet apart would be more appropriate. Failure to keep the soil moist results in a dead tree. Sequoias require moist, rich, balanced ph, and well-drained soil. Permanently swampy or muddy soil will not work. Our website gallery at http://www.giant-sequoia.com/gallery/ shows giant sequoias growing in many different places around the US and the world.
Answers. Best Answer: Growth of seedlings is very fast, with young trees known to reach 65 feet tall in 20 years. Growing to heights of 120 feet or more at maturity, most sequoia trees will grow at a rate of 3 to 5 feet per year. Seed production begins at 10–15 years of age. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/how_6207859_care-pot...
More on the discovery of the giant sequoia... Growth in Great Britain is very fast, with the tallest tree, at Benmore Botanic Garden in southwest Scotland, reaching 54 m (177 ft) at age 150 years with several others from 50-53 m tall. The tallest giant redwood of England can be found in the New Forest near Southampton. 
Giant sequoias are the world's largest single trees and largest living thing by volume. Giant sequoias grow to an average height of 50–85 m (164–279 ft) and 6–8 m (20–26 ft) in diameter. Record trees have been measured to be 94.8 m (311 ft) in height and over 17 m (56 ft) in diameter. 