Cigarette users inhale four times the carbon monoxide found in car exhaust. The smoke from one pack of cigarettes can raise the carbon monoxide concentration in a home to twice the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) safety limit for outdoor air. Carbon monoxide is colorless, odourless, tasteless, and non-irritating. This is potentially dangerous and can be the cause of heart failure. Nicotine in cigarettes causes a short-term increase in blood pressure, heart rate, and blood flow. Nicotine can also cause arteries to constrict. The carbon monoxide in cigarettes lowers the amount of oxygen the blood is able to carry.
Carbon monoxide in cigarettes. Cigarette smoke contains carbon monoxide. When inhaled, carbon monoxide in cigarettes reduces the ability of red blood cells to carry oxygen to tissues in the body and brain. As carbon monoxide levels in the blood increase, oxygen levels in the blood decrease. This is potentially dangerous and can be the cause of heart failure. Nicotine in cigarettes causes a short-term increase in blood pressure, heart rate, and blood flow. Nicotine can also cause arteries to constrict. The carbon monoxide in cigarettes lowers the amount of oxygen the blood is able to carry.
Carbon Monoxide Exposure from Cigarettes: Just one more Reason to Quit. Cigarette smoking is a highly addictive and dangerous habit. Millions of North Americans are trying to quit everyday. Thanks to the efforts of science, a great deal more is known today about the dangers of smoking than ever before. Carbon monoxide (CO) is known as the silent killer because it is colorless and odorless and thus virtually impossible for a human to detect. The symptoms of carbon monoxide exposure are typically seemingly harmless, which is why detection of CO poisoning often comes too late.
Although carbon monoxide levels caused by cigarettes are relatively low, there are still some long and short-term risks that should be recognized. Carbon monoxide in cigarettes is just one more reason why smoking is a habit to kick! About the Author: Alexandria Haber is a freelance writer and is the head researcher and content manager for http://www.carbon-monoxide-poisoning.com/ . Carbon monoxide (CO) is known as the silent killer because it is colorless and odorless and thus virtually impossible for a human to detect. The symptoms of carbon monoxide exposure are typically seemingly harmless, which is why detection of CO poisoning often comes too late.
Carbon monoxide consists of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, connected by a triple bond that consists of two covalent bonds as well as one dative covalent bond. It is the simplest oxocarbon and is isoelectronic with the cyanide anion, the nitrosonium cation and molecular nitrogen. Worldwide, the largest source of carbon monoxide is natural in origin, due to photochemical reactions in the troposphere that generate about 5 × 10 kilograms per year. Other natural sources of CO include volcanoes, forest fires, and other forms of combustion.
When a person smokes cigarettes, the carbon monoxide in the smoke gets into his/her blood stream. This reduces the amount of oxygen going to the heart. In addition, the chemicals in cigarette smoke narrow the walls of the arteries. With less oxygen passing through the arteries, the heart must work harder. 
Carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning occurs when carbon monoxide gas is inhaled. CO is a colorless, odorless, highly poisonous gas that is produced by incomplete combustion. It is found in automobile exhaust fumes, faulty stoves and heating systems, fires, and cigarette smoke. 
I. Carbon monoxide yield from cigarettes. Robinson JC, Forbes WF. The carbon monoxide deliveries of 20 major Canadian brands of cigarettes, determined by gas chromatography and using standard smoking conditions, were estimated and found to vary by a factor of about two. 
Carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide poisoning occurs after enough inhalation of carbon monoxide (CO). Carbon monoxide is a toxic gas, but, being colorless, odorless, tasteless, and initially non-irritating, it is very difficult for people to detect. Carbon monoxide is a product of incomplete combustion of organic matter due to insufficient oxygen supply to enable complete oxidation to carbon dioxide (CO 2). 