A pleasure boat with two lengthwise pontoons. A pontoon is a flotation device with buoyancy sufficient to float itself as well as a heavy load. A pontoon boat is a flattish boat that relies on pontoons to float. Pontoons may be used on boats, rafts, barges, docks, airboats, hovercrafts, floatplanes or seaplanes. Pontoons may support a platform, creating a raft. A raft supporting a house-like structure is a houseboat
Pontoon is the British or domestic version of Blackjack, which in turn is the American version of Vingt-et-un (French for Twenty-one), a French gambling game popular at the court of Louis XV and later, much favoured by Napoleon, especially at St. Helena. Pontoon does, on average, have a lower house edge than its American counterparts because of the no-hole-card rule, which means that you are paid out immediately for your winnings on any total of 21, regardless of whether the dealer ends up with a natural (a Blackjack).
Definition of PONTOON. 1. : a flat-bottomed boat (as a lighter); especially: a flat-bottomed boat or portable float used in building a floating temporary bridge. 2. : a float especially of a seaplane. ADVERTISEMENT
pontoon. n. 1. (Military). a. a watertight float or vessel used where buoyancy is required in water, as in supporting a bridge, in salvage work, or where a temporary or mobile structure is required in military operations. b. (as modifier): a pontoon bridge.
pontoon. n. Any of various floating structures, especially: a. a. a watertight float or vessel used where buoyancy is required in water, as in supporting a bridge, in salvage work, or where a temporary or mobile structure is required in military operations. b. (as modifier): a pontoon bridge.
Pontoon is an arithmetical game played on a table with the same layout as blackjack. In each deal, the player's aim is to receive cards totalling more in face value than the banker's, but not exceeding 21, otherwise he is bust and loses. A 21 consisting of an Ace and a card worth 10 is a pontoon, and pays extra. Pontoon does, on average, have a lower house edge than its American counterparts because of the no-hole-card rule, which means that you are paid out immediately for your winnings on any total of 21, regardless of whether the dealer ends up with a natural (a Blackjack).
pontoon - (nautical) a floating structure (as a flat-bottomed boat) that serves as a dock or to support a bridge. barge, flatboat, hoy, lighter-a flatbottom boat for carrying heavy loads (especially on canals). a. a watertight float or vessel used where buoyancy is required in water, as in supporting a bridge, in salvage work, or where a temporary or mobile structure is required in military operations. b. (as modifier): a pontoon bridge.
Pontoon: A Global Provider. Providing services in over 74 countries, Pontoon is the largest and most diversified global talent acquisition solutions management provider in the industry, with unrivaled footprint and ability to effectively scale programs to a global platform. 