Another quick way to find out what’s the current exchange rate is to type “ your currency to dominican peso” in the google search bar (i.e. dollar to dominican peso). This is a screenshot of the Google exchange rate tool. Do not use as a guide. 1 The smallest coin used in DR is the one peso coin (RD$1.00). 2  Cents are no longer circulating. 3  Try to convert your coins to bills by the end of your trip. 4  It’s very difficult to exchange coins back to your currency.
Travelers can bring foreign currency with them to Punta Cana, rather than exchanging it prior to their visit. If you prefer it, you can bring the money in cash and exchanging it at the desk of the hotel or at the bank or exchange houses located in Punta Cana, rather than exchanging through your credit or debit card. Almost all of the major Punta Cana hotels and resorts will accept American Express, Diner’s Club, Airline Rewards, and other cards. Visa and Mastercard are accepted almost everywhere. Most travelers do not experience any problems paying with their credit cards.
The exchange rate is usually better here in Punta Cana, so we recommend to change your USD directly here by using ATM machines (DO NOT do it at your hotel or at the airport as they will give you as very poor rate. Use the locals money exchange or banks. Here how the new notes look like. The US Dollar is now around 44-45 DOP). Currency Name: Dominican Peso Currency Code: DOP. Being Punta Cana located in the beautiful Dominican Republic, the local official currency is the Dominican Peso (DOP) . Its value fluctuates between 39-44 pesos per USD and 48-53 pesos per Euro
In fact many visitors go about their trips without ever using any other currency than the US dollar, but it is advisable that each member of your party has some Dominican currency in his or her wallet, also. The value of the DOP typically hovers between 40 to 45 Pesos per US dollar. Almost all of the major Punta Cana hotels and resorts will accept American Express, Diner’s Club, Airline Rewards, and other cards. Visa and Mastercard are accepted almost everywhere. Most travelers do not experience any problems paying with their credit cards.
In Punta Cana we visited a small, local gift shop. I don't remember the name of the shop but what I do remember is that I bought a small ceramic doll and the price was 380.00 Dominican pesos (the currency in Punta Cana and in the country). 1- Enter the amount you want to convert. 2- Choose the currency you want to convert from. 3- Choose the currency you want to convert to. 4- Press Convert and you will see the results at the moment.
Do yourself a favor and really take notes about the current values of the Dominican Republic currency converter before traveling to Punta Cana; either for making a budget or just to have a general idea on how much money you will use there. 1- Enter the amount you want to convert. 2- Choose the currency you want to convert from. 3- Choose the currency you want to convert to. 4- Press Convert and you will see the results at the moment.
The official currency of the country is the Dominican Peso (DOP). However, because Punta Cana is a hot spot for international tourism most shops, hotels, excursion companies and restaurants accept US dollars and Euros. Almost all of the major Punta Cana hotels and resorts will accept American Express, Diner’s Club, Airline Rewards, and other cards. Visa and Mastercard are accepted almost everywhere. Most travelers do not experience any problems paying with their credit cards.
Punta Cana is the name of a region in the easternmost tip of the Dominican Republic. Covering about 420,000 m2 (approximately 1,100 acres), the region is home to a coastline of sandy white beaches and to a town of the same name. For example, $8 per hour in the resort, $4 per hour in town in Punta Cana or Bavaro. In other parts of the DR, internet cafes are $2 per hour or often less!). Make sure you spend the remainder of your Dominican pesos. It is next to impossible to convert your pesos back to US dollars or Euros.