2. If the water contains excess calcium and carbonate, then it is possible for precipitation of calcium carbonate to begin, and it can continue until saturation is reached. In other words, if either (or both) calcium or alkalinity are very high in a reef aquarium, then precipitation of calcium carbonate can reduce both.
Calcium carbonate occurs in nature in three different crystalline mineral forms – calcite, aragonite or vaterite. It forms a significant proportion of the Earth’s crust, and so commercially exploited deposits are found throughout the world.
Limestone is a type of sedimentary rock made of calcium carbonate. Limestone can be composed of skeletal remains of organisms, chemically precipitated from sea water that is super-saturated with calcium carbonate or a combination of both.
Most calcium carbonate deposits are made up of the skeletal remains of marine plants and animals that have fallen to sediment on the bottom of shallow seas after their death. If the conditions are right, these sediments can build up over geological time to form extremely thick layers.
Biogenic sand samples (also called organic or biological sands) are composed of pieces the skeletal remains of plants and animals. They are also sometimes called calcium sands because the chemical composition of most skeletal remains is calcium carbonate (CaCO3), the material our bones are made of.
Chalk: A fine-grained, light-colored limestone formed from the calcium carbonate skeletal remains of tiny marine organisms. Tufa: A porous limestone that forms from the precipitation of calcium carbonate, often at a hot spring or along the shoreline of a lake where waters are saturated with calcium carbonate.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris.
Limestone is by definition a rock that contains at least 50% calcium carbonate in the form of calcite by weight. All limestones contain at least a few percent other materials. These can be small particles of quartz, feldspar, clay minerals, pyrite, siderite and other minerals.