View full size image. THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, is the chemical responsible for most of marijuana's psychological effects. It acts much like the cannabinoid chemicals made naturally by the body, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). THC is one of many compounds found in the resin secreted by glands of the marijuana plant. More of these glands are found around the reproductive organs of the plant than on any other area of the plant. Other compounds unique to marijuana, called cannabinoids, are present in this resin
Marijuana THC. To understand fully what causes the pleasurable feeling that marijuana is giving, it would be a great help to know what is THC and its properties. THC stands for delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, which is the main active chemical in marijuana plant. Marijuana is commonly smoked as a joint or using a pipe. As marijuana is being smoked, THC passes from the lungs going to the bloodstream. From the bloodstream, the chemical THC is carried to the brain and other organs in the body. After a few hours, marijuana users will experience that high feeling
Tetrahydrocannabinol, along with its double bond isomers and their stereoisomers, is one of only three cannabinoids scheduled by the Convention on Psychotropic Substances (the other two are dimethylheptylpyran and parahexyl). Dronabinol is the INN for a pure isomer of THC, (–)- trans -δ 9 -tetrahydrocannabinol, which is the main isomer found in cannabis.
A pharmaceutical formulation of (−)- trans -δ 9 -tetrahydrocannabinol, known by its INN dronabinol, is available by prescription in the U.S. and Canada under the brand name Marinol. Dronabinol is the INN for a pure isomer of THC, (–)- trans -δ 9 -tetrahydrocannabinol, which is the main isomer found in cannabis.
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). [-hi′drōkənab′inol]. the active principle, occurring as two psychotomimetic isomers, in the hemp plant Cannabis sativa, used in the preparation of marijuana, hashish, bhang, and ganja. THC increases pulse rate and has variable effects on blood pressure.
THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, is the primary ingredient in marijuana responsible for the high. But getting high is not all that it’s good for. THC also has a wide range of medical benefits, and is commonly reported to relieve pain, nausea, and depression, among many other things. 
Like most pharmacologically-active secondary metabolites of plants, THC in Cannabis is assumed to be involved in self-defense, perhaps against herbivores. THC also possesses high UV-B (280–315 nm) absorption properties, which, it has been speculated, could protect the plant from harmful UV radiation exposure. Dronabinol is the INN for a pure isomer of THC, (–)- trans -δ 9 -tetrahydrocannabinol, which is the main isomer found in cannabis.
For 3D Structures. THC -- Tetrahydrocannabinol. Tetrahydrocannabinol, also known as dronabinol, is the main psychoactive substance found in the Cannabis plant. It was isolated by Raphael Mechoulam, Yechiel Gaoni, and Habib Edery from the Weizmann Institute in Rehovot, Israel in 1964.