No, its usually because the landlord doesnt want this risk they wont be paid. For students they can be more confident. That siad, they might want students if they don't like any risk/agrivation. If they don't want students, then it will normally say 'No students' And if they don't want either, then it will usually say 'Professionals only' (professional, in this context, meaning in some form of employment).
The staff members from the Disability Services for Students office (DSS) would like to welcome you to Sonoma State University. The DSS office is committed to ensuring that all students with disabilities have equal access to the educational environment at Sonoma State University. Academic accommodations may be provided to qualified individuals based on the functional limitations associated with one’s disability.
STUDENTS. The staff members from the Disability Services for Students office (DSS) would like to welcome you to Sonoma State University. The DSS office is committed to ensuring that all students with disabilities have equal access to the educational environment at Sonoma State University. Academic accommodations may be provided to qualified individuals based on the functional limitations associated with one’s disability.
Even if it gets to court, they will have to repay at a pitiful rate. Unfortunately, there are often a number of personality attributes some people have that can't get employment, and thus being on DSS don't make an attractive prospect for landlords. Last edited by marcusfox; 26-03-2012 at 18:40. If they don't want students, then it will normally say 'No students' And if they don't want either, then it will usually say 'Professionals only' (professional, in this context, meaning in some form of employment).
The decision support systems option educates the student in the design, implementation and use of computerized systems that support business managers in the decision-making process. A decision support system (DSS) is a computer system that typically encompasses mathematical models as well as informational databases and a user interface in order to provide recommended decisions to manager-users.
MarkXperie... Answered on Dec 30 2009, Report content. DSS stands for Department of Social Security, an old phrase which simply means anyone on government benefits. In the adverts you mention, the landlord is only looking for tenants in employment and is not willing to accept those who are not. It's a government agency that helps people entitled to government housing benefit. A tenant under government housing benefit relies on DSS for their rent. It's not related to students alone as anyone could be under housing benefit. Web reference: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Department_of_Social_Security.
DISABILITY SUPPORT SERVICES. Disability Support Services (DSS) supports the mission of Towson University by providing services that afford students with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in all aspects of the educational environment. The university offers many services to students with disabilities. Eligibility for these services is determined individually by the DSS office based on documented need. Students are encouraged to register with DSS as soon as possible after admission to the university to ensure timely provision of services.
A surefire way to know if a house/flat is a student property is to look for things like advertising its proximity to a university, if its furnished and sometimes it will say the word student in the blurb. (Original post by peonies). Been looking for a flat, and a lot of them clearly say NO DSS. If they don't want students, then it will normally say 'No students' And if they don't want either, then it will usually say 'Professionals only' (professional, in this context, meaning in some form of employment).
The largest single type of employer of DSS option graduates is typically consulting firms such as Accenture, KPMG, CGI, Deloitte & Touche, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Booz Allen Hamilton, among many others. However, numerous other types of companies and organizations hire DSS graduates to work in various IT-related jobs. A decision support system (DSS) is a computer system that typically encompasses mathematical models as well as informational databases and a user interface in order to provide recommended decisions to manager-users.