The music of the goth subculture encompasses a number of different styles, including gothic rock, industrial, deathrock, post-punk, darkwave, ethereal wave and neoclassical. Styles of dress within the subculture range from deathrock, punk and Victorian styles, or combinations of the above, most often with dark attire, makeup and hair.
It began in the United Kingdom during the early 1980s in the gothic rock scene, an offshoot of the post-punk genre. The goth subculture is remarkable for its longevity compared with others of the same era. Its imagery and cultural proclivities show influences from nineteenth century Gothic literature, mainly by way of horror movies (particularly cinematic depictions of vampires).
subculture. A subculture is a group of people with different ideologies and usually fashion and music tastes then that of the larger culture they are a part of. Many subcultures also detest the mainstream and commercialization
The goth subculture is a contemporary subculture found in many countries. It began in the United Kingdom during the early 1980s in the gothic rock scene, an offshoot of the post-punk genre. The goth subculture has survived much longer than others of the same era, and has continued to diversify. The goth subculture has associated tastes in music, aesthetics, and fashion, whether or not all individuals who share those tastes are in fact members of the goth subculture. Gothic music encompasses a number of different styles. Common to all is a tendency towards a lugubrious, mystical sound and outlook
The goth subculture is a contemporary subculture found in many countries. It began in England during the early 1980s in the gothic rock scene, an offshoot of the post-punk genre. Notable post-punk groups that presaged that genre are Siouxsie and the Banshees, Joy Division and Bauhaus. The goth subculture has survived much longer than others of the same era, and has continued to diversify. Its imagery and cultural proclivities indicate influences from the 19th century Gothic literature along with horror films. Styles of dress within the subculture range from deathrock, punk and Victorian styles, or combinations of the above, most often with dark attire, makeup and hair.
In a new study, 53 percent of youths in the Goth subculture reported self-harming behaviors, compared to 7-14 percent in the general youth population. Violence, however, is not a part of the traditional Goth scene, with most members describing themselves as pacifistic, open-minded and accepting of everyone. The Goth subculture emerged from the late-'70s punk scene and now involves wearing dark clothing and embracing the darker things in life. Goth.net, a resource set up for the benefit of the Goth community, defines Goths as, A group of people who feel comfortable within each other's company.
1 About the Goth Youth Subculture Goth youth subculture has lasted, spread, and diversified as a contemporary subgroup in manycountries. It emerged in the United Kingdom in the early 1980s as an offshoot of the punk rockscene. 
advertisement. The term Gothic is the same as goth, Gothdom, gothik etc. The only difference is noun or adjective use. Goth is typically used as either a noun (especially when referring to a person) or an adjective; Gothic is usually an adjective e.g. That person is a Goth. Those boots are gothic. Goth is often capitalized when referring to a person.