If you desire an authentic old look, you actually wash off some of the whitewash several hours after application or the next day to expose brick or parts of brick in random areas. The lime in the whitewash is the actual glue that bonds to the brick and the wood on your addition. If you want extra holding power you can actually mix white Portland cement to the whitewash. Do this and the whitewash will last for several generations. If you want to colorize the whitewash, it is possible. Whitewash is applied with a brush or a roller but brushes seem to work best. One of the interesting qualities of this material is that you can make your home look like a gracious English cottage. This is achieved by varying the thickness of
You can definatly pressure wash the bricks. I would also suggest that you seal them when you are done. Sweep in silica sand with a push broom and buy a brick paver sealer and spray on with a pumpable sprayer. Like everybody else said. You can pressure wash pavers. Use a rotary or turbo nozzle to get a good cleanse. Hold it a couple feet away. Youll blow out some sand, make sure not to blow to deep or theyll have a tendency to become uneven. Swep in dry bagged sand and then seal. I recomend a solvent based seal
The white residue on top of pavers is a condition called efflorescence. This condition is minimized with the use of an additive but it is not completely eliminated. Efflorescence will wear off in about 2 to 3 months naturally but it can be removed with whitewall cleaner and a wire brush. As long as your existing patio is in good condition. There can be cracks in the old patio as long as it is still level and is not unlevel in any area. Concrete makes a great base for many pavers. You will still need to retain the border of your project.
Clay paving bricks resist most stains, although they can develop a white, chalky substance, called efflorescence, which washes away. Sweeping helps maintain pavers and periodic treatment with a pressure sprayer keeps them clean. You can also seal some varieties of pavers to minimize staining and increase longevity. Brick is extremely versatile and durable and can be used on pathways, driveways and as edging or patio material. Precast concrete pavers are a uniform size and are specifically designed for outdoor use, although you should check with the manufacturer about durability for use in driveways or other high traffic areas.
This is a 5 year old brick paver walkway that has never been cleaned. We us a soft wash with the correct chemical to get the pavers looking new again. Visit our website for more information http://www.magicaltouchww.com. 
1 Using a paint try and paint roller, apply the paver sealer stripper in a section of about 100 square feet. 2  This stripper is very thick and applies like a paste. * 3 If you apply to much stripper at one time you will run the risk of it drying before you get a chance to pressure wash. 1 Buildup of too many coats through the years or excessive over application. 2  Use of a polymeric sand. 3  This is actually the fault of these types of sand. 4  If you do not remove all the sand from the surface of the pavers, the sand can turn white under the paver sealer.
2. Remove stubborn dirt with a pressure washer. A pressure washer may be enough to clean pavers, allowing you to avoid harsh detergents or cleaners. Use hot water and a fan spray rather than a small nozzle, as a direct spray may damage the surface, allowing more dirt and grime to become embedded in the stone. Whether your pavers are used as a walkway through your garden or as a patio or driveway, the pavers are bound to lose their luster over time. They fall victim to normal wear and tear, or to an occasional stain caused by salt, mud or oil spills.
Water the sand down with a very light spray or mist of water, just enough to saturate the sand. Let that dry for a day. Brush and roll on an acrylic brick paver sealer pushing it thick at first, then feather it out, one coat should do it, but you can put two allthough it gets more shiny per coat. Let that dry for a day. Like everybody else said. You can pressure wash pavers. Use a rotary or turbo nozzle to get a good cleanse. Hold it a couple feet away. Youll blow out some sand, make sure not to blow to deep or theyll have a tendency to become uneven. Swep in dry bagged sand and then seal. I recomend a solvent based sealer
How to Clean Pavers. Paving stones, also called pavers, add a decorative element to the landscape, lending a feeling of stability and sophistication. Whether your pavers are used as a walkway through your garden or as a patio or driveway, the pavers are bound to lose their luster over time. They fall victim to normal wear and tear, or to an occasional stain caused by salt, mud or oil spills.