The major endocrine glands include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus, gastrointestinal tract and adrenal glands. The endocrine system is in contrast to the exocrine system, which secretes its hormones using ducts. 
The pituitary gland is about the size of a pea, and is located at the base of the brain. It controls the production of hormones in all endocrine glands. Acromegaly is a condition in which the pituitary gland secretes growth hormone after the normal growth of the skeleton and other organs is complete. In almost all cases, it is caused by a benign (non-cancerous) tumor of the pituitary gland. Acromegaly is most often caused by a benign (non-cancerous) tumor of the pituitary gland that secretes excess growth hormone. In rare cases, acromegaly can be caused by tumors of the pancreas, lungs or adrenal glands.
Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue. The Thyroid itself secretes three main hormones: 1  Thyroxine contains iodine which is essential for the body's normal growth, and metabolism. 2  Thyroxine helps control body size, regulating not only the growth of tissues but also the differentiation or specialisation of tissues.
The Posterior Lobe of the Pituitary Gland (or neurophpophysis) stores and releases hormones secreted by the hypothalamus section of the brain including: 1  ADH (Antidiuretic hormone) stimulates the smooth muscles, blood vessels and the intestine. The Thyroid itself secretes three main hormones: 1  Thyroxine contains iodine which is essential for the body's normal growth, and metabolism. 2  Thyroxine helps control body size, regulating not only the growth of tissues but also the differentiation or specialisation of tissues.
Hormones of the Anterior Lobe (Adenohypophysis). Growth hormone is a protein that stimulates the growth of bones, muscles, and other organs by promoting protein synthesis. This hormone drastically affects the appearance of an individual because it influences height. 
The Anterior Lobe of the pituitary plays the 'master' role secreting six major hormones that affect most of the body, including the other Endocrine glands: 1  ACTH (Adrenocorticotrophic hormone) stimulates the adrenal glands to secrete its hormones. The Thyroid itself secretes three main hormones: 1  Thyroxine contains iodine which is essential for the body's normal growth, and metabolism. 2  Thyroxine helps control body size, regulating not only the growth of tissues but also the differentiation or specialisation of tissues.
Growth hormone (GH or HGH), also known as somatotropin or somatropin, is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, cell reproduction and regeneration in humans and other animals. It is a type of mitogen which is specific only to certain kinds of cells. Growth hormone is a 191- amino acid, single-chain polypeptide that is synthesized, stored, and secreted by somatotropic cells within the lateral wings of the anterior pituitary gland. GH is a stress hormone that raises the concentration of glucose and free fatty acids. It also stimulates production of IGF-1.
2. Hormonal secretions (hormones that affect other hormones): Hormones also influence the release of other hormones. The hypothalamus makes and secretes hormones that act on the pituitary gland to promote or inhibit its secretion of other hormones. 
37.6]lu contains endocrine cells that secrete prolactin, growth hormone, and several trophic hormones that stimulate other endocrine glands (see Table 37.2). -Hypothalamus secretes releasing and release-inhibiting hormones that control the anterior lobe of the pituitary. - Hypothalamus links nervous and endocrine systems. - Hypothalamic neurons secrete hormones that regulate the release of hormones from the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland. Pituitary hormones, in turn, control activity of other endocrine glands.