Definition: The repeated sequential use of a particular type of linguistic element or grammatical structure. Recursion has also been described more simply as the ability to place one component inside another component of the same kind. A linguistic element or grammatical structure that can be used repeatedly in sequence is said to be recursive. See also: 1  Affixation. 2  Catenative Verbs. 3  Compounding. 1 In English, recursion is often used to create expressions that modify or change the meaning of one of the elements of the sentence. 2  For example, to take the word nails and give it a more specific meaning, we could use an object relative clause such as that Dan bought, as in Hand me the nails that Dan bought.
It is a truism that conceptual understanding of a hypothesis is required for its empirical investigation. However, the concept of recursion as articulated in the context of linguistic analysis has been perennially confused. Nowhere has this been more evident than in attempts to critique and extend Hauser et al.'s. (2002) articulation. 
A recursive structure is one in which a constituent dominates another instance of the same syntactic category. Recursion is an important notion in linguistic theory, playing an important role in accounting formally for linguistic creativity. All known human languages, and some human thought processes, have recursive properties. In (1) is a small set of recursive rules (the arrow ‘→’ stands for ‘can consist of’). What makes these rules recursive is that X is the output of (1b) and also the input to (1a) and (1b). The rules state that an X can consist of a Y (1a) or an X followed by a Z (1b).
Answers. Best Answer: Recursion in linguistics is also sometimes called nesting. One example of nesting / recursion is the way a sentence can contain a supplementary sentence, which adds further explanation. In theory recursion can go on to any depth, but in natural language anything deeper than 3 is very rare. An excellent example of how much fun recursion can be is the children's language game The house that Jack built.
Recursion is a property of language. From a Linguistics viewpoint, recursion can also be called nesting. As I've stated in this answer to what defines a language (third-last bullet point), recursion is a phenomenon where a linguistic rule can be applied to the result of the application of the same rule.. Let's see an example of this. Consider the sentence:
A related, but distinct, notion in linguistics is the notion of ‘iteration.’ It is sometimes suggested that recursion and iteration are the same thing, but technically they are distinct. An iterative process is illustrated in (10). In (1) is a small set of recursive rules (the arrow ‘→’ stands for ‘can consist of’). What makes these rules recursive is that X is the output of (1b) and also the input to (1a) and (1b). The rules state that an X can consist of a Y (1a) or an X followed by a Z (1b).
Some linguists claim that recursion is the main defining property that makes human language different from the communication systems of any other species. In (1) is a small set of recursive rules (the arrow ‘→’ stands for ‘can consist of’). What makes these rules recursive is that X is the output of (1b) and also the input to (1a) and (1b). The rules state that an X can consist of a Y (1a) or an X followed by a Z (1b).
One example of nesting / recursion is the way a sentence (which might at first (or even on re-reading) be difficult to understand) can contain a supplementary sentence, which adds further explanation. .... The examples above show 1-deep, and 2-deep recursions. In theory recursion can go on to any depth, but in natural language anything deeper than 3 is very rare. An excellent example of how much fun recursion can be is the children's language game The house that Jack built.