Receptor: 1. In cell biology, a structure on the surface of a cell (or inside a cell) that selectively receives and binds a specific substance. There are many receptors. There is a receptor for (insulin; there is a receptor for low-density lipoproteins (LDL); etc. To take an example, the receptor for substance P, a molecule that acts as a messenger for the sensation of pain, is a unique harbor on the cell surface where substance P docks.
The research program in the Laboratory of Receptor Biology and Gene Expression concerns the elucidation of mechanisms involved in the regulation of genetic expression in eukaryotic cells, and the identification of genes and regulatory processes involved in modulated states of expression during oncogenesis. 
, whether monitoring internal or instead external signals employ receptor proteins, by and large, to detect signals. Receptor proteins may be located at cell surfaces or within the interior of cells. They may detect hormones or instead keep track of what otherwise is going on in cell's environment. 
Overview. Receptors are nature's transducers—they detect circulating hormones or substances released by nerve activity and elicit a biological response. Our research centers on specialized types of receptors called synaptic receptors, found on the surfaces of cells in close proximity to nerve terminals. If the receptor is located on a muscle cell, the impulse triggers contraction. Whereas if it is on a nerve cell, it causes release of transmitter substance on yet another cell. In this way, excitable cells communicate throughout the body by means of specialized pairs of neurotransmitter substances and receptors.
Receptors bind nerve-released substances and open a tiny pore in the cell membrane through which ions flow to create an electrical impulse. Acetylcholine receptors at a motor synapse appear as tiny rosettes. If the receptor is located on a muscle cell, the impulse triggers contraction. Whereas if it is on a nerve cell, it causes release of transmitter substance on yet another cell. In this way, excitable cells communicate throughout the body by means of specialized pairs of neurotransmitter substances and receptors.
This review deals with membrane Fc receptors (FcR) of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is focused on the mechanisms by which FcR trigger and regulate biological responses of cells on which they are expressed. FcR deliver signals when they are aggregated at the cell surface. Fc receptor biology. Daeron Daëron(m). 1 author: (information)1 laboratoire'D Immunologie cellulaire Et, CLINIQUE Inserm.u, 255 Institut, Curie, Paris. France.Marcdaeron@.curie. Fr this review deals with Membrane fc (FcR) fcr of the immunoglobulin.
Receptor proteins are located in the cytoplasm, cell membrane, or nuclear membrane. 1. Cytoplasmic receptor proteins include those that respond to steroid hormones. Ligand activated receptors may enter the cell nucleus where they modulate gene expression. 2. Receptors within cell membranes may be peripheral or trans-membrane proteins. Many receptors for hormones and neurotransmission are trans-membrane proteins. _ a. Metabotropic receptors are coupled to G proteins, acting through various secondary pathways involving ion channels, enzymes such as adenylyl (adenylate) cyclases, and phospolipases, or PDZ domains.
In cell biology, receptors are special structures that can be found in cell membranes. These are made of protein molecules such as glycoproteins. Receptors bind (attach) to specialised molecules. If the receptor has this molecule, it is activated, but if it does not it is deactivated. Depending on its state, a change inside the cell happens. Cell surface receptors (membrane receptors, transmembrane receptors) take part in communication between the cell and the outside world. Extracellular signalling molecules (usually hormones, neurotransmitters, cytokines, growth factors or cell recognition molecules) attach to the receptor. This triggers changes in the function of the cell. The process is called signal transduction: The binding starts a chemical change on the inside of the membrane
Receptor Biology. Dr James Pease, Head of Group. The directed migration of cells in response to chemical signals is termed chemoattraction, and plays a major role in the temporal and spatial positioning of cells in both lower and higher order life forms. Chemoattractants bind to specific receptors on the cell surface.