Fresh apples, pears, peaches, berries, cherries, bananas and apricots are all good choices. Wash and peel the fruit (blueberries, apricots and cherries work best if dried whole). Remove pits or cores, then slice the fruit to desired thickness. Keep the slice thickness uniform.
Dried fruits are very popular for a multitude of reasons! Eating fruit is associated with improved health and provides many of the essential minerals, vitamins, phytonutrients and fiber that you need every day. Dried fruit doesn't spoil as quickly and is an easy snack to pack, especially for activities like hiking!
Bella Viva Orchards provides customers nationwide with access to gourmet dried fruits including 5 different types of dried cherries and 10 different types of dried apricots. Grown in our sustainable California orchards, each fruit is nurtured from orchard growth to packaging.
A. Yes, if you choose your dried fruits wisely. In its purest form, dried fruit is just fresh fruit with the water removed. Dehydration, in fact, causes some nutrients to become more concentrated.
Today, dried fruit consumption is widespread. Nearly half of the dried fruits sold are raisins, followed by dates, prunes, figs, apricots, peaches, apples and pears. These are referred to as conventional or traditional dried fruits: fruits that have been dried in the sun or in heated wind tunnel dryers.
Nearly half of the dried fruits sold are raisins, followed by dates, prunes, figs, apricots, peaches, apples and pears. These are referred to as conventional or traditional dried fruits: fruits that have been dried in the sun or in heated wind tunnel dryers.
A cup of fresh fruit makes up one portion. When eating dried fruit, have a smaller helping—for example, a quarter cup of raisins. Watch for added sweeteners (sugar, corn syrup), particularly in tart fruits, like cherries and cranberries. Also, take note of the ingredient list: Only the fruit should be listed.
Dried fruit is fruit from which the majority of the original water content has been removed either naturally, through sun drying, or through the use of specialized dryers or dehydrators.
Examples of dried fruits are Raisins, Plums or Prune s and Dates. Apples, Apricots, Bananas, Cranberries, Figs, Mangoes, PawPaw, Peaches, Pineapples, Pears and Tomatoes are the other dried fruits.