The word quack derives from the archaic word quacksalver, of Dutch origin (spelled kwakzalver in contemporary Dutch), literally meaning  hawker of salve . In the Middle Ages the word quack meant shouting. Quackery is the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for a profit. It is rooted in the traditions of the marketplace, with commercialism overwhelming professionalism in the marketing of alternative medicine.
quackery. False representation of a substance, device or therapeutic system as being beneficial in treating a medical condition, diagnosing a disease, or maintaining a state of health—e.g., 'snake oil' remedies; deliberate misrepresentation of the ability of a substance or device to prevent or treat disease.
Full Definition of QUACKERY. : the practices or pretensions of a quack. See quackery defined for English-language learners. See quackery defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
In determining whether a person is committing quackery, the central question is what is acceptable evidence for the efficacy and safety of whatever treatments, cures, regimens, or procedures the alleged quack advocates. Quackery is the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for a profit. It is rooted in the traditions of the marketplace, with commercialism overwhelming professionalism in the marketing of alternative medicine.
Fraud. A false representation of a matter of fact—whether by words or by conduct, by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment of what should have been disclosed—that deceives and is intended to deceive another so that the individual will act upon it to her or his legal injury. This is constructive fraud, and it is usually inferred when a party is a fiduciary and has a duty to know of, and disclose, particular facts. Fraud is an independent criminal offense, but it also appears in different contexts as the means used to gain a legal advantage or accomplish a specific crime.
quackery. False representation of a substance, device or therapeutic system as being beneficial in treating a medical condition, diagnosing a disease, or maintaining a state of health—e.g., 'snake oil' remedies; deliberate misrepresentation of the ability of a substance or device to prevent or treat disease.
Quackery is characterized by the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for profit and does not necessarily involve imposture, fraud, or greed. Quackery is the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for a profit. It is rooted in the traditions of the marketplace, with commercialism overwhelming professionalism in the marketing of alternative medicine.
Quackery is the promotion of unproven or fraudulent medical practices. Random House Dictionary describes a quack as a fraudulent or ignorant pretender to medical skill or a person who pretends, professionally or publicly, to have skill, knowledge, or qualifications he or she does not possess; a charlatan. 
Health fraud is often used as a synonym for quackery, but quackery's salient characteristic is its more aggressive promotion (quacks quack!).  Pseudo-medicine  is a term for treatments known to be ineffective, regardless of whether their advocates themselves believe in their effectiveness. Quackery is the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for a profit. It is rooted in the traditions of the marketplace, with commercialism overwhelming professionalism in the marketing of alternative medicine.