Irish Meaning: The name Moya is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Moya is: Bitter. Celtic Meaning: The name Moya is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Moya is: Exceptional. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Moya is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Moy-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 15808 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name.
Moja /mo-ja/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Moja's roots are Greek and Norwegian, and the meaning of the name Moja is great; mother. Moja is a version, with the prefix Mo- , of Maia (Greek): also (Maori) brave warrior. Moja is also a variation of Moya (Norwegian). Kreatif forms: Meeja, Meja. 
Moja, a Swahili word meaning “One,” is the appropriate name for this festival celebration of harmony among all people in our community. The Festival highlights the many African-American and Caribbean contributions to western and world cultures. About. 2015 marks Charleston’s 32nd annual MOJA Arts Festival: A Celebration of African-American and Caribbean Arts. Selected as one of the Southeast Tourism Society’s Top 20 Events for many years, the MOJA Arts Festival promises an exciting line-up of events with a rich variety of traditional favorites.
[ syll. mo-ja, moj-a ] The baby girl name Moja is pronounced as M OW JHAH †. Moja's origin is Latin and Burmese. Moja is a variant of the name Maya (English). Moja is also a variant of the name Mya (English and Burmese). Moja is rare as a baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000. In 2012, within the family of girl names directly linked to Moja, Maya was the most commonly used
The MOJA Arts Festival is a multi-disciplinary festival produced and directed by the City of Charleston Office of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the MOJA Planning Committee, a community arts and cultural group, and the MOJA Advisory Board, a group of civic leaders who assist with fundraising and advocacy. About. 2015 marks Charleston’s 32nd annual MOJA Arts Festival: A Celebration of African-American and Caribbean Arts. Selected as one of the Southeast Tourism Society’s Top 20 Events for many years, the MOJA Arts Festival promises an exciting line-up of events with a rich variety of traditional favorites.