Japanese knotweed is a strong-growing, clump-forming perennial, with tall, dense annual stems. Stem growth is renewed each year from the stout, deeply-penetrating rhizomes (creeping underground stems). Japanese knotweed was introduced from Japan in 1825 as an ornamental plant. The plant is not unattractive but its rapid annual growth and relentless spread, allows it to easily overwhelm other garden plants.
Your enquiry. This field should be left blank. Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica) is a giant weed that can grow up to 10cm a day and is now the most invasive plant known in Scotland and the UK. Knotweed has been known to cause major damage to properties and in some cases it can lead to mortgages being refused. As Japanese knotweed has no natural enemies to check its spread the invasive weed has flourished in Scotland and the UK to extreme proportions. Experts have estimated it costs the country £166 million annually.
Fallopia japonica, commonly known as Japanese knotweed, is a large, herbaceous perennial plant of the family Polygonaceae, native to East Asia in Japan, China and Korea. In North America and Europe the species is very successful and has been classified as an invasive species in several countries. Japanese knotweed has a large underground network of roots (rhizomes). To eradicate the plant the roots need to be killed. All above-ground portions of the plant need to be controlled repeatedly for several years in order to weaken and kill the entire patch.
Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica) is a large perennial plant that grows throughout much of the UK. It was imported to Britain from Japan during the mid 19 th century as popular ornamental feature to many gardens. Japanese knotweed is one of the most invasive plants in the UK. It grows rapidly (over 1.5m in a month) and spreads easily by stem fragments and rhizomes (underground creeping stems). 1  Overview / Identification Notes. 2  Image Gallery
Fallopia japonica. Japanese Knotweed is an aggressive semi-woody perennial plant that is native to eastern Asia. In the 1800's it was introduced to North America as an ornamental species and also planted for erosion control. It has since spread throughout the United States and Canad
There is a real lack of information and understanding of what Japanese knotweed is and the actual damage it can cause. Without actual advice and guidance, surveyors have been unsure of how to assess the risk of Japanese knotweed, which can result in inconsistent reporting of the plant in mortgage valuations. Japanese knotweed has a large underground network of roots (rhizomes). To eradicate the plant the roots need to be killed. All above-ground portions of the plant need to be controlled repeatedly for several years in order to weaken and kill the entire patch.
Homeowner’s Guide to Japanese Knotweed Control Developed by the Northwoods Cooperative Weed Management Area 7/2007 Japanese knotweed (Polygonum cuspidatum) is a non-native invasive species that threatens our community. This rapidly growing plant is quick to shade out native species and garden cultivars. 