A surge arrester is device that intercepts electrical surges and sends the spike to ground before it can hurt a connected device. These arresters are also known as surge protectors or lightning arresters, but there are some very small differences between these devices. This will stop the surge, but it also destroys the device. If the arrester is improperly installed, this fusion can cause more problems than the initial surge. The differences between a surge arrester, a surge protector and a lightning arrester are very minor.
The main problem with them is that they are designed for protecting large electrical distribution systems from lightning surges, and not for sensitive solid state equipment. The surge arresters have high let through voltage, and the value of this voltage exceeds 1200V. It reduces the length of transmission lines by removing shield wires. Applications. The surge arrester is best to protect insulation of transformers, panel boards, and wirings.
The surge arrester is also connected to ground and functions by routing energy from an over-voltage transient to ground if one occurs, while isolating the conductor from ground at normal operating voltages. Surge arresters are not generally designed to protect against a direct lightning strike to a conductor, but rather against electrical transients resulting from lightning strikes occurring in the vicinity of the conductor.
The Doble LCM500 Leakage Current Monitor can measure condition while a surge arrester is still in service, measuring the quality of the metal oxide blocks and helping manage the risk of failure. A surge arrester may be inexpensive, but it has an important role in protecting your transformers. 1 Safe and effective assessment of metal oxide surge arresters. 2  Inspection of a surge arrester takes less than 15 minutes on location and can be performed with the arrester in service. 3  Can be used for short-term monitoring of one arrester to investigate details in leakage current changes over time.
Surge arresters. Safe and reliable protection of electrical equipment. ABB surge arresters are the primary protection against atmospheric and switching over voltages. ABB offers a complete range of surge arresters for high, medium and low voltage applications. The range comprises of AC and DC solutions up to 1,100kV and arresters for special applications like railways, DC-voltage limiting devices and many other purposes.
A lightning arrester is a device used on electrical power systems and telecommunications systems to protect the insulation and conductors of the system from the damaging effects of lightning. The typical lightning arrester has a high-voltage terminal and a ground terminal. When a lightning surge (or switching surge, which is very similar) travels along the power line to the arrester, the current from the surge is diverted through the arrestor, in most cases to earth. A lightning arrester may be a spark gap or may have a block of a semiconducting material such as silicon carbide or zinc oxide. Thyrite was once a trade name for the silicon carbide used in arresters.
Surge arrester is effective for loads located up to 10 meters away, along the distribution lines. If some sensitive loads are further from main switchboard, an additional close protection is required. Either of 1  : a surge arrester of type 3, located in a nearby switchboard. 2  a power strip with integrated surge protection. Surge arrester is effective for loads located up to 10 meters away, along the distribution lines. If some sensitive loads are further from main switchboard, an additional close protection is required. Either of :
Surge arresters work by fusing the line that goes to the protected device. This prevents voltage from traveling into the device and pushes it out through a ground system instead. This is both the biggest strength and biggest danger of a surge arrester. This will stop the surge, but it also destroys the device. If the arrester is improperly installed, this fusion can cause more problems than the initial surge. The differences between a surge arrester, a surge protector and a lightning arrester are very minor.