The first two nerves supply fibers to the upper limb in addition to their thoracic branches; the next four are limited in their distribution to the walls of the thorax; the lower five supply the walls of the thorax and abdomen. The 7th intercostal nerve terminates at the xyphoid process, at the lower end of the sternum. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the navel. The twelfth (subcostal) thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin. Unlike the nerves from the autonomic nervous system that innervate the visceral pleura of the thoracic cavity, the intercostal nerves arise from the somatic nervous system
The intercostal nerves are distributed chiefly to the thoracic pleura and abdominal peritoneum and differ from the anterior divisions of the other spinal nerves in that each pursues an independent course without plexus formation. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the umbilicus. The twelfth thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin. Unlike the nerves from the autonomic nervous system that innervate the visceral pleura of the thoracic cavity, the intercostal nerves arise from the somatic nervous system.
Intercostal neuralgia is a rare condition that causes pain along the intercostal nerves. Intercostal nerves are located between your ribs. Ribs are long, slender bones that curve around your chest to create your rib cage. 
The intercostal nerves are part of the somatic nervous system, and arise from the anterior roots of the thoracic spinal nerves from T1 to T11. The 7th intercostal nerve terminates at the xyphoid process, at the lower end of the sternum. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the navel. The twelfth (subcostal) thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin.
The intercostal nerves are the somatic nerves that arise from the anterior divisions of the thoracic spinal nerves from T1 to T11. These nerves in addition to supplying the thoracic wall also supply the pleura and peritoneum. The anterior divisions of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth thoracic nerves pass forward in the intercostal spaces below the intercostal vessels. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membranes.
The steroid injected reduces the inflammation and/or swelling of tissue around the intercostal nerves, in between the ribs or in the chest wall. This may in turn reduce pain, and other symptoms caused by inflammation or irritation of the intercostal nerve and surrounding structures. 
Intercostal Nerves. The ventral rami of the thoracic nerves from segments T1 through T11. The intercostal nerves supply motor and sensory innervation to the thorax and abdomen. The skin and muscles supplied by a given pair are called, respectively, a dermatome and a myotome. The 10th intercostal nerve terminates at the umbilicus. The twelfth thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and groin. Unlike the nerves from the autonomic nervous system that innervate the visceral pleura of the thoracic cavity, the intercostal nerves arise from the somatic nervous system.
The intercostal nerves are located in the intercostal groove that spans the length of the interior of each rib bone. There are 11 intercostal nerves, and each nerve branches out from the spinal cord and wraps around the front of the ribcage. 
Seventh-to-eleventh intercostal nerves. The anterior divisions of the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh thoracic intercostal nerves are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the abdominal wall hence they are also called thoraco-abdominal nerves. The anterior divisions of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth thoracic nerves pass forward in the intercostal spaces below the intercostal vessels. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membranes.
in Gross Anatomy. The anterior rami of the first eleven thoracic spinal nerves are known as the intercostal nerves, while that of the twelfth thoracic nerve is known as the subcostal nerve and runs forward in the abdominal wall. Grey’s Anatomy 20th edition. 