Hotel Birilli 1-star hotel Beachfront Property. Via Regina Elena 109, 62012 Civitanova Marche, Italy – Show map. After booking, all of the property’s details, including telephone and address, are provided in your booking confirmation and your account. I Birilli is a 1-star hotel in the northern area of Civitanova Marche, 2,300 feet from the tourist harbour. It offers en suite rooms with free Wi-Fi and LCD TV. The rooms of Hotel I Birilli feature cool tiled floors and simple light-wood furniture.
3D map of Civitanova Alta in Italy. You can also dive right into Civitanova Alta on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Civitanova Alta 3D map within your web browser.
Visit us in Italy. Welcome to Civitanova! We would be very happy to show you our town. Its name is CIVITANOVA in MARCHE region.Where is Civitanova located?In the centre of Italy, near the Adriatic sea, region Marche, about 40 km south of ancona. COME AND VISIT US! We have a nice beach, active life, history and culture. MOREOVER, here you find the capital of shoe italian production. Civitanova, our place-Leather, leather stocklots and leather scraps from Italy-Salted hides & skins, wet blue.
The region is located in the Central area of the country, bordered by Emilia-Romagna and the republic of San Marino to the north, Tuscany to the west, Umbria to the southwest, Abruzzo and Lazio to the south and the Adriatic Sea to the east. A view of Monte Conero. Marche extends over an area of 9,694 square kilometres (3,743 sq mi) of the central Adriatic slope between Emilia-Romagna to the north, Tuscany and Umbria to the west, and Lazio and Abruzzo to the south, the entire eastern boundary being formed by the Adriatic.
detailed map of Civitanova Alta and near places. Welcome to the Civitanova Alta google satellite map! This place is situated in Macerata, Marche, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 43° 19' 0 North, 13° 40' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Civitanova Alta. See Civitanova Alta photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Civitanova Alta in Italy. Civitanova Alta hotels map is available on the target page linked above. You can also dive right into Civitanova Alta on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Civitanova Alta 3D map within your web browser.
From various vantage points, Civitanova Alta offers panoramic views of Civitanova Porto (the modern town) and Adriatic Sea. My hosts in Civitanova are friends with the owner of a B&B named Parisi, located near the old town with a magnificent view of the main town and valley. Sit and savor the breeze off the Adriatic. Civitanova Marche is not a place devoid of intellectual and cultural pursuits. For those in search of the pleasures of the mind, Civitanova offers an art festival, a dance festival, a theatre season, and an intriguing historical section.
The little fishing town and seaside resort in the Marche region of Italy along the Adriatic Sea is unknown to most American visitors to the country. Civitanova Marche is not a place devoid of intellectual and cultural pursuits. For those in search of the pleasures of the mind, Civitanova offers an art festival, a dance festival, a theatre season, and an intriguing historical section.
Civitanova was founded probably around the 8th century BC as Cluana by the Piceni Italic tribe, at the mouth of the Chienti river. The Romans captured it in 268 BC, and, in 50 AD, founded a new settlement, Cluentis Vicus (the current frazione of Civitanova Alta) on a hill near the sea. During the Barbaric invasion, old Cluana was destroyed by the Visigoths and much of the population took refuge in the Vicus. In 1440, under Francesco Sforza, a new line of walls was built, while a fortress was erected to protect the port. The city, attacked by Turk pirates and struck by inner feuds and by the plague, started to decay from the 16th century. In 1551 pope Julius III ceded it to the Cesarini family.
Civitanova Marche is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Macerata in the Italian region Marche, located about 40 kilometres (25 miles) southeast of Ancona and about 25 km (16 mi) east of Macerata. In 1440, under Francesco Sforza, a new line of walls was built, while a fortress was erected to protect the port. The city, attacked by Turk pirates and struck by inner feuds and by the plague, started to decay from the 16th century. In 1551 pope Julius III ceded it to the Cesarini family.
Antonio, Italy. Tutto Perfetto, torneremo sicuramente. Eleonora, Italy. La posizione la colazione. Antonio, Italy. хозяева отеля очень доброжелательны, готовы оказать любую помощь. Marina, Russia. I Birilli is a 1-star hotel in the northern area of Civitanova Marche, 2,300 feet from the tourist harbour. It offers en suite rooms with free Wi-Fi and LCD TV. The rooms of Hotel I Birilli feature cool tiled floors and simple light-wood furniture.