Gavotte. an old French dance of popular origin. It is in 4/4 or 2/2 time, the tempo is moderate, and it characteristically begins with an upbeat of two quarters or one half and has a clear rhythm. The music of the gavotte is light and elegant, sometimes with pastoral and sometimes with solemn nuances. The gavotte has been known since the 16th century. In the 17th century it became a court dance, graceful and often mincing
Definition of GAVOTTE. 1. : a dance of French peasant origin marked by the raising rather than sliding of the feet. 2. : a tune for the gavotte in moderately quick 4⁄4 time. — gavotte intransitive verb. See gavotte defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
According to another reference, however, the word gavotte is a generic term for a variety of French folk dances, and most likely originated in Lower Brittany in the west, or possibly Provence in the southeast or the French Basque Country in the southwest of France. The gavotte is first described in the late 16th century as a suite or miscellany of double branles danced in a line or circle to music in duple time, with little springs in the manner of the Haut Barrois branle and with some of the steps divided with figures borrowed from the galliard.
I then asked Simon about the meaning of gavotte as it applies to the phrase “You had one I in the mirror as you watched yourself gavotte.”. Simon: “A gavotte is a French dance. I thought I would use a word that was slightly presumptuous. It rhymed with what I needed it to rhyme with. He’s gavotting because that’s what a pretentious, vain man would do. But he’s not at the French court, he’s at my sister’s house
A gavotte in Brittany, France, 1878. The gavotte (also gavot or gavote) is a French dance, taking its name from a folk dance of the Gavot, the people of the Pays de Gap region of Dauphine dauphiné in the southeast Of, france where the dance originated according to one. source The gavotte is first described in the late 16th century as a suite or miscellany of double branles danced in a line or circle to music in duple time, with little springs in the manner of the Haut Barrois branle and with some of the steps divided with figures borrowed from the galliard.
This Site Might Help You. RE: What does gavotte mean? (carly simons your so vein)? I always thought it was &#39;as you watched yourself go by&#39; turns out its &#39;watched yourself gavotte&#39; but when you google the word gavotte in means &#39;a french dance&#39; so what is the reference in the song about? A gavotte is a type of dance, just like you said More importantly, you also thought it was vein, so before you look up gavotte, look up vain.
1 Before the mid-17th century a gavotte usually followed a series of branles, a dance to which it was closely related, and was performed in a line or circle. 1.1 A piece of music accompanying or in the rhythm of a gavotte, composed in common time beginning on the third beat of the bar. Example sentences. 1  Composers who wrote instrumental gavottes include Francois François, Couperin, Rameau, Purcell, pachelbel And. J. C. F.  fischer
The gavotte of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries has nothing in common with the 19th-century column-dance called the gavotte but may be compared with the rigaudon and the bourree. bourrée The gavotte is first described in the late 16th century as a suite or miscellany of double branles danced in a line or circle to music in duple time, with little springs in the manner of the Haut Barrois branle and with some of the steps divided with figures borrowed from the galliard.
Gavotte. The gavotte originated as a French folk dance, taking its name from the Gavot people of the Pays de Gap region of Dauphine, dauphiné where the dance. Originated it is notated in/4 4 or/2 2 time and is of moderate. tempo 