These cards allow you to make purchases anywhere you can use a credit card, in addition to allowing you to withdraw cash from an ATM. When the card is used as a debit card, the transaction will be reflected as a POS on your bank statement. A POS situation on your bank statement is an abbreviation for point-of-sale and designates that a purchase was made using your debit card. Purchases recorded as point-of-sale mean that you entered your PIN number to authorize the transaction and therefore were possibly physically present for the purchase. 
For every point of sale there must be a transaction processing system to accompany it. The correlation is so close that software-driven transaction processing systems are often referred to as POS (point of sale) terminals. The phrases point of sale and transaction processing system represent two different, yet closely related concepts having to do with the sales function. Each term represents a distinct and vital link connecting consumers to businesses.
Report Abuse. A point of sale transaction occurs when payment is exchanged for a product, generally in a retail location. Each time you make a purchase at your local grocery store, you are conducting a point of sale transaction. Most retail outlets record each transaction electronically in order to be able to analyze the sales data. 
At the point of sale, the merchant would prepare an invoice for the customer (which may be a cash register printout) or otherwise calculate the amount owed by the customer and provide options for the customer to make payment. After receiving payment, the merchant will also normally issue a receipt for the transaction. The point of sale is often referred to as the point of service because it is not just a point of sale but also a point of return or customer order. Additionally, today POS software may include additional features to cater for different functionality, such as inventory management, CRM, financials, warehousing, etc
And Why it is Essential for a Retail Business. POS or PoS is an abbreviation for Point of Sale (or Point-of-Sale, or Point of Service). The term is applicable to a retail shop or store, the checkout/cashier counter in the store, or a location where such transactions can occur in this type of environment. 
When you see POS under transaction type, you know that particular transaction was a purchase. If you go to a local retail shop and pay $50 for items with your debit card, for instance, your statement shows a line item for this transaction that includes POS as the type. If you see a POS transaction at a shop that you never made or authorized, you can check with your bank. Banks may offer reimbursement for unauthorized card use. A new card also is issued when the bank thinks transactions are fraudulent.
Point of Sale. The point of sale is the place and time at which a transaction takes place. Whenever a buyer and seller come together for the purpose of conducting a transaction, a point of sale is created. Also called a point of purchase, a point of sale can take a wide variety of forms. The phrases point of sale and transaction processing system represent two different, yet closely related concepts having to do with the sales function. Each term represents a distinct and vital link connecting consumers to businesses.
The point of sale (POS) is the time and place where a retail transaction is completed. It is the point at which a customer makes a payment to the merchant in exchange for goods or after provision of a service. The point of sale is often referred to as the point of service because it is not just a point of sale but also a point of return or customer order. Additionally, today POS software may include additional features to cater for different functionality, such as inventory management, CRM, financials, warehousing, etc
Using POS. The transaction type noted on the statement, such as POS, is helpful in reconciling your bank statement with your transaction ledger. It also allows you to watch for any unauthorized use of your debit card. If you see a POS transaction at a shop that you never made or authorized, you can check with your bank. Banks may offer reimbursement for unauthorized card use. A new card also is issued when the bank thinks transactions are fraudulent.