Steinway & Sons-Grand Pianos. The production of a Steinway grand piano takes about 12 months. If you add two years of drying and seasoning of the wood, three years have been invested and the instrument can leave the factories in New York and Hamburg to bring joy to its new owner. Throughout the manufacturing process, every grand and upright piano is meticulously hand-crafted. At 5 feet 1 inch in length, this Baby grand piano was introduced in the 1930s. Don’t let its size fool you! Steinway & Sons’ patented Diaphragmatic Soundboard—now found in every Steinway piano produced today—was first developed because of this model.
Steinway & Sons grand pianos are premium pianos in terms of quality and price, with retail prices for ebony pianos generally ranging from $44,000 to $111,000 in the Unit … ed States. How long does it usually take to learn how to read music for piano? just basic...1 year to 2 years depending on what lesson books you use and whatnot. I learned how to on my on with a teacher in around 2 1/2 years pretty good.
Uploaded on Sep 22, 2011. The making of a Steinway piano is a time-honored process involving the hands of many skilled craftspeople over the course of almost a full year. Steinway & Sons pianos are built in just two factories worldwide-one in Astoria, NY and one in Hamburg, Germany. 
A piano can cost anywhere from $3,000 to more than $100,000, depending on the brand, size and the age of the piano. A quality digital piano starts around $2,000. Upright pianos start around $3,000 and grand pianos start around $5,000 for quality used pianos. New piano price ranges are slightly higher. In 2005 one in five pianos shipped to the U.S. from Japan was a used piano. Mostly, they are 20 or 30 year old Yamaha U,G and C models, Kawai KG, and a few Young Chang, Atlas and Diapason models.
The making of a Steinway grand piano JUL 19 2013. Steinway & Sons, the celebrated piano making company, recently produced this video of how their grand pianos are constructed. Some of the shots in the two videos are identical, e.g. the men pulling the piano rim out of the mold or choosing spruce for the sounding boards.
The time it takes to learn how to efficiently play piano is all up  to you. If you put the time and the effort in, you could be playing  very well in a few months. If it's a … casual hobby and you aren't  pushing yourself, it could take a few years. How long does it usually take to learn how to read music for piano? just basic...1 year to 2 years depending on what lesson books you use and whatnot. I learned how to on my on with a teacher in around 2 1/2 years pretty good.
That's more than the 5’1 Model S baby grand (540 pounds) and the Model M Medium Grand (560 pounds). 154. The world's most expensive Steinway grand piano is a Steinway art case piano built by Steinway's factory in Hamburg, Germany, in 2008 for €1.2 million. It took Steinway about four years to build the piano. 19. In 1871, Steinway sold 2,553 pianos, and was making pianos at a rate of 1 piano per hour, or 10 pianos per day. 20. William Steinway engaged the great Russian pianist Anton Rubinstein to play Steinway pianos during an American concert tour in 1872, with 215 concerts in 239 days.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. im reading this book (James Barron, Piano: the making of a steinway concert grand), it says it takes about 11 months to make a steinway concert grand. How long does it usually take to learn how to read music for piano? just basic...1 year to 2 years depending on what lesson books you use and whatnot. I learned how to on my on with a teacher in around 2 1/2 years pretty good.
im reading this book (James Barron, Piano: the making of a steinway concert grand), it says it takes about 11 months to make a steinway concert grand. How long does it usually take to learn how to read music for piano? just basic...1 year to 2 years depending on what lesson books you use and whatnot.