Polar compounds are generally soluble in other polar compounds; non-polar compounds are generally soluble in other non-polar compounds. Molecules that can form hydrogen bonds are generally soluble with other molecules that can form hydrogen bonds (see picture below), and so forth. Oil and water don't mix. Knowing the different effects that determine solubility between compounds is of great importance in organic chemistry since solvent choice can directly determine recrystallization and reaction yields.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. This is a list of the solubility rules for ionic solids in water. Solubility is a result of an interaction between polar water molecules and the ions which make up a crystal. Two forces determine the extent to which solution will occur: 1  Force of attraction between H2O molecules and the ions of the solid. 2  This force tends to bring ions into solution.
Polar substances are likely to dissolve in polar solvents. For example, ionic compounds, which are very polar, are often soluble in the polar solvent water. Nonpolar substances are likely to dissolve in nonpolar solvents. For example, the solution of sodium hydroxide is exothermic, and the solution of sodium chloride is somewhat endothermic. Even if the solution is slightly endothermic, the tendency to shift to the higher entropy solution often makes ionic compounds soluble in water.
Solubility Rules! A basic knowledge of which compounds are soluble in aqueous solutions is essential for predicting whether a given reaction might involve formation of a precipitate (an insoluble compound). The following guidelines are generalizations. For example, NaNO 3, KCl, and LiOH are all soluble compounds. This means that an aqueous solution of KCl really contains the predominant species K + and Cl-and, because KCl is soluble, no KCl is present as a solid compound in aqueous solution: KCl (s) + (aq.) + Cl - (aq.). Rule 2
Solubility is not to be confused with the ability to 'dissolve' a substance, because the solution might also occur because of a chemical reaction. For example, zinc 'dissolves' (with effervescence) in hydrochloric acid as a result of a chemical reaction releasing hydrogen gas in a displacement reaction. The extent of solubility ranges widely, from infinitely soluble (without limit) (fully miscible) such as ethanol in water, to poorly soluble, such as silver chloride in water. The term insoluble is often applied to poorly or very poorly soluble compounds.
Solubility in organic solvents. Molecular substances are often soluble in organic solvents-which are themselves molecular. Both the solute (the substance which is dissolving) and the solvent are likely to have molecules attracted to each other by van der Waals forces. 
Solubility Rules The solubility of ionic compounds in aqueous solutions is wide and varied. Some compounds are highly soluble (e.g. NaCl), some compounds are moderately soluble (e.g. SnI2) and some compounds are highly insoluble (e.g., AgCl). Determining which compounds are soluble and not soluble in a water medium is not a simple task. However, a set of rules that help in this regard can be stated. These rules are known as solubility rules. Below is a set of solubility rules
Ionic compounds are soluble in water because it a very polar compound. Ionic compounds are also very polar and thus very soluble. The water solvates each ion in the ionic comp … ound. The negative ion of the ionic compound will be surrounded by water molecules with the hydrogen atoms closest. If an organic compound is relatively small, and has a polar end, it may become soluble in water. This depends on how long the carbon-chain is, compared to how polar the polar end of the chain is. I.e. Ethanol is polar and water soluable, while decanol is not.