While the cause may be unclear at first, most cases when the nose bleeds are minor can be managed from home. Immediate causes of nose bleed include trauma to the nose from an injury, deformities inside the nose, inflammation in the nose, or in rare cases, intranasal tumors. Any of these conditions can cause the surface blood vessels in the nose to bleed. When you have a nosebleed for no reason, the cause of your bloody nose may seem mysterious or scary, but it's probably not. 2. Dry air from indoor heating or outdoor environment, which can dry the lining of the nose. Dry air can cause the lining of the nose to crack and bleed, leading to a nosebleed. Using a humidifier while sleeping can help relieve dryness in the external environment. Use of nose sprays are helpful to humidify the nose interior
Bleeding usually occurs from only one nostril. If the bleeding is heavy enough, the blood can fill up the nostril on the affected side and overflow within the nasopharynx (the area inside the nose where the two nostrils merge), spilling into the other nostril to cause bleeding from both sides. Inability of the blood to clot is most often due to blood-thinning drugs such as warfarin (Coumadin) or aspirin. Liver disease can also interfere with blood clotting. Abnormal blood vessels or cancers in the nose are rare causes of nosebleeds.
1 Nosebleeds are common due to the location of the nose on the face, and the large amount of blood vessels in the nose. 2  The most common causes of nosebleeds are drying of the nasal membranes and nose picking (digital trauma), which can be prevented with proper lubrication of the nasal passages and not picking the nose. As a result, trauma to the face can cause nasal injury and bleeding. The bleeding may be profuse, or simply a minor complication. Nosebleeds can occur spontaneously when the nasal membranes dry out and crack. This is common in dry climates, or during the winter months when the air is dry and warm from household heaters.
Nosebleed Causes. Most commonly, trauma to the nose triggers a nosebleed. Trauma to the outside of the nose, such as a blow to the face, or trauma inside the nose, such as nose picking or repeated irritation from a cold, can cause a nosebleed. Less commonly, an underlying disease process, such as an inability of the blood to clot, may contribute to the bleeding. Inability of the blood to clot is most often due to blood-thinning drugs such as warfarin (Coumadin) or aspirin. Liver disease can also interfere with blood clotting. Abnormal blood vessels or cancers in the nose are rare causes of nosebleeds.
Causes. The lining of your nose contains many tiny blood vessels that lie close to the surface and are easily damaged. The two most common causes of nosebleeds are: 1  Dry air — when your nasal membranes dry out, they're more susceptible to bleeding and infections. 2  Nose picking. 
The nose is a part of the body rich in blood vessels (vascular) and is located in a vulnerable position protruding on the face. As a result, trauma to the face can cause nasal injury and bleeding. The bleeding may be profuse, or simply a minor complication. Nosebleeds can occur spontaneously when the nasal membranes dry out and crack. This is common in dry climates, or during the winter months when the air is dry and warm from household heaters.
Nosebleed facts. 1  The definition of a nosebleed is simply bleeding from the blood vessels in the nose. 2  The medical term for nosebleed is epistaxis. 3  Nosebleeds are common due to the location of the nose on the face, and the large amount of blood vessels in the nose. As a result, trauma to the face can cause nasal injury and bleeding. The bleeding may be profuse, or simply a minor complication. Nosebleeds can occur spontaneously when the nasal membranes dry out and crack. This is common in dry climates, or during the winter months when the air is dry and warm from household heaters.
Epistaxis (from Greek: ἐπιστάζω epistazo, to bleed from the nose from ἐπί epi, above, over and στάζω stazo, to drip [from the nostrils]) or a nosebleed is the relatively common occurrence of hemorrhage from the nose, usually noticed when the blood drains out through the nostrils. 
1 The definition of a nosebleed is simply bleeding from the blood vessels in the nose. 2  The medical term for nosebleed is epistaxis. 3  Nosebleeds are common due to the location of the nose on the face, and the large amount of blood vessels in the nose. As a result, trauma to the face can cause nasal injury and bleeding. The bleeding may be profuse, or simply a minor complication. Nosebleeds can occur spontaneously when the nasal membranes dry out and crack. This is common in dry climates, or during the winter months when the air is dry and warm from household heaters.