The water cycle, air pressure, and weather are actually very closely related. The water cycle is the process of water being drawn up from the ground into the sky, where air pressure is lower. (Pressure gets lower as altitude increases, since there is less air available to press down). Once the water vapor gets high enough, the low air pressure causes it to cool and condense, creating clouds.
Confidence votes 252. The water cycle, air pressure, and weather are actually very closely related. The water cycle is the process of water being drawn up from the ground into the sky, where air pressure is lower. (Pressure gets lower as altitude increases, since there is less air available to press down). Once the water vapor gets high enough, the low air pressure causes it to cool and condense, creating clouds.
The water cycle is all about storing water and moving water on, in, and above the Earth. Although the atmosphere may not be a great storehouse of water, it is the superhighway used to move water around the globe. There is always water in the atmosphere.
This continuous process of precipitation and evaporation is called the water cycle, or hydrologic cycle. It's been going on ever since oceans were formed on this planet 3.8 billion years ago. Earth was formed 4.6 billion years ago, but water was not present at the start.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The carbon cycle is closely related to photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is the process by which carbon is exchanged from the atmosphere (in the form of CO2) into the biosphere (in the form of glucose).
The water cycle is a very important part of weather. The water evaporates from the ground into the air as water vapor and the water vapor condenses and forms clouds. Then it f … alls as precipitation back to the ground, which then returns to the streams, ponds, lakes, and oceans.
The phase of water is determined by its temperature and pressure. Water is essential for life on earth. It is recycled through the water or hydrologic cycle, which involves the following processes: 1  Evaporation, the changing of water from a liquid to a gas. 2  Condensation, the changing of water from a gas to a liquid.