Vegemite (/ˈvɛdʒɨmaɪt/ VEJ-ə-myt) is a dark brown Australian food paste made from leftover brewers' yeast extract with various vegetable and spice additives developed by Cyril P. Callister in Melbourne, Victoria, in 1922. A spread for sandwiches, toast, crumpets and cracker biscuits as well as a filling for pastries, Vegemite is similar to British, New Zealand and South African Marmite, Australian Promite, Swiss Cenovis and German Hefeextrakt.
Jamie Callister is the grandson of Cyril Percy Callister, the man who invented Vegemite. Jamie's late father Bill was one of the original Vegemite kids. He and his siblings Jean and Ian got to taste the experimental pastes that Cyril brought home from Fred Walker & Company lab in Melbourne. Now Jamie has turned his research into a book, The Man Who Invented Vegemite. Cyril, born into a humble family in rural Victoria in 1893, studied science at university and worked as a munitions chemist in Britain during World War I.
Vegemite is a dark spread made out of brewer's yeast, developed following World War 1, and iconic to Australia.   Vegemite was the idea of Fred Walker whose Australian comp … any, Fred Walker and Co, developed it in 1922 and registered it the following year. The product was introduced to the Australian public on 13 June 1923.
Vegemite was invented in 1922 by Fred Walker and Dr. Cyril Callister. Vegemite was the idea of Fred Walker whose Australian comp … any, Fred Walker and Co, developed it in 1922 and registered it the following year. The product was introduced to the Australian public on 13 June 1923.
History. Vegemite is a dark brown savory spread. It was invented in 1922 by Dr. Cyril Callister, a chemist employed by the Fred Walker Company which later became Kraft Foods Limited. The spread hit the shelves the following year, it took a long 14 years for it to become popular. 
Vegemite was first developed in 1922 by food technologist Dr Cyril P Callister when his employer, the Australian Fred Walker Company, had him develop a spread from brewer's ye … ast after World War I had disrupted the supply of imported yeast spreads. Vegemite was the idea of Fred Walker whose Australian comp … any, Fred Walker and Co, developed it in 1922 and registered it the following year.
Vegemite is a dark spread made out of brewer's yeast, developed following World War 1, and iconic to Australia.   Vegemite was the idea of Fred Walker whose Australian comp … any, Fred Walker and Co, developed it in 1922 and registered it the following year. The product was introduced to the Australian public on 13 June 1923.
The Discovery. The VEGEMITE brand has a history spanning nearly 90 years. Its story began in 1922 when the Fred Walker Company, which would later become Kraft Food Company, hired a young chemist to develop a spread from one of the richest known natural sources in the Vitamin B group – brewer’s yeast. 