If you have questions, contact your local WIC office for more information. The first WIC visit (appointment) can take from 1-2 hours. The next appointments you have for WIC usually takes between 20 minutes to 1 hour. Depending on the person, the next appointment may be in 1, 2 or 3 months. If the WIC services are for a child, the child must be there. If an applicant is seriously ill or in the hospital, the applicant may not have to be at the appointment. If you have questions, contact your local WIC office for more information. T 
Women, Infants and Children (WIC) is a supplemental nutrition program for pregnant women, breastfeeding women, women who had a baby within the last six months, infants, and children under the age of five. One must meet income requirements and have a nutritional risk that proper nutrition could help to improve. 
To apply for WIC, contact a local WIC office. Find the local phone number in the list or call 1-800-342-3556 and ask for the phone number of your local WIC office. The local WIC office will give you an appointment to see if you are eligible for WIC. WIC EBT Card. Florida WIC clients use a WIC EBT card to purchase WIC approved foods at authorized WIC grocery stores. If you have a WIC EBT Card and have questions or problems using your card, call WIC EBT Customer Service at 1-866-629-1095. Check your balance before shopping.
If you meet the income and nutrition requirements: 1  Infants and children can stay on WIC until 5 years of age. 2  Women who are pregnant receive WIC benefits for the duration of their pregnancy. 3  Women who are exclusively or mostly breastfeeding receive WIC benefits until their baby is 1 year old. 1 Pregnant women. 2  Women who are breastfeeding a baby up to 1 year of age. 3  Women who have had a baby in the past six months. 4  Parents, step-parents, guardians, and foster parents of infants and children under the age of 5.
Providing you continue to meet the income eligibility guidelines and schedule your WIC appointments, pregnant women can receive WIC benefits for up to six months after the birth of their baby or up to a year if they are breastfeeding. Children can remain on the program until their fifth birthday. You can only use your voucher at a WIC-approved store. Click here to find a store near you. Each voucher is good for a specific time period. Make sure to use your voucher between the first and last day listed on the voucher. Each voucher is only good for the foods listed on it.
Food items are delivered to your home about 10 days after your first WIC appointment. If you live in an area where food is not delivered, WIC staff will help you and your vendor find a place where your food can be delivered. Every 6 months, WIC staff will check to see if you, or your child, still qualify for WIC. This is called recertification. You will need to make an appointment to see us and bring: 1  Proof of residency, identity, and income (a Medicaid or Dr. Dynasaur card is considered proof of all three).
1 Women who are pregnant receive WIC benefits for the duration of their pregnancy. 2  Women who are exclusively or mostly breastfeeding receive WIC benefits until their baby is 1 year old. 3  Women who are mostly or only-formula feeding receive WIC benefits until their baby is 6 months old. 1 Pregnant women. 2  Women who are breastfeeding a baby up to 1 year of age. 3  Women who have had a baby in the past six months. 4  Parents, step-parents, guardians, and foster parents of infants and children under the age of 5.
1 Infants and children can stay on WIC until 5 years of age. 2  Women who are pregnant receive WIC benefits for the duration of their pregnancy. 3  Women who are exclusively or mostly breastfeeding receive WIC benefits until their baby is 1 year old. 1 Pregnant women. 2  Women who are breastfeeding a baby up to 1 year of age. 3  Women who have had a baby in the past six months. 4  Parents, step-parents, guardians, and foster parents of infants and children under the age of 5.
At your first appointment and as needed, we will check to see if you or your child is eligible for WIC. We will ask: 1  You to bring your infant or child to the WIC office. 2  You to show us personal ID. 3  For the medical form filled out by your doctor. 4  For proof of your income. 5  For proof of your address. 