2.2 Procedures involving ionising radiation include: Diagnostic X-rays, CT scans or DXA scans Radiotherapy (including brachytherapy and therapy using unsealed sources) Radionuclide imaging (including diagnostic imaging and in vitro measurements).
Bone density scanning, also called dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA or DEXA) or bone densitometry, is an enhanced form of x-ray technology that is used to measure bone loss. DEXA is today's established standard for measuring bone mineral density (BMD).
1 The amount of radiation used is extremely small—less than one-tenth the dose of a standard chest x-ray, and less than a day's exposure to natural radiation. 2  DXA bone density testing is the most accurate method available for the diagnosis of osteoporosis and is also considered an accurate estimator of fracture risk.
An x-ray (radiograph) is a painless medical test that helps physicians diagnose and treat medical conditions. Radiography involves exposing a part of the body to a small dose of ionizing radiation to produce pictures of the inside of the body. X-rays are the oldest and most frequently used form of medical imaging.
1 DXA equipment is widely available making DXA bone densitometry testing convenient for patients and physicians alike. 2  No radiation remains in a patient's body after an x-ray examination. 3  X-rays usually have no side effects in the typical diagnostic range for this exam.
Bone density scanning, also called dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) or bone densitometry, is an enhanced form of x-ray technology that is used to measure bone loss. DXA is today's established standard for measuring bone mineral density (BMD).
DXA equipment is widely available making DXA bone densitometry testing convenient forpatients and physicians alike.No radiation remains in a patient's body after an x-ray examination. X-rays usually have no side effects in the typical diagnostic range for this exam.
Benefits DXA bone densitometry is a simple, quick and noninvasive procedure.No anesthesia is required. The amount of radiation used is extremely small—less than one-tenth the dose of a standard chestx-ray, and less than a day's exposure to natural radiation.
Imaging with x-rays involves exposing a part of the body to a small dose of ionizing radiation to produce pictures of the inside of the body. X-rays are the oldest and most frequently used form of medical imaging. DXA is most often performed on the lower spine and hips.
Bone density scanning, also called dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) or bone densitometry, is anenhanced form of x-ray technology that is used to measure bone loss.