If you receive a third offense, it is considered either a felony or a class A misdemeanor depending on the circumstances. The sentencing can include up to five years in jail and/or a fee of five thousand dollars. The first offense for possession of Marijuana in the state of Louisiana is considered a misdemeanor, class A. The sentence for this can include a fine of five hundred dollars and/or up to six months of jail time.
The prosecutor has authority to amend charges prior to trial. A misdemeanor charge can be amended to a felony charge if there is probable cause for a felony charge. Sometimes, an offense is initially charged as a misdemeanor before all the evidence is known or properly evaluated. However, once a defendant pleads to a misdemeanor, the misdemeanor conviction cannot be magically upgraded to a felony. Felony charges can not be based on charges which have ended in the Defendant's pleading to a misdemeanor.
When one is charged with a felony that can also be charged as a misdemeanor and one was sentenced to probation or jail less than one year (not prison), one may ask the judge to reduce the charge to a misdemeanor under Penal Code § 17(b). Alternatively, for a relatively small number of felonies that are not considered “wobblers,” the judge can sentence the individual to county jail under Penal Code § 18, making the conviction a misdemeanor instead of a felony. There are countless reasons one may need a felony conviction off one’s record
Some crimes can be considered either a misdemeanor and a felony depending on the severity. If you are convicted of a felony crime then you are subject to a fee of one thousand dollars or more and/or a minimum of one year in jail. The severity of the sentence depends upon the severity of the charge. The first offense for possession of Marijuana in the state of Louisiana is considered a misdemeanor, class A. The sentence for this can include a fine of five hundred dollars and/or up to six months of jail time.
There are several common offenses that a prosecutor can chose to charge as either a felony or a misdemeanor, depending upon the facts of the case and the defendant’s criminal history. In other words, the charge can “wobble” between a felony and a misdemeanor. Alternatively, for a relatively small number of felonies that are not considered “wobblers,” the judge can sentence the individual to county jail under Penal Code § 18, making the conviction a misdemeanor instead of a felony. There are countless reasons one may need a felony conviction off one’s record
The sentencing for these can include either up to six months in jail and/or a fine of five hundred dollars. If you are charged with a second offense for wither of these the crime remains a class A misdemeanor but the sentencing is increased to up to one year of time in jail and/or a fine of one thousand dollars. The first offense for possession of Marijuana in the state of Louisiana is considered a misdemeanor, class A. The sentence for this can include a fine of five hundred dollars and/or up to six months of jail time.
Most importantly, when a judge reduces a felony to a misdemeanor, one can legally state thereafter that he or she has never been convicted of a felony. Once an offense is reduced to a misdemeanor and one has successfully completed all terms of probation, expungement of the conviction is available. Alternatively, for a relatively small number of felonies that are not considered “wobblers,” the judge can sentence the individual to county jail under Penal Code § 18, making the conviction a misdemeanor instead of a felony. There are countless reasons one may need a felony conviction off one’s record
Within the statute of limitations, a charge can be enhanced from a misdemeanor to a felony based on the elements of the offense or built in enhancing factors. For example, a misdemeanor retail theft can be enhanced to a felony if the accused has a conviction for a prior retail theft. However, once a defendant pleads to a misdemeanor, the misdemeanor conviction cannot be magically upgraded to a felony. Felony charges can not be based on charges which have ended in the Defendant's pleading to a misdemeanor.
If you are convicted of any felony gun charges your right to own, possess, or acquire a firearm will be revoked for life. There are also certain misdemeanor firearm offenses that will impose the same restriction such as: 1  Assault with a firearm. 2  Shooting at an inhabited dwelling. 3  Brandishing a weapon. Some gun charges are considered misdemeanors while others are considered felonies. In gun charge cases the Judge will typically look at the following factors when considering what penalty to impose: 1  Whether the gun charge is a misdemeanor or a felony. 2  What type of firearm was used.