What You Waiting For?  is a song by American singer Gwen Stefani from her debut solo studio album Love. Angel. Music. Baby. (2004). Welsh indie pop singer Marina and the Diamonds covered What You Waiting For? during some of her early live performances in 2009. Mary Bellamy of Drowned in Sound referred to her debut album The Family Jewels (2010) as an extended album length re-write of What You Waiting For?.
The chorus is a boost of confidence for her and continues the song's time motif with the lines Look at your watch now/You're still a super hot female. Backed by perfect octave dyads, Stefani sings a verse about her excitement for her future, and the two personalities merge into one during the coda. Welsh indie pop singer Marina and the Diamonds covered What You Waiting For? during some of her early live performances in 2009. Mary Bellamy of Drowned in Sound referred to her debut album The Family Jewels (2010) as an extended album length re-write of What You Waiting For?.
What You Waiting For? was released as the album's lead single; according to Stefani, as an explanation for doing the record. The single sold well, reached the top twenty in many countries, and topped the singles chart in Australia. Welsh indie pop singer Marina and the Diamonds covered What You Waiting For? during some of her early live performances in 2009. Mary Bellamy of Drowned in Sound referred to her debut album The Family Jewels (2010) as an extended album length re-write of What You Waiting For?.
I dont know how else to explain since I heard just a bit of the... show more Hi, I heard a song on the internet but it didnt show the artist or the song name. It goes What are you waiting for but the singer repeats that line alot. I looked it up, but no luck. It sounds a bit like electronica and has a good beat. I dont know how else to explain since I heard just a bit of the song. 
Song from 2014 Nissan Rogue TV Commercial. Oh yeah! Ive been waiting for another commercial song like this one. Its not often that you hear a song on a commercial add that you know will drive sales for a song but this one surely does it! This is a very catchy pop/techno sounding song that has a sound similar to the production style of an Alvin Risk. 
What Are You Waiting For?  is a song by the Canadian rock band Nickelback from their eighth studio album, No Fixed Address, and released as the second overall single and lead pop single off the album. Though in an interview with Chad Kroeger on Hard Drive Radio, Chad announced that the music video was being delayed due to the band not agreeing on the storyline for the song. He also stated that the storyline has been reshot numerous amounts of times.
Slant Magazine 's Sal Cinquemani agreed, stating that it's this impishness that helps make 'What You Waiting For' one of the hottest 'arrival' songs of all time. Richard Smirke of Playlouder found the track's production crisp and edgy, and Jennifer Nine of Yahoo! Music called the song itchily irresistible. Welsh indie pop singer Marina and the Diamonds covered What You Waiting For? during some of her early live performances in 2009. Mary Bellamy of Drowned in Sound referred to her debut album The Family Jewels (2010) as an extended album length re-write of What You Waiting For?.