Protecting the American people from terrorist threats is the reason the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was created, and remains our highest priority.
With the passage of the Homeland Security Act by Congress in November 2002, the Department of Homeland Security formally came into being as a stand-alone, Cabinet-level department to further coordinate and unify national homeland security efforts, opening its doors on March 1, 2003.
Created in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, DHS has largely focused on federal preparations to deal with terrorism while trying to manage other duties, including border security, customs and emergency management.
Preventing Terrorism Results. Protecting the United States from terrorism is the founding mission of DHS. While America is stronger and more resilient as a result of a strengthened homeland security enterprise, terrorist threats persist and continue to evolve.
DHS was created by the Department of Homeland Security Act of 2002, and is an outgrowth of the Office of Homeland Security established by President George W. Bush after Sept. 11, 2001.
In fact, during the Clinton presidency, FEMA was elevated to agency level after Hurricane Andrew. However, when DHS was created under the Homeland Security Act of 2002, FEMA was brought under DHS's leadership along with 21 other agencies.
The Oklahoma Office of Homeland Security is responsible for formulating the State Homeland Security Strategy and setting resulting policy, with the Governor’s approval, for the State of Oklahoma. The Oklahoma Office of Homeland Security was created by the Oklahoma Homeland Security Act (Act) in 2004.
The Homeland Security Act called for pulling together various federal agencies and offices into the newly established Department of Homeland Security (DHS), led by the first Secretary of Homeland Security, Tom Ridge, former Republican governor of Pennsylvania.
Protecting the American people from terrorist threats is the reason the Department of Homeland Security was created, and remains our highest priority.