3. : a person or an organization that pays for or plans and carries out a project or activity; especially: one that pays the cost of a radio or television program usually in return for advertising time during its course. — spon·so·ri·al \spaen-spän-ˈsȯr-ē\ əl. — adjective·spon·sor \ship(ˈspaen)-ˈspän-t\ sər. ˌship noun Full Definition of SPONSOR. 1. : one who presents a candidate for baptism or confirmation and undertakes responsibility for the person's religious education or spiritual welfare. 2. : one who assumes responsibility for some other person or thing.
Definitions (4). 1. Individual or entity who organizes and is committed to the development of a product, program, or project. 2. Advertiser who pays (in part or in full) the cost of broadcasting a radio or television program, by running commercials during the program's broadcast. If you can't come up with all the money you need for a new venture you can look for a sponsor that can help you get the rest. 10 people found this helpful.
: a person or organization that pays the cost of an activity or event (such as a radio or television program, sports event, concert, etc.) in return for the right to advertise during the activity or event. Full Definition of SPONSOR. 1. : one who presents a candidate for baptism or confirmation and undertakes responsibility for the person's religious education or spiritual welfare. 2. : one who assumes responsibility for some other person or thing.
Related Terms: Charitable Giving. Corporate sponsorship is a form of advertising in which companies pay to be associated with certain events. When the sponsorship of a nonprofit or charitable event is involved, the sponsorship activity is often referred to as event marketing or cause marketing. Corporate sponsorship has been growing rapidly in recent years, faster, in fact, than the growth in overall corporate advertising in the late 1990s
Sponsorship advertising is a type of advertising where a company pays to be associated with a specific event. In fact, sponsorship advertising is very prevalent with charitable events. Besides from charitable events, companies may sponsor local sporting teams, sports tournaments, fairs, and other community events. The idea is to get your name out and be viewed positively as a participating member of your community.
Definition of SPONSOR for Kids. 1. : a person who takes the responsibility for some other person or thing. 2. : a person who represents someone being baptized and takes responsibility for his or her spiritual development: godparent. 3. : a person or an organization that pays for or plans and carries out a project or activity. 4. Full Definition of SPONSOR. 1. : one who presents a candidate for baptism or confirmation and undertakes responsibility for the person's religious education or spiritual welfare. 2. : one who assumes
Use sponsor in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. The definition of sponsor is to provide funding for something, or to pledge to fund something. When you pay for an event to take place, this is an example of a situation where you sponsor an event. 1  a person or agency that undertakes certain responsibilities in connection with some other person or some group or activity, as in being a proponent, endorser, advisor, underwriter, surety, etc.
Sponsorship is a cash and/or in-kind fee paid to a property (typically in sports, arts, entertainment or causes) in return for access to the exploitable commercial potential associated with that property, according to IEG. 
A form marketing in which a corporation pays for all of some of the costs associated with a project or program in exchange for recognition. Corporate sponsorships are commonly associated with nonprofit groups, who generally would not be able to fund operations and activities without outside financial assistance.