Research Papers. 1  Establish your topic. 2  Look for sources of information. 3  Read your sources and take notes. 4  Organize your ideas. 5  Write a first draft. 6  Use footnotes or endnotes to document sources. 7  Write a bibliography. 8  Revise the first draft. 1 Look for sources of information. 2  Read your sources and take notes. 3  Organize your ideas. 4  Write a first draft. 5  Use footnotes or endnotes to document sources. 6  Write a bibliography. 7  Revise the first draft. 8  Proofread the final draft.
Or, you can also use endnotes/footnotes for occasional explanatory notes (also known as content notes), which refers to brief additional information that might be too digressive for the main text: 4. In a 1998 interview, she reiterated this point even more strongly: I am an artist, not a politician! (Weller 124). This resource, updated to reflect the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers (7 th ed.) and the MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing (3 rd ed.), offers examples for the general format of MLA research papers, in-text citations, endnotes/footnotes, and the Works Cited page.
To view examples, see Chapter 8. First Footnotes and Endnotes-Examples in MLA Style as well as Footnotes-Sample Page and Endnotes-Sample Page. Footnotes and Endnotes are used to give credit to sources of any material borrowed, summarized or paraphrased. Double-space between entries. Number Footnotes and Endnotes consecutively using a superscript, e.g., 7. For Endnotes, you must use the same superscript number (as in your text) at the beginning of each Endnote in your Endnotes list. Start your list of Endnotes on a new page at the end of your essay. Remember to put the Endnotes page before the Bibliography, or Works Cited, or References page
1 Read your sources and take notes. 2  Organize your ideas. 3  Write a first draft. 4  Use footnotes or endnotes to document sources. 5  Write a bibliography. 6  Revise the first draft. 7  Proofread the final draft. 1 Look for sources of information. 2  Read your sources and take notes. 3  Organize your ideas. 4  Write a first draft. 5  Use footnotes or endnotes to document sources. 6  Write a bibliography. 7  Revise the first draft. 8  Proofread the final draft.
If you are going to use endnotes in a paper for a literature, philosophy, religion, art, or music class, you will usually need to follow the MLA style. 1  MLA is very similar to the Chicago style, the major differences being in their use of commas. Insert note numbers in the text to reference your endnotes. You should insert a superscript number in your text immediately after you reference someone else’s work. The same number will appear in the endnote section at the end of your manuscript, allowing your reader to look up the citation.
Research Paper: Use Footnotes and Endnotes. 1  As you write your first draft, including the introduction, body, and conclusion, add the information or quotations on your note cards to support your ideas. 2  Use footnotes or endnotes to identify the sources of this information. If you are using footnotes, the note will appear on the same page as the information you are documenting, at the bottom (or foot) of the page. If you are using endnotes, the note will appear together with all other notes on a separate page at the end of your report, just before the bibliography. As you write your first draft, including the introduction, body, and conclusion, add the information or quotations on your note cards to support your ideas.
2. Go to the end of the sentence you want to footnote. In Microsoft Word, you would go to the References tab, click on the Footnotes group and select Insert Footnote.. A number 1 should appear to the right of the sentence, and a number 1 will appear in the footer of your first page. In the footer, type the information you'd like to include foot-noted. 1 The cursor should be placed after any punctuation. 2  The number linking to the footnote should appear outside the sentence, not inside of it. 3  If you do not know where to find the menu to insert footnotes in your word processing program, go to the help menu and research it before starting to footnote your paper.
For more information on using endnotes and footnotes, consult “Using Notes with Parenthetical Documentation” in the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers, 7 th ed. sec. 6.5, 230-32), or the MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing, (3 rd ed. sec. 7.5, 259-60). This resource, updated to reflect the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers (7 th ed.) and the MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing (3 rd ed.), offers examples for the general format of MLA research papers, in-text citations, endnotes/footnotes, and the Works Cited page.