VA will pay up to $700 toward burial and funeral expenses for deaths on or after October 1, 2011 (if hospitalized by VA at time of death), or $300 toward burial and funeral expenses (if not hospitalized by VA at time of death), and a $700 plot-interment allowance (if not buried in a national cemetery). For deaths on or after April 1, 1988 but before October 1, 2011, VA will pay $300 toward burial and funeral expenses (for Veterans hospitalized by VA at the time of death).
A mausoleum is an above-ground structure for the entombment of human remains. Mausoleums have been used for hundreds of years. Modern building methods permit construction of enduring beautiful mausoleums at prices affordable to nearly everyone. A crypt space is where a casket is placed. 
VA will pay up to $2,000 toward burial expenses for deaths on or after September 11, 2001, or up to $1,500 for deaths prior to September 11, 2001. If the Veteran is buried in a VA national cemetery, some or all of the cost of transporting the deceased may be reimbursed. For deaths on or after April 1, 1988 but before October 1, 2011, VA will pay $300 toward burial and funeral expenses (for Veterans hospitalized by VA at the time of death).
1 The new burial regulations will permit VA to pay, at a flat rate, burial and plot or interment allowances thereby enabling VA to automate payment of burial benefits to most eligible surviving spouses and more efficiently process other burial benefit claims. For deaths on or after April 1, 1988 but before October 1, 2011, VA will pay $300 toward burial and funeral expenses (for Veterans hospitalized by VA at the time of death).
For Burial in a National Cemetery. Burial benefits available include a gravesite in any of our 131 national cemeteries with available space, opening and closing of the grave, perpetual care, a Government headstone or marker, a burial flag, and a Presidential Memorial Certificate, at no cost to the family. Burial benefits available for Veterans buried in a private cemetery may include a Government headstone, marker or medallion
Service-Related Death. VA will pay up to $2,000 toward burial expenses for deaths on or after September 11, 2001, or up to $1,500 for deaths prior to September 11, 2001. If the Veteran is buried in a VA national cemetery, some or all of the cost of transporting the deceased may be reimbursed. Eligible Spouses and Children may be buried in a national cemetery even if they predecease the Veteran. To confirm your eligibility for burial benefits, please call a Veteran's Benefits Counselor at: 1-800-827-1000 or visit the web site at www.cem.va.gov.
For Burial in a Private Cemetery. Burial benefits available for Veterans buried in a private cemetery may include a Government headstone, marker or medallion, a burial flag, and a Presidential Memorial Certificate, at no cost to the family. Some Veterans may also be eligible for Burial Allowances
Mausoleum crypts are both clean and dry. They offer a viable alternative for those who simply have an aversion to being interred in the ground. Furthermore, with the growing shortage of available land for cemetery use, mausolea allow for a maximum number of entombments in a minimum amount of space.
M ausoleum burial is a highly desirable form of interment among families who can afford the associated costs. Mausoleum burial offers a dignified alternative to ground burial, and offers many benefits to grieving family members. Many who chose mausoleum burial do so to honor a distinctive life, as a loving way to memorialize the deceased, and to provide a beautiful place to visit and remember their loved ones. Underground burial is often associated with a traditional funeral, but mausoleum interment also has a long history in funeral rites. Mausoleum burial has been practiced all the way back to ancient civilizations. Mausoleum burial. 1  Provides an exceptional memorial for distinctive persons. 2  Is a good option for people who have an aversion to being interred in the ground. 3  Offers a quiet, personal place to visit and remember the deceased