Studying in Israel is the place to find all you need about academic tracks in English: undergraduate or graduate degrees, as well as non-degree tracks such as student exchange programs, internships and other semestrial or yearly programs. Israeli universities and several colleges offer semestrial, summer or yearly exchange programs. Such programs give students an opportunity to get a taste of Israeli life and academia. It is important to note that several Israeli academic institutions participate in the EU's Erasmus Mundus programs and projects.
With American Jewish families increasingly feeling the strain of what has come to be known as the Jewish day school “tuition crisis,” the allure of free, Jewish, public education in Israel is enticing, especially for those who are already considering aliyah for ideological or spiritual reasons. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. There are nine universities and several dozen colleges in Israel, which are recognized and academically supervised by the Council for Higher Education in Israel. In addition, Israel founded a university in Ariel in the West Bank, which is recognized and academically supervised by the Council for Higher Education in Judea and Samaria. As many course offerings are varied, Israeli universities are considered to be of top quality, and they are inexpensive to attend
The primary difference between a university and a college in Israel is that only a university can confer doctorate degrees, and therefore tends to be more research-oriented than the more teaching-oriented colleges. In addition, Israel founded a university in Ariel in the West Bank, which is recognized and academically supervised by the Council for Higher Education in Judea and Samaria. As many course offerings are varied, Israeli universities are considered to be of top quality, and they are inexpensive to attend
For information about specific academic programs in Israel, please see Council for Higher Education and www.science.co.il. There are nine major universities in Israel,and many colleges (Michlalot). 1  Hebrew University, has three campuses, two in Jerusalem and one in Rechovot. 2  It has universal renown and a variety of fields of study ranging from humanities to sciences and engineering. 1 Bar Ilan University is located in Ramat Gan, near Tel Aviv, and has the benefit of an advanced Torah study option on campus. 2  Ben Gurion University in Beer Sheva is named after the first prime minister of Israel.
Education in Israel refers to the comprehensive education system of Israel. Expenditure on education accounts for approximately 10% of GDP, and most schools are subsidized by the state. The education system consists of three tiers: primary education (grades 1-6, approx. After secondary education, students are generally conscripted into the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), but may request a postponement of the conscription date to study at a pre-service Mechina, or in a college or university.
The Israeli education system has been praised for various reasons, including its high quality and its major role in spurring Israel's economic development and technological boom. After secondary education, students are generally conscripted into the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), but may request a postponement of the conscription date to study at a pre-service Mechina, or in a college or university.
Education in Israel is highly valued in the national culture with its historical values dating back to Ancient Israel as education was viewed as one of the fundamental blocks of Ancient Israelite life and civilization. After secondary education, students are generally conscripted into the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), but may request a postponement of the conscription date to study at a pre-service Mechina, or in a college or university.
In Israel you can find various undergraduate programs in English. This might be a good opportunity for students who either consider making Aliyah or just wish to spend a few years in Israel and enjoy studying at the prestigious Israeli academic intuitions. Israeli universities and several colleges offer semestrial, summer or yearly exchange programs. Such programs give students an opportunity to get a taste of Israeli life and academia. It is important to note that several Israeli academic institutions participate in the EU's Erasmus Mundus programs and projects.