I'm wondering about the minimum vertical space required for a dishwasher. According to the manufacturer's website (Sears), the model I'm interested in is 34 1/4. I easily have that much between the floor and the bottom of the counter, but there's a lip on the front of the counter that's only 33 5/8 to the floor. 
1 Most standard built-in dishwashers need at least a 24-inch (60 cm) wide opening. 2  If necessary, you can adjust your cupboard to the height of the dishwasher by removing the cupboard top, or adding an overhang to cover a gap between the top of the dishwasher and the countertop. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/4/4c/Install a Built In Dishwasher Step 2.360p.mp4. 1  Turn the water supply off and disconnect the sink's hot water supply inlet. 2  Using the dual outlet valve, you can turn the water off to either the dishwasher unit or the sink, so that the water flows to the other at the same time.
The home improvement website Kitchens.com goes on to elaborate that the standard size for a built-in dishwasher is 24 inches wide by 24 inches deep, and the standard built-in model has a height of 35 inches. Special Designs. Not every home or apartment can accommodate a standard built-in dishwasher. According to the Dishwasher Guru, many manufacturers offer a special “slimline” model that measures only 18 inches wide rather than the standard 24 inches.
1 If you are installing a dishwasher for the first time in a space, drill holes through the cabinet for the dishwasher's electric wires, water inlets and drain tube. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/4/4c/Install a Built In Dishwasher Step 2.360p.mp4. 1  Turn the water supply off and disconnect the sink's hot water supply inlet. 2  Using the dual outlet valve, you can turn the water off to either the dishwasher unit or the sink, so that the water flows to the other at the same time.
They require the same 24-inch depth and 35-inch height opening of a standard dishwasher, but they require much more width. The most common width for an oversized dishwasher is 30 inches, but they are available in widths as large as 42 inches. Typically, however, an oversized dishwasher must be specified at the time of the cabinet order to accommodate the extra width in the design. The vast majority of undercounter dishwashers measure approximately 24 inches in width, 24 inches in depth and 35 inches in height with adjustable feet. This means that the rough opening in your cabinets must be 24- by 24- by 35-inch. The dishwasher itself may be somewhere around 23 5/8 by 23 5/8 by 34 inches
More than 48 inches is overkill. In a tiny kitchen, the minimum aisle width is 36 inches. 4. Plan for Sufficient Counter Space. You need at least 36 inches or clear, uninterrupted counter space for prep work -- and 42 inches is better if you roll out dough.
The space for the dishwasher should be thirty four and one half inches high and the width should be twenty four and an eight to a quarter inches wide. D/W opening size when installing cabinet: Allow 24W x 34 ½H X 24 D (+or – ¼”). Do not cheat on the depth; it must be twenty four inches. The width can be a little bigger, not smaller.
Size and capacity: The standard dishwasher size is 24 inches wide. A standard dishwasher has a capacity size of 12 place settings. The standard 24-inch dishwasher is a good size for a family of four or more. If you have a very large family, a 30-inch dishwasher is an option if you have the kitchen space. For couples, singles and small families, a compact, 18-inch dishwasher with a capacity of about eight place settings will be adequate.