In clinical pathology, urine specific gravity is a measure or urinalysis parameter that is often used to evaluate kidney function and can help in the identification of a variety of renal diseases. The urine specific gravity test is also commonly referred to as a urine density test. Like the osmolality test, which is a lot more specific, this test identifies urine concentration, but it is a lot easier and more convenient to use.
Normal specific gravity test results fall between the range of 1.020 to 1.028 urine concentration for a patient with normally functioning kidneys. However, MedlinePlus warns that different laboratories may have different normal ranges and recommends talking to your doctor about the meaning of your individual results. Indication. A normal result for a specific gravity urinalysis indicates that your kidneys function properly in their ability to balance the amount of water in the urine. Normal urine concentration can also indicate that several diseases or conditions are not present in the patient.
This test is known as urine specific gravity, and it is a test that measures the concentration of solutes in the urine. Solutes, in case you didn't know, are substances that are dissolved within something. For example, sugar becomes a solute when dissolved in water. 
The specific gravity of urine. When looking at the results of a urine test (urinalysis test), specifically the results of the specific gravity urine test a person could deduce certain information regarding the health of the test subject.
Specific Gravity Test-Test Urine Analysis. Normal specific gravity range in urine The normal range of specific gravity in human urine is from 1.003 to 1.030. Values outside this range may be the result of specimen dilution, adulteration or may be indicative of a number of health related problems. When looking at the results of a urine test (urinalysis test), specifically the results of the specific gravity urine test a person could deduce certain information regarding the health of the test subject.
Tweet. In clinical pathology, urine specific gravity is a measure or urinalysis parameter that is often used to evaluate kidney function and can help in the identification of a variety of renal diseases. The urine specific gravity test is also commonly referred to as a urine density test. Like the osmolality test, which is a lot more specific, this test identifies urine concentration, but it is a lot easier and more convenient to use.
Reference Range. Urinary specific gravity (SG) is a measure of the concentration of solutes in the urine. It measures the ratio of urine density compared with water density and provides information on the kidney’s ability to concentrate urine. A urinary specific gravity measurement is a routine part of urinalysis. Description. Urinary specific gravity is a measure of the concentration of solutes in the urine and provides information on the kidney’s ability to concentrate urine. Urine osmolality is a more specific test for urine concentration; however, urine specific gravity measurement is a routine part of urinalysis.
A urine sample is a painless way for your doctor to evaluate your health and test for abnormalities. One thing your doctor may check for in your urine sample test (urinalysis) is specific gravity. A urine specific gravity test compares the density of urine to the density of water. This quick test can help determine how efficiently your kidneys are diluting your urine. Urine that’s too concentrated may indicate that your kidneys aren’t functioning properly, or simply that you aren’t drinking enough water. A valid sample for urine specific gravity testing contains at least 1 to 2 ounces of urine. The best time to obtain the sample is first thing in the morning, when your urine is the most concentrated.
The normal results for a urine specific gravity test would range from 1.002 to 1.028 g/ml. These value ranges may however vary mildly among different laboratories. It would also be wise to keep in mind that there are certain factors that can influence the outcome or findings of the test. The urine specific gravity test is also commonly referred to as a urine density test. Like the osmolality test, which is a lot more specific, this test identifies urine concentration, but it is a lot easier and more convenient to use.