About Us. Scantek Infrared Services is a family owned company located in the Kansas City metropolitan area. We have been performing Infrared Inspections coast to coast since 1989 and have become an industry leader in electrical / mechanical consulting. 
The Scantek unit itself is very adaptable and there are a range of different options for installing Scantek at your venue. The Scantek unit has wall and stand mounts built in various positions giving you the freedom to choose. The Scantek unit can even be built into a desktop or counter if necessary. We'd be more than happy to arrange an obligation free meeting to show you Scantek in person and go over the benefits a Scantek system can bring you, please call us on 1300 552 106 or contact us to arrange a time. Until then you can see Scantek in use by viewing this video.
About Us. Scantek Fiber Optic Services is a new company in the Kansas City, MO metro area providing aerial installation service for the Google Fiber Network. At Scantek Fiber Optic our goal is to become an industry leader through cutting edge service and loyalty to our customers and employees. We believe in building a positive work environment so our employees can achieve success while being a part of a successful growth oriented team.
At Scantek, a principal of the company is involved in each of our projects to eliminate layers of bureaucracy and ensure 100 percent focus on our customers. You can be sure that your intellectual property will be protected thanks to our confidentiality and security measures on our employees and facility. With the capability to scan or film millions of images per customer, per week, no challenge is too big or too small. Whether you use our software of choice or have already invested in one of the dozens of others available in the market, Scantek will deliver a customized solution to meet your needs.
Scantek also utilizes “Alchemy”, one of the top-rated software solutions in the world for archival storage and retrieval, which we have installed in many corporations and institutions throughout the country. With Alchemy, more than 20,000 scanned pages can be stored on a single CD or millions on a hard drive/server. With the capability to scan or film millions of images per customer, per week, no challenge is too big or too small. Whether you use our software of choice or have already invested in one of the dozens of others available in the market, Scantek will deliver a customized solution to meet your needs.
A scan will take approximately two seconds from inserting the persons ID into the Scantek unit. Other scanning solutions can take between 10 and 20 seconds. By using line control techniques and making patrons aware that they will have to present their identification on entry using Scantek is no slower than having security staff manually check patron's identification properly. We'd be more than happy to arrange an obligation free meeting to show you Scantek in person and go over the benefits a Scantek system can bring you, please call us on 1300 552 106 or contact us to arrange a time. Until then you can see Scantek in use by viewing this video.
Scantek is the quickest, most affordable and intelligent ID scanner for your venue with no per scan fees, no install or set up costs and no non readable scans. 
Scantek is a good job for a single person with no children. Prep, Willow Grove-June 30, 2014. The job at Scantek is a good job to get you started in the working world, if you have a family it is not the job for you. They do not pay enough for all the work that you do. I am out looking for another job because I need better pay so I can support my daughter.
To find out more about how Scantek can help you manage your information for the demands of today’s business or organizational environment, contact us today toll-free at (888) SCANTEK or by email, sales@scantek.info. Or explore our site to find out more. With the capability to scan or film millions of images per customer, per week, no challenge is too big or too small. Whether you use our software of choice or have already invested in one of the dozens of others available in the market, Scantek will deliver a customized solution to meet your needs.
Toll-Free Sales Support: 888-SCANTEK x 0 / email. Toll-Free Technical Support: 888-SCANTEK x 3406 / email. Scantek has exceeded expectations in service and technical innovation for their infomanagement clients in a wide range of industries; from insurance to education, from medical to manufacturing. Specializing in customized, scalable solutions, Scantek delivers quality document imaging, microfilming, secure storage and shredding, to suit every budget, department or enterprise with on-premise and Cloud solutions. learn more.