History Ancient Greece. 1  Democracy-A government ruled by the people, or assembly. 2  Monarchy-A single ruler like a king. 3  Oligarchy-When the government is ruled by a small group. History Ancient Greece. 1  Democracy-A government ruled by the people, or assembly. 2  Officials and leaders were elected and all citizens had a say. 3  Monarchy-A single ruler like a king. 4  In Athens this ruler was called a Tyrant. 5
The Ancient Greeks may be most famous for their ideas and philosophies on government and politics. It was in Greece, and particularly Athens, that democracy was first conceived and used as a primary form of government. The Greek City-State. Ancient Greece was made up of city-states. A city-state was a major city and the surrounding areas. History Ancient Greece. 1  Democracy-A government ruled by the people, or assembly. 2  Officials and leaders were elected and all citizens had a say. 3  Monarchy-A single ruler like a king. 4  In Athens this ruler was called a Tyrant. 5  Oligarchy-When the government is ruled by a small group
The Peloponnesian War. Athens' military campaign against the Peloponnesian League that eventually ended the Greek Golden Age, as told by musician and artist Jeffrey Lewis. 
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. 
Forms of Government-Democracy, Oligarchy and Tyranny. 1  Most government officials chosen by lottery, did job for 1 year. 2  From 390 BC, citizens paid for attending assembly. 3  Most important political posts were the 10 generals: elected by the assembly each year. 
These Italian democracies, too, were eventually conquered by the Holy Roman Empire and ruled by German emperors. But in the 1700s, people began to fight for democracy again. In America, the Revolutionary War brought the Constitution in 1789. When democracy turned out to work in Athens, many other city-states chose it for their government too. But most of them allowed even fewer people to vote than Athens did: most of the other city-states only allowed free adult male citizens to vote IF they owned land or owned their own houses (that is, the richer people).
Origin. Democracy was invented by the ancient Athenians in the sixth century B.C. It comes from the ancient Greek word demos or people and kratos, meaning rule. Democracy was a political community in which the people, or the collective body of active citizens, exercised political power. Today, although democracy and republic are often used interchangeably, in ancient times they referred to distinct political systems. A democracy and a republic each had its own distinct institutional arrangements based on different ideas about what it meant for citizens to participate in the political process.
Ancient Greece, Democracy, Rome, Roman Empire, Greek Phiolosophers? anyone know why any of these are important to history, or does anyone have a description of any of them. 