While some hold that Europe is a continent, others hold that Europe and Asia together form the continent of Eurasia. As separate continents, Europe and Asia are the only ones … separated by a mountain range instead of by ocean or narrow isthmus.   CONTINENTS JINGLE (Tune: Jingle Bells)   North America, South America, Europe, and Asia, Africa, Australia, and Antarctica. Hey!
Africa, the Americas, Antarctica, Asia, Australia together with Oceania, and Europe are considered to be Continents. The term continent is used to differentiate between the various large areas of the earth into which all the land surface of Earth is divided. In Europe, many students are taught about six continents, where North and South America is combined to form a single America. These six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, and Europe. 7 continents. By most standards, there are a maximum of seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, Europe, North America, and South America
A continent is larger than an island and is usually made up of multiple countries and span millions of square miles. The 7 continents of the world are North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. 
In the United Kingdom, the Continent is widely and generally used to refer to the mainland of Europe. In addition, the word Europe itself is also regularly used to mean Europe excluding the islands of Great Britain, Iceland, and Ireland (although the term is often used to refer to the European Union). Kontinenten (the Continent) is a vernacular Swedish expression that refers to the area excluding Sweden, Norway, and Finland but including Denmark (even the Danish archipelago) and the rest of continental Europe.
20:43 continent No comments. Both the idea of dividing Europe from Asia and Africa and the concept of a continent comes from Europe. So it is not surprising that European see Europe as a continent even if newer Earth science uses a different and more coherent scientific term for large landmasses. Is Europe one continent or part of Eurasia? Similarly: is North-America a continent, or the Americas américas? Are much of the separation reveals to viewpoint and motivation of the people who a part of the world. Continent but The-Europe, asia and as a matter of, Fact-East west divide is a centuries old. tradition
Europe (/ˈjʊərəp/ or /ˈjɜrəp/) is a continent that comprises the westernmost part of Eurasia. Europe is bordered by the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south. Europe is the world's second-smallest continent by surface area, covering about 10,180,000 square kilometres (3,930,000 sq mi) or 2% of the Earth's surface and about 6.8% of its land area.
Confidence votes 52.6K. While some hold that Europe is a continent, others hold that Europe and Asia together form the continent of Eurasia. As separate continents, Europe and Asia are the only ones separated by a mountain range instead of by ocean or narrow isthmus. CONTINENTS JINGLE. There is no consistent agreement on what exactly the boundaries of the continent of Europe actually are, some countries are considered in Asia by some and in Europe by others. … Eurasia encompasses this overlap.
Europe Continent, Europe Facts. A continent is defined as the earth's main continuous expansion on land. A continent is a huge mass of land primarily defined in terms of convention. There are currently seven continents in the world out of which Europe is the second smallest continent. Europe shares its boundaries with Arctic Ocean in the North, by Atlantic Ocean in the West. In the south of Europe lies the Mediterranean Sea and to the East, its boundary is vague and blurred. Considering in terms of area, Russia is the largest country in Europe occupying a territory of 17,098,242 km square. Ukraine is the second largest country in Europe considering its area. It was considered to be the most powerful state in Europe in the 10th century. Kharkiv, Odesa and Donestk are among the famous cities of Ukraine. It stands second to Russia in economic terms as well.
As a continent, the economy of Europe is currently the largest on Earth and it is the richest region as measured by assets under management with over $32.7 trillion compared to North America's $27.1 trillion in 2008. Europe is the world's second-smallest continent by surface area, covering about 10,180,000 square kilometres (3,930,000 sq mi) or 2% of the Earth's surface and about 6.8% of its land area.