Also known as urochrome, urobilins are the pigment that gives urine its yellow color. Urine is usually pale yellow, but it can range from clear to a deep amber color in a healthy person. The level of yellow is determined by how hydrated a person is.
The yellow color in urine is due to chemicals called urobilins. These are the breakdown products of the bile pigment bilirubin. Bilirubin is itself a breakdown product of the heme part of hemoglobin from worn-out red blood cells.
Normal urine is straw-colored and slightly acidic. Many factors such as your diet, fluid intake, exercise and kidney function can affect what is in your urine. Its primary ingredient is water, plus urea, sodium chloride (salt), potassium chloride, phosphates uric acid, organic salts and urobilin. It is urobilin that gives urine its yellow coloring.
Many things can affect the color of your urine, giving you an indicator of fluid balance, diet or the presence of certain urinary tract problems. The intensity of the color generally indicates how concentrated the urine is, with pale or colorless urine being diluted and deep yellow urine being concentrated.
The normal color of urine ranges from light yellow to dark amber, depending on the concentration of solutes in the urine. Urechrome is the name of the pigment that gives urine its characteristic yellow color. Many medications cause the urine to change color.
Dark yellow or orange urine can be caused by recent use of laxatives or consumption of B complex vitamins or carotene. Orange urine is often caused by Pyridium (used in the treatment of urinary tract infections), rifampin, and warfarin. Green or blue urine is due to the effect of artificial color in food or drug.
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue.
Normal urine color results from a pigment called urochrome. The actual tint will depend on the concentration or dilution of the urine. The color of urine may not always be normal; B vitamins, for example, turn urine green, and carrot juice can turn it orange.