The difference between monocrystalline and polycrystalline solar panels is that monocrystalline cells are cut into thin wafers from a singular continuous crystal that has been grown for this purpose. Polycrystalline cells are made by melting the silicon material and pouring it into a mould [1]. Monocrystalline, also commonly known as crystalline silicon or single crystalline silicon, are by far the most widely used solar photovoltaic technology.
MONO/POLCRYSTALLINE PANELS. Quite often we’re asked about the advantages of monocrystalline panels and polycrystalline solar modules over their amorphous thin film counterparts; particularly in home solar power grid connect systems. 
Sun-Earth Solar Panels using monocrystalline cells. The typical monocrystalline solar cell is a dark black colour, and the corners of cells are usually missing as a result of the production process and the physical nature of monocrystalline silicon. Although quality technology is important in selection of solar panels, it is also critical to keep in mind that both monocrystalline and polycrystalline silicon solar cells are proven technologies, and one should not automatically be considered better than the other.
The Grape Solar 160-Watt Monocrystalline PV Solar Panel uses high efficiency solar cells (approximately 19%) made from quality silicon material for high module conversion efficiency and long term output stability and reliability. 
A silicon ingot. Monocrystalline silicon (or single-crystal silicon, single-crystal Si, mono c-Si, or just mono-Si) is the base material for silicon chips used in virtually all electronic equipment today. Mono-Si also serves as photovoltaic, light-absorbing material in the manufacture of solar cells. In 2013, monocrystalline solar cells had a market-share of 36 percent, that translated into the production of 12,600 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity, and ranked second behind the somewhat cheaper sister-technology of polycrystalline silicon.
There were a number of reasons for this thinking. Monocrystalline solar cells have historically had a higher peak efficiency, and were more readily available than polysilicon solar cells. The blanket statement that monocrystalline panels are better than polycrystalline cells, however, is not accurate. Although quality technology is important in selection of solar panels, it is also critical to keep in mind that both monocrystalline and polycrystalline silicon solar cells are proven technologies, and one should not automatically be considered better than the other.
If you see a solar panel, chances are it’s made of monocrystalline solar cells. Monocrystalline, also commonly known as crystalline silicon or single crystalline silicon, are by far the most widely used solar photovoltaic technology. This article takes a detailed look at how monocrystalline solar panels work
A monocrystalline solar cell is composed of a single crystal of silicon, a purity that can be identified by a dark, even coloring. Extensive filtration is required to purify the silicon so it can be used for monocrystalline solar cells. To create a monocrystalline cell, the Czochralski method is employed. Monocrystalline. Monocrystalline, which is also called mono or single crystalline, is the older of the two technologies and has been around since 1955. Monocrystalline is still used to manufacture photovoltaic cells today and is arguably the most efficient material available.