Keratitis, the eye condition in which the cornea becomes inflamed, has many potential causes. Various types of infections, dry eyes, injury, and a large variety of underlying medical diseases may all lead to keratitis. Some cases of keratitis result from unknown factors. Keratitis facts. 1  Keratitis is the medical term for inflammation of the cornea. 2  Keratitis has many causes, including infection, dry eyes, physical and chemical injury, and underlying medical diseases. 3  The diagnosis of keratitis can be confirmed by the use of a slit lamp.
Keratitis. Keratitis is inflammation of the cornea, the clear window of the front of the eye. The cornea is an incredibly unique tissue in the body, in that it is perfectly transparent, and allows light to pass through to help us see. 
If keratitis only involves the surface (epithelial) layer of the cornea, it is called superficial keratitis. If it affects the deeper layers of the cornea (the corneal stroma), it is called stromal keratitis or interstitial keratitis. Keratitis facts. 1  Keratitis is the medical term for inflammation of the cornea. 2  Keratitis has many causes, including infection, dry eyes, physical and chemical injury, and underlying medical diseases. 3  The diagnosis of keratitis can be confirmed by the use of a slit lamp.
Keratitis is a condition in which the eye 's cornea, the front part of the eye, becomes inflamed. The condition is often marked by moderate to intense pain and usually involves any of the following symptoms: pain, impaired eyesight, photophobia, red eye and a 'gritty' sensation. 1 Herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis). 2  Viral infection of the cornea is often caused by the herpes simplex virus which frequently leaves what is called a 'dendritic ulcer'. 3  Herpes zoster keratitis, associated with Herpes zoster ophthalmicus, which is a form of Shingles.
Keratitis is an inflammation of the cornea — the clear, dome-shaped tissue on the front of your eye that covers the pupil and iris. Keratitis is sometimes caused by an infection involving bacteria, viruses, fungi or parasites. Noninfectious keratitis can be caused by a minor injury, wearing your contact lenses too long or other noninfectious diseases. If you have eye redness or other symptoms of keratitis, make an appointment to see your doctor.
Keratitis is the medical term for inflammation of the cornea. The cornea is the dome-shaped window in the front of the eye. When looking at a person's eye, one can see the iris and pupil through the normally clear cornea. Keratitis facts. 1  Keratitis is the medical term for inflammation of the cornea. 2  Keratitis has many causes, including infection, dry eyes, physical and chemical injury, and underlying medical diseases. 3  The diagnosis of keratitis can be confirmed by the use of a slit lamp.
Bacterial keratitis is an infection of the cornea (the clear dome covering the colored part of the eye) that is caused by bacteria. It can affect contact lens wearers, and also sometimes people who do not wear contact lenses. Types of bacteria that commonly cause bacterial keratitis include: 1  Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
Keratitis is an inflammation of the clear, front surface of the eye called the cornea. Keratitis can cause symptoms such as redness, pain, light sensitivity, a scratchy or gritty feeling, blurred or hazy vision and watering. Keratitis can be caused by infection from bacteria, viruses or fungus and is one of the leading causes of blindness in the United States. Keratitis can affect anyone, even if they don’t wear contact lenses, but it often results from improper contact lens wear.
keratitis. inflammation of the cornea. It may be deep, when the infection causing it is carried in the blood or spreads to the cornea from other parts of the eye, or superficial, caused by bacterial or viral infection or by allergic reaction. peripheral ulcerative keratitis A severe form of keratitis most often associated with a systemic disease, the most common being rheumatoid arthritis, Wegener's granulomatosis, lupus erythematosus and polyarteritis nodosa. It is characterized by pain, usually redness and peripheral ulceration with corneal thinning.
Acanthamoeba keratitis is a rare but serious infection of the eye that can result in permanent visual impairment or blindness. This infection is caused by a microscopic, free-living ameba (single-celled living organism) called Acanthamoeba. Acanthamoeba causes Acanthamoeba keratitis when it infects the transparent outer covering of the eye called the cornea. Acanthamoeba amebas are very common in nature and can be found in bodies of water (for example, lakes and oceans), soil, and air.