Digital humanities is an area of research and teaching at the intersection of computing and the disciplines of the humanities. Developing from the fields of humanities computing, humanistic computing, and digital humanities praxis () digital humanities embraces a variety of topics, from curating online collections to data mining large cultural data sets.
Description. Digital Humanities is an interdisciplinary academic field that brings digital technology to bear on the study of the human record. The Graduate Certificate Program in Digital Humanities at UNL allows graduate and post-baccalaureate students to gain scholarly credentials in Digital Humanities.
1 Digital Humanities has forced us to think outside the box. 2  Doug brings to MITH strong skills as a programmer and as a working scholar in the Digital Humanities. 3  In the past two years, the Endowment has made a concerted effort to take a leadership position in exploring the new frontier of the digital humanities. An academic field concerned with the application of computational tools and methods to traditional humanities disciplines such as literature, history, and philosophy: the unit will advance scholarship in both classical studies and the digital humanities. More example sentences.
“What is ‘Digital Humanities’?” That’s a question I still get asked all the time. Over the years, there has been much discussion and debate as to exactly what the term means or encompasses. 
This essay, the third of what has become an unplanned trilogy, explains why. Available here is the full text of an essay published in differences 25.1 (2014) as part of a special issue entitled In the Shadows of the Digital Humanities edited by Ellen Rooney and Elizabeth Weed. 
Palladio is a web-based platform that allows humanities scholars to easily upload data and explore it through a variety of visualizations. Watch the video. Stanford scholars are harnessing the power of new technologies through an array of digital humanities endeavors. 
This guide, beginning with the introduction to digital humanities (DH) below, includes information on and links to DH values & methods, tools & resources, funding & evaluation, projects & publications, and DH@NU, a section dedicated to DH activities at Northwestern University. But if you are not making anything, you are not — in my less-than-three-minute opinion — a digital humanist.” (2011). Welcome to A Guide to Digital Humanities, a guide from the Center for Scholarly Communication & Digital Curation at Northwestern University.
To that extent, I intend to document from time to time both my thinking about digital humanities and my coding work in this blog. I welcome feedback, so please write to me via email or twitter with any comments and/or questions. Copyright © 2015. All information placed here is in public domain. That, I think, is the “Why” of digitial humanities: digital humanities is happening because the universities and the scholars can no longer isolate their practices and methodologies from this cultural sea change that the computational socioeconomic revolution has produced.