It's also possible to have a combined hepatitis A and typhoid jab. Ideally, the typhoid vaccine should be given at least one month before you travel, but it can be given closer to your travel date if necessary. Booster vaccinations are recommended every three years if you continue to be at risk of infection. The vaccine is usually given as a drink in two separate doses, taken one to six weeks apart (children aged two to six should have a third dose taken one to six weeks after the second dose). You should make sure you have the final dose of this vaccine at least a week before you travel.
Children who are not vaccinated by 2 years of age can be vaccinated at later visits. For travelers, the vaccine series should be started at least one month before traveling to provide the best protection. Persons who get the vaccine less than one month before traveling can also get a shot called immune globulin (IG). IG gives immediate, temporary protection. For others, the hepatitis A vaccine series may be started whenever a person is at risk of infection. Two doses of the vaccine are needed for lasting protection
Hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children at age 1 year, for persons who are at increased risk for infection, for persons who are at increased risk for complications from Hepatitis A, and for any person wishing to obtain immunity. 1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG.
A single dose of hepatitis A vaccine is usually given as primary vaccination and then a booster dose can be given 6-12 months after the first vaccination to prolong its effect. Ideally, the vaccination should be given 4 weeks before travel. A combined hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccine is also available in Australia. It is given as a course of 3 doses of vaccine: one vaccination is given immediately, the second is given one month later, and the third is given 5 months after that.
Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older. 1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG.
Getting the hepatitis A vaccine before travel can prevent the disease. CDC recommends that travelers to Mexico and other areas get vaccinated for hepatitis A in advance of travel. Even if it travel is restricted to resort destinations, it is still possible to get infected with the hepatitis A virus. Ask your doctor about the hepatitis A vaccine before you travel. The vaccine is safe and effective and is the best way to prevent infection with the virus. The hepatitis A vaccine is typically given in two doses — an initial vaccination followed by another shot six months later. The first dose of hepatitis A vaccine should be given as soon as travel is planned
Previously, Hepatitis A vaccination was recommended to be administered at least 2–4 weeks before departure to an area with intermediate or high rates of Hepatitis A. Travelers who were departing in less than 2 weeks were recommended to receive receive immune globulin (IG) for short-term protection. 1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG.
How It Works. Twinrix is a vaccine that provides active immunity against both the hepatitis A and hepatitis B viruses. It is given in a series of 3 injections on the same schedule as the hepatitis B vaccine: an initial dose followed by doses at 1 month and 6 months. To get the best protection before travel, you need 2 doses of Twinrix before departure. But if you can get only 1 dose, consider getting just the hepatitis A vaccine instead of 1 shot of combination vaccine. It may provide better protection against hepatitis A.
What To Think About. Twinrix should not be given to people who are allergic to the contents of the vaccine. To get the best protection before travel, you need 2 doses of Twinrix before departure. But if you can get only 1 dose, consider getting just the hepatitis A vaccine instead of 1 shot of combination vaccine. It may provide better protection against hepatitis A.