It is caused by small pouches (called diverticula) that can form anywhere in your digestive tract, but usually form in the last part of the large intestine (called the colon). The most common types of diverticular disease are: 1  Diverticulosis. 2  People who have diverticulosis have pouches in the large intestine. 3  Most people who have diverticulosis don't have any symptoms and may not even know they have it. 4  Diverticulitis. 5  This occurs when the pouches become infected and inflamed. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. There are three common types of diverticular disease: diverticulosis, diverticulitis, and diverticular bleeding. The diseases are caused when pouches, called diverticula, form inside the large intestine. They can also form in the esophagus, small intestine, or stomach, but these are rarer. A person has diverticulosis simply by having the pouches on his intestinal wall. Diverticulosis is the type of diverticular disease that usually does not have any symptoms. If a person does experience symptoms, they are usually mild, such as cramps. Diverticula can form in the colon when a person is constipated
Diverticulitis, infection and inflammation of diverticula, can occur suddenly and without warning. Symptoms of diverticulitis may include: 1  Alternating diarrhea and constipation. 2  Painful cramps or tenderness in the lower abdomen. 3  Chills or fever. Diverticular Bleeding. Diverticular bleeding occurs with chronic injury to the small blood vessels that are next to the diverticula. Diverticulitis. Diverticulitis occurs when there is inflammation and infection in one or mor
Diverticula are most common in the lower portion of the large intestine, called the sigmoid colon. When the pouches become inflamed, the condition is called diverticulitis. Ten to 25 percent of people with diverticulosis get diverticulitis. Diverticulosis and diverticulitis together are called diverticular disease.. 
When pouches begin to protrude outwards from the colon wall the person has diverticular disease or diverticulosis. When one of these pouches becomes infected and inflamed, that infection is called diverticulitis. People may have lots of protruding pouches and feel fine. 1 2. 2  One outpouching is a diverticulum; two or more are diverticula. 3  3. Diverticular disease refers to people with diverticulosis who have symptoms. 4  4. Diverticulosis generally refers to cases without symptoms. 5  5. 6  When one of the outpouches (diverticula) becomes infected, it is known as
Diverticulosis, also known as  diverticular disease , is the condition of having diverticula in the colon, which are outpocketings of the colonic mucosa and submucosa through weaknesses of muscle layers in the colon wall. These are more common in the sigmoid colon, which is a common place for increased pressure. 
Diverticular disease and diverticulitis are related digestive conditions that affect the large intestine (colon). In diverticular disease, small bulges or pockets (diverticula) develop in the lining of the intestine. Diverticulitis is when these pockets become inflamed or infected. 
Most people will have no or few symptoms from diverticula. Complications can occur in about 20% of people with diverticulosis. One of these complications is rectal bleeding, called diverticular bleeding, and another is diverticular infection, called diverticulitis. Diverticular Bleeding. Diverticular bleeding occurs with chronic injury to the small blood vessels that are next to the diverticula. Diverticulitis. Diverticulitis occurs when there is inflammation and infection in one or mor
In this article. Diverticular disease consists of three conditions that involve the development of small sacs or pockets in the wall of the colon, including diverticulosis, diverticular bleeding, and diverticulitis. Diverticular Bleeding. Diverticular bleeding occurs with chronic injury to the small blood vessels that are next to the diverticula. Diverticulitis. Diverticulitis occurs when there is inflammation and infection in one or mor