Brain Biopsy. A brain biopsy is a surgical procedure that encompasses the removal of cells or tissue from the brain to examine and potential locate diseased material, like cancer or a tumor. The tissue extracted is usually examined by a pathologist under a microscope and sometimes, chemical analysis is also performed. 
How long does it take for the results of a bone marrow biopsy?   The turn around time (TAT) for most labs that specialize in bone marrow core, clot, and aspirate testing are:   Morphology 24 - 48 hours   FLOW 24 - 48 hours   … FISH or Cytogentics 6 - 7 days   PCR tests 3 - 4 days. Depending on where the tissue sample was sent for examination, a biopsy result usually takes from one week to 10 days. The lab will send the results to your dentist only … , not to you. Contact your dentist for the results. 1 person found this useful.
Best Answer: I had a biopsy about 4 years ago. The recovery time is a few days in the hospital, and take it slow at home for a week or two. Also, most likely you will be placed on anti-seizure drugs, or other medications (I had a seizure after mine). 
Biopsy. A biopsy is a surgical procedure in which a small amount of tumor tissue is removed and sent to a lab for evaluation. The purpose of a biopsy is to establish a diagnosis in a patient who has a tumor. A biopsy can be performed as part of the surgery to remove a tumor, or as a separate procedure. In either case, the surgeon removes a small amount of tumor tissue and sends it to a lab for a pathologist to review. Three types of biopsy are often performed in patients with brain tumors: 1  Needle Biopsy: A small cut is made and a small hole, called a burr hole, is drilled in the skull.
A biopsy for brain cancer involves the removal of a small amount of the cancerous tissue from the brain. This helps us evaluate the tumor to plan your brain cancer treatment. A needle biopsy may be performed for tumors in difficult-to-reach or critical areas of the brain. Contact Us. (800) 615-3055 or. 1  Privacy Policy. 
The bulk of the time it takes to get results from surgical pathology (e.g. biopsy results) resides in the time it takes for instruments to remove all the water from a … sample and replace it with paraffin. Most routine processes takes 12 hours. Depending on where the tissue sample was sent for examination, a biopsy result usually takes from one week to 10 days. The lab will send the results to your dentist only … , not to you. Contact your dentist for the results. 1 person found this useful.
A brain biopsy is a procedure used to remove a tumor or a piece of tissue from the brain so that it can be examined under a microscope to diagnose illness. Types of brain biopsies include needle biopsy, stereotactic biopsy, and open biopsy. In a needle biopsy, a small hole is drilled into the skull. A narrow, hollow needle is placed into the incision to extract a tiny portion of the tumor or tissue.
Biopsy. A biopsy is a surgical procedure to remove a small sample of brain tumor tissue for examination under a microscope. It is usually performed at the same time as the surgery to remove a brain tumor (called an open biopsy). A biopsy can be performed as a separate procedure if: 
The uncertainty you feel while waiting for biopsy and cytology test results can cause a lot of stress and anxiety. Not knowing when the results will be ready and not understanding why testing sometimes takes longer than expected can cause extra concern. 