The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem.
Historically, the cerebellum has been considered a motor structure, because cerebellar damage leads to impairments in motor control and posture and because the majority of the cerebellum’s outputs are to parts of the motor system.
Cerebellum. Cerebellum is located behind the pons and the medulla and it is separated from the occipital lobes by the tentorium cerebelli. The vermis is a part of the cerebellum that is located in the midline between the two cerebellar hemispheres. The surface of the cerebellum is repeatedly folded in so called folia.
Cerebellum: In Latin, the word cerebellum means little brain. The cerebellum is the area of the hindbrain that controls motor movement coordination, balance, equilibrium and muscle tone. Like the cerebral cortex, the cerebellum is comprised of white matter and a thin, outer layer of densely folded gray matter.
Cerebellum is located behind the pons and the medulla and it is separated from the occipital lobes by the tentorium cerebelli. The vermis is a part of the cerebellum that is located in the midline between the two cerebellar hemispheres.
Cerebellum. The cerebellum is located behind the top part of the brain stem (where the spinal cord meets the brain) and is made of two hemispheres (halves). The cerebellum receives information from the sensory systems, the spinal cord, and other parts of the brain and then regulates motor movements. The cerebellum coordinates voluntary movements such as posture, balance, coordination, and speech, resulting in smooth and balanced muscular activity.
Chapter 8B-Cerebellar Systems. The cerebellum is a region of the brain that functions largely outside of the realm of conscious awareness. Its best-known functions are involved in coordinating motor activities and learning new motor skills.