The bonobo is distinguished by relatively long legs, pink lips, dark face and tail-tuft through adulthood, and parted long hair on its head. The bonobo is found in a 500,000 km 2 (190,000 sq mi) area of the Congo Basin in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central Africa. The species is omnivorous and inhabits primary and secondary forests, including seasonally inundated swamp forests. When adult bonobos and chimpanzees stand up on their legs, they can both attain a height of 115 cm (45 in). The bonobo's head is relatively smaller than that of the common chimpanzee with less prominent brow ridges above the eyes.
The average lifespan for bonobos is estimated to be 40 years. In captivity, these ages are slightly different: age at first birth is around 10 years, and bonobos can live up to the age of 65 years. In captivity, bonobos use tools as readily as chimpanzees, but tool use in wild bonobos is not as elaborate as in wild chimpanzees. Examples of tool use in wild bonobos are: using leaves as cover for rain and brandishing branches in social displays. Almost every night, an adult bonobo makes a new nest for sleeping.
If you ask what Bonobo is, Bonobos are great apes from genus Pan. Bonobos live in Central Zaire and in national parks in the Congo. Bonobo is the nearest species to humans when we look at point of genetics and evolution. Bonobo share 98.7% of our DNA. The biggest problem why is Bonobo dieing out is of course human fault.
Along with the common chimpanzee, the bonobo is the closest extant relative to humans. Because the two species are not proficient swimmers, the formation of the Congo River 1.5–2 million years ago possibly led to the speciation of the bonobo. When adult bonobos and chimpanzees stand up on their legs, they can both attain a height of 115 cm (45 in). The bonobo's head is relatively smaller than that of the common chimpanzee with less prominent brow ridges above the eyes.
Although large male chimpanzees can exceed any bonobo in bulk and weight, the two species actually broadly overlap in body size. Adult female bonobos are somewhat smaller than adult males. Body mass in males ranges from 34 to 60 kg (75 to 132 lb), against an average of 30 kg (66 lb) in females. When adult bonobos and chimpanzees stand up on their legs, they can both attain a height of 115 cm (45 in). The bonobo's head is relatively smaller than that of the common chimpanzee with less prominent brow ridges above the eyes.
SOCIAL ORGANIZATION AND BEHAVIOR. Bonobos live in fission-fusion social groups where a large community of individuals separate into smaller groups, or parties, of variable size and composition. These unit-groups range from lone individuals to groups of 20 or more bonobos (Badrian et al. 1984; White 1988, 1996). Play develops around two years of age but bonobos are still not a mobile as adults. Not until three years of age do bonobos move as gracefully as adults, and at this age they move more than 10 meters (32.9 ft) from their mothers, but are still close enough to return immediately if frightened or threatened.
Bonobos can survive in close proximity to human communities that are willing to co-habitate with these peaceful apes. Recent surveys show that many areas had bonobos 20 years ago and now they have none. The DRC has been politically unstable for the last 10 years and has made a major impact on the bonobos decline. Tags: DRC, Congo, East Africa View Africa | Habitat.
Bonobos reproduce at the same rate as chimpanzees, giving birth every 5-6 years. A female will bear young for the first time around 13-14 years old. She will nurse and carry her offspring for up to 5 years. Males do not take part in the rearing process. The bonobo’s diet is largely vegetarian. While chimpanzee society is competitive and male-dominated, bonobos live harmoniously in matriarchal groups of up to 100 members. Females hold the highest rank in a group, and the sons of ranking females become leaders among the males.
Current distribution & population estimates. Bonobos live in central Africa, restricted to a 200 000 km² area in the Democratic Republic of Congo. As bonobos do not swim, their distribution is contained by two river-systems: the Congo-Zaire-Walaba River and the Kwa-Kasai-Sankuru River. See the current distribution of bonobos. Accurate estimates are unknown, bonobo populations have been projected to be from as few individuals as 5500 up to 100 000.