Ottawa FlightsThe capital city of Canada is a treat for travelers, whether they are visiting for business or pleasure. Set on the picturesque banks of the Ottawa River, it's a city steeped in history and culture, with much to offer every visitor. 
Road trip planner. The total cost of driving from Toronto, Canada to Ottawa, Canada (one-way) is $34.05 at current gas prices. The round trip cost would be $68.09 to go from Toronto, Canada to Ottawa, Canada and back to Toronto, Canada again. Regular fuel costs are around $3.05 per gallon for your trip. This calculation assumes that your vehicle gets an average gas mileage of 25 mpg for a mix of city and highway driving. 
1,866 seats are available per week to fly direct from Ottawa, ON to Winnipeg. Air Canada has 483 connecting flights between Ottawa, ON and Winnipeg. Air Canada has 14 nonstop flights between Ottawa, ON and Winnipeg. The shortest nonstop flight between Ottawa, ON and Winnipeg is 1048 miles. 35% of all flights from Ottawa, ON to Winnipeg arrive during morning hours. The largest aircraft flying nonstop from Ottawa, ON to Winnipeg is the Boeing 737-700 (Winglets) with 136 seats. 2 airlines operate between Ottawa, ON and Winnipeg.
We also offer a variety of tickets including one-way, ten-trip and round-trip tickets. You can learn about all special fare options on our web pages for train, light rail, and bus. 
1 The recipient has 30 days from the date of purchase to pick up the ticket in Canada and 10 days within the US. 2  When purchased in person, the purchaser may also send with the ticket a cash advance up to one-half of the ticket price (cash advance not to exceed $50 CDN). 1 Only the purchaser may cancel the ticket or apply for a refund (as long as ticket is a refundable fare). 2 
Note: A Facility Fee of $3 for one way and $6 for round trips will be charged in addition to the cost of the ticket or tickets purchased. Facility Fees are taxable fees. This facility fee will be used to provide ongoing maintenance, service and operation of the bus terminal building. 1 Only the purchaser may cancel the ticket or apply for a refund (as long as ticket is a refundable fare). 2  The recipient has 30 days from the date of purchase to pick up the ticket in Canada and 10 days within the US.
Get 40% off a regular Greyhound bus ticket (one way ticket OR return trip). Asking only $29 for the certificate!! For example, if you're going to Halifax. Regular cost is $220. Save $88! To redeem, take the certificate to Greyhound when you are buying your ticket. Certificate valid for 12 months (until September 2016). 
From Hamilton, you can get a return student Greyhound ticket to Ottawa for $102, plus tax (6 to 7 hours). Would be cheaper if you book a Hamilton-Montreal trip using the aforementioned Greyhound Ottawa loophole. Coach Canada (aka Megabus Canada) does Toronto-Montreal direct. I typically am going once a month so I am looking for the best deal possible. I currently take the Go Bus from Hamilton to Toronto and then take the Greyhound to Ottawa. This costs me $89 round trip for the greyhound and $20 for the go station. Roughly an 8 hour day including the go bus and waiting, etc. I talked to some guy in line on Friday saying he got his ticket for just $65 dollars or something like that through greyhound as they have a competition with megabus. (Apparently)
Cheap Flights to Ottawa from Hamilton. Book airfare from Hamilton to Ottawa, Ontario. Find the cheapest airline ticket in seconds and take flight knowing you're covered by Price Drop Protection™ until the moment you fly. We're obsessed with getting you the best deal.