The outer portion of the meniscus, often referred to as the “red zone,” has a good blood supply and can sometimes heal on its own if the tear is small. In contrast, the inner two thirds of the meniscus, known as the “white zone,” does not have a good blood supply. It's a piece of cartilage in your knee that cushions and stabilizes the joint. It protects the bones from wear and tear. But all it takes is a good twist of the knee to tear the meniscus. In some cases, a piece of the shredded cartilage breaks loose and catches in the knee joint, causing it to lock up.
vb, tears, tearing, tore or torn. 1. to cause (material, paper, etc) to come apart or (of material, etc) to come apart; rip. 2. (tr) to make (a hole or split) in (something): to tear a hole in a dress. 3. (often foll by: along) to hurry or rush: to tear along the street. 4. (tr; usually foll by away or from) to remove or take by force. 5.
• TEAR (noun). The noun TEAR has 4 senses: 1. a drop of the clear salty saline solution secreted by the lacrimal glands. 2. an opening made forcibly as by pulling apart. 3. an occasion for excessive eating or drinking. 4. the act of tearing. Familiarity information: TEAR used as a noun is uncommon. • TEAR (verb). The verb TEAR has 5 senses: 1. separate or cause to separate abruptly. 2. to separate or be separated by force. 3. move quickly and violently. 4. strip of feathers. 5. fill with tears or shed tears. Familiarity information: TEAR used as a verb is common.
A. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other
Definition of TEAR. 1. a: a drop of clear saline fluid secreted by the lacrimal gland and diffused between the eye and eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion b plural: a secretion of profuse tears that overflow the eyelids and dampen the face. 2. : a transparent drop of fluid or hardened fluid matter (as resin). 3. Synonym Discussion of TEAR. tear, rip, rend, split, cleave, rive mean to separate forcibly. tear implies pulling apart by force and leaving jagged edges. rip implies a pulling apart in one rapid uninterrupted motion often along a line or joint.
Topic Overview. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other
torn. vb. 1. the past participle of tear 1 2. 2. that's torn it Brit an unexpected event or circumstance has upset one's plans. adj. 3. split or cut. 4. divided or undecided, as in preference: he was torn between staying and leaving.
Torn. Torn is a song, originally by alternative rock band Ednaswap from their debut album Ednaswap. It was their second single from that album, after Glow. Torn was written by Scott Cutler, Anne Preven, and Phil Thornalley during a demo session in 1993 before Ednaswap was formed. The lyrics were written by Preven. Thornalley and Cutler produced the session.