The reason we have programs like unemployment insurance and other jobless benefits is to help alleviate these problems to some degree. But another very important reason that jobs are important is that jobless people who want to work are a valuable resource that goes unused. Of course not everyone who is without a job represents a wasted resource. Retired people and children are two obvious groups of people who generally do not work for money. Tall of this could just be a one-month data fluke, but it is also encouraging that the number of new jobless claims has been declining recently as well. Jobs are important to the economy for a number of reasons. One of the most important reasons is that jobs are by far the primary source of income for U.S. households.
Confidence votes 96. A job is important because it is important to have money in order to survive in our world. Even without money, you can survive off of shelters, but they encourage you to get a job and earn some money on your own. It is also important because it improves your self-value. It means something to have money, and to have a job.
Getting your teen to understand the importance of getting a job is more critical now than in decades past. In the 1980s and early '90s, 40 to 50 percent of teenagers held jobs, whereas in May 2012, only 25 percent of 16- to 19-year-olds were employed, according to a report from Fox Business. 
Writing Job Descriptions Is Important from the Career Advancement Perspective. Employees need to know they have a future at the company and that the future is interesting and attainable. They need accurate job descriptions so they are aware of what job positions are available, what each job entails, and what job qualifications they need to have.
Employees who do not have a clear understanding of how their jobs fit into the overall work picture of their organization are more likely to exhibit carelessness and the inability to make clear distinctions on which aspects of their job are most important. For example, a person whose work does not provide the opportunity to have much interaction with co-workers and little, if any, with customers, lists interpersonal skills as highly important to the job. By doing so, that person is being careless in providing an accurate judgment, noted Dierdorff.
If one of the important destinations in your future is a much-desired job or position, a career plan truly is a roadmap to help you reach it. Job search engines are full of available positions, but often the most desired and competitive dream jobs require a significant amount of prerequisite experience or education. 
Posted in Wikinut Jobs Careers. Having a job is extremely important for several reasons that everyone needs to know. 1  Having a job. 2  Allow your creativity to flourish. 3  Feel useful. 4  Make ends meet. 5  Learn how to interact with others. 6  It is really worth it. Having a job is extremely important, as it allows your creativity to flourish, helps you feel useful, make ends meet and interact properly with others. Place your ad here Loading... 
The Importance Of Job Descriptions. As a small to medium business owner or manager you may think that you have a million other things that are more important and useful to do rather than spending time developing job descriptions. 
Nobody can ever underestimate how important it is to have a good resume. First impressions count, and the first impression that a potential employer will have of you, is going to depend on how you present your resume. You need to remember that you only have a few seconds that the potential employer is going to be taking to glance at your resume, so it’s very important to make sure that all the years you have been working and studying are going to be represented properly in