The throttle position sensor, TPS for short, is a sensor that is used in an internal combustion engine. These can be fuel injected engines or carbureted engines. There are a few signs that could be a signal that the throttle position sensor is failing. The first and foremost is a possibility that your check engine light could come on; this is a light on the dash that sometimes appears as a little engine or sometimes it simply says check engine.
Step 3 – Install the new TPS. Position your new TPS sensor on the throttle body. Thread each 5 mm bolt (16 mm in length) into the slots that secure the TPS. Use a locking washer and nut on the opposite end of the bolts to fasten. This article applies to the Honda Accord (1990-2002). The throttle position sensor (TPS) on your Accord controls many aspects of the car's engine performance.
How It's Done: 1  Scan the computer system for codes. 2  Test the throttle position sensor and related wiring. 3  Remove and replace the throttle position sensor if found faulty. 4  Clean the carbon from throttle body. 5  Re-install throttle body and reset minimum idle speed to factory specs. 1 Scan the computer system for codes. 2  Test the throttle position sensor and related wiring. 3  Remove and replace the throttle position sensor if found faulty. 4  Clean the carbon from throttle body. 5  Re-install throttle body and reset minimum idle speed to factory specs. 6  Clear trouble codes and check for proper operation
A throttle position sensor (TPS) is a sensor used to monitor the throttle position of a car. Throttle body showing throttle position sensor on the right. A throttle position sensor (TPS) is a sensor used to monitor the throttle position of a car. The sensor is usually located on the butterfly spindle/shaft so that it can directly monitor the position of the throttle.
Throttle Position Sensor. The throttle position sensor, located on the throttle body, reads the angle of the throttle valve based on the position of the gas pedal and transmits the data to the engine control computer. Symptoms of Wear or Failure. 1  Check Engine Light may come on. 2  Engine may hesitate, misfire, or jerk upon acceleration. 
The TPS is used to monitor the position of the throttle butterfly valve. When we accelerate, the butterfly opens a little or a lot to allow air into the intake manifold, depending on how much you are accelerating. There are a few signs that could be a signal that the throttle position sensor is failing. The first and foremost is a possibility that your check engine light could come on; this is a light on the dash that sometimes appears as a little engine or sometimes it simply says check engine.
The average cost for a throttle position sensor replacement is between $168 to $255. Labor costs are estimated between $86 to $110 while parts are priced between $82 to $145. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
When the throttle position sensor malfunctions, the engine control unit has no information about the gas pedal, and the throttle plate is not utilized. As a result, your vehicle will not get the right amount of air into the engine, and your engine will lose power and run very poorly. 1 Scan the computer system for codes. 2  Test the throttle position sensor and related wiring. 3  Remove and replace the throttle position sensor if found faulty. 4  Clean the carbon from throttle body. 5  Re-install throttle body and reset minimum idle speed to factory specs. 6  Clear trouble codes and check for proper operation
Locate the throttle position sensor. It is attached to the throttle body on the top of the engine. Separate the wiring harness connector from the throttle position sensor by pressing in on the tabs of the connector while pulling it apart by hand. The throttle position sensor (TPS) on most vehicles is located in the engine compartment. It sends input to the electronic engine control so that ignition and fuel injection timing can be adjusted for proper engine operation.