The Nagual is all that is. It is unstructured. The Nagual condenses and the tonal is formed. The tonal is structured energy. The average person only perceive the tonal. As we move into the world of energy we enter, what is referred to by the Toltecs as the Second Attention. The Second Attention is the world of energy. Working with the Nagual and the world of energy is fun, but without the foundation of the tonal we will end at a dead end, or in the worse case in fantasy. When a warrior has succumb to fantasy they are, in many cases, impossible to rehabilitate. It is best to lay a strong foundation in
Barbara: The concept of a nagual is that which is non-material. In Toltec teachings, tonal is all that is material and can be known. So, from the legend of Smokey Mirror, seeing the night sky, seeing the stars and the space between the stars, we can say that the stars are the tonal. So when you refer to someone, a man or woman, as a nagual, you are talking about someone who is in touch, aligned with the unknowable; who perceives life, from that point of view. Student: We have a few mottos that we say. One of them is to remember that we are dreaming all the time.
Nagual. 6,197 pages on this wiki. NAGUAL-A nagual (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nagual) is the most powerful wizard in the indigenous (Native American/American Indian) magical tradition of Mesoamerica (Mexico & Central America). A nagual receives powers through training as an apprentice under the tutilage of a master. 
Some say Nagual is All That Is, and that it is concentrated into a shape known as the Tonal. The Nagual and Tonal being dual expressions of reality and existence, are seen either in the First Attention, where we experience the Tonal, or the Second Attention where we experience the Nagual. Male witches are generally called sorcerer, wizard, warlock or most commonly magician. Carlos Castaneda used the term Nagual in his books to depict a person who has the skills to guide people to new areas of awareness and alternate realities just as valid as ours.
In Mesoamerican folk religion, a Nagual or Nahual (both pronounced [na'wal]) is a human being who has the power to transform either spiritually or physically into an animal form: most commonly jaguar and puma but also other animals such as a mules, birds, or dogs and coyotes. The system is linked with the Mesoamerican calendrical system, used for divination rituals. The birth date often determines if a person will be a Nagual. Mesoamerican belief in tonalism, wherein every person has an animal counterpart to which his life force is linked, is also part of the definition of nagualism.
Definition of NAGUAL. 1. a: a personal guardian spirit or protective alter ego assumed by various Middle American Indians to reside in an animal or less frequently in some other embodiment — compare huaca b: the animal double or guardian itself. 2.
Such a Nagual is believed to use their powers for good or evil according to their personality. Specific beliefs vary, but the general concept of nagualism is pan-Mesoamerican. The system is linked with the Mesoamerican calendrical system, used for divination rituals. The birth date often determines if a person will be a Nagual. Mesoamerican belief in tonalism, wherein every person has an animal counterpart to which his life force is linked, is also part of the definition of nagualism.
In modern rural Mexico, nagual is sometimes synonymous with brujo (witch): one who is able to shapeshift into an animal at night, (normally into an owl, bat, or turkey) drink blood from human victims, steal property, cause disease, and the like. The system is linked with the Mesoamerican calendrical system, used for divination rituals. The birth date often determines if a person will be a Nagual. Mesoamerican belief in tonalism, wherein every person has an animal counterpart to which his life force is linked, is also part of the definition of nagualism.
Nagual. In Mesoamerican folk religion, a Nagual or Nahual is a human being who has the power to magically turn him-or herself into an animal form: most commonly a donkey, turkey, or dog, but also other and more powerful animals such as the jaguar and puma.