This report describes the typical weather at the Queen Beatrix International Airport (Oranjestad, Aruba) weather station over the course of an average October. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. 
With an average rainfall of less than 20 inches a year, an average daytime temperature of 82° Fahrenheit (27° Celsius), a location completely outside the hurricane belt, and the constant cooling influence of the trade winds, Aruba is one of the most temperate islands in the Caribbean. The difference between median day and night temperatures, and between summer and winter temperatures, is just 3.6°. The rainfall occurs mainly in short showers during November and December.
Aruba: Annual Weather Averages. May is the hottest month in Aruba with an average temperature of 29°C (83°F) and the coldest is January at 27°C (80°F) . The wettest month is November with an average of 90mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in October when the average sea temperature is 29°C (85°F).
The temperature will rise over the course of the typical September day, reaching somewhere around 88.8 degrees by early afternoon. The temperature in Aruba will typically decline by early evening, to approximately 82.1 degrees. Overall, temperatures in Aruba during September average around 84.2 degrees. Weather in Aruba in September. Inclement weather resulting from tropical storms make September a somewhat less popular time for traveling to Aruba. Most of the severe storms occur during this month, and temperatures all over the island remain uncomfortably high.
Weather Forecast, Live Webcam and Climate information. Aruba is situated 12 degrees 30' north of the equator. The weather is tropical but not extreme, with a median and fairly constant temperature of 82 degrees Fahrenheit (28 degrees Celsius).
Rain. Rain is least likely to occur in Aruba during September around 8:00 PM, and it is most likely to occur around 8:00 AM. In Aruba during September, thunderstorms -- when they occur -- are most likely sometime around 2:00 PM. Weather in Aruba in September. Inclement weather resulting from tropical storms make September a somewhat less popular time for traveling to Aruba. Most of the severe storms occur during this month, and temperatures all over the island remain uncomfortably high.
Aruba has a steady inflow of visitors between April to September. The water at Aruba’s beaches are warm and water temperature is in the range of 75-85 F. The beaches are ideal for families with kids. Current water temperature for Aruba is: 72°F. The water at Aruba’s beaches are warm and water temperature is in the range of 75-85 F. The beaches are ideal for families with kids. There is no legal restriction on beachwear but some hotels and resorts situated near the beaches do not allow visitors to go topless.
During the early morning hours of an average October day in Aruba, you can expect the temperature will be in the vicinity of 82.2 degrees. In October, temperatures typically rise to around 87.9 degrees by early afternoon. The temperature in Aruba will typically decline by early evening, to approximately 81.7 degrees. Temperatures in Aruba average around 83.7 degrees during October. Rain. Rain is most likely to occur around 8:00 AM during the month of October, and it is least likely to occur around 8:00 PM. To the extent thunderstorms occur in Aruba during October, they are most likely to occur around 2:00 AM, as shown in the following table.
The average monthly low temperature is 78 degrees and this average also varies by only 2 degrees each month. The monthly low usually occurs at night. The average seawater temperature is 81 degrees, making Aruba a comfortable place to swim even in the winter. The coolest seawater months are December through March when the temperature averages 76 degrees.