One molecule of trehalose is hydrolyzed to two molecules of glucose by the enzyme trehalase. Enzymatic hydrolysis of trehalose was first observed in Aspergillus niger by Bourquelot in 1893. In the intestine the function of this enzyme is to hydrolyze ingested trehalose. Individuals with a defect in their intestinal trehalase have diarrhea when they eat foods with high trehalose content, such as mushrooms.
The non-reducing disaccharide trehalose (α-D-glucopyranosyl-1,1-α-D-glucopyranoside) is one of the most important storage carbohydrates, which is present in almost all forms of life except mammals. The disaccharide is hydrolyzed into two molecules of glucose by the enzyme trehalase. In the intestine the function of this enzyme is to hydrolyze ingested trehalose. Individuals with a defect in their intestinal trehalase have diarrhea when they eat foods with high trehalose content, such as mushrooms.
These effects of trehalose on several enzymes commonly used in molecular biology are summarized in Table 1. Several enzymes, such as MMLV RT, Sty I, Eco RI, Nco I, DNaseI, RNaseI, Nde I, Pvu II, and Pst I, were thermostabilized, and a subset of them also could be thermoactivated. Figure 2. Improvement of full length cDNA yield by thermostabilization of RT by trehalose. (A) 5-kb cDNAs were synthesized in the presence of 0.6 M trehalose at 45°C (lane 1), 55°C (lane 2), 60°C (lane 3), and 65°C (lane 5); lane 4, synthesis at 60°C in the absence of
Trehalose, also known as mycose or tremalose, is a natural alpha-linked disaccharide formed by an α,α-1,1-glucoside bond between two α- glucose units. The two prevalent theories as to how trehalose works within the organism in the state of cryptobiosis are the vitrification theory, a state that prevents ice formation, or the water displacement theory, whereby water is replaced by trehalose, although it is possible that a combination of the two mechanisms is at work.
Definition of TREHALOSE. : a crystalline disaccharide C12H22O11 that is found in various organisms (as fungi and insects), is about half as sweet as sucrose, and is sometimes used as a sweetener in commercially prepared foods. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet. : a crystalline disaccharide C12H22O11 that is found in various organisms (as fungi and insects), is about half as sweet as sucrose, and is sometimes used as a sweetener in commercially prepared foods.
Trehalose is a nonreducing sugar formed from two glucose units joined by a 1-1 alpha bond, giving it the name of α-. -glucopyranosyl-(1→1)-α-. -glucopyranoside. The bonding makes trehalose very resistant to acid hydrolysis, and therefore is stable in solution at high temperatures, even under acidic conditions. The two prevalent theories as to how trehalose works within the organism in the state of cryptobiosis are the vitrification theory, a state that prevents ice formation, or the water displacement theory, whereby water is replaced by trehalose, although it is possible that a combination of the two mechanisms is at work.
Trehalose is a disaccharide formed by a 1,1-glucoside bond between two α-glucose units. Because trehalose is formed by the bonding of two reducing aldehyde groups, it has no capacity to participate in the Maillard reaction. There is an industrial process where trehalose is derived from corn starch. The two prevalent theories as to how trehalose works within the organism in the state of cryptobiosis are the vitrification theory, a state that prevents ice formation, or the water displacement theory, whereby water is replaced by trehalose, although it is possible that a combination of the two mechanisms is at work.
Trehalase is a glycoside hydrolase enzyme located in on the brush border of the small intestine that catalyzes the conversion of trehalose to glucose. It is found in most animals. In the intestine the function of this enzyme is to hydrolyze ingested trehalose. Individuals with a defect in their intestinal trehalase have diarrhea when they eat foods with high trehalose content, such as mushrooms.