Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. 
A Muscle Disease is defined by some typical set of symptoms that are found across most types of muscular diseases. These include progressive weakness of the muscles, pain in the limbs, undue lethargy or exhaustion, cramping or stiffness of certain muscle groups, stiff joints and uncoordinated body movements. Types of metabolic muscle diseases include: 1  Phosphorylase Deficiency. 2  This condition is also referred to as myophosphorylase deficiency or McArdle Disease. 3  This muscle disease usually affects a small group of muscles. 4  Here, the muscles are unable to metabolize carbohydrates properly.
Inflammation leads to pain and immobility in a joint area. Muscular dystrophy – Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited diseases in which the muscles that control movement progressively weaken. The prefix, dys-, means abnormal. The root, -trophy, refers to maintaining normal nourishment, structure and function.
1 Distal. 2  This group of rare diseases affects adult men and women. 3  It causes weakness and wasting of the distal muscles (those farthest from the center) of the forearms, hands, lower legs, and feet. 4  It is generally less severe, progresses more slowly, and affects fewer muscles than other forms of muscular dystrophy. 1 This form of muscular dystrophy appears in the teens to early adulthood and affects males and females. 2  It progresses slowly, with short periods of rapid muscle deterioration and weakness. 3  Severity ranges from very mild to completely disabling. 4  Walking, chewing, swallowing, and speaking problems can occur.
Neuromuscular disease is a very broad term that encompasses many diseases and ailments that impair the functioning of the muscles, either directly, being pathologies of the muscle, or indirectly, being pathologies of nerves or neuromuscular junctions. Smooth muscle has been implicated to play a role in a large number of diseases affecting blood vessels, the respiratory tract (e.g., asthma), the digestive system (e.g. irritable bowel syndrome) and the urinary tract (e.g., urinary incontinence). These disease processes are not usually confined to the muscular tissue
Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited diseases that are characterized by weakness and wasting away of muscle tissue, with or without the breakdown of nerve tissue. Myotonic. 20 to 40 years. Symptoms include weakness of all muscle groups accompanied by delayed relaxation of muscles after contraction; affects face, feet, hands, and neck first; progression is slow, sometimes spanning 50 to 60 years.
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue. Specific muscle groups are affected by different types of muscular dystrophy. Often, there is a loss of muscle mass (wasting), which may be hard to see because some types of muscular dystrophy cause a buildup of fat and connective tissue that makes the muscle appear larger. This is called pseudohypertrophy.
Some types of muscular dystrophy affect only males; some people with MD enjoy a normal life span with mild symptoms that progress very slowly; others experience swift and severe muscle weakness and wasting, dying in their late teens to early 20s. The various types of MD affect more than 50,000 Americans. 1 This form of muscular dystrophy appears in the teens to early adulthood and affects males and females. 2  It progresses slowly, with short periods of rapid muscle deterioration and weakness. 3  Severity ranges from very mild to completely disabling. 4  Walking, chewing, swallowing, and speaking problems can occur.
1 This group of rare diseases affects adult men and women. 2  It causes weakness and wasting of the distal muscles (those farthest from the center) of the forearms, hands, lower legs, and feet. 3  It is generally less severe, progresses more slowly, and affects fewer muscles than other forms of muscular dystrophy. 1 This form of muscular dystrophy appears in the teens to early adulthood and affects males and females. 2  It progresses slowly, with short periods of rapid muscle deterioration and weakness. 3  Severity ranges from very mild to completely disabling. 4  Walking, chewing, swallowing, and speaking problems can occur.