Average KFC hourly pay ranges from approximately $17.67 per hour for Production Team Member to $25 per hour for Cook. The average KFC salary ranges from approximately $40,000 per year for Assistance Manager to $66,000 per year for Restaurant Manager. Salary information comes from 30 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
Normally, corporate income tax is only owed by companies that have property or employees in a state. KFC's franchisees do, and pay taxes, but KFC Corp. in distant Louisville (or rather Delaware, where royalty payments from franchisees are not taxed) do not. Nevertheless, they've been ordered to pay $250,000 in corporate income taxes on the profits they've earned: I've heard it claimed that because this out-of-state company is benefitting from its franchisees' market in Iowa, it should pay a share of its profits to the state to pay for essential services like roads and courts and such.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How much do people who work at KFC get paid? This sounds ridiculous but i workl at KFC and don't actually know my rate of pay. I'm a part timer, nothing special not a team leader or anything just a regular employee at KFC. 
The average KFC salary ranges from approximately £8,000 per year for Team Leader/Supervisor to £60,000 per year for Operations Manager. Average KFC hourly pay ranges from approximately £3.85 per hour for Front of House Team Member to £8 per hour for Shift Manager. Salary information comes from 1,938 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed.
Average KFC hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.35 per hour for Server to $16.00 per hour for Store Manager. The average KFC salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Customer Service Associate / Cashier to $88,000 per year for Coach. Salary information comes from 3,068 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed
How much do KFC employees make? Glassdoor has salaries, tips, bonuses and hourly wages submitted anonymously by 66 KFC employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City.
How much do KFC employees make? Glassdoor has salaries, tips, bonuses and hourly wages submitted anonymously by 80 KFC employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City.
[F]ranchise operators pay KFC for the use of its logo and systems, and adhere to the company's menu, marketing and facility stipulations. This is enough presence to derive income and therefore owe income taxes, according to a unanimous ruling that was handed down by the Iowa Supreme Court Dec. 30. I've heard it claimed that because this out-of-state company is benefitting from its franchisees' market in Iowa, it should pay a share of its profits to the state to pay for essential services like roads and courts and such.
See KFC Hourly Wages, KFC Bonuses, or check out salaries for KFC Contractor. Glassdoor has salaries, tips, bonuses and hourly wages submitted anonymously by 80 KFC employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City.
I have a job interview tomorrow for Kentucky Fried Chicken and i would like to know how much the employers pay to the employees before i go there so i can get an idea of how much. Source(s): kfc pay employees: https://shortly.im/SsLKj. Jinny · 2 months ago. Thumbs up. 0. I have a job interview tomorrow for Kentucky Fried Chicken and i would like to know how much the employers pay to the employees before i go there so i can get an idea of how much. 1 following.