What is Interferential Current Therapy. Interferential current therapy is an effective therapy option used by many physiotherapy clinics to relieve pain and accelerate the self-healing process, getting your body back to a healthy, pain free state. Interferential current therapy has been in use for many years, and there have been numerous case studies and research reports that have documented its versatility in treating diverse symptoms, accelerating the healing process and restoring normal movement.
Interferential Current (IFC) Equipment. Interferential current (IFC) therapy is a therapeutic modality that is used often in an orthopedic physical therapy setting. The following article serves as a brief introduction to the modality and it’s uses. A piece of equipment commonly used by physical therapists is the interferential current machine. This machine produces electrical currents (~4000HZ) that pass through the affected area of the patient.
Interferential Current Therapy  In essence, IFC uses a carrier frequency, usually 4000 Hz and by crossing 2 individual current generators they “interfere” with each other, resulting in the desired treatment frequency within the body.  4000Hz crossed with 4100Hz  Leaves us with  100Hz. Interferential Current Therapy  The carrier frequency overcomes skin resistance more easily and penetrates the skin more deeply than a regular electrical stimulator, with less user discomfort for a given level of stimulation.
Interferential current therapy has been used extensively to help manage pain, edema, and inflammation due to soft tissue irritation from trauma or degenerative changes, with less dependence on narcotics. IFC can be used for pain associated with several conditions including: Mechanism of Interferential Current Therapy. When two medium-frequency circuits of slightly different cycles per second are superimposed, interference is formed which blocks the transmission of pain messages at the spinal cord level.
Interferential Current Therapy  The patient should not feel any discomfort from the application of the interferential current.  The electrodes will usually be self adhering electrodes or carbon electrodes that are used with a damp sponge placed between the electrode and the patient's skin.  4000Hz crossed with 4100Hz  Leaves us with  100Hz. Interferential Current Therapy  The carrier frequency overcomes skin resistance more easily and penetrates the skin more deeply than a regular electrical stimulator, with less user discomfort for a given level of stimulation.
The basic principle of electrotherapy Interferential Therapy (IFT) is to utilise the strong physiologicaportable interferential effects of low frequency (. To produce low frequency effects at sufficient intensity at depth, patients can experience considerable discomfort in the superficial tissues (i.e. the skin). 
Interferential Current Therapy (IFC). Targeting the pain site, not the entire body. Interferential Current Therapy (IFC) is a noninvasive therapy indicated for the symptomatic relief from, and management of, chronic intractable pain and post-surgical and post-trauma acute pain. Mechanism of Interferential Current Therapy. When two medium-frequency circuits of slightly different cycles per second are superimposed, interference is formed which blocks the transmission of pain messages at the spinal cord level.
Interferential current therapy is stimulation made by the interception of two electrical mediums of varying frequencies that work together to successfully stimulate large impulse fibers. These frequencies interfere with the pain transmission messages at the spinal cord level. Interferential current therapy has been in use for many years, and there have been numerous case studies and research reports that have documented its versatility in treating diverse symptoms, accelerating the healing process and restoring normal movement.
This interferential stimulation is concentrated at the point of intersection, deep in the tissues, between the electrodes. IFC modulates a high frequency (4000 Hz), versus TENS which typically delivers at 125 Hz. When current is applied to skin, skin resistance decreases as pulse frequency increases. Mechanism of Interferential Current Therapy. When two medium-frequency circuits of slightly different cycles per second are superimposed, interference is formed which blocks the transmission of pain messages at the spinal cord level.