[Email your tech questions to answer@pcworld.com .]. Before you can copy, move, or delete multiple files, you need to select them. How you select them depends on what they have in common. Once selected, the rest is easy. To select everything in the current folder, press Ctrl-A. 1 If you drag and drop to another folder on the same drive, Windows moves the files. 2  If you drag and drop to another drive, Windows copies them. 3  If you hold down Ctrl while you drag and drop, Windows will always copy the files, no matter where the destination (think C for Ctrl and Copy).
50. This file came from another computer and might be blocked to help protect this computer. Windows XP SP2 and Windows Vista have this deal where zone information is preserved in downloaded files to NTFS partitions, such that it blocks certain files in certain applications until you unblock the files. If you download a .ZIP and unzip it, the individual files will be marked as the same zone as the .ZIP. Almost every time I have a folder full of blocked files, this is how I got them. Before unzipping, click the Unblock button on the .ZIP.
So for example if you download a zip file of source code to try something out, every file will display this in the security settings of the file properties. This file came from another computer and might be blocked to help protect this computer. Along with an Unblock button. If you download a .ZIP and unzip it, the individual files will be marked as the same zone as the .ZIP. Almost every time I have a folder full of blocked files, this is how I got them. Before unzipping, click the Unblock button on the .ZIP.
Stop having to click Unblock on every downloaded file. CAUTION: The blocking of downloaded files in Windows is a security and safety feature to help prevent your computer from being infected by viruses and other malware. Only disable this feature if you know what you're doing. 
To select all items on a page or folder, you can use the CTRL+A or Command + A shortcut: hold down the CTRL button (on Windows) or Command key (on Mac) then hit the A key. Then hit these keys together to copy, cut, and paste them: Windows: Hold down the CTRL key then click. 1  C to copy. 2  or. 3  X to cut. 4  V to paste. For example, you can have two Windows Explorer windows open side by side and drag a file from one to the other to copy it over. 1  Select the item as in the first step. 2  Press and hold down your mouse button to grab it. 3  Then move your mouse to the other window and release the button.
1 Go to the files or folders you want to copy. 2  If you need help locating the files use the Windows find feature. 3  Highlight the file or files you want to copy. 4  If you need to highlight more than one file, you can hold down the CTRL or Shift keys on your keyboard or drag a box around the files you want to copy. How to copy files to another drive. You can also copy files from the current location to any other drive. For example, if you have a USB flash drive that is drive letter F: you can use the command below to copy the file all JPEG image files to the flash drive.
The Unblock-File cmdlet lets you open files that were downloaded from the Internet. It unblocks Windows PowerShell script files that were downloaded from the Internet so you can run them, even when the Windows PowerShell execution policy is RemoteSigned. Unblock-File performs the same operation as the Unblock button on the Properties dialog box in File Explorer. If you use the Unblock-File cmdlet on a file that is not blocked, the command has no effect on the unblocked file and the cmdlet does not generate errors.
To select a contiguous block of files, click the first file in the block. Then hold down the Shift key as you click the last file in the block. This will select not only those two files, but everything in between. If the files are scattered throughout the folder, you may be able to make them contiguous by grouping them. 1 If you drag and drop to another folder on the same drive, Windows moves the files. 2  If you drag and drop to another drive, Windows copies them. 3  If you hold down Ctrl while you drag and drop, Windows will always copy the files, no matter where the destination (think C for Ctrl and Copy).
How to copy a file in Microsoft Windows. Below are the simple steps on how to copy a file or multiple files in Microsoft Windows from one location to another. 1  Go to the files or folders you want to copy. 2  If you need help locating the files use the Windows find feature. 3  Highlight the file or files you want to copy. How to copy files to another drive. You can also copy files from the current location to any other drive. For example, if you have a USB flash drive that is drive letter F: you can use the command below to copy the file all JPEG image files to the flash drive.