Hepatitis A (formerly known as infectious hepatitis) is an acute infectious disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). Many cases have few or no symptoms, especially in the young. The time between infection and symptoms, in those who develop them, is between two and six weeks. Early symptoms of hepatitis A infection can be mistaken for influenza, but some sufferers, especially children, exhibit no symptoms at all. Symptoms typically appear 2 to 6 weeks (the incubation period) after the initial infection. 90% of children do not have symptoms.
Causes. The hepatitis A virus, which causes the infection, usually is spread when a person ingests even tiny amounts of contaminated fecal matter. The hepatitis A virus infects liver cells and causes inflammation. The inflammation can impair liver function and cause other signs and symptoms of hepatitis A. 
1 In other infected individuals symptoms of hepatitis A may include flu-like symptoms such as tiredness, stomach discomfort, fever, decreased appetite, and diarrhea; light-colored stools; more specific symptoms include dark yellow urine, and jaundice (white of eyes and skin become yellowish). Hepatitis A is a virus, or infection, that causes liver disease and inflammation of the liver. Viruses can cause sickness. For example, the flu is caused by a virus. People can pass viruses to each other.
Symptoms. Hepatitis A signs and symptoms, which typically don't appear until you've had the virus for a few weeks, may include: 1  Fatigue. 2  Nausea and vomiting. 3  Abdominal pain or discomfort, especially in the area of your liver on your right side beneath your lower ribs. 4  Clay-colored bowel movements. 5  Loss of appetite
Symptoms of hepatitis A usually develop between 2 and 6 weeks after infection. The symptoms are usually not too severe and go away on their own, over time. The most common symptoms are as follows: 1  Nausea. 2  Vomiting. 3  Diarrhea, especially in children. 4  Pale or gray-colored stools. 5  Low-grade fever. 6  Loss of appetite. 7  Rash. 
Symptoms of hepatitis A can occur 2 to 7 weeks after coming into contact with the virus. Children younger than age 6 may have no symptoms. Older children and adults often get mild, flulike symptoms. See a doctor right away if you or a child in your care has symptoms of hepatitis A. 
Symptoms. The incubation period of hepatitis A is usually 14–28 days. Symptoms of hepatitis A range from mild to severe, and can include fever, malaise, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal discomfort, dark-coloured urine and jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes). Not everyone who is infected will have all of the symptoms. 1 Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person.
Most people with hepatitis A usually have: 1  Extreme tiredness. 2  Loss of appetite. 3  Muscle aches and pains. 4  Nausea and vomiting. 5  Low-grade fever. 
The likelihood of experiencing hep A symptoms is related to the infected person's age. For example, in children under 6 years old, most (70 percent) have no symptoms. If symptoms do occur in these children, they usually do not last more than two months. 