Sometimes the hare will eat meat in the winter. In the winter the arctic hare also feeds on bare twigs and vegetables just under the snow. They also feed on grass, bugs, twigs … , and leaves in the summer. In the winter it will also eat spruce twigs, bark, needles, and buds of hard wood. They will also feed on willow and dwarf arctic plants. No. Hares are herbivores; like rabbits, they eat plants. Mink like to eat fish and small mammals, including young rabbits, so they might eat newborn hares, but a full grown ha … re would be too big for it to tackle.
Arctic hares are also reported to eat mosses, lichens, buds, berries, blooms, leaves, saxifrages, cinquefoils, campoins, sedges, seaweed, bark, willow twigs and roots, crowberry, and the meat from the traps of hunters. Arctic hares in the winter usually feed in areas where snow is shallow or plants are exposed by wind. Arctic hares dig for vegetation in these spots. Arctic hares eat woody plants, such as willow twigs, also can eat roots, mosses, etc. While being vegetarians, these hares are known to occasionally eat meat. Arctic hares can smell willows under the snow and the the arctic hare start to dig
Food. In spring and summer, hares eat a variety of greens including grass, clover, ferns and garden plants. In fall and winter, they eat bark and the twigs of birch, aspen and conifers. In summer, the snowshoe eats succulent vegetation and in winter, slender twigs, buds and bark. 
Information. Located The Arctic Hare is located in extreme northern Canada and various parts of Greenland. Diet The Arctic Hare's diet consists of buds, berries, twigs, mosses, woody plants and other types of vegetation that can be found in the tundra. Habitat Arctic Hares can be found in various tundra areas of Greenland and northern Canada. 
In summer, hares mainly eat grasses, ferns, and succulent green plants. After the first frost, they switch to woody vegetation such as mountain maple and lodgepole pine needles. Snowshoe hares aren’t highly regarded by tree growers, because they can kill saplings in tree farms, especially in winter. 
Sometimes the hare will eat meat in the winter. In the winter the arctic hare also feeds on bare twigs and vegetables just under the snow. They also feed on grass, bugs, twigs … , and leaves in the summer. In the winter it will also eat spruce twigs, bark, needles, and buds of hard wood. Confidence votes 82. The arctic hare (Lepus arcticus), or polar rabbit, subsists upon crowberries, grasses, mosses, lichens, seaweed, willow twigs, and the bark, leaves, and stems of woody plants. When early summer arrives, purple mountain saxifrage is a favorite. Four subspecies of the arctic hare are recognize
The diet of snowshoe hares is variable. They eat many different kinds of grasses, small leafy plants, and flowers. The new growth of trembling aspen, birches and willows is also eaten. During the winter, snowshoe hares forage on buds, twigs, bark, and evergreens. They have been known to scavenge the remains of their own kind in the winter months.