By Liji Thomas, MD. Leishmaniasis is a tropical disease caused by a parasite called Leishmania donovanii. Sand flies of the Phlebotomus family spread these parasites through their bites. The different forms of human leishmaniasis include cutaneous, mucous and visceral leishmaniasis
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease. It is spread by the bite of an insect called a sandfly. Leishmaniasis is sometimes called kala-azar. There are two main forms of the disease. Each is associated with different species of the parasite. Cutaneous leishmaniasis affects the skin. Visceral leishmaniasis damages the internal organs
Leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease transmitted by the bites of infected sand flies. It is found in nearly 88 countries, from rain forests in Central and South America to deserts in the Middle East and west Asia. Some cases of the disease have also appeared in Mexico and Texas. The disease takes several different forms, including the most common cutaneous leishmaniasis, which causes skin sores, and the more severe visceral leishmaniasis (also known as kala azar), which affects internal organs such as the spleen, liver, and bone marrow.
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease that is found in parts of the tropics, subtropics, and southern Europe. Leishmaniasis is caused by infection with Leishmania parasites, which are spread by the bite of infected sand flies. There are several different forms of leishmaniasis in people. In the Old World (the Eastern Hemisphere) , leishmaniasis is found in some parts of Asia, the Middle East, Africa (particularly in the tropical region and North Africa, with some cases elsewhere), and southern Europe. It is not found in Australia or the Pacific Islands
Barbara L. Herwaldt, Alan J. Magill. Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease found in parts of the tropics, subtropics, and southern Europe. Leishmaniasis has several different forms. This section focuses on cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL), the most common form, both in general and in travelers
Leishmaniasis (/ˌliːʃməˈnaɪəsɪs/) or leishmaniosis (/liːʃˌmeɪnɪˈoʊsɪs/ or /liːʃˌmaenɪˈoʊsɪs/) liːʃˌmænɪˈoʊsɪs is a disease caused by protozoan parasites of the Genus leishmania and spread by the bite of certain types of. Sandflies the disease can present in three main: ways, cutaneous, mucocutaneous or visceral. leishmaniasis 1 Visceral leishmaniasis or kala-azar ('black fever') is the most serious form, and is potentially fatal if untreated. 2  Other consequences, which can occur a few months to years after infection, include fever, damage to the spleen and liver, and anemia.
For the disease in canids, see canine leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis (/ˌliːʃməˈnaɪəsɪs/) or leishmaniosis (/liːʃˌmeɪnɪˈoʊsɪs/ or /liːʃˌmaenɪˈoʊsɪs/) liːʃˌmænɪˈoʊsɪs is a disease caused by protozoan parasites of the Genus leishmania and spread by the bite of certain types of. sandflies 1 Visceral leishmaniasis or kala-azar ('black fever') is the most serious form, and is potentially fatal if untreated. 2  Other consequences, which can occur a few months to years after infection, include fever, damage to the spleen and liver, and anemia.
1 Leishmaniasis exists in many temperate and tropical countries of the world. 2  The disease is most common in India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sudan, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Algeria, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, and Bolivia. Leishmaniasis facts. 1  Leishmaniasis is caused by a parasite that is spread to humans through the bite of infected sand flies. 2 