The Coronary Arteries. The heart receives its own supply of blood from the coronary arteries. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet. These arteries and their branches supply all parts of the heart muscle with blood. The left coronary arteries supply: 1  Circumflex artery-supplies blood to the left atrium, side and back of the left ventricle. 2  Left Anterior Descending artery (LAD) - supplies the front and bottom of the left ventricle and the front of the septum.
Like all organs, your heart is made of tissue that requires a supply of oxygen and nutrients. Although its chambers are full of blood, the heart receives no nourishment from this blood. The heart receives its own supply of blood from a network of arteries, called the coronary arteries. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet: 1  Right coronary artery supplies the right atrium and right ventricle with blood. 
Coronary arteries supply blood to the myocardium and other components of the heart. Two coronary arteries originate from the left side of the heart at the beginning (root) of the aorta, just after the aorta exits the left ventricle. As the left and right coronary arteries run on the surface of the heart, they can be called epicardial coronary arteries. These arteries, when healthy, are capable of autoregulation to maintain coronary blood flow at levels appropriate to the needs of the heart muscle.
It supplies blood to all parts of the body with the exception of the lungs. The aorta ascends from the heart and forms an arch, from which arise two subclavian arteries. Each subclavian has two main branches, the common carotid and the vertebral. Both of these carry blood to the brain. 
Arteriovenous Anastomosis (Shunt): Arteriovenous anastomosis (shunt) is the communication between an artery and a vein. It serves the function of phasic activity of the organ. When the organ is active these shunts are closed and the blood circulates through the capillaries. Arterial anastomosis is the communication between the arteries, or branches of arteries. It may be actual or potential. 1  Actual Arterial Anastomosis: In actual arterial anastomosis the arteries meet end to end.
Coronary circulation is the circulation of blood in the blood vessels of the heart muscle (myocardium). The vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood to the myocardium are known as coronary arteries. The vessels that remove the deoxygenated blood from the heart muscle are known as cardiac veins. As the left and right coronary arteries run on the surface of the heart, they can be called epicardial coronary arteries. These arteries, when healthy, are capable of autoregulation to maintain coronary blood flow at levels appropriate to the needs of the heart muscle.
CIRCULATORY ANASTOMOSIS. Arteries do not always end in capillarie; in many cases they unite with one another, forming what are called anastomosis Anastomoses occur normally in the body in the circulatory system, serving as backup routes for blood to flow if one link is blocked or otherwise compromised. pelvic anastomosesabdominal anastomoseshand and foot anastomoses (which include the palmar and plantar arches)Coronary: anterior and posterior interventricular ries of the heart circle of Willis Coronary anastomoses are a clinically vital subject: The coronary anastomosis is the blood supply to the heart.
It is the shortest circulation in the body The arterial supply of coronary circulation is provided by Right and Left coronary arteries, which arise from the base of ascending aorta (from the anterior and posterior aortic sinuses) and encircle the heart in the atrioventricular groove like a crown. Heart 5: Blood Supply of the Heart. Heart 4: Fibrous Skeleton of the Heart. The heart itself recieves its blood supply through the coronary circulation.
A circulatory anastomosis is a connection (an anastomosis) between two blood vessels, such as between arteries (arterio-arterial anastomosis), between veins (veno-venous anastomosis) or between an artery and a vein (arterio-venous anastomosis). 