What the Test Does. Ultrasounds use sound waves to create images of your baby in the womb. With a transvaginal ultrasound, a technician inserts a small probe into your vagina to get a clearer image of your tiny baby. Transvaginal ultrasounds check your baby's heartbeat and the placenta. They can rule out problems, such as ectopic pregnancies. They also show problems with the cervix -- such as short cervix -- that raise your risk of early labor
1 This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. 2  Confirming the correct dates of your pregnancy. 3  Some women are uncertain of their last menstrual period (LMP) or have irregular menstrual cycles, making it difficult for their doctor to correctly estimate when the baby is due. A transvaginal ultrasound is usually required to see the baby at this stage of the pregnancy. Your baby is just a tiny embryo. Although the ultrasound may see your baby, it measures only a few millimetres long, and it is too early to always detect the baby’s heartbeat.
During this ultrasound, the doctor will confirm that the placenta is healthy and that your baby is growing properly in the uterus. The baby's heartbeat and movement of its body, arms and legs can also be seen on the ultrasound. If you wish to know the gender of your baby, it can usually be determined by 20 weeks. Be sure to tell the health care provider performing the ultrasound whether or not you want to know the gender of your baby.
1 Confirming the presence of your baby’s heartbeat. 2  You may have gone to your doctor with vaginal bleeding or you may be anxious because of problems in a previous pregnancy (such as miscarriage). 3  This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. A transvaginal ultrasound is usually required to see the baby at this stage of the pregnancy. Your baby is just a tiny embryo. Although the ultrasound may see your baby, it measures only a few millimetres long, and it is too early to always detect the
If baby is measuring at 7 weeks 2 days and theres no visible heartbeat by ultrasound, then the Baby will be lost. This happened to me with my second pregnancy. I was approximately 9 weeks 4 days and had my first ultrasound. The baby measured 7 weeks 4 days and had no heartbeat. 
A fetus can be detected as early as the sixth week of pregnancy. Many ultrasound technicians prefer to wait until at least that point in the pregnancy to do an ultrasound and many prefer waiting until the eighth week of pregnancy when more of the development of the fetus can be seen. Transvaginal Ultrasound. Transvaginal ultrasound can be used to detect a fetus or gestational sac up to a week before traditional ultrasound. A transvaginal ultrasound is performed by inserting a lubricated wand into the vagina and performing the ultrasound internally.
1 You may have gone to your doctor with vaginal bleeding or you may be anxious because of problems in a previous pregnancy (such as miscarriage). 2  This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. 3  Confirming the correct dates of your pregnancy. A transvaginal ultrasound is usually required to see the baby at this stage of the pregnancy. Your baby is just a tiny embryo. Although the ultrasound may see your baby, it measures only a few millimetres long, and it is too early to always detect the baby’s heartbeat.
Detecting a Gestational Sac on Ultrasound. The gestational sac is seen earlier than a fetus can be detected on an ultrasound. A gestational sac can be seen as early as the fifth week of pregnancy or three weeks after conception. If no gestational sac is seen, it could mean that the expectant mother ovulated late. Transvaginal Ultrasound. Transvaginal ultrasound can be used to detect a fetus or gestational sac up to a week before traditional ultrasound. A transvaginal ultrasound is performed by inserting a lubricated wand into the vagina and performing the ultrasound internally.
The baby’s heartbeat will be detected at this stage. At 8-11 weeks gestation, your baby continues to change appearance as it grows and develops. By 8 weeks gestation, your baby can usually be seen with transabdominal ultrasound. A transvaginal ultrasound is usually required to see the baby at this stage of the pregnancy. Your baby is just a tiny embryo. Although the ultrasound may see your baby, it measures only a few millimetres long, and it is too early to always detect the baby’s heartbeat.