Proximate analysis is the most commonly used chemical analysis conducted on coals, and is also the simplest to perform. A typical proximate analysis includes determination of moisture, volatile matter, ash, and fixed carbon content after the coal sample has been ground to pass 0.212 mm sieve. This test is used to ascertain the ‘Rank’ of coals, and also to establish the ratio of combustible to incombustible constituents.
We do proximate analysis of the matter to know the nitrogen (protein), oil (fat), mineral, ash content etc to have an idea about the energy contained in that matter.
Proximate analysis is a vital quality control parameter for coal and coke. This analysis covers the estimation of moisture, volatile matter, fixed carbon, and ash. Proximate analysis is extremely crucial from the point of view of buying/selling of coals.
This paper demonstrates this utility using standard coal and coke samples. Introduction Proximate analysis has long been used to determine the rank of coals by separating volatile components, fixed carbon and inert components. Because of the wide ranging quality of coal products and the commercial value of ranking these products the need for good methods is obvious.
The objective of proximate analysis indicates the percentage by weight of the Fixed Carbon, Volatiles, Ash, and Moisture Content in coal. The amounts of fixed carbon and volatile combustible matter directly contribute to the heating value of coal.
Proximate analysis Proximate analysis of coal is a simple laboratory method for determining the components of coal, obtained when the coal sample is heated (pyrolysis) under specified conditions. The coal sample is extracted from a core and placed quickly in a canister to preserve as much gas as possible.
1.1 These instrumental test methods cover the determination of moisture, volatile matter, and ash, and the calculation of fixed carbon in the analysis of coal and coke samples prepared in accordance with Practice D2013 and Practice D346.
The ultimate analysis gives the composition of the biomass in wt% of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen (the major components) as well as sulfur and nitrogen (if any). The carbon … determination includes that present in the organic coal substance and any originally present as mineral carbonate.