Confidence votes 90.2K. An organism is an individual form of life, such as plants, animals, protist, bacterium, or fungi. It is a body made up of organs, organelles, or other parts that work together to carry on the various processes of life. An organism is a term used to describe a living thing like a plant or animal
n. An individual form of life, such as a plant, animal, bacterium, protist, or fungus; a body made up of organs, organelles, or other parts that work together to carry on the various processes of life. or′gan·is′mal (-nĭz′məl) , or′gan·is′mic (-mĭk) adj. Organism. An individual of some type of life form, such as a plant, an animal, or a microorganism. Mentioned in: Antibiotics, Antihelminthic Drugs, Antimalarial Drugs, Urinary Anti-Infectives, Vaginal Pain. (ōr'gă-nizm).
These are all organisms. The definition of an organism is a creature such as a plant, animal or a single-celled life form, or something that has interdependent parts and that is being compared to a living creature. 1 An individual form of life, such as a bacterium, protist, fungus, plant, or animal, composed of a single cell or a complex of cells in which organelles or organs work together to carry out the various processes of life.
Organism: is an individual living thing, such as a plant, animal, bacterium, protest, or fungus. An organism has a body made up of smaller parts that work together. There are many different organisms. 
All known types of organisms are capable of some degree of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development and homeostasis. An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism. Most unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. The term organism (from Greek ὀργανισμός, organismos, from ὄργανον, organon, i.e. instrument, implement, tool, organ of sense or apprehension) first appeared in the English language in 1703 and took on its current definition by 1834 (Oxford English Dictionary). It is directly related to the term organization
or·gan·ism. An individual form of life, such as a bacterium, fungus, plant, or animal, that is capable of growing and reproducing. Organisms are composed of one or more cells. organism. n. 1. (Biology) any living biological entity, such as an animal, plant, fungus, or bacterium. 2. anything resembling a living creature in structure, behaviour, etc.
n. 1. An individual form of life, such as a bacterium, protist, fungus, plant, or animal, composed of a single cell or a complex of cells in which organelles or organs work together to carry out the various processes of life. organism. n. 1. (Biology) any living biological entity, such as an animal, plant, fungus, or bacterium. 2. anything resembling a living creature in structure, behaviour, etc.