A defect in the CFTR gene causes cystic fibrosis (CF). This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of your body's cells. In people who have CF, the gene makes a protein that doesn't work well. This causes thick, sticky mucus and very salty sweat. 
In people with CF, a defective gene causes a thick, buildup of mucus in the lungs, pancreas and other organs. In the lungs, the mucus clogs the airways and traps bacteria leading to infections, extensive lung damage and eventually, respiratory failure. Diagnosis and Genetics. Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease. People with CF have inherited two copies of the defective CF gene -- one copy from each parent. Both parents must have at least one copy of the defective gene.
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic condition caused by a faulty gene (known as the CFTR gene). The CFTR gene normally creates a protein that moves salt and water out of a cell. If the CFTR gene is defective, it results in a build-up of thick, sticky mucus in the body's tubes and passageways. These blockages damage the lungs, digestive system and other organs, resulting in inflammation (swelling) and, in the lungs, repeated infections.
Understanding What Causes Cystic Fibrosis. The cause of cystic fibrosis (CF) is a defect in a gene called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of the cells in your body
Cystic fibrosis is a hereditary disease that causes the body to produce thick and sticky mucus that can clog the lungs and obstruct the pancreas. This genetic disease can be life threatening, and affects an estimated 30,000 children and adults in the US, with around 1,000 new cases diagnosed each year. 1 Cystic fibrosis primarily affects the lungs and digestive system. 2  It leads to the production of mucus that is much thicker and more sticky than usual. 3  Cystic fibrosis is a hereditary condition, caused by a defective gene. 4  The cystic fibrosis gene must be present in both parents for a child to have the condition.
1 Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease that affects the secretory glands, including the mucus and sweat glands. 2  Cystic fibrosis mostly affects the lungs, pancreas, liver, intestines, sinuses, and sex organs. 1 CF is due to a mutation in the CF gene on chromosome 7. 2  The CF gene encodes a protein known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR). 3  The abnormal CFTR protein in patients with CF leads to disruption of chloride channels on the cells.
Causes. In cystic fibrosis, a defect (mutation) in a gene changes a protein that regulates the movement of salt in and out of cells. The result is thick, sticky mucus in the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems, as well as increased salt in sweat. Many different defects can occur in the gene.
Cystic fibrosis occurs when a child inherits a changed (mutated) gene from both parents. The changed gene causes problems with the way salt and water move in and out of the cells that make mucus, causing the mucus to be thick and sticky. 
A defect in the CFTR gene causes cystic fibrosis (CF). This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of your body's cells. In people who have CF, the gene makes a protein that doesn't work well. This causes thick, sticky mucus and very salty sweat. Research suggests that the CFTR protein also affects the body in other ways. This may help explain other symptoms and complications of CF. More than a thousand known defects can affect the CFTR gene.