A Tiffany lamp is a type of lamp with a glass shade made with glass designed by Louis Comfort Tiffany and his design studio. The most famous was the stained leaded glass lamp. Tiffany lamps are considered part of the Art Nouveau movement. Due to Tiffany's dominant influence on the style, the term 'Tiffany lamp' or 'Tiffany style lamp' has been often used to refer to stained leaded glass lamps even those not made by Louis Comfort Tiffany's company.
The lamp contains blobs of coloured wax inside a glass vessel filled with clear or translucent liquid; the wax rises and falls as its density changes due to heating from an incandescent light bulb underneath the vessel. The appearance of the wax is suggestive of pāhoehoe lava, hence the name. However, lava lamps made in China for the U.S. market since 1970 do not use carbon tetrachloride, because its use was banned that year due to toxicity. The manufacturer (Haggerty) states that their current formulation is a trade secret.
Table lamps create ambient light in every room of your home. Table lamps come in various sizes, shapes, and styles, which makes them a perfect way to liven up your existing decor. Décor you can use inspiration from your existing interior design to purchase a lamp for your end, table home, office or bedside. table Table lamps create ambient light in every room of your home. Table lamps come in various sizes, shapes, and styles, which makes them a perfect way to liven up your existing decor. décor
Tiffany lamps made after 1902 have the model number stamped on their base or base plate. When the shade has a different number, it is stamped into the metal on the inside of the bottom edge. All in all, the studios produced more than 500 designs for lamp bases and another 500-plus designs for shades. 
Tiffany and others made bronze and gilt-bronze lamp bases, often simulating plants or tree trunks, and floral or other naturalistic art glass shades with colorful iridescent glass pieces leaded together. Thousands of Tiffany lamps were made, and they're highly collectible today. Lamps with multiple bulbs and lamps with swiveling necks were also common. So-called TV lamps were also popular in the 1950s. Typically made of ceramic or plaster, these were backlit decorative sculptures created in the shape of animals, people, and plants. .. Lava lamps, an icon of the 1960s and 70s, combined heated wax, chemicals, and dyed water to create lava-like imager
A lava lamp (or Astro lamp) is a decorative novelty item, invented by British accountant Edward Craven Walker, the founder of Mathmos, in 1963. However, lava lamps made in China for the U.S. market since 1970 do not use carbon tetrachloride, because its use was banned that year due to toxicity. The manufacturer (Haggerty) states that their current formulation is a trade secret.
The earliest type of lamp, the oil lamp, was a simplistic vessel with an absorbent wick. These were mass-produced starting in the 19th century. Manufacturers typically made the metal base and burner and bought the glass from another manufacturer. Lamps with multiple bulbs and lamps with swiveling necks were also common. So-called TV lamps were also popular in the 1950s. Typically made of ceramic or plaster, these were backlit decorative sculptures created in the shape of animals, people, and plants. .. Lava lamps, an icon of the 1960s and 70s, combined heated wax, chemicals, and dyed water to create lava-like imagery
A charming example of the clip-on bell shade task lamp popularized in the 1910's and '20's, this convertible model was made by the Greist Manufacturing Company. Renowned for their sewing machines and sewing accessories, the Greist Mfg. Simple and useful, this stick lamp from an unknown maker gets the job done without unnecessary frills. The base is made of a beveled 1 x 6 square of marble, which anchors a worn brass arm with Faries-esque elements. The whole charming scene is capped by a perfectly aged green parabolic shade. A...
Lamps can be made from almost anything. Here are some pictures of different items turned into unique lamps. In my search for home made lamps, I have found everything from the truly beautiful, the the absolutely bizarre. I hope you enjoy. This is a lamp project based on one of Ki Nassauer's projects. It's basically 4 spindles, attached to scrap wood on top and below. 