1 Slice each potato in half the long way and cook potatoes another 2 minutes on high power. 2  Preheat a grill for medium heat. 3  Brush the potato tops with olive oil, and season with salt and pepper to taste. 4  Cook on prepared grill for 15 to 20 minutes, turning once. 1 Poke each potato with the tines of a fork. 2  Place the potatoes in a microwave oven, and cook on high power for about 5 minutes. 3  Check about halfway through, and turn potatoes over for even cooking. 4  Slice each potato in half the long way and cook potatoes another 2 minutes on high power. 5
A quick way to have cooked sweet potatoes is to prick them with a knife or fork several times, then pop them into the microwave. Small sweet potatoes (5-inches long, 2-inches in diameter) take about 3 to 4 minutes to become soft in the microwave. 
1. Start potatoes in Microwave: Turn oven to 425*F. Wash the potatoes, then poke each one three times with a fork. Microwave the potatoes on high for 6 minutes. 2. Finish potatoes in oven: Transfer the potatoes to the oven, and cook for 20 minutes, or until the skin feels crisp when a potato is squeezed. Remove from the oven and immediately cut a slice the top of the potato to let the steam escape. Squeeze from the ends to fluff up, and serve.
Boil the potatoes for 10 to 12 minutes -- 12 for large potatoes, 10 for medium -- and drain them in a colander. Next, use tongs to transfer the hot potatoes to a sheet pan and brush them liberally with olive oil or butter. Bake until the skin sizzles and browns, about 10 minutes. Bake the potatoes for 30 minutes, lower the heat to 250 F and place a pot with about 1 inch of hot water in the bottom of the oven. The potatoes will be ready in 1 hour -- but stay fresh for another 2 hours. That's the advantage of the method.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Place potatoes in a plastic bag with the oil, rosemary, and garlic. Shake until well coated. Pour onto a cookie sheet, season with salt and pepper. Cook, turning once, until golden and crispy, about 30 minute
Techniques to rapidly cook the potatoes. Potatoes can be cooked in various ways. The taste will vary depending on the cooking time, but you can even cook them quickly without altering the taste. For baking, the potato is cooked at a temperature of 375 °F for an hour and a half. As for cooking in the microwave, one minute is enough to cook a potato. 
Place them on a sheet pan and bake them until fork tender, about 30 minutes. For 15 to 20 minutes of total cooking time, microwave the potatoes on high for 2 minutes, turn them over and microwave another 2 minutes before you roast them. Bake the potatoes for 30 minutes, lower the heat to 250 F and place a pot with about 1 inch of hot water in the bottom of the oven. The potatoes will be ready in 1 hour -- but stay fresh for another 2 hours. That's the advantage of the method.
Season the potatoes to taste and microwave them on high for 3 to 5 minutes -- 3 for medium potatoes, 5 for large -- then turn them over and microwave for another 3 to 5 minutes. Using tongs, transfer the potatoes to a shallow dish or sheet pan and bake them in the oven until browned, about 10 to 15 minutes. Bake the potatoes for 30 minutes, lower the heat to 250 F and place a pot with about 1 inch of hot water in the bottom of the oven. The potatoes will be ready in 1 hour -- but stay fresh for another 2 hours. That's the advantage of the method.