In the Philippines, regions (Filipino: rehiyon, ISO 3166-2:PH) are administrative divisions that serve primarily to organize the provinces (lalawigan) of the country for administrative convenience. Currently, the archipelagic republic of the Philippines is divided into 18 regions. Most government offices are established by region instead of individual provincial offices, usually (but not always) in the city designated as the regional center.
The region may also include the islands of Romblon and Masbate, whose population identify as Visayan. There are four administrative regions in the Visayas: Western Visayas (4.7 million), Negros Island Region (3.6 million), Central Visayas (pop. 6.8 million), and Eastern Visayas (4.1 million). The early people in the Visayas region were Austronesians and Negritos who migrated to the islands about 6,000 to 30,000 years ago. These early settlers were animist tribal groups.
Geography Central Visayas, or Region 7 is located at the center of Philippines, between the two main islands, Luzon and Mindanao. It comprises the islands of Bohol, Cebu, Negros Oriental and Siquijor and the smaller Camotes group of islands, Bantayan and Panglao. Central Visayas region is at the center of our country. It is bordered by the Visayan Sea and the province of Masbate in the north, Mindanao Sea in the south, Negros Occidental in the west and the island of Leyte in the east. Location. As a whole, the region is hilly and mountainous.
As of May 2015, the Philippines consists of 18 administrative regions. Some of the region designations include numeric components, some do not. These regions are geographically combined into the three island groups of Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Following is a list of the regions in their island groupings. Currently, the archipelagic republic of the Philippines is divided into 18 regions. Most government offices are established by region instead of individual provincial offices, usually (but not always) in the city designated as the regional center.
Region 7 also called Central Visayas Region is composed of the islands of Cebu, Bohol, Negros Oriental and Siquijor. Look for these provinces on the map of the Philippines. Central Visayas region is at the center of our country. It is bordered by the Visayan Sea and the province of Masbate in the north, Mindanao Sea in the south, Negros Occidental in the west and the island of Leyte in the east. Location. As a whole, the region is hilly and mountainous.
VISAYAS MUSIC The Visayas region is situated between the islands of Luzon and Mindanao. Well-known provinces in this region include Iloilo, Cebu, Negros Occidental/Oriental, Samar, Leyte and Bohol. It is the home to some of the Philippines' best singers like Pilita Corales, Dulce, and Sheryn Regis. The Visayas region is one of the most beautiful regions to visit in the Philippines. Exciting events like the Ati-atihan festival and the Sinulog festival are well-attended by tourists and members of the community.
2) Visayas. Then each island group is divided into regions and there are more than seventeen (17) different Philippine regions. Luzon has eight (8) regions. Visayas has three (3) regions. 
List of regions. The Philippines consists of 17 regions. The regions are geographically combined into the three island groups of Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Following is a list of the regions in their island groupings. To get overviews of the regions, see the respective articles on the island groups. A region (Filipino: Rehiyon) is an administrative subdivision in the Philippines. As of 2002, there are 17 of them and 16 of them are further subdivided into 81 provinces (lalawigan). Regions are generally organized to group provinces that have the same cultural and ethnological characteristics.
17 Regions of the Philippines. Philippines has 3 Island groups LUZON, VISAYAS and MINDANAO from this 17 regions are geographically combined.