Ultrasound technologists should complete an accredited training program. Depending on the program, it can take anywhere from one to four years to complete. Accredited ultrasound programs can be found at community colleges (a two-year associate’s degree) or four-year institutions (a bachelor’s degree).
The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that job growth for ultrasound technicians from 2012-2022 will be 46%, which is much higher than average. Many different fields of medicine increasingly rely on ultrasound as a diagnostic imaging tool. Sonography is irreplaceable by any other imaging technique.
1 You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 2  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 3  Not only do they not prepare you adequately for a career as an ultrasound technician, but it will hardly matter as you will not be competitive in the job market.
An ultrasound technician is a very valuable job in the world of health care. Also called a diagnostic medical sonographer, an ultrasound tech uses special machines and equipment that operate on sound waves to determine or diagnose medical problems for patients.
It takes two years to become an ultrasound technician. You will need an associate’s degree and then will need a certification or license depending on your state. You do not have to study sonography to get this job, though. Many sonographers graduate with nursing degrees or start as radiologic technologists.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported an average income of $65,800 per year for sonographers, as of May 2011. The lowest-earning 25 percent reported incomes of up to $58,830 per year, while the highest-earning 25 percent earned $76,060 a year or more.
1 Two-year programs are the most popular, and when you complete the two years (one to one and a half years if you have taken many of the prerequisite courses), you will earn an associate's degree. 2  You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 3  Stay away from eight week or six month programs.
The annual median salary for ultrasound technologists is $67,530, with a range of $46,930 to $93,850, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics as of May 2014. Technologists working in outpatient centers and specialty hospitals generally had slightly higher salaries than those working in other settings.
Ultrasound Technician Salary. In 2013, the median salary for medical sonographers was $66,410/year, according to the BLS. The BLS adds that the bottom 10% of ultrasound technologists made $44,8400/year, whereas the top 10% made $92,070/year*. Numerous factors contribute to an ultrasound tech’s salary.