Atonement is a 2007 British romantic drama war film directed by Joe Wright and based on Ian McEwan 's 2001 novel of the same name. The film also opened the 2007 Vancouver International Film Festival. Atonement was released in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 7 September 2007, and in North America on 7 December 2007. Worldwide distribution was managed by Universal Studios, with minor releases through other divisions.
The story of ATONEMENT begins on one summer s day in 1935 in a country house in Sussex where 13-year-old Briony, (SAOIRSE RONAN), witnesses confusing encounters between her older sister Cecilia, (KEIRA KNIGHTLEY) and Robbie, (JAMES McAVOY). Comment: Beautiful, well acted, the flash backs add value and the beach war scenes are truly extraordinary-like nothing I've seen of that era. The casting was inspired though the elder Briony didn't quite work for me; a shame as it was crucial to atonement and in creating a powerful resolution.
The Cecilia's apartment scene is written in Briony's book by Briony. The beach scene is not. My take is that the happiness Briony gave to Robbie and Cecilia was not their time at the beach house, or really any specific experiences. To explain: After the confrontation in Cecilia's apartment Robbie and Cecilia walk Briony to the Underground station for her ride back to the hospital.
I don’t think Cecilia and Robbie is one of the great film romances of all time. The entire movie is a trick. Perhaps, but it’s a trick with a point, which is, in part: I don’t think Cecilia and Robbie is one of the great film romances of all time. It’s an amazing, amazing scene, and more satiated with the devotion and sympathy and empathy of romance than any other dozen movies that purport to be about sexual love. But you can call Atonement a romance only if you take it out of the larger context in which this relationship we see onscreen exists.
Historical Context of Atonement. The war scenes in Atonement were truly breath taking and heart wrenching to watch. Atonement highlights the injustice of any war, considering Robbie is sent to war for a crime he did not commit. The war scenes on the beach while waiting for evacuation were extremely moving. He is the main male character of Atonement. He falls in love with Cecilia, and is falsey accused of rape by Briony Tallis. Briony Tallis-Saoirse Ronan. She is the main character of the movie as the 13 year old girl moves throughout her adolescent years.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Why did they shoot horses on the beach in the movie Atonement? I saw the movie Atonement last night. I was puzzled by the scene on the beach where they had lined up the horses and shot them one by one. Why would they have done that? I realize that this is a movie and of course they didn&#39;t &quot;really&quot; shoot them.
In McEwan's novel (which essentially is Briony's novel), there is no scene of Robbie and Cecilia at the cottage, but the presumption is that they would have had their romantic trip to the cottage after Robbie's training. McEwan's (Briony's) novel just leaves Robbie and Cecelia on a London street at the end of the story. My take is that the happiness Briony gave to Robbie and Cecilia was not their time at the beach house, or really any specific experiences. To explain: After the confrontation in Cecilia's apartment Robbie and Cecilia walk Briony to the Underground station for her ride back to the hospital.
The war scenes in Atonement were truly breath taking and heart wrenching to watch. Atonement highlights the injustice of any war, considering Robbie is sent to war for a crime he did not commit. He is the main male character of Atonement. He falls in love with Cecilia, and is falsey accused of rape by Briony Tallis. Briony Tallis-Saoirse Ronan. She is the main character of the movie as the 13 year old girl moves throughout her adolescent years.
Plus, the movie isn’t really about Cecilia and Robbie: it’s about Briony. We don’t realize that at first, which is part of why the film is so powerful. I’m not surprised to see people hating on the final plot twist. It’s an amazing, amazing scene, and more satiated with the devotion and sympathy and empathy of romance than any other dozen movies that purport to be about sexual love. But you can call Atonement a romance only if you take it out of the larger context in which this relationship we see onscreen exists.