If you are wanting to wean the kittens early due to some problem with the mother cat, or the mother cat's milk supply, and you need to feed the kittens yourself they can be fed kitten replacement formula. 
Kittens will naturally begin the weaning process when they are four to five weeks old. During weaning, kittens still benefit from continued access to their mother’s milk and should have free access to it when possible. It is best to wean kittens to dry food gradually so that their young digestive system experiences minimal upset. You can assist the weaning process by offering canned food as soon as the kittens are four weeks old. Choose food specifically labeled for kittens as it contains the calories and nutrients required for optimum health. Place this food on a saucer or in a shallow bowl so that the kittens can easily reach it
The weaning process normally begins when kittens are around four weeks old, and is usually completed when they reach eight to ten weeks. Weaning is the process of transitioning kittens from mother’s milk to solid food. During weaning, kittens gradually progress from dependence on a mother’s care to social independence. Ideally, weaning is handled entirely by the mother cat
Determine when to wean your kitten. The weaning process begins when kittens are around four weeks old. For most kittens, this process is usually completed when they reach eight to ten weeks old. Once a kitten has opened its eyes, is able to focus, and can walk steadily, you can begin the process. 1  At around 10 - 14 days, a kitten's eyes and ears start to open. The transition from their mother’s milk to eating independently is called weaning. If your cat has had kittens or you are responsible for an orphan kitten, you need to know what to provide and what to do so that the kitten can make this vital step.
When the kittens reach four weeks old, you can place them in a separate area for a few hours at a time to reduce their dependency on mother’s milk and her overall presence. Put them in their own special area with a litter box and food and water bowls. Weaning is the process of transitioning kittens from mother’s milk to solid food. During weaning, kittens gradually progress from dependence on a mother’s care to social independence. Ideally, weaning is handled entirely by the mother cat
Weaning. Weaning simply means a baby no longer nurses from its mother and receives nutrition from a non-maternal source. For kittens, the process starts as early as 4 weeks of age, completed by the time they're 2 to 3 months old. It's not a good idea to let kittens go to a new home before the age of 8 weeks.
Weaning. Mothers usually begin to wean their kittens at about 4 weeks of age. By 8 weeks of age, the kittens are eating solid food. Older kittens who are still with their mothers may occasionally nurse, but this is more for comfort and reassurance than for nutrition. 
Normally, the kitten weaning process begins at about four weeks of age. “With mom, they’ll start to try to eat her food, and she’ll push them away from her,” says Benson. But if you’re weaning a kitten that has been orphaned, you can start a little earlier, between three and four weeks. Between the fourth and sixth week, gradually transition the weaning kittens to dry food, supplementing with formula if needed. Use canned food or dry kitten food mixed with water; at first, add a lot of water, and then reduce the amount of water as the kitten matures.