Fermentation in progress: Bubbles of CO2 form a froth on top of the fermentation mixture. Overview of ethanol fermentation. One glucose molecule breaks down into two pyruvate molecules (1). The energy from this exothermic reaction is used to bind inorganic phosphates to ATP and convert NAD+ to NADH. The acetaldehyde is then reduced into ethanol using the energy and hydrogen from NADH; in this process the NADH is oxidized into NAD+ so that the cycle may repeat (3). Fermentation is a metabolic process that converts sugar to acids, gases or alcohol.
Fermentation is the anaerobic, energy-yielding breakdown of organic substances via bacteria, yeast or other microorganisms. Milk sugar, better known as lactose, imparts a characteristic sweetness to dairy products. Milk-based products are rich in both lactic acid and the protein casein. Lactose fermentation to lactic acid increases the food acidity; the acid combines with the casein, and the two coagulate and precipitate. The precipitate is then removed from the milk, and the dairy product derived from it is low in — or free of — lactose
Lactic acid fermentation is used to convert lactose into lactic acid in yogurt production. It also occurs in animal muscles when the tissue requires energy at a faster rate than oxygen can be supplied. The next equation for lactic acid production from glucose is: By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Answer: Fermentation is a metabolic process in which an organism converts a carbohydrate, such as starch or a sugar, into an alcohol or an acid. For example, yeast perform fermentation to obtain energy by converting sugar into alcohol. Bacteria perform fermentation, converting carbohydrates into lactic acid
The differential ingredient is lactose. Fermentation of this sugar results in an acidic pH and causes the pH indicator, neutral red, to turn a bright pinky-red color. Thus organisms capable of lactose fermentation such as Escherichia coli, form bright pinky-red colonies (plate pictured on the left here). 
Medical Definition of LACTOSE. : a disaccharide sugar C12H22O11 that is present in milk, yields glucose and galactose upon hydrolysis, yields especially lactic acid upon fermentation, and is used chiefly in foods, medicines, and culture media (as for the manufacture of penicillin)—called also milk sugar. Full Definition of LACTOSE. : a disaccharide sugar C12H22O11 that is present in milk and yields glucose and galactose upon hydrolysis and yields especially lactic acid upon fermentation. See lactose defined for English-language learners. See lactose defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
With the help of bacteria, lactose fermentation -- the breaking down of the sugar lactose into an acid -- is used to make fermented dairy foods and to test for food poisoning. Lactose fermentation also occurs in your body if you are lactose-intolerant. In Foods. Examples of foods made using lactose fermentation include yogurt, cheese and fermented milk beverages such as kefir. The fermentation process helps limit the spread of unwanted bacteria and other pathogens because it increases the acidity of the food. It also enhances flavors