Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime. 
Most ducks start laying between 4 to six months if a drake is present. If not they may take longer however the eggs will not hatch. When a drake is not present these eggs should b gathered daily and refridgerated for eating. If a drake is present each duck will lay between 10 to 15 eggs in about a week.
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Duck eggs need to be incubated for 28 days. That is 28 days from the time she starts sitting on them. It may take her a couple of weeks to lay enough eggs for her to start sitting. When she feels that her clutch (group of eggs) is the right size, she will start sitting. Wait for 28 days
I know chickens for egg laying, that most lay best within the first year to 18 months and then slow down after that. If varies per breed, etc. Muscovies aren't the most prolific layers around, perhaps 90 to 100 eggs a year or so. We only keep our hens for around three years because it seems they lose 10 to 20% of their production for every year of life. They also go broody in a heartbeat, which interferes with egg production.
Ducks. For information on raising ducklings, go to Raising Ducklings and Goslings. Duck eggs take 28-30 days to hatch, except for Muscovy eggs, which take 35 days. If you find a wild duck's nest on your property and don't see the mother on the eggs, don't necessarily worry. Ducks lay an egg every day or two until they have a full clutch (usually 8 to 15); only then will the mother start to sit on them. It takes the eggs 28 days to hatch from when she starts sitting all the time.
When mallard ducks laying eggs how long does it take for them to hatch? incubated for 27-28 days to hatching with 50-60 days to fledging so 50-60 days i guess. At best, this is an ill formed answer, as it is not accurate. Duck eggs hatch dependi … ng on the species of duck. Mallard ducks can hatch as early as 25 days, they do not follow the 28 scenario. They could also take as long as 35 days. Everything depends on the species, the incubator temp and its humidity. 
Since Muscovy are genetically disimilar to other domestic waterfowl, many folks believe that they're more of a goose than a duck. For instance, they eat grass, as do geese, have a similarly long egg incubation period of 35 days (compared with 28 days for ducks), and they don't quack. This is a good trait since they are quiet ducks. The male has a low breathy call, and the female a quiet trilling coo.
Muscovy will lay up to 180 eggs a year and hatch about four sets of ducklings if they get lots of high protein feed. Muscovy ducks are great mothers and do a good job raising their young. Muscovy take longer to hatch than other poultry... an egg takes 33 to 35 days to hatch. A chicken, for example, hatches in 21 days. Muscovy meat is one of the healthiest meats on the market today, being 98% or greater fat free. For instance, they eat grass, as do geese, have a similarly long egg incubation period of 35 days (compared with 28 days for ducks), and they don't quack. This is a good trait since they are quiet ducks. The male has a low breathy call, and the female a quiet trilling coo.
My ducks lay 1 egg per day, everyday. I think there was only one month in which they didn't lay any eggs. Ducks don't normally sit on their nest of eggs till they have a full clutch(which is approx. 12-15 eggs). 