By Regina Bailey. Definition: The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. The cell's chromosomes are also housed within the nucleus.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. The function of the nucleus is to maintain the integrity of these genes and to control the activities of the cell by regulating gene expression —the nucleus is, therefore, the control center of the cell.
The primary role of the neutrons in the nucleus of an atom is to contribute to the binding energy or nuclear glue that holds the nucleus itself together. Recall that an … atomic nucleus is made of protons and neutrons. Protons have a positive charge, and they don't like each other. In a cell, its job is to control all functions of the cell and to contain the DNA Also, It uses the DNA to control the functions. It works to make the cell grow and flourish … . Without it, none of the organelles would operate in sync with the others.
The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. The function of the nucleus is to maintain the integrity of these genes and to control the activities of the cell by regulating gene expression —the nucleus is, therefore, the control center of the cell.
The nucleus is the heart of every cell, its control center. Inside the nucleus are forty-six threadlike structures known as chromosomes, and each one of these structures contains thousands of genes. 
Abstract. The cell nucleus is a double membrane‐bound organelle that contains the genetic information of the cell packaged in the form of chromatin. The nucleus is a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic cells. 
The cell nucleus is bound by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. Like the cell membrane, the nuclear envelope consists of phospholipids that form a lipid bilayer. The Cell Nucleus: The cell nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is the command center of a eukaryotic cell and is commonly the most prominent organelle in a cell. Distinguishing Characteristics:
Animal cell nucleus is a membrane bound organelle. It is surrounded by double membrane. The nucleus communicates with the surrounding cell cytoplasm through the nuclear pores. The DNA in the nucleus is responsible for the hereditary characteristics and protein synthesis. Plant Cell Nucleus. Plant cell nucleus is a double-membrane bound organelle. It controls the activities of the cell and is known as the master mind or the control center of the cell. The plant cell wall has two layers-the outer membrane and the inner membrane, which encloses a tiny space known as perinuclear space.