Part of the Electronics glossary: The transistor, invented by three scientists at the Bell Laboratories in 1947, rapidly replaced the vacuum tube as an electronic signal regulator. A transistor regulates current or voltage flow and acts as a switch or gate for electronic signals. A transistor consists of three layers of a semiconductor material, each capable of carrying a current. A semiconductor is a material such as germanium and silicon that conducts electricity in a semi-enthusiastic way. A small change in the current or voltage at the inner semiconductor layer (which acts as the control electrode) produces a large, rapid change in the current passing through the entire component. The component can thus act as a switch, opening and closing an electronic gate many times per second.
Medical Definition of TRANSISTOR. : a solid-state electronic device that is used to control the flow of electricity in electronic equipment and consists of a small block of a semiconductor (as germanium) with at least three electrodes. Definition of TRANSISTOR for Kids. : a small solid electronic device used for controlling the flow of electricity.
An electronic device that controls the flow of an electric current and is used as an amplifier or switch. Transistors consist of three layers of semiconductor material connected to an electric circuit. tran·sis·tor. n. 1. A small electronic device containing a semiconductor and having at least three electrical contacts, used in a circuit as an amplifier, detector, or switch. 2. Any of various devices serving the same purpose but employing a different technology: an optical transistor. 3. A transistor radio.
Full Definition of SEMICONDUCTOR. : any of a class of solids (as germanium or silicon) whose electrical conductivity is between that of a conductor and that of an insulator in being nearly as great as that of a metal at high temperatures and nearly absent at low temperatures. 
An electronic device that controls the flow of an electric current and is used as an amplifier or switch. Transistors consist of three layers of semiconductor material connected to an electric circuit. In some transistors, the outer layers have an excess of electrons; in others, the middle layer has more electrons. transistor. 1. A semiconductor device used, as a rectifier, amplifier or switch. 2. A semiconductor used as an amplifier or a switching device.
Transistor. A transistor is a basic electrical component that alters the flow of electrical current. Transistors are the building blocks of integrated circuits, such as computer processors, or CPUs. Modern CPUs contain millions of individual transistors that are microscopic in size. 
Full Definition of TRANSISTOR. 1. : a solid-state electronic device that is used to control the flow of electricity in electronic equipment and usually consists of a small block of a semiconductor (as germanium) with at least three electrodes. 2. : a transistorized radio. Definition of TRANSISTOR for Kids. : a small solid electronic device used for controlling the flow of electricity.
Definition of:transistor. In the analog world of continuously varying signals, a transistor is a device used to amplify its electrical input. In the digital world, a transistor is a binary switch and the fundamental building block of computer circuitry. Like a light switch on the wall, the transistor either prevents or allows current to flow through.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a transistor is an electronic device that works by controlling the flow of the electrical current. An example of a transistor is something combined in large numbers with microcircuits into a single circuit board and used in a computer. transistor. noun. 1  A small electronic device containing a semiconductor and having at least three electrical contacts, used in a circuit as an amplifier, detector, or switch. 2  Any of various devices serving the same purpose but employing a different technology: an optical transistor. 3  A transistor radio.
A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify and switch electronic signals and electrical power. It is composed of semiconductor material with at least three terminals for connection to an external circuit. 