1 In estimating the cost having a new gas line professionally installed, expect to pay $15-$25 a linear foot to hire someone to handle everything -- labor, materials, testing and any required permits -- and there's often a minimum charge of at least $100.
Both gas and electric stoves are in essentially the same price range, depending on the brand and model. Generally, you'll spend $650 to $2,800 for an electric stove, and $800 to $2,300 for a gas stove, according to Consumer Reports.
An electric range or cooktop is usually cheaper than a gas stove, and the difference in price can be quite significant, depending on the model, manufacturer, and features. A homeowner will need a 240-volt power supply for an electric range, and most homes have these available.
The cost of a gas stove can vary widely from basic units without many features to high-end stoves with many options and useful extras, all of which have an impact on the price of the stove. Factors that influence the cost include:
1 Some local gas companies will install a new gas line for free if you're adding a gas heater or a gas water heater plus another gas appliance such as a dryer or stove. 2  If this service isn't free, your gas company may install the line at a set rate, then add the charges to your gas bill and let you make monthly payments.
Gas stoves are usually more expensive to buy but cheaper during use compared with electric stoves. Not only are gas stoves more energy efficient but gas is also usually cheaper than electricity, which results in operational cost savings.
1 If your gas company charges to install a new gas line and you'd rather hire your own certified plumber or contractor, go ahead and get a quote from the gas company, then make sure the bids from the private companies include the same specifications as the gas company's quote.
The Symphony range costs about $2,200. Pin it. 2. Bosch 700 Series This is Bosh's most expensive gas range at $1,800, but we've found it online for around $1,400. This smart stove has a special mode that allows you to gently simmer sauces and delicate dishes, instead of burning them to a crisp with its 16,000 BTUs.
30.36p (cost per hour) x 2 hours (number of hours in use) = 60.72p for 2 hours. Whether you are looking for a contemporary or traditionally styled gas fire or stove, Gazco has a wide range of highly efficient models to suit your budget and home.Please consult with your Gazco retailer for advice.