There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart. 
Veins take blood to the heart, arteries take blood away from the heart. The vessels that carry blood to the heart are called veins. Those that supply the body with blood … from the heart are called arteries. Examples are the jugular veins that return blood from the head, and the carotid arteries that supply blood to the head. + 1 other found this useful. The answer to the question is veins, they are the vessel that carries blood back to the heart. The arteries to the opposite, the carry blood away from the heart and to the res … t of the body.
Upper Body Circulation. In the lungs, the pulmonary arteries (in blue) carry unoxygenated blood from the heart into the lungs. Throughout the body, the arteries (in red) deliver oxygenated blood and nutrients to all of the body’s tissues, and the veins (in blue) return oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. Arteries (in red) are the blood vessels that deliver blood to the body. Veins (in blue) are the blood vessels that return blood to the heart. Deep veins, located in the center of the leg near the leg bones, are enclosed by muscle.
The two main coronary arteries are the left main and right coronary arteries. Left main coronary artery (LMCA). The left main coronary artery supplies blood to the left side of the heart muscle (the left ventricle and left atrium). The left main coronary divides into branches: The left anterior descending artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and supplies blood to the front of the left side of the heart. Coronary arteries supply blood to the heart muscle. Like all other tissues in the body, the heart muscle needs oxygen-rich blood to function, and oxygen-depleted blood must be carried away. The coronary arteries run along the outside of the heart and have small branches that dive into the heart muscle to bring it blood.
The heart receives its own supply of blood from the coronary arteries. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet. These arteries and their branches supply all parts of the heart muscle with blood. 1  Left Main Coronary Artery.
Coronary circulation is the circulation of blood in the blood vessels of the heart muscle (myocardium). The vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood to the myocardium are known as coronary arteries. The vessels that remove the deoxygenated blood from the heart muscle are known as cardiac veins. 
The largest artery is the aorta, the main high-pressure pipeline connected to the heart's left ventricle. The aorta branches into a network of smaller arteries that extend throughout the body. The arteries' smaller branches are called arterioles and capillaries. All rights reserved. The arteries are the blood vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the tissues of the body. Each artery is a muscular tube lined by smooth tissue and has three layers: 1  The intima, the inner layer lined by a smooth tissue called endothelium.
Location: The coronary system is comprised of arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. The coronary arteries originate as the right and left main coronary arteries which exit the ascending aorta just above the aortic valve (coronary ostia). 
The blood leaving the left ventricle exits through the aorta, the body’s main artery. Two coronary arteries, referred to as the left and right coronary arteries, emerge from the beginning of the aorta, near the top of the heart. The initial segment of the left coronary artery is called the left main coronary. 