Claiming Depreciation. Residential rental property gets depreciated over 27.5 years. What you do is to take the cost of the building, but not the land, divide it by 27.5, and claim that amount on Form 4562 as well as carry it over to your Schedule E as an expense. You can do the same thing with any major improvements.
You generally depreciate the cost of business property that has a useful life of more than a year, but gradually wears out, or loses its value due to wear and tear, weather damage, etc. To figure out the depreciation on your rental property: 1  Determine your cost or other tax basis for the property. 2  Allocate that cost to the different types of property included in your rental (such as land, buildings, so on). You're allowed to reduce your rental income by subtracting expenses that you incur to get your property ready to rent, and then to maintain it as a rental. You report rental income and expenses on Schedule E, Supplemental Income and Loss. Schedule E is then filed with your Form 1040.
The latest real estate tax assessment on the property was based on an assessed value of $160,000, of which $136,000 was for the house and $24,000 was for the land. You can allocate 85% ($136,000 ÷ $160,000) of the purchase price to the house and 15% ($24,000 ÷ $160,000) of the purchase price to the land. If you used the property for personal purposes before changing it to rental use, its basis for depreciation is the lesser of its adjusted basis or its fair market value when you change it to rental use. See Basis of Property Changed to Rental Use in chapter 4.
The tax assessor’s estimate of the land value is $75,000, and the building value estimate is $125,000. Your depreciation expense that you take each year against rental income would be $125,000 divided by the IRS allowed 27.5 years of useful life (residential real estate) for a depreciation expense each year of $4,545. 
1 Determine your cost or other tax basis for the property. 2  Allocate that cost to the different types of property included in your rental (such as land, buildings, so on). 3  Calculate depreciation for each property type based on the methods, rates and useful lives specified by the IRS. You're allowed to reduce your rental income by subtracting expenses that you incur to get your property ready to rent, and then to maintain it as a rental. You report rental income and expenses on Schedule E, Supplemental Income and Loss. Schedule E is then filed with your Form 1040.
You do this by depreciating the property; that is, by deducting some of the cost each year on your tax return. Three factors determine how much depreciation you can deduct each year: (1) your basis in the property, (2) the recovery period for the property, and (3) the depreciation method used. You cannot simply deduct your mortgage or principal payments, or the cost of furniture, fixtures, and equipment, as an expense. If you used the property for personal purposes before changing it to rental use, its basis for depreciation is the lesser of its adjusted basis or its fair market value when you change it to rental use. See Basis of Property Changed to Rental Use in chapter 4.
Calculate the percentage of the property used for rental purposes. In some cases, all of the property will be for rental purposes. If that is not the case, you can measure the area that is for rent and figure the area as a percentage of the whole property's area. Property is depreciated using the Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS). IRS rules allow depreciation only for the portion of a property used for rental purposes. To depreciate property, you must be the owner of the property. You cannot depreciate a property if you are renting it. Land does not qualify for depreciation; only structures qualify
If you have the capital to purchase a rental property, it's a great way to earn extra income. There are a few ways to decrease the taxable income you receive from the rental properties, and one of those is depreciation. The IRS will allow you to depreciate the value of a rental property over a period of 27.5 years. Instructions. Determine your cost or other tax basis for the rental property. Find the building value. Take the original purchase price and subtract it from the land value. You must have the value of just the house in order to depreciate its value.