Cancer. All hexavalent chromium compounds are considered carcinogenic to workers. The risk of developing lung, nasal, and sinus cancer increases with the amount of hexavalent chromium inhaled and the length of time the worker is exposed.
Uses. 1  The metal chromium is used mainly for making steel and other alloys. 2  Chromium compounds, in either the chromium (III) or chromium (VI) forms, are used for chrome plating, the manufacture of dyes and pigments, leather and wood preservation, and treatment of cooling tower water. 1 Chromium compounds, in either the chromium (III) or chromium (VI) forms, are used for chrome plating, the manufacture of dyes and pigments, leather and wood preservation, and treatment of cooling tower water. 2  Smaller amounts are used in drilling muds, textiles, and toner for copying machines. ( 3 1)
Trivalent chromium (Cr(III)) ion is possibly required in trace amounts for sugar and lipid metabolism, although the issue remains in debate. In larger amounts and in different forms, chromium can be toxic and carcinogenic. The most prominent example of toxic chromium is hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)). Naturally occurring chromium is composed of three stable isotopes; 52 Cr, 53 Cr and 54 Cr with 52 Cr being the most abundant (83.789% natural abundance). 19 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 50 Cr with a half-life of (more than) 1.8 × 10 years, and 51 Cr with a half-life of 27.7 days.
Hexavalent chromium compounds are genotoxic carcinogens. Chronic inhalation of hexavalent chromium compounds increases the risk of lung cancer. (The lungs are the most vulnerable, followed by the fine capillaries in kidneys and intestines). Soluble compounds, like chromic acid, are much weaker carcinogens. An example of a chromium(VI) compound: chromium trioxide. Hexavalent chromium (chromium(VI), Cr(VI)) refers to chemical compounds that contain the element chromium in the +6 oxidation state. Virtually all chromium ore is processed via hexavalent chromium, specifically the salt sodium dichromate.
Elemental chromium is seldom found naturally in the environment. The oxidized states of chromium III and chromium VI are the most important forms of the chemical. Chromium III is an essential trace element in humans but chronic exposure may be harmful. Chromium VI (hexavalent chromium) is the oxidized state of principal concern in occupational safety and health and the environment because of its extreme toxicity and designation as a human carcinogen. 
Chromium is a chemical element with symbol Cr and atomic number 24. It is the first element in Group 6. It is a steely-gray, lustrous, hard and brittle metal which takes a high polish, resists tarnishing, and has a high melting point. Naturally occurring chromium is composed of three stable isotopes; 52 Cr, 53 Cr and 54 Cr with 52 Cr being the most abundant (83.789% natural abundance). 19 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 50 Cr with a half-life of (more than) 1.8 × 10 years, and 51 Cr with a half-life of 27.7 days.
1 The metal chromium is used mainly for making steel and other alloys. ( 2 1). 3  Chromium compounds, in either the chromium (III) or chromium (VI) forms, are used for chrome plating, the manufacture of dyes and pigments, leather and wood preservation, and treatment of cooling tower water. 1 Chromium compounds, in either the chromium (III) or chromium (VI) forms, are used for chrome plating, the manufacture of dyes and pigments, leather and wood preservation, and treatment of cooling tower water. 2  Smaller amounts are used in drilling muds, textiles, and toner for copying machines. ( 3 1)
Uses. 1  The metal chromium is used mainly for making steel and other alloys. ( 2 1). 3  Chromium compounds, in either the chromium (III) or chromium (VI) forms, are used for chrome plating, the manufacture of dyes and pigments, leather and wood preservation, and treatment of cooling tower water. 1 Chromium compounds, in either the chromium (III) or chromium (VI) forms, are used for chrome plating, the manufacture of dyes and pigments, leather and wood preservation, and treatment of cooling tower water. 2  Smaller amounts are used in drilling muds, textiles, and toner for copying machines. ( 3 1)