Fiebing's Prime Neatsfoot Oil Compound softens, preserves and waterproofs smooth leathers. If used before exposure, it repels water and protects against the stiffening effect of repeated wetting and drying cycles. 
Quantity: Fiebing's Neatsfoot Oil softens and preserves leather. A 100% natural preservative for leather articles subjected to rugged use and outdoor exposure. Repels water and protects against the stiffening effect of repeated wetting and drying cycles. Restores dried out leather, making it soft and pliable. 
Neatsfoot oil should be purchased with care, which is very important. One may have to do a lot of searching to find pure neatsfoot oil, whether you use it for leather conditioning, or for treating dry, scaly skin. References 1. Healing with animals in the Levant from the 10th to the 18th century. The pure neatsfoot oil is a good product for skin applications. 4. Relieves Dry Skin 100 % pure neatsfoot oil obtained from lard (pig fat), or from cattle foot and bones can be applied on the skin. It takes care of dry skin, effectively moisturizing.
Neatsfoot oil is a well renowned oil product for leather polish. In past times, this oil was also used for treating dry skin. There are many varieties of neatsfoot oil. It is actually a thick oil which comes from the bones of cattle. That is why it is called neatsfoot oil, as neat is an old word for cattle. The pure neatsfoot oil is a good product for skin applications. 4. Relieves Dry Skin 100 % pure neatsfoot oil obtained from lard (pig fat), or from cattle foot and bones can be applied on the skin. It takes care of dry skin, effectively moisturizing.
Prime neatsfoot oil or neatsfoot oil compound are terms used for a blend of pure neatsfoot oil and non-animal oils, generally mineral or other petroleum-based oils. Modern neatsfoot oil is still made from cattle-based products, and is sometimes criticized for a tendency to speed oxidation of leather. This formulation does darken leather, which means that use on light-colored leather is likely to change its color.
Best Answer: Traditionally, it is oil rendered from the shin bones and feet of cows, preferably calves, with no other oils added. Today, neatsfoot oil may be made from liquified animal fats or a blend of fats and petroleum-based mineral oils. It is almost impossible to tell from their labels just what is in various neatsfoot oil products labeled premium, pure, or 100 percent. 
Save. Neatsfoot Oil has been around since the 18th century and is most commonly used as a leather preservative. However, this universal moisturizer can also be used as a beauty aid and a household product. It softens and conditions almost anything you apply it to and is a great product to keep around the house. Neatsfoot Oil is a great moisturizer for your skin as well. You can use it as you would any other oil moisturizer. And because Neatsfoot Oil is wonderfully viscous, it is great for problem areas like elbows and feet. Be sure to rub it in well and allow it to thoroughly dry before putting on clothing.
Description ↑. A 100% natural preservative for leather articles subjected to rugged use and outdoor exposure. Since the primary function of a neatsfoot oil is to replace the evaporated oils in leather, replacing the oils with other natural oils is best. Used by saddle makers for over a century. Click here for Fiebing's Leather Care Tips.
Neatsfoot Oil is a natural preservative for leather articles that repels, protects and restores. Neatsfoot Oil repels water and insects; it protects leather against stiffening and cracking and restores pliability to dried-out leather. 
Neatsfoot oil is a yellow oil rendered and purified from the shin bones and feet (but not the hooves) of cattle. Neat in the oil's name comes from an old English word for cattle. Neatsfoot oil is used as a conditioning, softening and preservative agent for leather. In the 18th century, it was also used medicinally as a topical application for dry scaly skin conditions. Modern neatsfoot oil is still made from cattle-based products, and is sometimes criticized for a tendency to speed oxidation of leather. This formulation does darken leather, which means that use on light-colored leather is likely to change its color.