Sorghum is a genus of plants in the grass family. Most species are native to Australia, with some extending to Africa, Asia, Mesoamerica, and certain islands in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
Milo is manufactured by evaporating the water content from a thick syrup at reduced pressure. The thick opaque syrup is obtained from malted wheat or barley and contains many … mono-, di-and polysaccharides. It is used in many parts of the world as a food grain for human consumption. However, in the United States it is more commonly used as an ingredient in the production of animal and livestock feeds.
More recently, Milo has been associated with the dashing Milo Ventimiglia of Heroes fame, and it has also been a character in books Catch-22 and The Phantom Tollbooth, and on screen in Milo and Otis, Alias, and Atlantis: The Lost Empire. Milo combines the strength of the ancient Greek Olympic wrestler of that name—a six-time winner of the Olympic games—with the debonair charm of a WWII RAF pilot. A well-used name in medieval Europe, it predates brother-name Miles, a variation that evolved when the name immigrated to the British Isles.
I. History: Farmers on the hot, dry plains from Texas to South Dakota grow and use grain sorghum like Corn Belt farmers use corn. Large acreages of grain sorghum are also grown in Africa and Asia in areas where the climate is too hot and dry for corn. During the past 25 years, the grain sorghum acreage in the U.S. has ranged from 15 to 18 million acres per year. Grain sorghum acreage is somewhat greater than acreages for oats and barley, but considerably less than the land area planted to corn, wheat, and soybeans.
Milo /ˈmaɪloʊ/ is a chocolate and malt powder that is mixed with hot or cold water or milk to produce a beverage popular in many parts of the world. Produced by Nestle, Nestlé milo was originally developed By Thomas mayne In, Sydney australia in. 1934 it is marketed and sold in many countries around the. world Milo differs among regions, as is seen in this side-by-side comparison of Milo from New Zealand and Ghana. Milo is manufactured by evaporating the water content from a thick syrup at reduced pressure. The thick opaque syrup is obtained from malted wheat or barley. The whole process takes around an hour but operates in a continuous mode.
Milo. Milo brand is the world’s leading chocolate malt beverage that can be prepared with hot or cold milk or water. Given its popularity it is a “must have” product for food service operators particularly in Asia, Africa and Oceania
Answer by Kalarni.solomon. Confidence votes 213. Milo (or more commonly referred to as Grain Sorghum) is a grain product that is grown in hot dry climates that cannot sustain corn. It is used in many parts of the world as a food grain for human consumption. However, in the United States it is more commonly used as an ingredient in the production of animal and livestock feeds.
Definition of MILO. : a small usually early and drought-resistant grain sorghum with compact bearded heads of large yellow or whitish seeds. ADVERTISEMENT. perhaps from Sesotho maili