1 Bipolar Medications: A Look at the History of Seroquel Seroquel, AstraZeneca's band of quetiapine, is an atypical psychotic drug that blocks receptors in your brain's dopamine pathways. 2  Doctors prescribe it for the treatment of s…. Snorting Seroquel is not a good idea. It is an antipsychotic, and the sedated effect of the pill is not a high. Antipsychotic medications can be very dangerous, even when take … n for mood disorders, and abusing them could permanently mess your brain up. It is very painful and burns when snorted.
In those with bipolar disorder, quetiapine is used to treat depressive episodes, acute manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (as either monotherapy or adjunct therapy to lithium, valproate or lamotrigine), and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder (as adjunct therapy to lithium or divalproex). The sustained-release quetiapine is marketed mainly as Seroquel XR. Other marketing names are Seroquel Prolong, Seroquel Depot and Seroquel XL. On May 18, 2007, AstraZeneca announced that the U.S. FDA approved Seroquel XR for acute treatment of schizophrenia.
Quetiapine (/kwɨˈtaɪ.əpiːn/ kwi-TY-ə-peen) (developed and marketed as Seroquel by AstraZeneca) is an atypical antipsychotic approved for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and along with an antidepressant to treat major depressive disorder. The sustained-release quetiapine is marketed mainly as Seroquel XR. Other marketing names are Seroquel Prolong, Seroquel Depot and Seroquel XL. On May 18, 2007, AstraZeneca announced that the U.S. FDA approved Seroquel XR for acute treatment of schizophrenia.
There is an algorithm that your doctor probably follows. Everyone fills in a different drug-profile. But, yes there is other medications for Bipolar disorder. The benefit of q … uetiapine (seroquel) is that can be prescribed for lows and ups (depression and mania) in bipolar disorder. Snorting Seroquel is not a good idea. It is an antipsychotic, and the sedated effect of the pill is not a high. Antipsychotic medications can be very dangerous, even when take … n for mood disorders, and abusing them could permanently mess your brain up. It is very painful and burns when snorted.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved quetiapine in 1997 under the brand name Seroquel for drug manufacturer AstraZeneca. Two years earlier, AstraZeneca agreed to pay $520 million to settle federal investigations into the drug maker's marketing practices for Seroquel. Experts don't know whether Seroquel is a safe and effective treatment for schizophrenia in children younger than 13. The safety of the drug for treating bipolar mania in children younger than 10 and bipolar depression in children younger than 18 is also unknown.
Seroquel is the brand name of the generic drug q uetiapine, a prescription drug used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (formerly called manic-depression). Seroquel changes the levels of neurotransmitters (naturally occurring brain substances) including serotonin and dopamine. Experts don't know whether Seroquel is a safe and effective treatment for schizophrenia in children younger than 13. The safety of the drug for treating bipolar mania in children younger than 10 and bipolar depression in children younger than 18 is also unknown.
Seroquel medication. Seroquel medication is also known by the generic name quetiapine. Many bipolar medications are known by more than one name. The generic name is the chemical name without any brand marketing attached. So quetiapine refers to the actual chemical drug-a fumaric acid salt which affects the human brain neurotransmitters serotonin and dopamine. However Seroquel is the brand name used by the manufacturer Astra Zeneca, who hold the drug's patent. There is also another version known as Ketipinor made by Orion Pharma
It is thought that its beneficial effect is due to blocking of the dopamine type 2 (D2) and serotonin type 2 (5-HT2) receptors. The FDA approved quetiapine in September 1997. PRESCRIBED FOR: Quetiapine is used alone or in combination with other drugs to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. It also is used for treating major depression in combination with antidepressants. 
Seroquel (quetiapine) is a psychotropic medication used to treat schizophrenia in adults and children who are at least 13 years old. Seroquel is also used in the treatment of major depression and bipolar disorder. Less serious side effects may include: 1  dizziness, drowsiness, tired feeling; 2  dry mouth, sore throat; 3  stomach pain, upset stomach, nausea, vomiting, constipation; 4  breast swelling or discharge; 5  missed menstrual periods; or.