Background. Diffuse toxic goiter, first described by the English physician Caleb H. Parry (1755-1822), is also known as Graves disease (after Robert J. Graves) in the English-speaking world and as Basedow disease (after Karl A. von Basedow) in the rest of Europe. Age. Diffuse toxic goiter can occur in persons of all ages, but it is rare in children younger than 10 years and unusual in elderly persons. The peak incidence is in third and fourth decades of life. Incidence is increased in postpartum women, when the first presentation of disease often occurs.
Goitre which is associated with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism may be present with symptoms of the underlying disorder. For hyperthyroidism, the most common symptoms are associated with adrenergic stimulation: tachycardia, palpitations, nervousness, tremor, increased blood pressure and heat intolerance. 
Diffuse toxic goiter (medical condition): Hyperthyroidism refers to excess secretion of thyroid hormones by the thyroid gland. It is also called ... more. Diffuse toxic goiter: See also: Hyperthyroidism : » Introduction: Hyperthyroidism. Description of Diffuse toxic goiter. 
Simple nontoxic goiter, which may be diffuse or nodular, is noncancerous hypertrophy of the thyroid without hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, or inflammation. Except in severe iodine deficiency, thyroid function is normal and patients are asymptomatic except for an obviously enlarged, nontender thyroid. 
Simple diffuse goiter is a disease characterized by a single factor: the enlargement of the entire thyroid gland. No tumor or inflammation is seen, nor is there an abnormal production of hormones. The disorder is often displayed by adolescents (at puberty). 
Diffuse toxic goiter: Graves disease, the most common cause of hyperthyroidism (overactivity of the thyroid gland), with generalized diffuse overactivity (toxicity) of the entire thyroid gland which becomes enlarged into a goiter. There are three clinical components to Graves disease: 
United States. Diffuse toxic goiter is the most common cause of spontaneous hyperthyroidism. A Minnesota study found 0.3 new cases per 1000 per year. In late childhood, the incidence rate is 3 per 100,000 in girls and 0.5 per 100,000 in boys. Prevalence studies show a rate of 2.7% in women and 0.23% in men. Age. Diffuse toxic goiter can occur in persons of all ages, but it is rare in children younger than 10 years and unusual in elderly persons. The peak incidence is in third and fourth decades of life. Incidence is increased in postpartum women, when the first presentation of disease often occurs.
Toxic nodular goiter (also called multinodular goiter). Hyperthyroidism caused by toxic nodular goiter is a condition in which one or more nodules of the thyroid becomes overactive. Symptoms of toxic nodular goiter do not include bulging eyes or skin problems, as in Graves' disease. The cause of toxic nodular goiter is not known. Thyroiditis.
A nontoxic goiter is a diffuse or nodular enlargement of the thyroid gland that does not result from an inflammatory or neoplastic process and is not associated with abnormal thyroid function. 
There are several forms of hyperthyroidism, including: Graves' disease (diffuse toxic goiter). Graves' disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism. Researchers believe Graves' disease is caused by an antibody which stimulates the thyroid too much. This overstimulation causes the excess production of thyroid hormone. Hyperthyroidism caused by toxic nodular goiter is a condition in which one or more nodules of the thyroid becomes overactive. Symptoms of toxic nodular goiter do not include bulging eyes or skin problems, as in Graves' disease. The cause of toxic nodular goiter is not known. Thyroiditis.