The 10 amino acids that we can produce are alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine and tyrosine. Tyrosine is produced from phenylalanine, so if the diet is deficient in phenylalanine, tyrosine will be required as well. The precise amino acid content, and the sequence of those amino acids, of a specific protein, is determined by the sequence of the bases in the gene that encodes that protein. The chemical properties of the amino acids of proteins determine the biological activity of the protein.
Therefore, all 20 of these amino acids must be synthesized by the plant. A challenge lies in the fact that proteins have a finite life span and must be constantly translated from m-RNA in order for plant growth and development to continue. This means that there must be a ready supply of all 20 amino acids for protein synthesis and ultimately plant growth and development occur. A protein is created when a series of amino acids are bound together.
Proteins have a structural function, metabolic function (enzymes), a transport function and a stock of Amino Acids function. Only L-Amino Acids are assimilated by plants. D-Amino Acids are not recognised by the enzymatic locus and therefore can not participate in protein synthesis. Every plant like any organism needs certain components for growth over and above soil, sun, rain and air. The basic component of living cells is Proteins, with building block material, Amino Acids. Proteins are formed by sequence of
Amino Acids are fundamental ingredients in the process of Protein Synthesis. About 20 important Amino Acids are involved in the process of each function. Studies have proved that Amino Acids can directly or indirectly influence the physiological activities of the plant. Every plant like any organism needs certain components for growth over and above soil, sun, rain and air. The basic component of living cells is Proteins, with building block material, Amino Acids. Proteins are formed by sequence of
Amino Acids. Amino acids are organic compounds that are the building blocks of proteins. In most animal metabolisms, a number of amino acids play an essential role. The genetic code, which determines the assembly of amino acids into body proteins, is mediated by the nucleic acids. In addition to the 20 common amino acids, others occur in proteins. Analysis of many proteins from plant and animal sources has shown that all are made up of about 25 to 30 amino acids. In addition, more than 50 amino acids, not combined in proteins, have been found in plant
The addition of amino acids to hydroponic nutrient solution often has a dramatic affect on plant growth. Again, the secrets of amino acids lie in nature. As beneficial microorganisms grow and multiply in a healthy, organic soil, they produce enzymes that break down organic matter. 
They are known as 2-, alpha-, or α-amino acids (generic formula H 2 NCHRCOOH in most cases, where R is an organic substituent known as a  side-chain ); often the term amino acid is used to refer specifically to these. In the form of proteins, amino acids comprise the second-largest component (water is the largest) of human muscles, cells and other tissues. Outside proteins, amino acids perform critical roles in processes such as neurotransmitter transport and biosynthesis.
The requirement of amino acids in essential quantities is well known as a means to increase yield and overall quality of crops. The application of amino acids for foliar use is based on its requirement by plants in general and at critical stages of growth in particular. Plants absorb Amino Acids through Stomas and is proportionate to environment temperature. Every plant like any organism needs certain components for growth over and above soil, sun, rain and air. The basic component of living cells is Proteins, with building block material, Amino Acids. Proteins are formed by sequence of
To better understand plant growth and development we need to take a closer look at these protein molecules. Proteins are constructed from even smaller molecules called amino acids. In Figure 1, the general molecular structure of amino acids is illustrated. This means that there must be a ready supply of all 20 amino acids for protein synthesis and ultimately plant growth and development occur. A protein is created when a series of amino acids are bound together.