Though there are many other hydrological divides in the Americas, the Great Divide is by far the most prominent of these because it tends to follow a line of high peaks along the main ranges of the Rocky Mountains and Andes, at a generally much higher elevation than the other hydrological divisions. Examples of these are, respectively, North Two Ocean Creek and Isa Lake, both located on the Continental Divide in Wyoming. The Panama Canal has this same feature, being man-made. Both the Chagres and Gatun rivers flow into Gatun Lake, which empties to both oceans.
11,706 pages on this wiki. The Great Divide, or simply the Divide, is a large canyon located in the rocky regions of the central Earth Kingdom and the largest canyon on the planet. In some cases, such as those of the Zhang and Gan Jin tribes, the divide served as a link between refugee towns and the Earth Kingdom capital city of Ba Sing Se. 
Several endorheic basins appear to straddle the Continental Divide, including the Great Divide Basin in Wyoming, the Plains of San Agustin in New Mexico, the Guzman Guzmán basin In New mexico And, Chihuahua, mexico and The bolson Bolsón de Mapimi. mapimí in mexico Examples of these are, respectively, North Two Ocean Creek and Isa Lake, both located on the Continental Divide in Wyoming. The Panama Canal has this same feature, being man-made. Both the Chagres and Gatun rivers flow into Gatun Lake, which empties to both oceans.
The Divide crosses into the United States in northwestern Montana, at the boundary between Waterton Lakes National Park and Glacier National Park. In Canada, it forms the western boundary of Waterton Lakes National Park, and in the US bisects Glacier National Park. Examples of these are, respectively, North Two Ocean Creek and Isa Lake, both located on the Continental Divide in Wyoming. The Panama Canal has this same feature, being man-made. Both the Chagres and Gatun rivers flow into Gatun Lake, which empties to both oceans.
The entire Niwot LTER site is located at elevations higher than 3000 meters, and it includes an active cirque glacier and glacial landforms, tarns (glacial lakes), and permafrost. Lake Granby, located to the west of the Great Divide, is a reservoir on the Colorado River. It is the second-largest manmade body of water in the state of Colorado. This astronaut photograph highlights a portion of the Great Divide in the Rocky Mountains approximately 31 kilometers due west of Boulder, Colorado.
The Great Divide Basin HMA encompasses 778,915 acres, of which 562,702 acres are BLM-administered public lands. The management area is located 40 miles east of Rock Springs, to the Rawlins/Rock Springs field office boundary, west to the Continental Divide, and north of I-80 to just south of South Pass City.
Triple Divide Peak in Glacier National Park, Montana, is the point where two of the principal continental divides in North America converge, the Great Divide and the Northern or Laurentian Divide. Examples of these are, respectively, North Two Ocean Creek and Isa Lake, both located on the Continental Divide in Wyoming. The Panama Canal has this same feature, being man-made. Both the Chagres and Gatun rivers flow into Gatun Lake, which empties to both oceans.
Local Attractions. The Great Divide Campground is located in the Skylands Region, at the heart of New Jersey recreation. Whether you’re passing through or planning a stay, our location provides easy access to outdoor experiences, historic landmarks, museums and family activities. 
The Continental Divide is located along the summit of the Rocky Mountains. In the United States, it passes through Montana, part of Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Not to be confused with Great Basin Divide. The Great Divide Basin or Great Divide Closed Basin is an area of land in Wyoming 's Red Desert (United States) where none of the water falling as rain to the ground drains into any ocean, directly or indirectly. In the southern part of the western basin, Red Desert Flat and Red Desert Basin are the major features. These are about 25 miles (40 km) northwest of the town of Wamsutter. In the northeast part of the Great Divide Basin is Chain Lakes Flat, southwest and downslope from Bairoil and Lamont.