1 Zinc: This vital mineral is one of the essential prostate health vitamins because it supports chromosome integrity. 2  Studies show that for zinc, 20 mg daily is about right. 3  Vitamin D: Not getting enough vitamin D has been linked with numerous diseases, including prostate cancer. 1 Either, you want to drink four to eight ounces of pomegranate juice a day, or take a 200-300 mg pomegranate supplement. 2  Zinc: This vital mineral is one of the essential prostate health vitamins because it supports chromosome integrity. 3
Vitamin and supplement use has also been documented in men at risk of developing prostate cancer. One study examined vitamin and supplement use in men with a family history of prostate cancer. At the time of the survey, almost 60% of the men were using vitamins or supplements. The effects of lycopene supplementation on prostate tissue and prostate cancer biomarkers were investigated in patients with localized prostate cancer in a 2002 pilot study. Patients received lycopene supplements (30mg/day) or no intervention twice daily for 3 weeks prior to radical prostatectomy.
1 You want to take 2 to 10 mg daily of this prostate health vitamin. 2  Vitamin E and Selenium: These nutrients work hand-in-hand to ensure natural prostate health and to protect against prostate cancer. 3  You want to take 300 IU of vitamin E with mixed tocopherols and 250 mcg of selenium daily. 1 Either, you want to drink four to eight ounces of pomegranate juice a day, or take a 200-300 mg pomegranate supplement. 2  Zinc: This vital mineral is one of the essential prostate health vitamins because it supports chromosome integrity. 3  Studies show that for zinc, 20 mg daily is about right.
1 Vitamin C works hand-in-hand with the B-vitamins. 2  Together, these prostate health vitamins work to protect your chromosomes. 3  Take at least 400 mg daily. 4  Lycopene: Deficiencies of this critical nutrient have shown to increase prostate cancer risk. 5  You want to take 2 to 10 mg daily of this prostate health vitamin. 1 Either, you want to drink four to eight ounces of pomegranate juice a day, or take a 200-300 mg pomegranate supplement. 2  Zinc: This vital mineral is one of the essential prostate health vitamins because it supports chromosome integrity. 3  Studies show that for zinc, 20 mg daily is about right.
Last updated on April 8, 2011. Here are five vitamins for prostate health that may help in the prevention of prostate cancer. Selenium. Experts say that taking an extra 200mcg of selenium per day will reduce the risk of prostate cancer by 50 percent. Good food sources of selenium include Brazil nuts, garlic, Shiitake mushrooms, and tuna. Lycopene. Several studies have found that lycopene is protective against prostate cancer. Good food sources include tomatoes, watermelon, guava, rose hips, and papaya.
In one 2011 study that explored the effects of lycopene and fish oil supplements on gene expression, men with low-risk prostate cancer were randomly assigned to receive lycopene (30 mg of lycopene/day), fish oil (3 g of fish oil capsules/day), or a placebo daily for 90 days. The effects of lycopene supplementation on prostate tissue and prostate cancer biomarkers were investigated in patients with localized prostate cancer in a 2002 pilot study. Patients received lycopene supplements (30mg/day) or no intervention twice daily for 3 weeks prior to radical prostatectomy.
Folate. Folate (the synthetic form is called folic acid) is a B vitamin that, according to the Mayo Clinic, may be helpful in the prevention of prostate cancer. Some good sources of folate include spinach, asparagus, lentils, and Collard greens. Good food sources of selenium include Brazil nuts, garlic, Shiitake mushrooms, and tuna. Lycopene. Several studies have found that lycopene is protective against prostate cancer. Good food sources include tomatoes, watermelon, guava, rose hips, and papaya.
Prostate Vitamins-Vitamins for Prostate Health. There are nutrients and vitamins that have cancer-fighting powers. Greenstein, a protein present in Soya and its products is such a Prostate vitamin. Vitamins are important for prostate protection, treatment and prevention of cancer. Prostate is the bladder that encircles the urethra (the tube that evicts urine) The sperm of the male is nourished and transported through the prostatic fluid. When men age, prostrate enlarges, causing pressure on urethra. Vitamin E is a powerful anti0xdant and it protects against prostate cancer. Vitamin C with Bioflavonoid is proven as anticancer agent. It inhibits the spread of prostate cancer. Many plant extracts like lycopene and boron alleviate prostate discomfort, protect and maintain its healthy function.
1 For natural prostate health, you want to take 20 mg of B6, 100-200 mcg of B12, and 400-800 mcg of folic acid daily. 2  Vitamin C works hand-in-hand with the B-vitamins. 3  Together, these prostate health vitamins work to protect your chromosomes. 4  Take at least 400 mg daily. 1 Either, you want to drink four to eight ounces of pomegranate juice a day, or take a 200-300 mg pomegranate supplement. 2  Zinc: This vital mineral is one of the essential prostate health vitamins because it supports chromosome integrity. 3  Studies show that for zinc, 20 mg daily is about right.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Enlarged prostate? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Enlarged prostate. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Enlarged prostate returned 13 matches.