Genetics of Crohn's disease: Genetics is a risk factor for Crohn's disease. Specific genes have been linked to Crohn's disease, but scientists are not yet certain of the cause and effect of these genetic changes. Crohn's disease is most likely polygenic, meaning that more than one gene and other factors affect its development. About inheritance and genetics: Inheritance of Crohn's disease refers to whether the condition is inherited from your parents or runs in families. The level of inheritance of a condition depends on how important genetics are to the disease.
Crohn's disease is often inherited. About 20% of people with Crohn's disease may have a close relative with either Crohn's or ulcerative colitis. In addition, Jewish people of European descent (Ashkenazi) are at greater risk for the disease. 
The inheritance pattern of Crohn disease is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. This condition tends to cluster in families, however, and having an affected family member is a significant risk factor for the disease. 
Thanks for asking this question! Yes, Crohn's disease is genetic but that isn't the whole story. Like with many other diseases, the environment plays a role too. Crohn's disease affects the digestive system (usually the lower half of the small intestine and colon).
Health-Wire. Crohn’s disease is a disease in which inflammation, thickening, and swelling of the gastrointestinal tract occurs. It increases the risk of colon cancer. It is a complex genetic disorder. Chromosomes 5 and 10 have been identified to be linked with this genetic disorder. crohns disease,colon,genetic disorder,chromosome. 
Scientists have linked immune system problems to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's. Usually, cells of the immune system defend the body from harmful microbes -- bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other foreign substances -- that have entered it. The body doesn't usually respond to all microbes, however. About 10% to 20% of people with Crohn's disease have at least one other family member who also has the disease. The condition is more common in certain ethnic groups, such as Jews, and is more prevalent in Caucasians.
Crohn's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis, is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus. Signs and symptoms often include abdominal pain, diarrhea (which may be bloody if inflammation is severe), fever, and weight loss. Crohn's disease is caused by a combination of environmental, immune and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals. It results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in which the body's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.