1 If you are just starting an exercise program as a way of improving your health during your pregnancy, you should start very slowly and be careful not to over exert yourself. 2  Consider a prenatal yoga class that is specifically designed for pregnant women.
Regular physical activity should continue throughout pregnancy. It is important that pregnancy is treated as an altered physiological state, not a condition, and that a few allowances are made concerning exercise routines for women in the pregnant state.
1 Pregnant women who habitually engage in vigorous-intensity aerobic activity or are highly active can continue physical activity during pregnancy and the postpartum period, provided that they remain healthy and discuss with their health-care provider how and when activity should be adjusted over time.
According to the 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans —. Healthy women should get at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) per week of moderate-intensity aerobic activity, such as brisk walking, during and after their pregnancy. It is best to spread this activity throughout the week.
Yes! If you are a healthy pregnant or postpartum woman, physical activity is good for your overall health. For example, moderate-intensity physical activity, such as brisk walking, keeps your heart and lungs healthy during and after pregnancy. Physical activity also helps improve your mood throughout the postpartum period.
1 For most healthy women with an uncomplicated pregnancy who engage in a moderate level of physical activity, fitness can be maintained throughout pregnancy and in the postpartum period. 2  Women who have achieved cardiovascular fitness prior to pregnancy should be able to safely maintain that level during pregnancy.
Just because you are pregnant does not usually mean that you should stop any physical activity. Equally, it does not usually mean that you cannot start physical activity. For most women, it is important to do some regular physical activity during pregnancy as part of living a healthy lifestyle.
Physical activity during pregnancy is safe for most women. However, there are some pregnant women who should speak to their doctor or midwife before doing any physical activity during their pregnancy. Their doctor or midwife will be able to advise about whether it is safe for them to take part in physical activity.