1 Check requirements in your state before seeking to become a licensed electrician. 2  Some states might require a special license for different types of electrical work, such as industrial versus residential. 3  Other states might have different educational or certification requirements.
If you want to become an electrician, here are the steps to take. 1  Get your high school diploma or GED. 2  An electrician needs a foundation in math (i.e., one year of algebra), science (i.e., physics) and practical courses (i.e., electronics). 3  Get formal training.
To be an electrician in Florida you need a professional government granted license to legally perform electrical services within the state. This license is granted by Florida’s Electrical Contractors’ Licensing Board which is part of the state’s Department of Business Professional Regulation.
Tips. 1  Check requirements in your state before seeking to become a licensed electrician. 2  Some states might require a special license for different types of electrical work, such as industrial versus residential. 3  Other states might have different educational or certification requirements.
You need to be registered or certified to do construction work in Florida. You can get a registered contractor's license at the local level, unless a certified license is required by the county you want to perform the work in. Contractors with a certified license are allowed to work anywhere in the state.
1 A Residential Electrical Contractor License is required in Florida for any job that involves the trade. 2  Anyone seeking to become a residential electrical contractor in Florida is required to sit for two exams, business and finance and
Florida imposes high fees for going through the process to become a licensed electrician in the state. The fee for the application is $327.50 and the actual licensing fee is $300. Keep in mind, you’ll need to renew the license every two years for a fee of $300. View, download or print Florida’s applications for becoming a licensed electrician.