German Language. German is used as the official language of Germany and of Austria. It is also used as one of the four official languages of Switzerland (along with French, Italian, and Romansh). German is also spoken in dialect form throughout Luxembourg and by much of the population of the regions of eastern France formerly known as Alsace and Lorraine.
Frankfurt-Speaking the Language. Home Country Guides Germany. Although the official language of Frankfurt is German, you will quickly notice that there are many phrases and words used in Frankfurt that are no easily understood in other parts of Germany. This is because most Frankfurters speak a dialect called Frankfurterisch, which is related to the Hessisch dialect. 
Over 95% of German residents speak German or German dialects. There are 4 main minority languages, each spoken by less than .1% of the population: Sorbani, Romani, Danish, and North Frisian. Many Germans also speak English, French, Latin, Dutch, and Russian as a second language.
1 French is the official language of 29 countries and is a working language for NATO, the 2  …. German Language Publications Outside of Germany, there are not many locations that consider German as a main language. The official name of Germany in English is the Federal Republic of Germany. This was also the name of West Germany until the reunification in 1990. After reunification the former East Germany, die Deutsche Demokratische Republik, abr. DDR, ceased to exist and both parts took on the name of the former West Germany
Germany. The official language of Germany is German, with over 95% of the population speaking German as their first language. Minority languages include Sorbian, spoken by 0.09% in the east of Germany and North Frisian spoken in Nordfriesland by around 10,000 people, or 0.01%, who also speak German. Danish is spoken by 0.06%, mainly in the area along the Danish border. Romani, an indigenous language is spoken by around 0.08%
The main language spoken in Germany, the national language, is German. (German has many dialects including Bavarian, Swabian, Hessian, Plattdeutsch, and Saxon). English is taught in schools, often to a respectable or even high standard. Sorbian is a protected minority language. There are 4 main minority languages, each spoken by less than .1% of the population: Sorbani, Romani, Danish, and North Frisian. Many Germans also speak English, French, Latin, Dutch, and Russian as a second language.
Languages of Austria. The languages of Austria include German, the official language and lingua franca; Austro-Bavarian, the main language outside Vorarlberg; Alemannic, the main language in Vorarlberg; and several minority languages. 
This figure includes speakers of Northern Low Saxon, a recognized minority or regional language that is not considered separately from Standard German in statistics. Recognized minority languages have official status as well, usually in their respective regions. 
German is the most widely spoken (and official) language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Italian province of South Tyrol (Alto Adige) and Liechtenstein; it is also an official (but not majority) language of Belgium and Luxembourg. One of the major languages of the world, German is the first language of about 95 million people worldwide and the most widely spoken native language in the European Union.