Mediator Variable vs Moderator Variable. There is often confusion among students concerning the difference between a mediator variable and a moderator variable. The explanation involves some concepts that haven't been introduced at this point but it can still be worthwhile to discuss these types of variables. 
Defining Variables. Variables can be defined as any aspect of a theory that can vary or change as part of the interaction within the theory. In other words, variables are anything can effect or change the results of a study. Every study has variables as these are needed in order to understand differences. There is no limit to the number of variables that can be measured, although the more variables, the more complex the study and the more complex the statistical analysis. The most powerful benefit of increasing our variables, however, is control.
A mediator variable is the variable that causes mediation in the dependent and the independent variables. In other words, it explains the relationship between the dependent variable and the independent variable. The process of complete mediation is defined as the complete intervention caused by the mediator variable.
moderating variable. in statistics, a variable that alters the direction or strength of the relationship between an independent or predictor variable and a dependent or criterion variable. For example, the effects of an intervention might differ depending on the gender of the participants.
Dr. Adam Butler. This page contains a definition of moderator variables and mediator variables, links to more information, and a few exercises to test your understanding of the concepts. Moderator Defined. A moderator variable changes the strength of an effect or relationship between two variables
Definition of Intervening Variable. An intervening variable is a variable that helps explain the relationship between two variables. Other Variables and Example of Their Relationship. Joe is a psychologist interested in the relationship between education and spending. Joe decides to conduct a research study. Joe's study uses level of education as the independent variable.
as the dependent variable and regressing it on the independent variable. Fairness in the workplace: the mediating role of trust in the ... by Mushonga, Shingirayi M.; Thiagarajan, Palaniappan; Torrance, Christopher G. / SAM Advanced Management Journal. 
A mediating variable is intermediate in the causal relationship between two variables such that an independent variable causes the mediating variable which causes a dependent variable. Mediating variables are important in a number of fields because they explain how and why two variables are related. Mediating variables in prevention serve a different purpose than other applications of mediating variable methodology. In the prevention case, mediating variables are selected before the study and are fundamental to the prevention program because of their causal relationship to the
If the mediation caused by the mediator variable is perfect in nature, then the independent variable and the mediator variable are correlated to each other. This correlation between the mediator variable and the independent variable is termed as collinearity. In other words, it explains the relationship between the dependent variable and the independent variable. The process of complete mediation is defined as the complete intervention caused by the mediator variable.
A variable plays a role on the mediator variable under some specific conditions. The conditions of being the mediator variable are as follows: If the change in the level of the independent variable significantly accounts for variation in the other variable, then the variable is considered a mediator variable. In other words, it explains the relationship between the dependent variable and the independent variable. The process of complete mediation is defined as the complete intervention caused by the