Many brands of frozen puff pastry cut their butter with vegetable oil. It’s worth searching for and buying the all-butter brands (Our favorite is Dufour). “This is for both flakiness and flavor,” says Perry, explaining that all-butter puff pastry will result in those gorgeous layers of dough, similar to in a pie crust. 
Don't even think about baking puff pastry in the microwave or toaster oven. It just doesn't work. Baking temperatures vary. Most pastry chefs agree with the instructions on the box -- bake puff pastry at a high temperature for a short time, usually at 400 degrees for about 20 minutes. When the pastry is high and golden brown, it is done. Here are some tips for working with ready-made puff pastry. Thaw frozen pastry sheets at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes before gently unfolding. Wrap unused sheets in plastic wrap or foil and return to the freezer. Always preheat the oven prior to baking as directed in the recipe.
Most things will cook well at 180c, it's a very good catch-all temperature if you're not sure, go for 180c. 180c is 350f or gas mark 4 brush the top of the pastry with egg, or milk, and cook it for about 20 mins or until it's golden. The filling will be pre-cooked, and I am topping the dishes with rough-puff pastry (which I have made and is now resting in my fridge). But I just realised I don't know how long to cook it for, or at what temperature, to get my pastry golden and flaky and...
7. Place the pie dish in an oven at the temperature and for the length of time suggested by the recipe. If there is no suggested temperature, or you are making this up as you go, heat the oven to medium heat (approx. 200ºC/400ºF) and bake the base for approximately 15 minutes, (less for a pastry containing sugar). 
Brie can be served warm as a simple appetizer. It can also be baked in a puff pastry. The savory flavor of brie also coordinates well with toppings made of sweet sauces, fruits and nuts. This article will show you how to make simple baked brie, and brie baked in a puff pastry, also known as brie en croute.. Bake your brie without any honey, toppings, or puff pastry for 10 minutes. Take the brie out and spread some chunky cranberry sauce on top. Bake it for 5 more minutes. Before serving the brie, garnish it with some orange zest and a handful of chopped walnuts.
ref: http://powerhungry.com/2009/02/puff-pastry-docking/. 2) In general, to cook food more evenly, one should cook longer at a lower temperature. The problem is that the dough on the bottom of your crust is not reaching a high enough temperature by the time the top of your crust is done cooking. Brush the top of the pie with egg wash (30% milk 70% egg beaten). Put it into the oven-which should be preheated-and bake @ 200C/390F for 20-25mins. If you oven is fan assisted set it to 180C/350F.