Cubism, often considered to be the seminal art movement of the twentieth century, initiated a pictorial revolution through its radical approach to imagemaking, invention of the new media of collage and sculptural assemblage, and evolution towards pure abstraction. 
1 Cubism was invented around 1907 in Paris by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. 2  Cubism was the first abstract style of modern art. 3  A Cubist painting ignores the traditions of perspective drawing and shows you many views of a subject at one time. 4  The Cubists introduced collage into painting. This new way of seeing was called Cubism-the first abstract style of modern art. Picasso and Braque developed their ideas on Cubism around 1907 in Paris and their starting point was a common interest in the later paintings of Paul Cezanne. cézanne
Cubism was a truly revolutionary style of modern art developed by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braques. It was the first style of abstract art which evolved at the beginning of the 20th century in response to a world that was changing with unprecedented speed. This new way of seeing was called Cubism-the first abstract style of modern art. Picasso and Braque developed their ideas on Cubism around 1907 in Paris and their starting point was a common interest in the later paintings of Paul Cezanne. cézanne
Cubism. Cubism was a revolutionary new approach to representing reality invented in around 1907/08 by artists Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque who aimed to bring different views of subjects (usually objects or figures) together in the same picture, resulting in paintings that appear fragmented and abstracted. Introduction to the cubist movement. Cubism was one of the most influential styles of the twentieth century. It is generally agreed to have begun around 1907 with Picasso ’s celebrated painting Demoiselles D’Avignon which included elements of cubist style.
Cubism is an early-20th-century avant-garde art movement that revolutionized European painting and sculpture, and inspired related movements in music, literature and architecture. Cubism has been considered the most influential art movement of the 20th century. The term is broadly used in association with a wide variety of art produced in Paris (Montmartre, Montparnasse and Puteaux) during the 1910s and extending through the 1920s. In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
Cubist Exhibitions. Cubism had two identities, a public and a private. The style was jointly evolved by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque on the basis of observations derived from Cezanne, and also, to some extent, from ethnographical primitivism such as that investigated by Picasso during his African art period. In fine art, the term Cubism describes the revolutionary style of painting invented by Pablo Picasso (1881-1973) and Georges Braque (1882-1963) in Paris, during the period 1907-12.
Cubism began between 1907 and 1911. Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon has often been considered a proto-Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 Houses at L’Estaque (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles to refer to bizarreries cubiques (cubic oddities). In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
All other lesson content belongs to the PA Leadership Charter School, www.palcs.org. Do not reproduce. Course: Arts and Culture: Modern to Contemporary Times Lesson Title: Cubism. Standards: 9.2.12.A.Explain the historical, cultural and social context of an individual work in the arts. Take a look at these two works by Cubist artists Pablo Picasso and George Braque. In a paragraph consisting of a minimum of 5-8 sentences, please compare and contrast the two works.