From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Port Macquarie is a town in the local government area of Port Macquarie-Hastings. It is located on the Mid North Coast of New South Wales, Australia, about 390 km (242 mi) north of Sydney, and 570 km (354 mi) south of Brisbane. Port Macquarie was declared a municipality in 1887, but the town never progressed as a port owing to a notorious coastal bar across the mouth of the river. Over 20 shipwrecks occurred in the Tacking Point area before a lighthouse was designed by James Barnet and erected there in 1879 by Shepard and Mortley.
Little Fish Cafe café is something to behold overlooking the lush vineyards of The Innes Lake estate and framed By, Jacaranda poinciana And magnolia. Trees located On Port’macquarie s most historic, road you get to the vineyards Via John Oxley drive then turning at The Innes lake vineyard sign Into The Ruins. way 
Lake Innes lies at its heart and is a picturesque setting for the historically significant Innes Ruins, which is a great place to learn all about early settlement and convict history in NSW. You can book a tour of the ruins through the Port Macquarie Information Centre. At Lake Innes Nature Reserve, near Port Macquarie, visitors can enjoy cycling, fishing, birdwatching, swimming, kayaking and learning about NSW convict settlement history. Read more about Lake Innes Nature Reserve.
Port Macquarie is a town in the local government area of Port Macquarie-Hastings. Port Macquarie was declared a municipality in 1887, but the town never progressed as a port owing to a notorious coastal bar across the mouth of the river. Over 20 shipwrecks occurred in the Tacking Point area before a lighthouse was designed by James Barnet and erected there in 1879 by Shepard and Mortley.
The bustling seaside city of Port Macquarie offers everything you need by way of accommodation and services for the perfect fishing holiday. Or why not stay in the smaller townships of the Camden Haven such as Laurieton, Dunbogan, North Haven and Lake Cathie. Only 30 minutes from Port Macquarie they all have access to local fishing opportunities. And remember if you need to know anything about local conditions, the best fishing spots or what bait to use, just ask a friendly local at one of the fishing supply outlets in the area, or fishing at their favourite spot.
News has been brought into Port Macquarie that late on Saturday the old residence on the Lake Innes Estate, built by Major Innes (convict labour) was burnt to the ground. The police are endeavouring to find out the cause of the fire, but have not yet succeeded. The township on this station which is the present Glen Innes, was named after him. In his first few years at Lake Innes he produced the first sugar grown in the district and in 1844 he planted thirty acres of vines. Major Innes was convinced that Port Macquarie would become a major port and settlement area.
Port Macquarie is linked by a 6 Day Shuttle Service called Holiday Coast Connections. The area it services comprises Port Macquarie, Lake Cathie, Bonny Hills, Laurieton, Kew, Taree, Forster, Bulahdelah, Newcastle Airport, Newcastle Railway, John Hunter Hospital, Mater Hospital and Newcastle Uni. Port Macquarie was declared a municipality in 1887, but the town never progressed as a port owing to a notorious coastal bar across the mouth of the river. Over 20 shipwrecks occurred in the Tacking Point area before a lighthouse was designed by James Barnet and erected there in 1879 by Shepard and Mortley.
Whether you’re an eager history student or an outdoor adventurer, you’ll find plenty to do at Lake Innes Nature Reserve, not far from Port Macquarie. The reserve features a fascinating historic site set in gorgeous natural scenery with plenty of opportunities for hiking, cycling, birdwatching and water sport activities. At Lake Innes Nature Reserve, near Port Macquarie, visitors can enjoy cycling, fishing, birdwatching, swimming, kayaking and learning about NSW convict settlement history. Read more about Lake Innes Nature Reserve.
Florist Delivery Port Macquarie. Lily's Florist delivers same day flowers to; Port Macquarie Base Hospital, Lake Cathie, North Haven, Bonny Hills, Thrumster, Flynns Beach, Wauchope, Redbank, Riverside, Settlement Point, Telegraph Point, and everywhere in between. 1  1. 2  2. Lily's Florist Port Macquarie. Lily's Florist Port Macquarie has the largest range of quality available. Entrust us to get your flowers delivered on time, every time. Flowers delivered for occasions such as birthdays, weddings, funerals, hospital flowers, new baby flowers, or even flowers just because, all from $29.