All the medical evidence suggests a dog should be spayed before her first heat. It’s much easier for her then because it’s a much easier surgery at that time. And the problem with letting your dog have a litter is you’ve just instantly contributed to the pet overpopulation problem. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side. Just in the Atlanta area alone, more than $15 million is spent annually dealing with stray and unwanted pets. That’s your tax dollars.
My last dog was spayed for $20 at a clinic that was running a special, but at a vet it can be up to $300. People don't always agree on when to spay, but I always do it at 4 to 5 months. Doing it this early basically eliminates your dogs risk of mammary cancer and certain female cancers as well as pyometra. It depends, talk to the dog's vet and get their opinion(or if you get her from a breeder ask them what age they'd recommend). I didn't get my female spayed until she was a little after 2 years old-that's after I did a lot of research.
A very legitimate concern, pet overpopulation, has been the primary driving force behind 30 years of national and local spay/neuter campaigns. When it comes to deciding at what age a companion animal should be sterilized, the standard for most spay/neuter campaigns has been sooner rather than later. This is especially true in the case of adoptable abandoned and rescued pets that wind up in shelters and foster care.
It's best if it's a puppy but you can have your dog spayed at any age. Wait until the dog is at least six months old. The ovaries release necessary hormones for proper growth, and the dog can be stunted or not mature properly if they are removed too early. The same holds true for a male dog's testicles. If she is spayed before her first heat, she will reap many more health advantages than if she experiences even one heat cycle. The neuter surgery should be done when the dog is young and healthy, usually between 5 and 8 months old. In the female, ideally before the first heat.
Puppies can be spayed as young as 8 weeks, although 16 weeks is more common. It is strongly recommended that all female puppies that are not being considered for showing or br … eeding be spayed prior to their first heat cycle, as this decreases the risk of breast cancer by over 99%. If she is spayed before her first heat, she will reap many more health advantages than if she experiences even one heat cycle. The neuter surgery should be done when the dog is young and healthy, usually between 5 and 8 months old. In the female, ideally before the first heat.
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. 
It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side. Just in the Atlanta area alone, more than $15 million is spent annually dealing with stray and unwanted pets. That’s your tax dollars.
Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Delaying for a couple of months may allow the pup to attain better physical development important to these demands.
You should be able to get her spayed now. It is a myth that you have to wait until after their first heat cycle. Some experienced vets can spay as early as 8 weeks provided the dog is big enough weight wise. mother2two · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. 
Adult dogs can be neutered at any age, but the best time is before sexual maturity. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Delaying for a couple of months may allow the pup to attain better physical development important to these demands.