Spanking is extremely common. I found a number of sources (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) with slightly different statistics but all make it clear how prevalent corporal punishment in the home is. Data from the 1970’s revealed that more than 90% of families in the United States used corporal punishment in the home at least once.
Compared to alternative methods of punishment and discipline, corporal punishment can cost less. Most of the times in the case of parental and school corporal punishment, only a ruler, a paddle or a belt are required to retribution. Corporal punishment is the deliberate infliction of physical pain such as flogging, slapping and paddling to punish wrongdoing. It can take the form of parental, school or judicial corporal punishment. Though opposition against it is strong, corporal punishment still has some strong advocates.
More often than not corporal punishment involves the use of canes to beat someone. Corporal punishment is normally meted out to children in schools by teachers and at homes by parents or guardians. The advantages of corporal punishment. 1  It helps to serve as a deterrent.
This article presents an argument on the negative impact of corporal punishment. Corporal punishment, or punishment inflicting physical pain, is at best, a discipline of questionable effectiveness, and at worst, child abuse. Whether practiced at home or in school, corporal punishment may indeed... 1  Corporal Punishment: Guide to Critical Analysis. Supports the implementation of corporal punishment in schools. Difficulties faced by teachers in disciplining students; Role of parents in teaching their children how to behave in school; Advantages of allowing spanking to punish misbehaving students.
Compared to alternative methods of retribution such as expulsion, suspension, grounding or community service, corporal punishment has immediate effects. It is a short-term method of punishment that can be quickly administered in the home, school or in prison. Corporal punishment is the deliberate infliction of physical pain such as flogging, slapping and paddling to punish wrongdoing. It can take the form of parental, school or judicial corporal punishment. Though opposition against it is strong, corporal punishment still has some strong advocates.
Corporal punishment goes by a variety of names including, but not limited to, beating, hitting, spanking, paddling, swatting, and caning.. Some of these terms are generic, others are specific to the severity of the punishment or the instrument used to inflict it. It has been argued that one advantage that corporal punishment has over other forms of punishment is that it punishes only the guilty.27 Detaining students often places a burden on parents who fetch children from school. They are then required to fetch the detained child at a later time, which may be inconvenient.
The disadvantages of corporal punishment. 1  It can be very counterproductive in the sense that it can sometimes make children hardened and no longer afraid. 2  It is very hurtful and can cause severe injuries to a child. 3  This is the reason why in so many places it has been banned in schools. Corporal punishment is normally meted out to children in schools by teachers and at homes by parents or guardians. The advantages of corporal punishment. 1  It helps to serve as a deterrent.
Instead of spanking, a parent should explain to her child why she shouldn't do something. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Corporal punishment is one the most commonly used discipline techniques for children, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics, even though it strongly opposes its use. In 1998, the American Academy of Pediatrics found that more than 90 percent of parents reported using corporal punishment in the home. 
Domestic corporal punishment (also referred to as corporal punishment in the home or parental corporal punishment) refers to the use of physical force by parents or other adult guardians for purposes of punishment of their minor children. 
A more compelling argument in favor of the limited use of corporal punishment is that it plays a significant role on the scale of punishments. In the context of a school, it fills an important position between punishments like detention on the one hand, and expulsion on the other. It has been argued that one advantage that corporal punishment has over other forms of punishment is that it punishes only the guilty.27 Detaining students often places a burden on parents who fetch children from school. They are then required to fetch the detained child at a later time, which may be inconvenient.