Roasting the Tenderloin. We cooked the beef tenderloin at 350°F for about 60 min. until the temperature at the thickest part of the roast reached 135°F. After removing it from the oven and covering with tinfoil, we let it rest for approximately 15 minutes. For this whole beef tenderloin, Alice wanted to cook it to medium doneness which equates to approximately 145°F. In order to achieve this, I explained to Alice she should cook the tenderloin to an internal temperature of approximately 135°F and let it rest until it reaches the desired 145°F.
Whole beef cuts usually have bacteria only on the surface, but it is possible for harmful bacteria to be present in the internal portions, so cooking the meat to an internal temperature of 145°F is sufficient to kill the bacteria. (The surface of the meat will be at a much higher temperature; usually 160°F or above). Traditional guidelines for doneness state that beef cooked very rare, rare, or medium-rare should have an internal temperature ranging between 115ºF to 140°F.
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
1 Cook the roast for about 10 to 15 minutes and then turn it over in the pan. 2  Continue to cook it for another 10 to 15 minutes for every pound. 3  Remove the tenderloin from the oven when the internal temperature of the meat reaches 140°F, as indicated on a meat thermometer inserted into the center of the roast. Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
Roast the tenderloin until the meat thermometer reads 135 degrees Fahrenheit. Remove the pan from the oven and cover with a tent of foil. Let the tenderloin rest for 15 minutes before carving. The internal temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit as it rests.
Put the tenderloins on a rack in a roasting pan, and roast them in a 450°F oven. After about 15 minutes, check the internal temperature with a probe thermometer. For a tenderloin that's medium-rare, look for an internal temperature of 120°F. For medium, the internal temperature should be 125°F. When the tenderloin is cooked the way you like it, let it rest at room temperature for 15 minutes before slicing. This will let the juices redistribute so the meat is juicy all over.
Remove the shallots from the top surface of the meat. Place pan with tenderloin under the broiler and broil, turning every 30 seconds, until well browned on all sides and an internal temperature registers 125°F for rare or 130°F for medium-rare, about 2 minutes total. Proceed to Step 5. 4
Add tenderloin, shallots, and thyme, and cook, turning occasionally and spooning the hot butter and aromatics over the roast until well browned on all sides and an internal temperature registers 125°F for rare or 130°F for medium-rare, about 1 1/2 minutes. Place pan with tenderloin under the broiler and broil, turning every 30 seconds, until well browned on all sides and an internal temperature registers 125°F for rare or 130°F for medium-rare, about 2 minutes total.