Arthritis is an umbrella term used to describe pain, stiffness and inflammation of the joints. However, there are different kinds of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). Although RA and OA both affect the joints, they are very different forms of the same broader condition. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune condition, while osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease.
You are likely to have pain, stiffness and tenderness in the finger joints. As RA progresses, symptoms can develop in the larger joints such as the hips, shoulders, and ankles. Rheumatoid arthritis is a symmetrical disease. You will experience symptoms on both sides of your body at the same time. Although RA and OA both affect the joints, they are very different forms of the same broader condition. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune condition, while osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it. 
The fluid buildup causes pain, stiffness, tenderness and inflammation—symptoms of RA. Osteoarthritis, the most common form of arthritis, is a degenerative joint disease. People with OA experience a breakdown of the cartilage that cushions the joints. Although RA and OA both affect the joints, they are very different forms of the same broader condition. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune condition, while osteoarthritis
Share +. Text A A A. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease where the body's immune system attacks normal joint tissues, causing inflammation of the joint lining. This inflammation of the joint lining (called the synovium) can cause pain, stiffness, swelling, warmth, and redness
Introduction. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of function. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system attacks joints and other tissues. The pattern of joints affected is usually symmetrical, involves the hands and other joints, and is worse in the morning
The most common type of arthritis, osteoarthritis involves wear-and-tear damage to the cartilage that caps the bones in your joints. Rheumatoid arthritis occurs when your immune system mistakenly attacks the lining of your joints, causing a painful swelling that can eventually result in joint deformity. While both rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis can affect the small joints of the hand, there are differences. In rheumatoid arthritis, the same joints usually are affected on both sides of the body. This symmetry doesn't typically occur in osteoarthritis, so it's common for only one hand or knee to be painful. Joints damaged by osteoarthritis may be stiff in the morning, but they usually feel better in about 20 minutes.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long lasting autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. It typically results in warm, swollen, and painful joints. Pain and stiffness often worsen following rest. Most commonly the wrist and hands are involved with typically the same joints involved on both sides of the body. 
Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Inflammation. Redness, swelling, pain, and/or a feeling of heat in an area of the body. This is a protective reaction to injury, disease, or irritation of the tissues. About RA. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that causes pain, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. In some people, it can also cause the joints to become damaged and deformed.