Humanist ideas are reflected in works of Renaissance literature. The most famous writer of the time, William Shakespeare, wrote 37 plays between 1590 and 1613. His plays reflect the ideas of individualism and the unconquerable human spirit, and most of them are still performed today. 
The earliest Renaissance literature appeared in Italy in the 14th century; Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Machiavelli and Ariosto are notable examples of Italian Renaissance writers. From Italy the influence of the Renaissance spread at different times to other countries and continued to spread around Europe through the 17th century. The English Renaissance and the Renaissance in Scotland date from the late 15th century to the early
He was considered the greatest humanist of the north and helped to spread humanism and the Renaissance movement to northern Europe. He is also famous for his book Praise of Folly. Paracelsus (1493 - 1541) - Paracelsus was a Swiss scientist and botanist who helped to make many advances in medicine. 
This is a good example of the Renaissance legacy around me because William Shakespeare was known for his literature and plays like Romeo & Juliet during the renaissance. Literature My second item is a book by the famous. 14th century writer, Francis Petrach. This. 
Renaissance Literature. The Renaissance in Europe was in one sense an awakening from the long slumber of the Dark Ages. What had been a stagnant, even backsliding kind of society re-invested in the promise of material and spiritual gain. The single greatest innovation of the Renaissance era was the printing press, put into service around 1440 by Johannes Gutenberg. Rudimentary presses had existed for a long time, but Gutenberg’s design maximized printing efficiency in a way that changed the world of arts, letters, and ideas forever.
This is a great example of Renaissance legacy around me because William Shakespeare was known for his literature and plays like Romeo and Juliet Literature has been very important over the years! One famous book that was written by Francis Petrarch, who was a fourteenth century writer. Four of today's biggest achievements! The Renaissance Legacy around Me Renaissance Art Literature Architecture Inventions Today one of the biggest Renaissance Art's is some of Shakespeare play's.
In northern Europe the scholarly writings of Erasmus, the plays of Shakespeare, the poems of Edmund Spenser and the writings of Sir Philip Sidney may be considered Renaissance in character. From Italy the influence of the Renaissance spread at different times to other countries and continued to spread around Europe through the 17th century. The English Renaissance and the Renaissance in Scotland date from the late 15th century to the early
The literature of the Renaissance was written within the general movement of the Renaissance which arose in 14th century to the late 17th century.Italy and continued until the 16th century while being diffused into the western world. From Italy the influence of the Renaissance spread at different times to other countries and continued to spread around Europe through the 17th century. The English Renaissance and the Renaissance in Scotland date from the late 15th century to the early
Italian literature is literature written in the Italian language, particularly within Italy. It may also refer to literature written by Italians or in Italy in other languages spoken in Italy, often languages that are closely related to modern Italian. The ideas behind the French Revolution of 1789 gave a special direction to Italian literature in the second half of the 18th century. Love of liberty and desire for equality created a literature aimed at national object.
The creation of the printing press (using movable type) by Johannes Gutenberg in the 1450s encouraged authors to write in their local vernacular rather than in Greek or Latin classical languages, widening the reading audience and promoting the spread of Renaissance ideas. From Italy the influence of the Renaissance spread at different times to other countries and continued to spread around Europe through the 17th century. The English Renaissance and the Renaissance in Scotland date from the late 15th century to the early