1 2 3 4. Now that we have observed landforms created by aeolian processes, let's examine the mechanisms of wind-action, and how these processes shape the landforms that we observed.
Aeolian processes, in the study of geology and weather, pertain to wind activity and specifically to the wind's ability to shape the surface of the Earth. Winds may erode, transport, and deposit materials, and are effective agents in regions with sparse vegetation and a large supply of unconsolidated sediments.
The term Aeolian describes the process of wind erosion, deposition, and how it is transported. It also has to do with the deposits that wind leave behind, such as sand dunes. A sand dune is an elongated mound of sand formed by wind or water. In this paper we are only going to look at wind made dunes.
Aeolian Transport is the first process of coastal dune formation and involves the movement and weathering of sand particles behind and parallel to the shoreline. There are three main processes involved in Aeolian Transport: 1  Suspension-The finer sand particles are moved by the wind, high in the air.
Aeolian geology is the study of landforms formed by wind (Aeolus is the wind god in Greek mythology). On Mars, where other processes such as fluvial erosion, volcanism, and tectonism are slow, intermittent, or do not occur in the present era, aeolian activity is the most dynamic geologic process in non-polar areas. Numerous depositional and erosional landforms attributable to wind activity are present.
Aeolian Processes are related to wind activity and how wind can erode, transport, and deposit sediments. Throughout the different sites visited during the Bodega Bay field trip on January 31, 2015, there were several sources of evidence observed of Aeolian processes taking place.
Large basins are complex and there is often one or more non-aeolian processes work. These non-aeolian processes include tectonics, glacial and alluvial forces. (See Table 1) Depositional Landforms Deposition is the laying down of sediment transported by wind, water or ice.