Synonyms: cocoyam; dasheen; eddo; taro. Hypernyms (dasheen is a kind of...): root ((botany) the usually underground organ that lacks buds or leaves or nodes; absorbs water and mineral salts; usually it anchors the plant to the ground). 1. edible starchy tuberous root of taro plants. 2. herb of the Pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves. 3. tropical starchy tuberous root. Familiarity information: DASHEEN used as a noun is uncommon.
Taro is the staple of the Native Hawaiian diet and at the core of the Hawaiian culture. Hawaiians believe the taro plant to be sacred. Taro, called “kalo” in Hawaiian, is central to the Native Hawaiian creation story. 
Taro, or Colocasia esculenta, is a starchy edible tuber cultivated in many tropical nations. Because of its similarity to the potato, it is sometimes called the “potato of the tropics.” It is also known as kalo in Hawaiian, and as dasheen in some other parts of the world. Dasheen is Japanese taro and is not good for making poi. Dasheen will be bland and tasteless. Peel and cube the taro in a stockpot until it can be fork pierced. Once drained, place the taro in a food processor (or you can hand pound it with a mortar and pestle if you want to do it the traditional way).
Dasheen — Colocasia esculenta (L.) Schott. James M. Stephens. Dasheen is sometimes called eddo, taro, or malanga, although malanga more often refers to Xanthosoma sp. Dasheen is a tall-growing tropical plant that resembles the ornamental elephant-ear plant and the cocoyam. The broad, round-or heart-shaped velvety green leaves are borne 3 to 7 feet high. Figure 1. Dasheen is grown for its edible underground parts, which consist of one or more large central corms (called a mammy) and a cluster of swollen lateral tubers. The central corm may be as large as 8 pounds, but is usually 1 to 2 pounds. The smaller tubers are usually 2 to 4 ounces in size.
Noun. 1. dasheen-edible starchy tuberous root of taro plants. cocoyam, eddo, taro. Colocasia esculenta, dalo, taro plant, dasheen, taro-herb of the Pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves. edda, taro root, cocoyam, dasheen, taro-tropical starchy tuberous root. aroid, arum-any plant of the family Araceae; have small flowers massed on a spadix surrounded by a large spathe. Colocasia, genus Colocasia-small genus of perennial tuberous herbs of tropical Asia: taro.
Dasheen roots, popular as kalo in Pacific islands. Taro is a large perennial herbaceous plant growing up to 5-6 feet. It's rather large heart-shaped, frilly edged leaves at the end of long, stout petioles appear like elephant’s ear. It grows best in marshy, wet soil and warm humid climates. 
Taro can be grown in paddy fields where water is abundant or in upland situations where water is supplied by rainfall or supplemental irrigation. Taro is one of the few crops (along with rice and lotus) that can be grown under flooded conditions. Taro is grown in the Terai and hilly regions of Nepal. The root (corm) of taro is known as pindalu (पिँडालु) and petioles with leaves are known as karkalo (कर्कलो) and also as Gava (गाभा). Almost all parts are eaten in different dishes.
Dasheen is a root from the callaloo plant. It is also called Elephant Ears. To cook Dasheen, you first peel the skin off and boil. Do not let it sit or cook too long in the water or it will become mushy or water-soaked and the quality of flavor will be lost. After you boil the Dasheen, you can fry it. Dasheen is good served with curry goat or stewed chicken
Holonyms (dasheen is a part of...): Colocasia esculenta; dalo; dasheen; taro; taro plant (herb of the Pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves). 1. edible starchy tuberous root of taro plants. 2. herb of the Pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves. 3. tropical starchy tuberous root. Familiarity information: DASHEEN used as a noun is uncommon.
Taro is a root vegetable that is eaten in many different cultures around the world and has a rich history, with many possible recipes. The leaves of the taro plant are also used as a vegetable. Taro is the root of the taro plant, which is grown in semi-tropical and tropical climates all over the world. Taro root is inedible raw and must be cooked thoroughly to leach out the calcium oxalate (associated with gout and kidney stones), preferably with a pinch of baking soda.