Sandstone is a sedimentary rock composed of sand-sized grains of mineral, rock or organic material. It also contains a cementing material that binds the sand grains together and may contain a matrix of silt-or clay-size particles that occupy the spaces between the sand grains. The grains of sand in a sandstone are usually particles of mineral, rock or organic material that have been reduced to sand size by weathering and transported to their depositional site by the action of moving water, wind or ice.
Sandstone (sometimes known as arenite) is a clastic sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand-sized minerals or rock grains. Most sandstone is composed of quartz and/or feldspar because these are the most common minerals in the Earth's crust. Like sand, sandstone may be any color, but the most common colors are: tan, brown, yellow, red, grey, pink, white, and black. Since sandstone beds often form highly visible cliffs and other topographic features, certain colors of sandstone have been strongly identified with certain regions.
Sandstone is a sedimentary rock formed from cemented sand-sized clasts. The cement that binds the clasts can vary from clay minerals to calcite, silica or iron oxides. Sandstone can be further divided according to: Clast size-fine (0.06-0.2mm), medium (0.2-0.6mm), coarse (0.6-2mm); 
Sandstone is one of the most common types of sedimentary rock and is found in sedimentary basins throughout the world. It is often mined for use as a construction material or as a raw material used in manufacturing. The grains of sand in a sandstone are usually particles of mineral, rock or organic material that have been reduced to sand size by weathering and transported to their depositional site by the action of moving water, wind or ice.
Sandstone Facts. Sandstone is a type of rock that forms when grains of sand are compacted together over significant periods of time. Normally this sand is rich is quartz but can also contain other minerals and materials such as calcium carbonate and silica. Brownstone, a type of sandstone, was used to build homes in certain areas after the Civil War. Sandstone is a type of sedimentary rock. Sandstone has been used to make housewares since prehistoric time. Sandstone is a versatile building structure and has been used to construct buildings, statues, and fountains.
One of the most common types of sedimentary rock is sandstone. As the name implies, sandstone contains sand-sized grains of rock fragments and individual minerals broken down from other, older rocks. We all have a sense of how big sand grains typically are from our experience going to the beach or playing in a sand box. 
Sandstones are rocks composed primarily of sand grains. The grains of sand in a sandstone are usually particles of mineral, rock or organic material that have been reduced to sand size by weathering and transported to their depositional site by the action of moving water, wind or ice.
Sandstone Basics. Sandstone is a category of rock made from sediment (a sedimentary rock). The sediment particles are clasts, or pieces, of minerals and fragments of rock, thus sandstone is a clastic sedimentary rock. Sandstone with a lot of matrix is called poorly sorted. If matrix amounts to more than 10 percent of the rock, it is called a wacke (wacky). A well-sorted sandstone (little matrix) with little cement is called an arenite. Another way to look at it is that wacke is dirty and arenite is clean.
To a geologist the word sand in sandstone refers to the particle size of the grains in the rock rather than the material of which it is composed. Sand-size particles range in size from 1/16 millimeter to 2 millimeters in diameter. The grains of sand in a sandstone are usually particles of mineral, rock or organic material that have been reduced to sand size by weathering and transported to their depositional site by the action of moving water, wind or ice.
Landscaping Stones. Sandstone is a sedimentary rock group which is mostly made up of tiny grains of quartz. Most sandstone is formed in oceans, lakes and rivers where tiny bits of rock and dirt settle to the bottom. Year after year, these layers of sand get buried under tons of more sand and dirt until it is turned into solid rock. 