Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection (FPI). Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection (FPI) is a nondestructive testing method for detecting discontinuities (cracks, seams, laps, cold shuts, laminations and porosity) that are open to the surface. 
Penetrant. Penetrants, or penetrating items, are the mechanical, electrical or structural items that pass through an opening in a wall or floor, such as pipes, electrical conduits, ducting, cables and cable trays, or structural steel beams and columns.
Dye penetrant inspection (DPI), also called liquid penetrant inspection (LPI) or penetrant testing (PT), is a widely applied and low-cost inspection method used to locate surface-breaking defects in all non-porous materials (metals, plastics, or ceramics). If excess penetrant is not properly removed, once the developer is applied, it may leave a background in the developed area that can mask indications or defects. In addition, this may also produce false indications severely hindering your ability to do a proper inspection.
Penetrance in genetics is the proportion of individuals carrying a particular variant of a gene (allele or genotype) that also expresses an associated trait (phenotype). Common examples used to show degrees of penetrance are often highly penetrant. There are several reasons for this: 1  Highly penetrant alleles, and highly heritable symptoms, are easier to demonstrate, because if the allele is present, the phenotype is generally expressed.
Quizzes -. Emulsifiers. When removal of the penetrant from a defect due to over-washing of the part is a concern, a post-emulsifiable penetrant system can be used. Post-emulsifiable penetrants require a separate emulsifier to break the penetrant down and make it water-washable. 
The penetrant may be applied to all non-ferrous materials and ferrous materials, although for ferrous components magnetic-particle inspection is often used instead for its subsurface detection capability. If excess penetrant is not properly removed, once the developer is applied, it may leave a background in the developed area that can mask indications or defects. In addition, this may also produce false indications severely hindering your ability to do a proper inspection.
Each step in the penetrant process has specific dwell times to insure valid results regardless of the application. Adherence is critical when determining the penetrant, emulsifier, or developer dwell time for the application at hand and governing standards. This particular group of discontinuity lends itself well to the Liquid Penetrant Inspection method. This is due to the fact that most service flaws are open to the surface of the component or material under evaluation.
Zyglo ® Liquid Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection Applications. Zyglo® is the preferred penetrant inspection method for the extremely sensitive fluorescent detection of cracks and surface discontinuities in ferrous & non-ferrous test materials. 
Penetrant Application—After the part has been cleaned, dried, and is within the specified temperature range, the penetrant is applied to the surface to be examined so that the entire part or area under examination is completely covered with penetrant. Application methods include dipping, brushing, flooding, or spraying. This particular group of discontinuity lends itself well to the Liquid Penetrant Inspection method. This is due to the fact that most service flaws are open to the surface of the component or material under evaluation.
The dwell time is chosen based on the type of penetrant used, the material being tested, the flaws that are suspect, and even specific test conditions such as temperature. The emulsifier dwell time is extremely critical, especially when attempting to locate shallow or very small flaws. This particular group of discontinuity lends itself well to the Liquid Penetrant Inspection method. This is due to the fact that most service flaws are open to the surface of the component or material under evaluation.