a solution of ethanoic acid and sodium ethanoate .... One example is the blood. It's buffered mainly by H2CO3 (carbonic acid) and HCO3- (bicarbonate), both of which are produced through metabolic RXNs and ion exchanges from cells in the kidney tubules, even by the red blood cells themselves.
Acid-base buffers confer resistance to a change in the pH of a solution when hydrogen ions (protons) or hydroxide ions are added or removed. An acid-base buffer typically consists of a weak acid, and its conjugate base (salt) (see Equations 2-4 in the blue box, below). The production and removal of CO 2 and H + , together with the use and transport of O 2, cause chemical changes in the blood. These chemical changes, unless offset by other physiological functions, cause the pH of the blood to drop. If the pH of the body gets too low (below 7.4), a condition known as acidosis results.
a system of buffers, composed primarily of dissolved carbon dioxide and bicarbonate ions, that functions in maintaining the proper pH of the blood. See also buffer, arterial pH. 
H2CO3(aq) CO2(aq) + H2O(l). An increase in CO2(aq) concentration stimulates increased breathing, and the excess carbon dioxide is released into the air in the lungs. The condition called respiratory acidosis occurs when blood pH falls as a result of decreased respiration. In mammals, cellular fluid has a pH in the range 6.9 to 7.4, and the phosphate buffer is effective in maintaining this pH range. Another biological fluid in which a buffer plays an important role in maintaining pH is blood plasma. In blood plasma, the carbonic acid and hydrogen carbonate ion equilibrium buffers the pH.
Buffer systems maintain a constant pH in blood. The body maintains the pH of blood at around 7.4. If the pH level changes just a few tenths of a pH unit, serious health consequences can result. Report Abuse. a buffer is a substance that minimizes a change in pH of a solution by neutralizing added acids and bases, or a solution containing such a substance. and yes, like what biotechman1135 said, our blood maintains its pH because of homeostasis. klarity · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The pK for the phosphate buffer is 6.8, which allows this buffer to function within its optimal buffering range at physiological pH. The phosphate buffer only plays a minor role in the blood, however, because H 3 PO 4 and H 2 PO 4 - are found in very low concentration in the blood. The production and removal of CO 2 and H + , together with the use and transport of O 2, cause chemical changes in the blood. These chemical changes, unless offset by other physiological functions, cause the pH of the blood to drop. If the pH of the body gets too low (below 7.4), a condition known as acidosis results.
Report Abuse. Buffer is a solution having certain pH, which resists change of pH upon addition of acid or base, or upon dilution pH of the plasma (i.e. pH of the plasma of whole blood = conventional blood pH) is controlled at 7.4 (7.35 - 7.45). Report Abuse. a buffer is a substance that minimizes a change in pH of a solution by neutralizing added acids and bases, or a solution containing such a substance. and yes, like what biotechman1135 said, our blood maintains its pH because of homeostasis. klarity · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Other buffers perform a more minor role than the carbonic-acid-bicarbonate buffer in regulating the pH of the blood. The phosphate buffer consists of phosphoric acid (H 3 PO 4) in equilibrium with dihydrogen phosphate ion (H 2 PO 4 -) and H + . The production and removal of CO 2 and H + , together with the use and transport of O 2, cause chemical changes in the blood. These chemical changes, unless offset by other physiological functions, cause the pH of the blood to drop. If the pH of the body gets too low (below 7.4), a condition known as acidosis results.
The main pH buffer system in blood is between Carbon dioxide, bicarbonate ion, HCO3- and carbonic acid, H2CO3. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. Carbonic acid and Bicarbonate ion present in the blood plasma acts as a buffer solution.