Weather and Climate. Sweden enjoys a generally temparate climate, thanks to the Gulf Stream. Above the Arctic Circle, winter can be crisp and invigorating. In the south, winter is generally mild with an average of temperature above 0C/32F degrees, but temperatures can vary markedly in different parts of the country. Sweden's northerly position has a definite summer advantage in that temperatures are rarely extreme and humidity levels are not high. You can divide the country into three regions; central and southern Sweden, the northeast, and the northwest, or far north to describe the weather in Sweden.
Southern Climate Zone. In the southern part of Sweden, the climate is warm, humid and temperate. The temperature for the warmest month, July, averages 72F (22C) and at least four months have average temperatures above 50F (10C). In midsummer, southern Sweden experiences as many as 19 hours of daylight. Although precipitation is higher in summer than in winter, Sweden is humid year round. Keep waterproof clothing available all year. For the warmer months, lightweight clothing is appropriate with extra layers available for the cool evenings. For the colder months, layers of medium-and heavy-weight clothing work well.
Sweden enjoys a generally temparate climate, thanks to the Gulf Stream. Above the Arctic Circle, winter can be crisp and invigorating. Sweden's northerly position has a definite summer advantage in that temperatures are rarely extreme and humidity levels are not high. You can divide the country into three regions; central and southern Sweden, the northeast, and the northwest, or far north to describe the weather in Sweden.
1 Of the population, 42% live in a temperate/ mesothermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Cf), 57.8% live in a continental/ microthermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Df), 0.2% live in a polar climate (E). 1 Of the land area, 26% has a temperate/ mesothermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Cf), 69% has a continental/ microthermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Df), 5% has
SWEDEN. Sweden's climate is temperate in the south with cold, cloudy winters and cool, partly cloudy summer weather; and of course, subarctic in north. When to travel to Sweden: weather and seasons. Sweden's climate is temperate in the south with cold, cloudy winters and cool, partly cloudy summer weather; and of course, subarctic in north.
The Weather in Sweden. Monthly average temperatures for Stockholm, Sweden, in Fahrenheit. Photo Credit: © TM07 licensed to About.com. Sweden's weather has many faces. Sweden enjoys a mostly temperate climate despite its northern latitude, mainly because of the Gulf Stream. Stockholm is warmer and milder, while in the mountains of northern Sweden a sub-Arctic climate predominates. North of the Arctic Circle, the sun never sets for part of each summer, which is called the Midnight Sun, one of Scandinavia 's natural phenomena. 
Sweden. Sweden has a much milder climate than most other regions of the world that lie as far north. Sweden's climate is influenced by the Gulf Stream, a warm ocean stream that flows off Norway's west coast. Sweden's many lakes and the gulfs of Bothnia give Sweden generally a relatively mild climate. July temperatures in Sweden average 13 to 17°C. February is usually Sweden's coldest month, with temperatures from - 22 to -3°C.
Middle and Northern Climate Zones. The middle and northern regions of Sweden have a humid, snowy climate. For fewer than four months a year the average temperature is above 50F (10C). February is the coldest month, ranging from -7F (-22C) to 27F (-3C) in the middle region. In northern Sweden, it can get down to -22F (-30C). Although precipitation is higher in summer than in winter, Sweden is humid year round. Keep waterproof clothing available all year. For the warmer months, lightweight clothing is appropriate with extra layers available for the cool evenings. For the colder months, layers of medium-and heavy-weight clothing work well.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The wintery Lapporten mountain pass in Lappland, Sweden. The climate of the Nordic countries refers to a region in Northern Europe that consists of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden and their associated territories, which include the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Åland. åland 