Many companies today prefer to hire an inventory coordinator who has at least some college experience. Some two-year degrees will prepare the job candidate for a position as an inventory coordinator, and coursework will often focus on computer skills, math skills, and organizational techniques. The inventory coordinator must be exceptionally organized and able to manage complex systems; computer skills are almost always required for this job, and the job candidate will need to have at least a high school diploma to be considered for the position.
1 An Illinois employer is searching for an inventory control coordinator to monitor shipping and receiving transactions, reconcile, and analyze inventory discrepancies. 2  The company requires candidates have at least one year of college and three years experience in inventory control. If you have an interest in supply chain and materials management, but an inventory coordinator career is not a good fit for you, opportunities are available in purchasing.
Inventory coordinators work to ensure that a company has the products and materials it needs to operate. Explore the pros and cons of being an inventory coordinator ahead. If you have an interest in supply chain and materials management, but an inventory coordinator career is not a good fit for you, opportunities are available in purchasing.
The inventory coordinator may work alone or as part of a team to manage inventory and ensure it goes where it is supposed to go; documentation associated with the purchase or sale of goods will need to be filed properly, and easily accessible. The inventory coordinator must be exceptionally organized and able to manage complex systems; computer skills are almost always required for this job, and the job candidate will need to have at least a high school diploma to be considered for the position.
What Employers Are Looking For. Inventory coordinators can work in a manufacturing environment for a variety of employers. Employers generally prefer job candidates with experience in inventory control and the ability to analyze and research inventory discrepancies. If you have an interest in supply chain and materials management, but an inventory coordinator career is not a good fit for you, opportunities are available in purchasing.
Description. JOB SUMMARY: The Inventory Coordinator is responsible for maintaining a high level of inventory accuracy and integrity within the facility. This role will serve to maximize space utilization as defined by operating KOIs. The Inventory Coordinator will also monitor inventory levels and product movement. The Inventory Coordinator will also be responsible for ensuring a conforming product mix, facilitating efficient order fulfillment, and contributing to a safe and orderly working environment. • Accuracy of all paperwork produced.
The specific job responsibilities of an inventory coordinator can vary according to the type of company for which he or she works, but in general, this employee will be responsible for managing the inventory or file systems at a specific location or throughout a company. The inventory coordinator must be exceptionally organized and able to manage complex systems; computer skills are almost always required for this job, and the job candidate will need to have at least a high school diploma to be considered for the position.
Inventory coordinators work for a wide variety of company that have products. This is normally a full-time position, although overtime may be required depending on the needs of the company. Inventory coordinators generally need to have at least a high school diploma or equivalent, as well as experience in the field. Inventory Coordinator Salary. (United States). The average pay for an Inventory Coordinator is $15.38 per hour. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Logistics and Order Inventory. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. $31,360 - $58,290