MidlandTexas.com provides information about Midland Texas, especially information on Midland Texas Real Estate in or near Midland, Texas. Review a list of all things Midland Texas. Get direction on real estate, insurance, education, culture, local government, media local businesses and so much more.
On the federal level, Midland residents are represented in the US Senate by John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, and in the US House of Representatives by Mike Conaway. Midland residents are represented in the Texas Senate by Republican Kel Seliger, District 31. Midland was forever changed by the discovery of oil in the Permian Basin in 1923 when the Santa Rita No. 1 well began producing in Reagan County, followed shortly by the Yates Oil Field in Iraan, Texas. Soon, Midland was transformed into the administrative center of the West Texas oil fields.
Midland was originally founded as the midway point between Fort Worth and El Paso on the Texas and Pacific Railroad in 1881. Midland was forever changed by the discovery of oil in the Permian Basin in 1923 when the Santa Rita No. 1 well began producing in Reagan County, followed shortly by the Yates Oil Field in Iraan, Texas. Soon, Midland was transformed into the administrative center of the West Texas oil fields.
Midland County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas. As of the 2010 census, the population was 136,872. The county seat is Midland. The county is so named as the county is halfway (midway) between Fort Worth and El Paso on the Texas and Pacific Railway. Midland County is included in the Midland, TX Metropolitan Statistical Area as well as the Midland– Odessa Combined Statistical Area
Tornado activity: Midland-area historical tornado activity is significantly below Texas state average. It is 33% smaller than the overall U.S. average. On 5/15/1965, a category F3 (max. wind speeds 158-206 mph) tornado 2.4 miles away from the Midland city center caused between $50,000 and $500,000 in damages. Other colleges/universities with over 2000 students near Midland: 1  The University of Texas of the Permian Basin (about 16 miles; Odessa, TX; Full-time enrollment: 2,982). 2  Odessa College (about 20 miles; Odessa, TX; FT enrollment: 3,107). 3  Howard College (about 42 miles; Big Spring, TX; FT enrollment: 2,587).
The population of the Midland metropolitan area, composed of Midland County, grew 4.6 percent to 151,662 between July 1, 2011, and July 1, 2012, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. It is the principal city of the Midland, Texas Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Midland County. Midland was forever changed by the discovery of oil in the Permian Basin in 1923 when the Santa Rita No. 1 well began producing in Reagan County, followed shortly by the Yates Oil Field in Iraan, Texas. Soon, Midland was transformed into the administrative center of the West Texas oil fields.
Useful links to Oil & Gas Production & Prospects, and Select Ranch Properties® in the western United States are also provided. Real estate in Midland, Texas, and the surrounding area is the primary focus of this site. Midland, Texas is the center of the oil & gas rich Permian Basin of west Texas and southeast New Mexico. It is an attractive retirement location for people interested in a safe and fun place to live……Midland, Texas has great weather and friendly people! Review a list of all things Midland Texas. Get direction on real estate, insurance, education, culture, local government, media local businesses and so much more.
Being the 29th-largest community in Texas, Midland has a population of just over 110,000 in an area of 75.1 square miles. Forbes magazine ranked Midland as the second-fastest growing small city in the country. Homes for Sale in Midland, TX. Save this search & be the first to know when new listings hit the market! Over 25 percent of the residents in Midland have earned bachelor's degrees, which is a bit higher than the national average.
Midland Texas is home to Midland RV Ranch a quiet and spacious destination in the heart of Midland, Texas. Midland RV Ranch is just minutes from Odessa and Midland, Texas, providing easy access to work and all your shopping and leisurely needs. 
Midland is a city in and the county seat of Midland County, Texas, United States, on the Southern Plains of the state's western area. A small portion of the city extends into Martin County. Midland was forever changed by the discovery of oil in the Permian Basin in 1923 when the Santa Rita No. 1 well began producing in Reagan County, followed shortly by the Yates Oil Field in Iraan, Texas. Soon, Midland was transformed into the administrative center of the West Texas oil fields.