Click here to see a 239-word sentence that is a perfectly fine sentence (structurally). When two independent clauses are connected by only a comma, they constitute a run-on sentence that is called a comma-splice. The example just above (about the sunscreen) is a comma-splice. 
Fragments, Comma Splices, Run-ons: How to make them go away! Sentence fragments, comma splices and run-on sentences are some of the most common writing errors. In order to avoid these three common problems, students need to understand the use of punctuation and the necessary structure of a sentence. (combined the verb) Run-on Sentences Run-on sentences are very similar to comma splices. The main difference is that, while comma splices have commas separating the independent clauses, in run-on sentences there is NO punctuation separating these clauses.
Two types of run-on sentences are fused sentences and comma splices. Strategies for Correcting Fused Sentences: 1. Create a compound sentence. Inserting a coordinating conjunction (for, and, nor, but, or, yet, so) plus a comma correctly links these independent clauses. Example of a Comma Splice: She writes the music, he plays the guitar. In the above sentence, a comma separates the two independent clauses, but a coordinating conjunction is also necessary. BCCC Tutoring Center 4 Run-On Sentences: Examples and Explanations Examples: It was raining Naomi could not find her umbrella. (Fused) It was raining, Naomi could not find her umbrella
That’s when you get into trouble with incorrect punctuation, like this: NO: Tony is dishonest, he steals hubcaps for a living. (comma splice) NO: Tony is dishonest he steals hubcaps for a living. (run-on sentence) As you can see in these two sentences, comma splices and run-on sentences are similar mistakes. In both cases, the punctuation (or lack of it) does not indicate complete, independent sentences. ► A comma splice occurs when only a comma separates two independent sentences. ► A run-on (or fused) sentence occurs when no punctuation at all separates independent sentences. Let’s start with two simple sentences: Tony is dishonest. He steals hubcaps for a living
This sentence is a run-on because it can be separated into two complete sentences. Correcting Comma Splices and Run-ons Correct a comma splice or run-on sentence with one of the following options.  Adding a period Separate the two independent clauses with a period, and make two sentences. E XAMPLE: Lazy Lou heard that a particular machine would do half his work. He ordered two.
1 If you're not sure if a sentence is a fragment, check that it has at least one main verb and subject. 2  Run-on sentences consist of at least two independent clauses that are connected in one sentence without proper punctuation. 1 Remember that a sentence fragment is just another term for 'incomplete sentence.'. 2  Sentence fragments usually lack either main verb or subject (or both). 3 
1 Run-on sentences consist of at least two independent clauses that are connected in one sentence without proper punctuation. 2  A comma splice is a kind of run-on sentence where a comma is inserted between two independent clauses without a coordinating conjunction to join them. 1 Remember that a sentence fragment is just another term for 'incomplete sentence.'. 2  Sentence fragments usually lack either main verb or subject (or both). 3  If you're not sure if a sentence is a fragment, check that it has at least one main verb and subject.
Technically, a comma splice is a kind of run-on sentence, but they're harder to spot, so we're giving them their own section. A comma splice occurs any time a comma is inserted between two main clauses without a coordinating conjunction to connect them. 1 Remember that a sentence fragment is just another term for 'incomplete sentence.'. 2  Sentence fragments usually lack either main verb or subject (or both). 3  If you're not sure if a sentence is a fragment, check that it has at least one main verb and subject.