Biologists studying living animals often use the biological species concept, which envisions a species as a group of actually or potentially interbreeding natural populations which are reproductively isolated from other such groups (Mayr 1942). The biological species concept has some important limitations for paleontology. Making use of the concept depends on observing the mating behavior and interbreeding patterns of animals in their natural environments, which is not possible with fossils of organisms that lived in the past.
Species Concepts and the Definition of Species. 1) Biological species concept: Species are groups of actually or potentially interbreeding natural populations, which are reproductively isolated from other such groups (Mayr, 1940). 4) Competition species concept: Species are the most extensive units in the natural economy such that reproductive competition occurs among their parts (Ghiselin, 1974). 5) Ecological species concept: A species is a set of organisms exploiting (or adapted to) a single niche (Ridley 1993).
Biological Species Concept. The biological species concept defines a species as members of populations that actually or potentially interbreed in nature, not according to similarity of appearance. Although appearance is helpful in identifying species, it does not define species. Appearance isnt everything. 
A definition of species described as populations of organisms that interbreed, or could possibly interbreed, with each other under natural conditions, and that cannot interbreed with organisms outside of their own group. This concept ignores physical characteristics. Species. Natural population of organisms that can interbreed with each other but cannot interbreed outside of their group; in the Linnaean system, the species is the narrowest classification for an organism.
So instead, most biologists and all paleontologists make a good-faith guess about the boundaries of the set of organisms they propose to name a species. Typically, the species is defined on the morphology it has, not on the genetics and behavior that is specified in the biological species concept. And when we use morphology, geologists and biologists are much on the same level, except that the biologists have soft parts as well as hard parts to work with
A species is often defined as the largest group of organisms where two hybrids are capable of reproducing fertile offspring, typically using sexual reproduction. While in many cases this definition is adequate, the difficulty of defining species is known as the species problem. This definition can be extended to say that a species is a group of organisms that could potentially interbreed—fish could still be classed as the same species even if they live in different lakes, as long as they could still interbreed were they ever to come into contact with each other.
1 Phylogenetic species concept: a species is a tip on a phylogeny, that is, the smallest set of organisms that share an ancestor and can be distinguished from other such sets. 2  Under this definition, a ring species is a single species that encompasses a lot of phenotypic variation. 
T he term species is defined as a group of organisms which interbreeds under natural circumstances, producing viable, fertile offspring, and which is reproductively isolated from other groups. This definition is known as the Biological Species Concept. Chapter 4: Speciation and Phylogeny What is a species? The term species is defined as a group of organisms which interbreeds under natural circumstances, producing viable, fertile offspring, and which is reproductively isolated from other groups.