They will utilize the DS-11 form to apply for or renew a passport. Minors who apply or renew for a passport book and card will have to pay an application fee of $95 and an execution fee of $25. Those looking to obtain only a minor book will need to pay an $80 application fee and a $25 execution fee. Adults looking to apply or renew will use the form that is called DS-82. Adults who need just the adult passport book and not a card will need to pay a renewal fee of $110 and also use the DS-82 form. Adults who currently have a valid passport book or a card and wish to renew will only have to pay $30.
The US passport renewal fee is paid by those submitting application Form DS-82. Adult renewal applicants in the U.S. may apply by Mail (recommended), or in person at a Regional Passport Agency. Adult applicants outside the U.S. must apply through a U.S. Embassy or Consulate. Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below.
Here we will try to explain the cost of obtaining a U.S. passport. Passport fees can sometimes be confusing with different fee structure for different passport services such as routine and expedited passport services. The passport processing time for routine passport service is 4 – 6 weeks and expedited services 3 – 4 weeks. Routine Service is for U.S. citizen who are looking to get a passport and does not have a specific time to get the passport back.
1 Renew Your Passport Renew by Mail You can renew your passport by mail with application DS-82 if you meet the criteria listed on the U.S. Department of State web site. 2  Renew by Mail Checklist You can also renew your passport by bringing your prepared renewal application to a Post Office™ location. Renew by Mail. You can renew your passport by mail with application DS-82 if you meet the criteria listed on the U.S. Department of State web site. Renew by Mail Checklist.
Expediting a passport. You can get your passport expedited in roughly two to three weeks (door-to-door) via the State Department when you pay an extra $60 plus $12.85 for overnight delivery in addition to the standard processing fees. 
Passport fees. A standard adult first passport or renewal costs £72.50, or £82.25 if you use the Post Office’s Passport Check and Send service. Child passports cost £46, or £55.75 using Check and Send. You can’t get a refund if you cancel your application or you’re not entitled to a passport. 
The total cost of renewing a passport depends on what service you request, how quickly you need it and what method you use to obtain it. The application fee for renewing a passport book is $110. The State Department charges $60 for expedited service. Fees for professional passport expediting service start at approximately $79 for 10-day service. The highests fee, of course, is for same day passport renewal. Other related expenses include postage and handling and photos.
If 2 to 3 weeks is not fast enough, you will have to either visit a regional agency or apply online for expedited service in order to get your passport in under 2 weeks. Submitting incorrect passport fees could delay the processing of your application. Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below.
Passport Renewal. Passport Renewals are for U.S. citizens that currently have a valid passport in their possession that was obtained after the age of 18. Please note that if your passport has expired more than 5 years ago you fall into the category of a New Passport Application. 