JB: Haibun is a Japanese word meaning 'poetry prose'. And, I don't mean poetic prose as we know it in the west. It has developed from a diary form of writing which Matsuo Basho kept as he went on pilgrimage in Japan. His most famous one is known as ' The Narrow Road To The Far North '. JB: I think the main difference we see today, is that the haibun is a modern piece of creative writing. It is not an essay, it is not a short story, and it should not be a technical article. Because of its origins I see haibun developing into a personal journey through some experience, whether it be suffering or joy.
The term  haibun  was first used by the 17th-century Japanese poet Matsuo Bashō, in a letter to his disciple Kyorai in 1690. Bashō was a prominent early writer of haibun, then a new genre combining classical prototypes, Chinese prose genres and vernacular subject matter and language. The first contest for English-language haibun took place in 1996, organized by poet and editor Michael Dylan Welch, and judged by Tom Lynch and Cor van den Heuvel. Anita Virgil won first prize, and David Cobb won second prize. The contest resulted in the publication of Wedge of Light (Press Here) in 1999.
Haibun Poems. Below are examples of haibun poems. This list of poems in the haibun form of poetry is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of haibun poems or a list of haibun poetry. These examples illustrate what haibun poems look like and its form. There is also a link below to the definition of haibun and a page where you can discuss it.
HAIBUN: POETIC JOURNEYbyDawn L. Stewart. The form of Japanese poetry known as haibun first developed from a Japanese writer taking a journey and composing a diary of his travels in a mix of brief prose, haiku and sketches. Matsuo Basho (1644-1694) is perhaps the master of haibun. The form of Japanese poetry known as haibun first developed from a Japanese writer taking a journey and composing a diary of his travels in a mix of brief prose, haiku and sketches
Haibun (俳文, literally, haikai writings) is a prosimetric literary form originating in Japan, combining prose and haiku. The first contest for English-language haibun took place in 1996, organized by poet and editor Michael Dylan Welch, and judged by Tom Lynch and Cor van den Heuvel. Anita Virgil won first prize, and David Cobb won second prize. The contest resulted in the publication of Wedge of Light (Press Here) in 1999.
By: Robert Lee Brewer |. The haibun is the combination of two poems: a prose poem and haiku. The form was popularized by the 17th century Japanese poet Matsuo Basho
Haibun is a prosimetric literary form originating in Japan, combining prose and haiku. The range of haibun is broad and frequently includes autobiography, diary, essay, prose poem, short story and travel journal. 