Your old policy will not cover you for the claim, as the claims made date in March 2012, and is not backdated 2009. Insurance industry experts recommend that run off PI insurance is taken out for at least 6 years – the statutory time limit for breach of contract claims. As claims for mistakes or negligence made by professional workers may be made by clients several years after a project has completed, many contractors and other workers may wish to take out retroactive professional indemnity insurance to cover their companies from a past date such as the date of incorporation.
On the assumption that your business needs it, that you offer advice or professional services for example, then you should consider buying a policy from the first day you start trading. Yes, of course…. but there is a reason why the date your policy cover starts from is important. Let’s say I set up a business, Newman’s Widget Consultancy, and run my business happily for a year – adding clients and growing my revenue as I do.
Retroactive date. When you take out professional indemnity insurance, the insurer will cover you for as long as you have had the cover in place, even if it had previously been held with other insurers. However, if there is a gap in the period of cover, they will not pay out for any time before that break.
It is normal for an insurer to apply a retroactive date on inception of the policy if there has been no prior cover. Continuity of cover is imperative with professional indemnity insurance if a break in cover occurs. This is because there is not only a loss of cover, but when cover is re-instated it may not be possible to establish cover with the original retroactive date.
For example; A company has a professional indemnity policy that they renew on the 1st January 2010. The policy has a Retroactive date of 1st January 2002. They would be covered for claims made against them after 1st January 2010 for any work that they have done since 1st January 2002. back to top. When arranging your Professional Indemnity Insurance it is important to understand that there are two fundamental ways in which the cover can be arranged. This can be crucial when you are faced with a large or multiple claims. The two ways of arranging the cover are; Aggregate basis and Any One Claim basis.
There are two dates that are relevant for a Professional Indemnity policy. The first is the inception date (or renewal date) of the policy. This is the start date of the policy period. The second is the Retroactive date, being the date that cover operates back to. To explain how the cover operates, it is important to understand that Professional Indemnity policies are written on what is called a ‘claims made’ basis. When arranging your Professional Indemnity Insurance it is important to understand that there are two fundamental ways in which the cover can be arranged. This can be crucial when you are faced with a large or multiple claims. The two ways of arranging the cover are; Aggregate basis and Any One Claim basis.
Retroactive date in a professional indemnity policy. Before you start or change a professional indemnity policy check the retroactive (the date after which acts, errors or omissions of the Insured are covered). A set policy inception date will suit new businesses, where professionals replacing a policy will require an unlimited retroactive policy to cover there previous activities.
The primary reason for professional liability coverage is that a typical general liability insurance policy will only respond to a bodily injury, property damage, personal injury or advertising injury claim. Other forms of insurance cover employers, public and product liability. 
A Professional Indemnity insurance policy aims to shield the Professional's assets in the event of a claim therefore ensuring that he/she is able to carry on their business. Every policy on the market is different. You need to compare each policy. Professional Indemnity Insurance protects you from claims if your client holds you responsible for errors, or the failure of your work to perform as promised in your contract. Coverage includes legal defence costs-no matter how baseless the allegations.
So, yes retroactive date is a technical term for the industry, but one it’s important for small business owners to understand. Do you know how far back your PI policy covers you for work done? If the answer’s no, you may want to check your policy with your insurer for peace of mind. Yes, of course…. but there is a reason why the date your policy cover starts from is important. Let’s say I set up a business, Newman’s Widget Consultancy, and run my business happily for a year – adding clients and growing my revenue as I do.