Each of these is a classification for shares in the company. Both types of shares offer the same amount of rights to the shareholder, however the RDSA is more closely linked to the original Royal Dutch Shell company. This means that if you buy RDSA shares you are buying into a Dutch listed company that complies with the Dutch tax regulations.
LONDON -- There are things to love and loathe about most companies. Today, I'm going to tell you about three things to loathe about Royal Dutch Shell (LSE: RDSB) (NYSE: RDS-B) . I'll also be asking whether these negative factors make this FTSE 100 Anglo-Dutch oil giant a poor investment today.
Summary: 1.RDSA and RDSB shares differ in the location where they are listed – RDSA is formerly of the original Royal Dutch Shell Company of the Netherlands while RDSB is previously associated with Shell Transport and Trading, a U.K.-based company and a subdivision of Royal Dutch Shell. As a business, the company is registered in the stock market as RDSA and RDSB. These are the classifications of shares wherein each share is a share of the company. Both shares have identical rights but have different characteristics
RDSA are class A shares, RDSB are class B. Withholding tax on dividends. RDSA have a Dutch dividend withholding tax of 15%. RDSB are considered UK-sourced dividends, and if you are a UK resident then the UK tax benefits apply. In short, if you are UK resident, then it makes sense to buy RDSB over RDSA
There are two classes of shares – A and B(RDS.A and RDS.B). For US investors it is a much better option to invest in the B shares, since those do not come with a 15% withholding tax from the Dutch government. You could here about the difference between A and B shares. In addition to that, each Royal Dutch Shell American Depository Receipt (ADR) is equal to two shares, traded on London or Amsterdam. At the same time the company has managed to deliver a 1.10% average annual increase in its EPS since 2000.
Royal Dutch Shell is incorporated in England and Wales, but is a tax resident of the Netherlands. The Class B shares come with a dividend access mechanism, which does not require the withholding of a 15% Dutch tax on dividends that the Class A shares are required to pay. That is the only difference.
RDSA vs RDSB. Royal Dutch Shell is a company that is associated with oil and gas. It has global operations with its headquarters in The Hague, Netherlands and has a registered office in London, United Kingdom. As a company, it is often referred to simply as Shell. As a business, the company is registered in the stock market as RDSA and RDSB. These are the classifications of shares wherein each share is a share of the company. Both shares have identical rights but have different characteristics
Royal Dutch Shell has two classes of share listed on the London stock exchange. One has the ticker RDSB, and you'll find this ticker quoted in articles here on the Motley Fool. The other class of share has the ticker RDSA. Today, I'm going to tell you about three things to loathe about Royal Dutch Shell (LSE: RDSB) (NYSE: RDS-B) . I'll also be asking whether these negative factors make this FTSE 100 Anglo-Dutch oil giant a poor investment today.
Looking at the investor website, I was able to glean this information: Royal Dutch Shell PLC Class A shares (NYSE: RDS.A) and Royal Dutch Shell PLC Class B shares (NYSE: RDS.B) are dual share classes with equal economic interest in Royal Dutch Shell. The Class B shares come with a dividend access mechanism, which does not require the withholding of a 15% Dutch tax on dividends that the Class A shares are required to pay. That is the only difference.