Hypoglycemia is the condition when your blood glucose (sugar) levels are too low. It happens to people with diabetes when they have a mismatch of medicine, food, and/or exercise. Non-diabetic hypoglycemia, a rare condition, is low blood glucose in people who do not have diabetes. There are two kinds of non-diabetic hypoglycemia: 1  Reactive hypoglycemia, which happens within a few hours of eating a meal. The following type of diet may help you: 1  Eating small meals and snacks throughout the day, eating about every three hours. 2  Having a variety of foods, including protein (meat and non-meat), dairy foods, and high-fiber foods such as whole-grain bread, fruit, and vegetables. 3  Limiting high-sugar foods.
See also the differences between hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, before continuing! Low blood sugar symptoms without diabetes. The symptoms of hypoglycemia in non-diabetics vary, depending on how far glucose in the blood drops. These may include: 1  You may have paleness. 2  Shakiness and trembling. 3  Having lack of energy, as a result you will feel fatigue, weakness, and have poor coordination. 
Hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, is most common in people who have diabetes. If you have already been diagnosed with diabetes and need more information about low blood sugar, see the topics: 1  Type 1 Diabetes. 2  Type 2 Diabetes. 
Your doctor can diagnose non-diabetic hypoglycemia by reviewing your symptoms, doing a physical exam, looking at your risk for diabetes, and checking your blood glucose level. Your doctor will also see whether you feel better after you eat or drink to raise your glucose to a normal level. The following type of diet may help you: 1  Eating small meals and snacks throughout the day, eating about every three hours. 2  Having a variety of foods, including protein (meat and non-meat), dairy foods, and high-fiber foods such as whole-grain bread, fruit, and vegetables. 3  Limiting high-sugar foods.
Most people feel symptoms of hypoglycemia when their blood sugar is 70 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or lower. Each person with diabetes may have different symptoms of hypoglycemia. You'll learn to spot yours. Early symptoms include: 1  Confusion. Symptoms. Most people feel symptoms of hypoglycemia when their blood sugar is 70 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or lower. Each person with diabetes may have different symptoms of hypoglycemia. You'll learn to spot yours. Early symptoms include: 1  Confusion. 2  Dizziness. 3  Feeling shaky. 4  Hunger.
The glucose level that defines hypoglycemia is variable. In people with diabetes levels below 3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) is diagnostic. In adults without diabetes, symptoms related to low blood sugar, low blood sugar at the time of symptoms, and improvement when blood sugar is restored to normal confirm the diagnosis. 
Identification. Low blood sugar, or hypoglycemia, is diagnosed when blood sugar or blood glucose levels drop below normal. Glucose is the primary source of fuel for the body and without enough of it, symptoms and health problems can occur.
Non-diabetic hypoglycemia is a condition that causes the sugar (glucose) in your blood to drop too low. This can happen in people who do not have diabetes. The 2 types of non-diabetic hypoglycemia are fasting hypoglycemia and reactive hypoglycemia. Fasting hypoglycemia often happens after the person goes without food for 8 hours or longer. Reactive hypoglycemia usually happens about 2 to 4 hours after a meal. What are the signs and symptoms of non-diabetic hypoglycemia? 1  Blurred vision or changes in vision. 2  Dizziness, lightheadedness, or shakiness. 3  Fatigue and weakness. 4  Fast or pounding heartbeat. 5  Sweating more than usual. 6  Headache. 7  Nausea or hunger. 8  Anxiety, Irritability, or confusion.