The thyroid gland of the fetal pig is located between the two lobes  of the thoracic thymus. As in humans, it manufactures two hormones;  thyroxine which regulates metabolis … m and calcitonin which lowers  blood calcium levels. 
The thyroid is solely responsible for the production of these two hormones. Triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) hormones are secreted into the body by the thyroid through the conversion of iodine--again, a task solely delegated to this little gland. The human thyroid is a small gland with a very big purpose--to regulate the body's metabolism. Weighing less than an ounce, the thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck and is described as having a butterfly shape.
Thyroid function. Figure 2: Pituitary-thyroid feedback. The thyroid gland uses iodine from the diet to make thyroid hormone (thyroxine). Thyroid hormone is stored in the thyroid gland and released into the blood stream as needed by the body. The release of thyroid hormone is controlled by the pituitary gland which makes a hormone called thyroid stimulating hormone (i.e. TSHTSH-Thyroid stimulating hormone; also known as thyrotropin. 
The purpose of your thyroid gland is to make, store, and release thyroid hormones into your blood. These hormones, which are also referred to as T3 (liothyronine) and T4 (levothyroxine), affect almost every cell in your body, and help control your body’s functions. The amount of thyroid hormone made by your thyroid gland is adjusted by a gland in the brain called the pituitary. Another part of your brain, the hypothalamus, helps the pituitary. The hypothalamus sends information to the pituitary gland, the pituitary in turn controls the thyroid gland.
Thyroid gland. The thyroid gland covers the windpipe from three sides. Two hormones of the thyroid gland, T3 (thyroxine) and T4 (triiodothyronine), help the body to produce and regulate the hormones adrenaline (also called epinephrine) and dopamine. Hormones are chemical substances that help control certain cells and organs. 
Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ and is composed of two cone-like lobes or wings, lobus dexter (right lobe) and lobus sinister (left lobe), connected via the isthmus. Each lobe is about 5 cm long, 3 cm wide and 2 cm thick
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ and is composed of two cone-like lobes or wings, lobus dexter (right lobe) and lobus sinister (left lobe), connected via the isthmus. Each lobe is about 5 cm long, 3 cm wide and 2 cm thick
The function of the thyroid gland is to take iodine, found in many foods, and convert it into thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body which can absorb iodine. These cells combine iodine and the amino acid tyrosine to make T3 and T4. 