HISTORYclick here. We have made use of rocks and minerals from the very beginning of time. If you look at how we named the eras of human development, STONE AGE, COPPER AGE, BRONZE AGE and IRON AGE, it is obvious how important rocks and minerals have been to us all. We use things made from rocks and minerals every day. If something doesn't come from a plant or an animal, it has to be mined. According to the Mineral Information Institute, it is estimated that in a lifetime, a person living in North America will use up the following quantity of rocks and minerals: 1  lead - 365 kg.
A native element; antimony metal is extracted from stibnite ore and other minerals. Used as a hardening alloy for lead, especially storage batteries and cable sheaths; also used in bearing metal, type metal, solder, collapsible tubes and foil, sheet and pipes and semiconductor technology. Bauxite ore is the main source of aluminum and must be imported from Jamaica, Guinea, Brazil, Guyana, etc. Used in transportation (automobiles), packaging, building/construction, electrical, machinery and other uses.
Asbestos is a class of minerals that can be readily separated into thin, strong fibers that are flexible, heat resistant, and chemically inert. Asbestos minerals are used in fireproof fabrics, yarn, cloth, and paper and paint filler. Cement. Cement is used for building materials, stucco, and mortar. Cement is :a mixture of powdered lime, clay, and other minerals that crystallize to form a hard solid when water is added (hydraulic cement) or as a binding material in concrete (Kesler, 1994).
Ore is essential to iron and steel production. Also used in the making of manganese ferroalloys. Construction, machinery and transportation end uses account for most U.S. consumption of manganese. Manganese ore has not been produced in the U.S. since 1970. Bauxite ore is the main source of aluminum and must be imported from Jamaica, Guinea, Brazil, Guyana, etc. Used in transportation (automobiles), packaging, building/construction, electrical, machinery and other uses.
Quartz Quartz is the most abundant mineral in the crust. It has many useful properties. Fluorescent Minerals Fluorescent Minerals glow with spectacular colors under ultraviolet light. Mineral Hardness Mohs Hardness Scale is a set of reference minerals used for classroom hardness testing. Diamond: The Mineral Diamond is a mineral with unique properties and many gem and industrial uses! Fee Mining Find Minerals and Gems Dozens of sites where you can dig and keep what you find. U.S. Gemstones United States Gemstones Small mines in the U.S. produce a diversity of gemstones. Uses of Gold Gold has unique properties that make it one of the most useful minerals. Rhodochrosite Rhodochrosite: a manganese mineral used as an ore, a pink gem and an ornamental stone.
Based on current consumption, it is estimated that you-and every other person in the United States-will use more than a million pounds of rocks, minerals and metals during your lifetime including: 1  800 pounds of lead-Primarily used in the construction of batteries. A mineral ore of chromium which is used in making steel, chromed' parts for automobiles and appliances and in the manufacture of chromic acid which is used to tan much of the leather used in making shoes, belts, purses, jackets, gloves etc.
Zeolites. Some of the uses of zeolite minerals include aquaculture (for removing ammonia from the water in fish hatcheries), water softener, catalysts, cat litter, odor control, and removing radioactive ions from nuclear-plant effluent. Cement. Cement is used for building materials, stucco, and mortar. Cement is :a mixture of powdered lime, clay, and other minerals that crystallize to form a hard solid when water is added (hydraulic cement) or as a binding material in concrete (Kesler, 1994).
While it is interesting to see how to identify or classify minerals, perhaps it is more important to find out why a mineral is useful to man. This table shows the uses of some common minerals. Place your mouse over each image link to view it in a separate window. Close the window to return to this page and continue. 
The most abundant metal element in Earth's crust. Aluminum originates as an oxide called alumina. Bauxite ore is the main source of aluminum and must be imported from Jamaica, Guinea, Brazil, Guyana, etc. Used in transportation (automobiles), packaging, building/construction, electrical, machinery and other uses.
The roads we ride or drive on and the buildings we live learn and work in all contain minerals. Below is a selected list of commonly used metallic and nonmetallic minerals, ore minerals, mineral byproducts, aggregates, and rock types that are used to make products we use in our daily life. Cement. Cement is used for building materials, stucco, and mortar. Cement is :a mixture of powdered lime, clay, and other minerals that crystallize to form a hard solid when water is added (hydraulic cement) or as a binding material in concrete (Kesler, 1994).