Pundits are questioning if Ted Cruz is a natural born citizen eligible to run for president. Ted Cruz was born in Canada in 1970 of an American citizen mother and Cuban father. Although Ted Cruz was born in Canada, he is indeed a natural born citizen. Senator Ted Cruz was born in Canada to a U.S. citizen mother and a non-U.S. citizen father. He also does not satisfy the common law definition of the clause and is therefore also not
FULL ANSWER. Sen. Ted Cruz announced on March 23 that he will seek the Republican nomination to be president of the United States in 2016. But, as some readers were quick to point out, Cruz wasn’t born in the U.S. His birth certificate shows he was born in Calgary, Alberta, on Dec. 22, 1970. The U.S. Constitution requires a president to be a “natural born Citizen.”.
Cruz's mother was born in Wilmington, Delaware, of three quarter Irish and one quarter Italian ancestry. His father left Cuba in 1957 to attend the University of Texas at Austin, becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2005. His mother earned an undergraduate degree in mathematics from Rice University in the 1950s. On his father's side, Cruz had two older half-sisters, Miriam and Roxana Cruz. On his mother's side Cruz had a half-brother, Michael Wilson (1960 - 1965), who died before Cruz was born. Cruz learned of the deceased sibling from his mother during his teenage years.
Cruz was born on December 22, 1970, in Calgary, Alberta, to parents Eleanor Elizabeth Darragh Wilson and Rafael Bienvenido Cruz. At the time of his birth, Cruz' parents were working in the oil business as owners of a seismic-data processing firm for oil drilling. On his father's side, Cruz had two older half-sisters, Miriam and Roxana Cruz. On his mother's side Cruz had a half-brother, Michael Wilson (1960 - 1965), who died before Cruz was born. Cruz learned of the deceased sibling from his mother during his teenage years.
A man in the audience waves an American flag after Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas announced his campaign for president, MOnday, March 23, 2015, at Liberty University, founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell, in Lynchburg, Va. 
WASHINGTON — Born in Canada to an American mother, Ted Cruz became an instant U.S. citizen. But under Canadian law, he also became a citizen of that country the moment he was born. Unless the Texas Republican senator formally renounces that citizenship, he will remain a citizen of both countries, legal experts say. “If Ted Cruz was born in Canada, he is Canadian. He is American. He is a dual citizen,” he said. That’s not uncommon in Canada, especially in French-speaking Quebec.
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, with his wife and daughters at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. Student attendance was mandatory. (New York Times). For most of his presidential campaign and much of his presidency, President Barack Obama endured erroneous claims that he was born in Kenya rather than the United States. He likely can, just as Obama could have even if he were born in Kenya -- which, again, he most certainly wasn’t. Cruz — full name: Rafael Edward Cruz — was born in Calgary, Canada, in 1970. His family was living there because his father was working for the oil industry at the time.
Cruz -- full name: Rafael Edward Cruz --was born in Canada in 1970 because his father was working for the oil industry there. The senator’s recently released birth certificate shows his mother was born in Delaware and his father was born in Cuba. The Cruz family left Canada a few years later. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, speaks during the family leadership summit in Ames, Iowa, on Aug. 10, 2013. Editor's note, March 27, 2015: We have published a new story on this topic since Cruz announced he will run for president in 2016. Read our latest report.
But what won't prevent Cruz from becoming president is his place of birth. Cruz was born in Calgary, Canada, while his parents were living there. His father is now an American citizen, but was not at the time; his mother, however, was born in the United States.
The citizenship of Ted Cruz’s father is irrelevant. Ted Cruz was born a citizen of the United States based upon his mother’s citizenship and many years of residency in the U.S., per the federal statutes in effect at the time Ted Cruz was born. Senator Ted Cruz was born in Canada to a U.S. citizen mother and a non-U.S. citizen father. He also does not satisfy the common law definition of the clause and is therefore also not a natural born citizen.