Men aged 50 – 59 should have their PSA level checked. 1  If the PSA level is 3 ng / mL or higher, men should talk with their doctor about having a biopsy of the prostate. 2  If the PSA level is between 1 and 3 ng / mL, men should see their doctor for another PSA test every 2 - 4 years. Men aged 45 – 49 should have a baseline PSA test
You should get a baseline rectal exam and PSA blood test at age 50. Then, get a PSA and rectal exam every year thereafter. PSA screening can end once your life expectancy is considered to be less than 10 years, from other medical problems. 1 If the PSA is above 2.0ng/ml, re-screening should take place annually. 2  Cancer should be suspected if the PSA velocity is. 3  Greater than 0.35ng/ml per year when the PSA is below 4.0. 4  Greater than 0.75ng/ml per year is the PSA is above 4.
A man should have his PSA level checked if he has any of the warning signs of prostate cancer: 1. A change in urination patterns lasting two weeks; 2. Frequent urination (especially at night); 3. Persistent pain in the back, hip, pelvis or thighs; 4. Burning sensation during urination; 5. Sexual activity, an infection of the prostate, and pressure on the groin or rectum can elevate the PSA. Our sources and personal experiences vary as to how long a man should abstain from sex, bicycle riding, horseback riding, etc. before having his PSA level checked. Three days (72 hours) seems reasonable.
But getting a PSA test for prostate cancer may not be necessary for some men, especially men 75 and older. Professional organizations vary in their recommendations about who should — and who shouldn't — get a PSA screening test. Cons of PSA screening. PSA screening may help you detect prostate cancer early. Some prostate cancers are slow growing and never spread beyond the prostate gland. Cancer is easier to treat and is more likely to be cured if it's diagnosed in the early stages of the disease.
Cancer screening tests — including the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test to look for signs of prostate cancer — can be a good idea. Prostate cancer screening can help identify cancer early on, when treatment is most effective. Cons of PSA screening. PSA screening may help you detect prostate cancer early. Some prostate cancers are slow growing and never spread beyond the prostate gland. Cancer is easier to treat and is more likely to be cured if it's diagnosed in the early stages of the disease.
Top 10 facts about the world. A prostate exam is a common examination that is used to check on the current condition of the prostate. As men age, the need to monitor prostate health becomes more of a necessity. Unfortunately, many men neglect the task of having periodic examinations of the prostate. 
If I could do anything which might make an How Often Should Prostate Be Checked impression on you it would be that being screened is something you have to do best prostacet every year as soon as you reach the age of 40 and no later than 45 and keep track of that number and compare it to your next years numbers. It is best to go at your own pace and take. things slowly. How Often Should Prostate Be Checked during the first two weeks following surgery it is best to rest as much as possible. However it is good to try walking short distances – such as around the block in your road – and gradually build up the distances you do.
Men aged 71 – 75 should talk with their doctor about whether to have a PSA test. The decision whether to have a PSA test should be based on past PSA levels and health of the man. Men 76 and older. Prostate cancer screening is not recommended for men aged 76 or older. Men aged 45 – 49 should have a baseline PSA test. 1  If the PSA level is 3 ng / mL or higher, men should talk with their doctor about having a biopsy of the prostate. 2  If the PSA level is between 1 and 3 ng / mL, men should see their doctor for another PSA test every 2 - 4 years.
Your doctor may also do a blood test to check the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level. PSA levels may be high in men who have an enlarged prostate gland or prostate cancer. You may also need an ultrasound exam that takes computer pictures of the prostate. 