Managing mutual funds, unit trusts, hotels, resorts, property development, and offshore companies for a management fee is what this organization does when retained by investors/owners. 
Show more usage examples... I worked for their management company and I really liked getting up everyday early and going into work and spending the day there. 7 people found this helpful. You may want to bring on a management company if you think that things are getting out of hand at your work place. 11 people found this helpful. The management company was reachable and they communicated with us on a nearly daily basis regarding any of our concerns.
DEFINITION of 'Asset Management Company-AMC'. A company that invests its clients' pooled fund into securities that match its declared financial objectives. Asset management companies provide investors with more diversification and investing options than they would have by themselves. Next Up
Property management is the operation, control, and oversight of real estate as used in its most broad terms. Management indicates a need to be cared for, monitored and accountability given for its useful life and condition. This is much akin to the role of management in any business. In the Republic of Ireland, there is no legal obligation to form a property management company. However, management companies are generally formed to manage multi-unit developments, and must then follow the general rules of company law in terms of ownership and administration.
1. The organization and coordination of the activities of a business in order to achieve defined objectives. Management is often included as a factor of production along with machines, materials, and money. The size of management can range from one person in a small organization to hundreds or thousands of managers in multinational companies. In large organizations, the board of directors defines the policy which is then carried out by the chief executive officer, or CEO.
Definition. Company that actively manages an investor's assets and/or equity in order to achieve the investor's financial objectives. These companies are available to both private and institutional investors. Some may use aggressive growth strategies, while others may invest in passive index funds.
“ John was the key partner for the new management company. He was responsible for maintain and growing the mutual fund and it was a big responsibility. Use management company in a sentence. “ While creating a new mutual fund, we wanted to find the right management company to ensure the best results and the highest return on our investment.
DEFINITION of 'Management Investment Company'. A formal name for a company that sells and manages a portfolio of securities. A management investment company is one of the three fundamental types of investment companies, the other two being unit investment trusts and face-amount certificate companies. Management investment companies allow investors to pool their capital with that of other investors in order to purchase professionally-managed groups of diversified securities.
BREAKING DOWN 'Management Investment Company'. A management investment company is headed by a CEO, a team of officers and a board of directors. These company leaders choose the types of investment products the company will offer, define the fund's objectives and select the people who will run each fund. Management investment companies are subject to rules set forth in the Investment Company Act of 1940. Management investment companies allow investors to pool their capital with that of other investors in order to purchase professionally-managed groups of diversified securities.