DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. Oral Dosage. Dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased gradually, noting carefully the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance. Initial Dosage for Adults: For outpatients 75 mg of amitriptyline HCl a day in divided doses is usually satisfactory. If necessary, this may be increased to a total of 150 mg per day. Increases are made preferably in the late afternoon and/or bedtime doses. Ten mg 3 times a day with 20 mg at bedtime may be satisfactory in adolescent and elderly patients who do not tolerate higher dosages. Maintenance: The usual maintenance dosage of amitriptyline HCl is 50 to 100 mg per day. In some patients 40 mg per day is sufficient. For maintenance therapy the total daily dosage may be given in a single dose preferably at bedtime
A: Elavil (amitriptyline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, and blurred vision.
1 Day 1: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 75 mg/day. 2  Day 8: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 50 mg/day. 3  Day 15: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 25 mg/day. 4  Day 22: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 10 mg/day. 1 Day 8: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 50 mg/day. 2  Day 15: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 25 mg/day. 3  Day 22: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 10 mg/day. 4  Day 29: stop administration of amitriptyline.
Amitriptyline is a useful medication for some women with pelvic pain, but it’s often hard for women to understand why it has been recommended. It doesn’t suit everyone, but if you are someone with pain on most days of the month, it can add a bit more to the other treatments we offer. You should reduce the dose by 5mg (half a blue tablet) every few days. Once you get down to 10mg or less, you can stop it. If you stop amitriptyline, it may take weeks or sometimes months for the pain to return.
To reduce your risk of side effects (such as drowsiness, dry mouth, dizziness), your doctor may direct you to start this medication at a low dose and gradually increase your dose. Follow your doctor's instructions carefully. Take this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. Drowsiness, dizziness, dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation, weight gain, or trouble urinating may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly. To reduce the risk of dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.
1 100 mg/day 2  : Day 1: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 75 mg/day. 3  Day 8: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 50 mg/day. 4  Day 15: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 25 mg/day. 5  Day 22: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 10 mg/day. 6  Day 29: stop administration of amitriptyline. 1 Day 8: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 50 mg/day. 2  Day 15: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 25 mg/day. 3  Day 22: reduce dosage of amitriptyline to 10 mg/day. 4
A: Amitriptyline (Elavil) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness and blurred vision. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness,
One in four people will get significant pain relief with amitriptyline, which is regarded as an excellent result for chronic pain conditions. It is started at a low dose (10 or 25 mg a day) and gradually increased in 10 or 25 mg increments each week up towards 75 mg if any side effects are tolerable. The tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, are the “gold standard” for neuropathic pain as they are the most effective and best-known drugs for this condition. They can also be useful for chronic nociceptive pain, especially if there is a neuropathic component to it.
To reduce your risk of side effects (such as drowsiness, dry mouth, dizziness), your doctor may direct you to start this medication at a low dose and gradually increase your dose. Follow your doctor's instructions carefully. Take this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. 