Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses Transcription is carried out by a DNA-dependent RNA polymerase that copies the sequence of a DNA strand into RNA. To begin transcribing a gene, the RNA polymerase binds to a sequence of DNA called a promoter and separates the DNA strands.
Individual codons code for specific amino acids. A gene is a sequence of nucleotides along a DNA strand-with 'start' and 'stop' codons and other regulatory elements-that specifies a sequence of amino acids that are linked together to form a protein. DNA (or deoxyribonucleic acid) is the molecule that carries the genetic information in all cellular forms of life and some viruses. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components:
DNA also contains all the genetic coding which is used to control functions, behavior and development of an organism. DNA is also used as a long term storage device to store the genetic instructions. These instructions must be correct so the DNA can make an exact copy of itself. 
Secondarily, DNA serves the purpose of biological synthesis in terms of the creation of cellular proteins and RNA molecules. The DNA molecule consists of two long polymer chains of simpler molecular units called nucleotides. The nucleotides have 'backbones' attached to them made out of sugars and phosphates. DNA directs the synthesis of RNA under a chemical process known as transcription. Basically, what happens, is that cellular enzymes are directed by the genetic code itself to recreate strands of RNA in relation to the coded sequences stored in the DNA itself.
Thus the information 'stored' in the genetic code of the DNA sequence is now 'transcribed' into a 'messenger' function, which illicits a specific type of development from the cell itself in terms of protein fabrication, which in turn ultimately determines the nature of growth that develops from the DNA 'seed'. DNA directs the synthesis of RNA under a chemical process known as transcription. Basically, what happens, is that cellular enzymes are directed by the genetic code itself to recreate strands of RNA in relation to the coded sequences stored in the DNA itself.
­DNA carr­ies all of the information for your physical characteristics, which are essentially determined by proteins. So, DNA contains the instructions for making a protein. In DNA, each protein is encoded by a gene (a specific sequence of DNA nucleotides that specify how a single protein is to be made). Specifically, the order of nucleotides within a gene specifies the order and types of amino acids that must be put together to make a protein. There are only four DNA bases, but there are 20 amino acids that can be used for proteins. So, groups of three nucleotides form a word (codon) that specifies which of the 20 amino acids goes into the protein (a 3-base codon yields 64 possible patterns (4*4*4), which is more than enough to specify 20 amino acids.
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. Every time a cell divides, DNA polymerase is required to help duplicate the cell’s DNA, so that a copy of the original DNA molecule can be passed to each of the daughter cells. In this way, genetic information is transmitted from generation to generation.
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival. 
Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. There are four types of base: adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). These bases link in a very specific way: A always pairs with T, and C always pairs with G. The DNA molecule has two important properties.