The Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) was a court-like body assembled in South Africa after the end of Apartheid. Anybody who felt they had been a victim of violence could come forward and be heard at the TRC. Perpetrators of violence could also give testimony and request amnesty from prosecution. The work of the TRC was accomplished through three committees: Human Rights Violations (HRV) Committee investigated human rights abuses that took place between 1960 and 1994. Reparation and Rehabilitation (R&R) Committee was charged with restoring victims' dignity and formulating proposals to assist with rehabilita
Company Overview. TRC Trading Corp. is a privately held corporation incorporated in the U.S.A. Along with its subsidiaries, TRC is a leading trader of of rice, grains, by-products and other agricultural products worldwide. TRC’s strengths include flexibility, efficiency, customer service and execution to all parties satisfaction. TRC empowers customers and suppliers by providing them with purchasing, financing, logistics and multi-layered marketing services.
Biko's family described the TRC as a vehicle for political expediency, which robbed them of their right to justice. The family opposed amnesty for his killers on these grounds and brought a legal action in South Africa's highest court, arguing that the TRC was unconstitutional. 1 Truth and Lies: Stories from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa.. 2  Gobodo-Madikizela, Pumla. 2006.  A Human Being Died That Night: A South African Story of Forgiveness.. 3  Grunebaum, Heidi Peta.
A 1998 study by South Africa's Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation & the Khulumani Support Group, which surveyed several hundred victims of human-rights abuse during the Apartheid era, found that most felt that the TRC had failed to achieve reconciliation between the black and white communities. 1 Truth and Lies: Stories from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa.. 2  Gobodo-Madikizela, Pumla. 2006.  A Human Being Died That Night: A South African Story of Forgiveness.. 3  Grunebaum, Heidi Peta.
The TRC, the first of the nineteen held internationally to stage public hearings, was seen by many as a crucial component of the transition to full and free democracy in South Africa. 1 Truth and Lies: Stories from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa.. 2  Gobodo-Madikizela, Pumla. 2006.  A Human Being Died That Night: A South African Story of Forgiveness.. 3  Grunebaum, Heidi Peta.
Definition: South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Committee (TRC) was established in 1995 by the Government of National Unity and placed under the chairmanship of Archbishop Desmond Tutu. The Commission set out to investigate and offer amnesty for political crimes undertaken in South Africa and abroad between 1960 and 1993. 
About TRC. Creative, dedicated experts delivering results you can rely on. A pioneer in groundbreaking scientific and engineering developments since the 1960s, TRC is a national engineering, consulting and construction management firm providing integrated services to the energy, environmental and infrastructure markets. 
Welcome to the official Truth and Reconciliation Commission Website. The South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) was set up by the Government of National Unity to help deal with what happened under apartheid. The conflict during this period resulted in violence and human rights abuses from all sides. No section of society escaped these abuses. The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development calls on TRC-identified victims of Apartheid that were declared as such by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to apply for assistance with tuition fees for basic and higher education and training. Closing date for applications is 30 September 2015.
The Washington Traffic Records Committee (TRC) is a statewide stakeholder forum created to facilitate the planning, coordination and implementation of projects to improve the state’s traffic records system. 