If you notice, the Asian cultures consume a high percentage of these lectin containing foods and they don’t suffer the same consequences. The reason for what seams to be an “immunity” to the side effects of lectins in the Asian cultures is FOOD PREPARATION. They consume the highest percentage of fermented foods. Lectin sensitivity must be a great for soda companies! Well for foods like Beans, and Legumes it appears that 90% of the active Lectins and offending complex sugars are eliminated by soaking, and heating above 100 degrees Celcius for approximatley 10 minutes.
To reduce your lectin intake, avoid all types of grains, especially wheat, corn, barley, oats, rye and rice, according to a paper published in 1999 in World Review of Nutrition and Dietetics, which include breads, crackers, buns, pizza dough, breakfast cereals, tortillas, muffins, cakes and cookies. Low-Lectin Foods. Bok choy is a low lectin food. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Your low-lectin diet should be based on low-lectin foods. All vegetables and fruits contain some lectins, but most vegetables contain low levels compared to some nightshades, vegetables and fruits.
Lectins vary widely, according to their source. For example, the lectin found in wheat has a different shape from the lectin found in soy, and attaches to a different combination of sugars; each of these foods is dangerous for some blood types, but can sometimes be beneficial for others. Lectins, abundant and diverse proteins found in foods, have agglutinating properties that affect your blood and the lining of your digestive tract. Lectins are a powerful way for organisms in nature to attach themselves to other organisms in nature.
Some Bulletproof Diet recommendations are based on the presence of lectin in foods. Be sure to realize that lectin is not the same as leptin, the hormone that controls whether you’re fat, or lecithin, a type of fat found in eggs, sunflowers, or soy. 
Foods with the highest lectin activity include: grains of all kinds (especially wheat), legumes (especially soy), nuts, dairy, and nightshade plants (e.g. eggplant, tomatoes, potatoes, peppers, etc.). Lectin sensitivity must be a great for soda companies! Well for foods like Beans, and Legumes it appears that 90% of the active Lectins and offending complex sugars are eliminated by soaking, and heating above 100 degrees Celcius for approximatley 10 minutes.
www.healthoracle.org 1 Lectins in food This is an alphabetical list of Foods containing Lectins, from edible Plant and Animal sources. Most lectins, in plant species, are NOT ABO blood type specific. Even fewer EDIBLE plants have lectins that are ABO type specific. This list does conflict with the information of the various incarnations of 'blood type diets', as far as specific foods agglutinating certain of the ABO blood types only. 
Fruits and Vegetables. Tomatoes contain lectin, and so do potatoes, sweet potatoes, zucchini, carrots, rhubarb, beets, mushrooms, asparagus, turnips, cucumbers, pumpkin, sweet peppers and radishes. Citrus fruits, such as oranges, lemons and grapefruit, provide lectin. Lectins, a type of protein found in many plant foods, can cause damage to the lining of your gastrointestinal tract or your organs and interfere with metabolism when consumed in large amounts, according to a study published in Toxicon in September 2004.
Lectins are found in foods, and the amount of lectins contained in the food depends on the type of plant, how it was processed, and the species. The main foods that may contain toxic lectins include: 1  grains such as wheat and wheat germ but also quinoa, rice, oats, buckwheat, rye, barley, millet, and corn. 2  legumes. 3  dairy foods. 4  the nightshade family e.g. potato, tomato, eggplant, cucumber and capsicum
Lectins vary widely, according to their source. For example, the lectin found in wheat has a different shape from the lectin found in soy, and attaches to a different combination of sugars; each of these foods is dangerous for some blood types, but can sometimes be beneficial for others.
Photo Credit Tharakorn/iStock/Getty Images. Lectins, a type of protein found in many plant foods, can cause damage to the lining of your gastrointestinal tract or your organs and interfere with metabolism when consumed in large amounts, according to a study published in Toxicon in September 2004.