Indemnity is common in agreements between an individual and a business (for example, an agreement to obtain car insurance), but it also applies, on a larger scale, to relationships between businesses and government or between governments of two or more countries. The word indemnity stems from the Latin root indemnis, meaning unhurt, undamaged or without loss.. Indemnity may be paid in the form of cash, or by way of repairs or replacement, depending on exactly what is spelled out in the indemnity agreement.
Indemnity and Insurance. One of the best examples of indemnity is insurance, which an insurance company indemnifies a property owner from losses or damage to that property. In another example, business owners may buy indemnity insurance for professional liability. Definition: Indemnity, Indemnify, Indemnification. The principles described in the terms indemnity and indemnify are interrelated so these terms are defined together. The term indemnity is defined as a duty to make good any loss, damage, or liability incurred by another (Black's Law Dictionary).
DEFINITION of 'Indemnity'. Indemnity is compensation for damages or loss. Indemnity in the legal sense may also refer to an exemption from liability for damages. The concept of indemnity is based on a contractual agreement made between two parties, in which one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damages caused by the other party. The word indemnity stems from the Latin root indemnis, meaning unhurt, undamaged or without loss.. Indemnity may be paid in the form of cash, or by way of repairs or replacement, depending on exactly what is spelled out in the indemnity agreement.
Look up indemnity in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. An indemnity is an obligation by a person (indemnitor) to provide compensation for a particular loss suffered by another person (indemnitee). 1 An indemnity guarantees compensation equal to the amount of loss subject to the indemnity, while a warranty only guarantees compensation for the reduction in value of the acquired asset due to the warranted fact being untrue (and the beneficiary must prove such diminution in value).
Tax indemnity. The final arbiter in matters of tax is HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Employers will always refrain from guaranteeing the tax status of the settlement package. It is possible that HMRC will audit the employer's deductions of tax, and assess that more tax is due and request payment.
Indemnity insurance is a way for a company (or individual) to be protected against indemnity claims. This insurance protects the holder from having to pay the full sum of an indemnity, even if the holder is at fault for the cause of the indemnity in the first place. The word indemnity stems from the Latin root indemnis, meaning unhurt, undamaged or without loss.. Indemnity may be paid in the form of cash, or by way of repairs or replacement, depending on exactly what is spelled out in the indemnity agreement.
by smlbizlaw. Tax indemnity in a small business context means Company A compensates Company B for taxes assessed on Company B as a result of Company A’s business activities. This concept often comes into play when two parties enter into a co-marketing agreement and one party is promoting the products of another party. While you are likely liable for taxes on those commissions, you do not want to be liable for other taxes associated with XYZ’s sales of its products. Including a clause like the one below would protect your business in that scenario: “Tax Indemnity.
Indemnity can also refer to a legal exemption from loss or damages, as in the case of an indemnity clause in a contract, in which one party agrees to take the liability for loss or damage from another party. Definition: Indemnity, Indemnify, Indemnification. The principles described in the terms indemnity and indemnify are interrelated so these terms are defined together. The term indemnity is defined as a duty to make good any loss, damage, or liability incurred by another (Black's Law Dictionary).
As a gross oversimplification, an indemnity clause allows you (the indemnitee) to seek reimbursement (indemnity) for money you are forced to pay to a third party as a result of an injury, physical or monetary, caused by the party from whom you seek the reimbursement (the indemnitor). Nearly every contract contains an indemnity clause. These clauses are so common, that many don't even read them, assuming that they are inconsequential boilerplate. Nothing could be further from the truth.