A pneumatic conveying system also requires a larger dust collection system than a mechanical conveying system. This is because the pneumatic system has to separate the conveyed material from the conveying air at the system’s end. Whether your plant currently uses pneumatic conveying or not, chances are that you have questions about this transfer technology. Here are answers to some common questions about pneumatic conveying.
What is Pneumatic Conveying. Pneumatic conveying is a material transportation process in which powders or granular materials are moved over horizontal and vertical distances within a plant premises with the help of air. 1 Pneumatic conveying, unlike other conveying methods, involves no moving parts. 2  The materials move through pipes-without any spillages or chances of contamination or exposure to the external factors. 3  This process is energy efficient. 4  It does not pollute the environment if the system is designed properly.
About. Cyclonaire is a recognized leader in the engineering and manufacturing of pneumatic conveying equipment. For dry bulk material transfer, pneumatic conveying is simply one of the most efficient, effective solutions. It is used to handle a wide range of materials for countless industries. Identify the correct phase for your pneumatic conveying system: Dense, semi-dense, or dilute. For dry bulk material transfer, pneumatic conveying is simply one of the most efficient, effective solutions. Determine the best method for you.
Outline of Pneumatic Conveying Systems. This article provides some basic information about pneumatic conveying system types, operation, and applications. A pneumatic conveying system transfers powders, granules, and other dry bulk materials through an enclosed horizontal or vertical conveying line. The motive force for this transfer comes from a combination of pressure differential and the flow of air (or another gas) supplied by an air mover, such as a blower or fan. Pneumatic conveying provides several advantages over the mechanical conveying. A pneumatic conveying system can be configured with bends to fit around existing equipment, giving it more flexibility than a mechanical conveyor with its typically straight conveying path.
Pneumatic conveying also has some disadvantages compared with mechanical conveying. One is the pneumatic conveying system’s typically greater use of horsepower than a mechanical conveyor, resulting from the pneumatic system’s need to change air pressure to produce conveying power. Pneumatic conveying provides several advantages over the mechanical conveying. A pneumatic conveying system can be configured with bends to fit around existing equipment, giving it more flexibility than a mechanical conveyor with its typically straight conveying path.
When it comes to pneumatic conveying of bulk granular materials, our 16 conveying concepts are state of the art! With over 40 years of building highly efficient dense phase and dilute phase pneumatic conveying systems, you can be assured that Dynamic Air technology is the latest and the best in the industry. 
Pneumatic Conveying System. Dense Phase Pneumatic Conveying is suitable for transporting difficult, abrasive or friable materials and pushes material along a pipe in a plug form at relatively low velocities. This means minimal wear on pipes / bends, promoting minimum maintenance and long life. 
A conveyor system is a common piece of mechanical handling equipment that moves materials from one location to another. Conveyors are especially useful in applications involving the transportation of heavy or bulky materials. 1 Suction or vacuum systems, utilizing a vacuum created in the pipeline to draw the material with the surrounding air.The system operated at a low pressure, which is practically 0.4–0.5 atm below atmosphere, and is utilized mainly in conveying light free flowing
Answers to Eight Common Questions About Pneumatic Conveying. While pneumatic conveying is a common method of transferring powders, granules, and other dry bulk materials, understanding this conveying technology can be a challenge. This article addresses pneumatic conveying questions frequently asked by people in dry bulk materials processing and handling plants. Whether your plant currently uses pneumatic conveying or not, chances are that you have questions about this transfer technology. Here are answers to some common questions about pneumatic conveying.