Knowledge center. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) , also known as brown fat, is one of two types of fat humans and other mammals have-the other type is known as white or yellow fat. Human newborns and hibernating mammals have high levels of brown fat. Brown fat's main function is to generate body heat. From what we can tell so far, main differences between the two are: Humans and mammals with higher levels of brown fat take longer to start shivering from the cold, than those with lower levels. That is why newborns do not shiver in the cold, their brown adipose tissue levels are higher than in older humans.
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat is one of two types of fat or adipose tissue (the other being white adipose tissue, or white fat) found in mammals. It is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. Its primary function is to generate body heat in animals or newborns that do not shiver. In contrast to white adipocytes (fat cells), which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which make it brown. Mesoderm is the source of myocytes (muscle cells), adipocytes, and chondrocytes (cartilage cells). Adipocytes give rise to white fat cells and brown fat cells. Researchers found that both muscle and brown fat cells expressed the same muscle factor Myf5, whereas white fat cells did not.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Adipose tissue is a type of connective tissue which plays an important role in the functioning of the body. Better known simply as “fat,” this tissue makes up around 15-20% of the body weight of an average person
Heat production from brown adipose tissue is activated whenever the organism is in need of extra heat, e.g., postnatally, during entry into a febrile state, and during arousal from hibernation, and the rate of thermogenesis is centrally controlled via a pathway initiated in the hypothalamus. The development of brown adipose tissue with its characteristic protein, uncoupling protein-1 (UCP1), was probably determinative for the evolutionary success of mammals, as its thermogenesis enhances neonatal survival and allows for active life even in cold surroundings.
Synonym(s): brown adipose tissue, hibernating gland, interscapular gland, interscapular hibernoma, multilocular adipose tissue, multilocular fat. A special form of fat that generates heat by nonshivering thermogenesis, so designated as it is rich in mitochondria, which imparts a brown hue. bony tissue osseous tissue. brown adipose tissue (brown fat tissue) brown fat. bursa-equivalent tissue (bursal equivalent tissue) a hypothesized lymphoid tissue in nonavian vertebrates including human beings, equivalent to the bursa of Fabricius in birds: the site of B lymphocyte maturation.
The function of brown adipose tissue is to transfer energy from food into heat; physiologically, both the heat produced and the resulting decrease in metabolic efficiency can be of significance. The development of brown adipose tissue with its characteristic protein, uncoupling protein-1 (UCP1), was probably determinative for the evolutionary success of mammals, as its thermogenesis enhances neonatal survival and allows for active life even in cold surroundings.
Brown Adipose Tissue. Everyone is familiar with white adipose or fat tissue, which provides insulation and, by storing triglyceride, serves as an energy depot. Many mammals also have brown adipose tissue, which also stores triglyceride, but has the unique ability to generate heat. Intriguingly, there is an inverse correlation between the amount of brown adipose tissue and body mass index, with obese individuals having significantly less of the tissue than lean individuals; this suggests that brown fat may be an important factor in maintaining a lean phenotype.
The two types of adipose tissue are white adipose tissue (WAT), which stores energy, and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which generates body heat. The formation of adipose tissue appears to be controlled in part by the adipose gene. In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue.
Adipose tissue is one of the main types of connective tissue. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue.