This term is used by companies that offer subscription services to clients for example, telephone carriers, Internet service providers, and hosts. It is a measure of the revenue generated by one customer phone, pager, etc., per unit time, typically per year or month. A related measure is ARPDAU (Average Revenue Per Daily Active User) and a less used measure of AMPU, or average margin per user. ARPU is widely used by Internet Protocol television (IPTV) service providers.
For their 2005 fiscal years, these companies had sales per employee figures of only $320,215 and $293,883, respectively. The comparison of Microsoft (Nasdaq:MSFT) and Wal-Mart (WMT), two businesses in very different industries, illustrates how the sales per employee ratio can differ because of this circumstance. The sales, or revenue, figure is the numerator (income statement), and the average number of employees for the year is the denominator (annual report or Form 10-K).
Whenever I see this type of information for a company, I usually calculate the simple ratio of Revenue Per Employee. For example, for a video production company mentioned, with sales of $15 million and 130 employees, the Revenue Per Employee is about $115,000. For Optiva, a maker of a sonic toothbrush, and another company profiled, the revenue was $100 million. Optiva had 250 employees, giving a Revenue Per Employee of $400,000. Revenue Per Employee is a key ratio for start-up companies. A low Revenue Per Employee in comparison to similar companies is a bad sign, often boding possible failure. Companies usually fail for one of two basic reasons. Either, the companies fail at marketing their product or service and generating sales
As of 2005 annual store sales in the range of $300 per square foot ($3,000/m²) is considered a respectable result in the United States as the national average for regional malls is $341 per square foot, but the target number depends on the location, the type of store and other factors. 
Average Revenue per Sale-ARS. Average revenue per sale is the average value generated for each order transaction over a period of time. Declining ARS may indicate that a company is adding too many low value products to its portfolio or lower revenue generating customers to its customer base.
BREAKING DOWN 'Average Revenue Per Unit-ARPU'. This measure is most often used in the telecommunications sector to survey the amount of revenue generated per cell-phone user, for example. The values of the measures obtained can be used as a comparison between companies. DEFINITION of 'Average Revenue Per Unit-ARPU'. A measure of the revenue generated per user or unit. Average revenue per unit allows for the analysis of a company's revenue generation and growth at the per-unit level, which can help investors to identify which products are high or low revenue-generators. Next Up.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Average revenue per user (sometimes known as average revenue per unit), usually abbreviated to ARPU, is a measure used primarily by consumer communications and networking companies, defined as the total revenue divided by the number of subscribers. A related measure is ARPDAU (Average Revenue Per Daily Active User) and a less used measure of AMPU, or average margin per user. ARPU is widely used by Internet Protocol television (IPTV) service providers.
Apple stores are the envy of many retails with $4,542 sales per square foot this fiscal year to date according to the Wall Street Journal and down from $4,754 this time last year. In 2012 Apple saw a sales per square foot of $5,971. Sales per square foot of store space can be considered a key measure of efficiency in retail. In the clothing industry, according to RetailSails, sales per square foot for Nordstrom is $400, compared with just $173 for Macy’s. At $350, Saks Fifth Avenue’s sales per square foot approaches Nordstrom’s.
It is simply the average revenue for every square foot of retail sales space. According to Advanced Retail Management the average regional mall sales per square foot is $341 and most big box retailers average between $250 to $350. Annual sales divided by the total square feet gives you the sales per square foot. Sales per square foot of store space can be considered a key measure of efficiency in retail. In the clothing industry, according to RetailSails, sales per square foot for Nordstrom is $400, compared with just $173 for Macy’s. At $350, Saks Fifth Avenue’s sales per square foot approaches Nordstrom’s.