Long-term care is a variety of services and supports to meet health or personal care needs over an extended period of time. While long-term care is often associated with nursing homes, the truth is that most care is actually provided at home.
Accordingly, long term care includes a wide range of services that are tailored to individual needs (based on the individuals functional assessment) Long term care services must be integrated because the services require appropriate interfacing with the delivery of primary care, mental health care, and acute care.
UTILIZATION AND COST CONTROLS. Removing financial barriers to LTC will increase demand for formal services. Long-term care insurance could legitimately result in a 20% increase in nursing home utilization and a 50% to 100% increase in use of community and home health care by the elderly.
Most long-term care is provided at home. Other kinds of long-term care services and supports are provided by community service organizations and in long-term care facilities. Examples of home care services include: 1  An unpaid caregiver who may be a family member or friend.
The resources provided here are intended to assist individuals in planning for their current and/or future long-term care needs. Older Americans Act (OAA) programs provide home and community-based services through State and Area Agencies on Aging (AAA) in each state to individuals over 60 years of age.
Long-term care services and support typically come from: 1  An unpaid caregiver who may be a family member or friend. 2  A nurse, home health or home care aide, and/or therapist who comes to the home. 3  Adult day services in the area. 4  A variety of long-term care facilities.
Long-term care means helping people of any age with their medical needs or daily activities over a long period of time. Long-term care can be provided at home, in the community, or in various types of facilities. This section deals mainly with older people who need long-term care.
Long-term care services are those health, social, housing, transportation, and other supportive services needed by persons with physical, mental, or cognitive limitations sufficient to compromise independent living. The United States has a complicated and overlapping array of financing and service programs for LTC.
Formal LTC is provided by various community-based and institutional agencies who get reimbursed for the services they deliver. Informal LTC is provided by family and friends who do not get paid for the services they provide. Informal care reduces the use of formal home health care and delays nursing home enty.
Long-term care is provided in different places by different caregivers, depending on a person's needs. Most long-term care is provided at home by unpaid family members and friends. It can also be given in a facility such as a nursing home or in the community, for example, in an adult day care center.