The rash from shingles will heal in 1 to 3 weeks and the pain or irritation will usually go away in 3 to 5 weeks. When shingles occurs on the head or scalp, the symptoms usually go away eventually, but it may take many months. 
Shingles is a disease that affects your nerves. It can cause burning, shooting pain, tingling, and/or itching, as well as a rash and blisters. You may recall having chickenpox as a child. Shingles is caused by the same virus, the varicella-zoster virus (VZV). Shingles follows a pattern: 1  The first sign is often burning or tingling pain; sometimes, it includes numbness or itching on one side of the body. 2  Somewhere between 1 and 5 days after the tingling or burning feeling on the skin, a red rash will appear. 3  A few days later, the rash will turn into fluid-fille
Instructions. Keep the blisters wet to help dry them out. It may sound counter-intuitive, but it really does work. As the moisture on your skin begins to dry, it evaporates and takes some of the moisture from the blisters along with it. This will pull moisture away and force the blisters to dry out. 1 The drainage from a shingles rash carries the virus. 2  Those with a shingles rash should be very careful to avoid exposing others to the drainage. 3  A person with an active viral infection should avoid young children and the elderly as their immune systems are already compromised.
The characteristic rash of shingles rash starts as small blisters on a red base. New blisters continue to form for three to five days. The blisters appear along the path of individual nerves in a specific ray-like distribution (called a dermatomal pattern) and appear in a band-like pattern over an area of skin. Drugs that fight viruses (antiviral drugs), such as acyclovir (Zovirax), valacyclovir (Valtrex), or famciclovir (Famvir), can reduce the severity and duration of the shingles rash if started early (within 72 hours of the appearance of the rash). In addition to antiviral medications, pain medications may be given.
A. Even when there is no rash, the pain of shingles may be apparent. Before a rash is visible, the patient may notice several days to a week of burning pain and sensitive skin. When the characteristic rash is not yet apparent, it may be difficult to determine the cause of the often severe pain.
Shingles blisters usually scab over in 7-10 days and disappear completely in two to four weeks. In most healthy people, the blisters leave no scars, and the pain and itching go away after a few weeks or months. 
The shingles rash appears as painful skin blisters that appear on only one side of the face or body along the distribution of nerves on the skin. Typically, the rash occurs along your chest, back, abdomen, or face, but it may also affect other parts of the body like the limbs, neck, or lower back. Drugs that fight viruses (antiviral drugs), such as acyclovir (Zovirax), valacyclovir (Valtrex), or famciclovir (Famvir), can reduce the severity and duration of the shingles rash if started early (within 72 hours of the appearance of the rash). In addition to antiviral medications, pain medications may be given.
The virus is spread by contact with the blisters. The blisters are no longer contagious after they dry up and form scabs. The first symptoms may include: 1  Burning, sharp pain; tingling; or numbness in your skin on one side of your body, head, or face. 2  Severe itching or aching. 3  Feeling tired. 4  Feeling sick with fever, chills, headache, and upset stomach or belly pain. Shingles is a painful skin rash caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox. Shingles is also called herpes zoster. This illness is most common in people over 50 years old.
Shingles is a disease that affects nerves and causes pain and blisters in adults. It is caused by the same varicella-zoster virus that causes chickenpox. After you recover from chickenpox, the virus does not leave your body, but continues to live in some nerve cells. Just like chickenpox, people with shingles will feel sick and have a rash on their body or face. The major difference is that chickenpox is a childhood illness, while shingles targets older people. Most adults live with the virus in their body and never get shingles.
Get help from a doctor now ›. 5-7 Days: Usually the shingles rash (and pain) may last 5-7 days but could be longer. Even with mild pain it is recommended to be treated with anti-virals to prevent long term problems such as post-herpetic neuralgia (long term nerve pain). ...Read more. No: While painful blisters on the skin are the most common symptoms of a shingles outbreak, there are other symptoms you can use to diagnose the condition. Not all patients suffering from shingles will develop a rash. Pain, flu like symptoms, movement issues, but no rash have been reported and identified as shingles.