• The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which leads to depolarization of the motor end plate.
The particular synapse made between a spinal motor neuron and skeletal muscle cell is called the motor endplate because of its specific structure. The synapse at the neuromuscular junction has three characteristic features of chemical synapses in the nervous system.
This special form of synapse between a motor neuron axon and a muscle fibre is called a neuromuscular junction. The arrival of a nerve impulse at the neuromuscular junction causes thousands of tiny vesicles (pouches) filled with a neurotransmitter called acetylcholine to be released from the axon tip into the synapse.
Neuromuscular junction can be defined as a synapse the motor neuron and the muscle fiber. Actually the synapse occurs between the “synaptic end bulbs” of the motor neuron and “motor end plate ” of muscle fiber. The motor end plate is in fact the highly excitable region of muscle fiber plasma membrane and it is responsible for initiating action potentials across the muscle surface.
The junction between a motor neruon's axon and the muscle cell membrane is called a neuromuscular junction or a myoneural junction?
Acetylcholine released by the motor neuron at the neuromuscular junction changes the permeability of the cell membrane at the motor end plate. The permeability change allows t … he influx of positive charge, which triggers an action potential.
• The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a. muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which. leads to depolarization of the motor end plate.
The junction between the axon terminals of a neuron and the receiving cell is called a synapse. (Synapses at muscle fibers are also called neuromuscular junctions or myoneural junctions 1  .). Action potentials travel down the axon of the neuron to its end(s), the axon terminal(s).
The neuromuscular junction comprises four cell types: the motor neuron, terminal Schwann cell, skeletal muscle fibre and kranocyte, with the motor neuron and muscle fibre separated by a gap called the synaptic cleft.