Your plastic surgeon's experience and reputation make the greatest difference in the cost of rhinoplasty. Here in Manhattan, it is possible to undergo the procedure for as little as $3,000 when it is performed by surgeons-in-training, supervised by senior surgeons. However, if rhinoplasty is your surgeon's specialty, this can provide the best chances of achieving the results you desire. His or her fees will reflect that, and depending on where the practice is located, the total cost of surgery can be upwards of $15,000.
On average, the surgeon’s fee for rhinoplasty is around $3,500. This amount does not include the facility or anesthesia fees, or additional expenses that may be required for patients undergoing rhinoplasty. The anesthesia costs are usually between $600 and $1,000, and the facility fee between $700 and $1,100. The total cost of rhinoplasty usually averages between $5,000 and $10,000. There are other pricing factors to consider as well such as the extent of your procedure, where you live, and the plastic surgeon you choose.
Nose surgery prices and cost information. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, the average surgeon's fee for nose surgery was $3,833 in 2007. The American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery lists an average surgeon's fee of $4,357 for rhinoplasty in 2007. (The average fee information was based on surveys of the organizations' members.
The average cost of rhinoplasty is $4,694, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Rhinoplasty surgery costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. When choosing a board-certified plastic surgeon in your area for a rhinoplasty procedure, remember that the surgeon’s experience and your comfort with him or her are just as important as the final cost of the surgery.
Q: How much does rhinoplasty cost? A: In most cases, primary rhinoplasty (that is, first time surgery) costs $4799.00. If you have had failed surgery by another surgeon, the price is $5699.00 as these cases usually demand significantly more time and have less predictable outcomes. We accept all forms of payment. 
Rhinoplasty can cost between $3,000 and $15,000 depending on your surgeon's reputation and level of expertise, the complexity of your surgery, the geographic location of your surgeon's practice, and many other factors. However, if rhinoplasty is your surgeon's specialty, this can provide the best chances of achieving the results you desire. His or her fees will reflect that, and depending on where the practice is located, the total cost of surgery can be upwards of $15,000.
Nose Surgery Cost Los Angeles. The cost or price of a nose job or rhinoplasty varies significantly throughout Southern California, especially. A rhinoplasty or cosmetic nasal surgery is often performed by Los Angeles Plastic Surgeons who specialize in Facial Plastic Surgery. 
Generally, rhinoplasty cost comprises the surgeon's fee, anesthesia fee, operating room fee and implant or grafting fee (if applicable). According to the most recent statistics from the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, the average surgeon's fee for a rhinoplasty is $5,223. The extent of the nose surgery also affects the price. For example, a primary rhinoplasty is not as costly as the far more involved revision rhinoplasty. In general, primary rhinoplasty costs can range from $3,000 to $8,000, and revision rhinoplasty can cost $10,000 to $15,000. Other factors play a role in rhinoplasty cost, including where you have your surgery
Thanks for your question! The costs of rhinoplasty surgery is usually between $8000 and $15000 (AUD). These costs vary from surgeon to surgeon. Only a consultation with a surgeon can provide a detailed assessment of your condition and thus a definite price. There will also be an initial consultation fee when you first see a surgeon regarding a rhinoplasty. Again, how much the initial consultation fee will be depends upon the surgeon. Consultation fees can range between $100 (AUD) to $500 (AUD).