From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The axillary nerve or the circumflex nerve is a nerve of the human body, that originates from the brachial plexus (upper trunk, posterior division, posterior cord) at the level of the axilla (armpit) and carries nerve fibers from C5 and C6. Structure [edit]. The nerve lies at first behind the axillary artery, and in front of the subscapularis, and passes downward to the lower border of that muscle.
Spinal roots: C5 and C6. Sensory functions: Gives rise to superior lateral cutaneous nerve of arm, which innervates the skin over the lower deltoid ‘(‘regimental badge area’). Motor functions: Innervates the teres minor and deltoid muscle, abductors of the arm at the shoulder. The teres minor is part of the rotator cuff muscles of the shoulder. This set of muscles acts to stablise the glenohumeral joint. Acting individually, the teres minor externally rotates the upper limb. The muscle is innervated the posterior terminal branch of the axillary nerve.
The axillary nerve is derived from the posterior cord. The axillary nerve leaves the brachial plexus at the lower border of the subscapularis muscle and continues along the inferior and posterior surface of the axillary artery as the radial nerve. The axillary nerve serves as motor innervation to the deltoid and teres minor muscles, as seen in the image below. The ventral rami of C5 and C6 unite to form the upper trunk. The suprascapular nerve and the nerve to the subclavius arise from the upper trunk. The suprascapular nerve contributes sensory fibers to the shoulder joint and provides motor innervation to the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles.
Pathological Findings: • In patients with isolated axillary nerve injury, some shoulder abduction and external rotation is preserved through suprascapular nerve function (to the supraspinatus [should abduction] and infraspinatus [external rotation] muscles). • In delayed presentations or chronic upper brachial plexus injuries with loss of both axillary and suprascapular nerve function, trapezius muscle transfer provides an alternative option to shoulder arthrodesis for improved shoulder function. Relevant Anatomy: Innervation.
An example of injury to the axillary nerve includes axillary nerve palsy. Injury to the nerve results in: 1  Paralysis of the teres minor muscle and deltoid muscle, resulting in loss of abduction of arm (from 15-90 degrees), weak flexion, extension, and rotation of shoulder. 2  Loss of sensation in the skin over a small part of the lateral upper arm (an area known as the regimental badge/patch). Structure [edit]. The nerve lies at first behind the axillary artery, and in front of the subscapularis, and passes downward to the lower border of that muscle.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The deltoid is innervated by the axillary nerve which originates from the ventral rami of the C5 and C6 spinal nerves, via the superior trunk, posterior division of the superior trunk, and the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. 
The deltoid is innervated by the axillary nerve. The axillary nerve originates from the anterior rami of the cervical nerves C5 and C6, via the superior trunk, posterior division of the superior trunk, and the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. 1 The anterior or clavicular fibers arises from most of the anterior border and upper surface of the lateral third of the clavicle. 2  The anterior origin lies adjacent to the lateral fibers of the pectoralis major muscle as do the end tendons of both muscles.
In the posterior scapular region, the axillary nerve terminates by dividing into two branches: 1  Posterior terminal branch – Provides motor innervation to the teres minor muscle, and innervates the skin over the inferior part of the deltoid. 2  Anterior terminal branch – Provides motor innervation to the deltoid muscle. The teres minor is part of the rotator cuff muscles of the shoulder. This set of muscles acts to stablise the glenohumeral joint. Acting individually, the teres minor externally rotates the upper limb. The muscle is innervated the posterior terminal branch of the axillary nerve.