Yellow rattle germinates late February to early March, flowers in June, and sets seed in July. At the end of each growing season as the annual yellow rattle plants die away they leave behind gaps into which new wild flowers can establish. As a result, wild flower seed sown into an existing sward will establish more readily in areas where yellow rattle already does well. Site Selection. 1  Yellow rattle will not thrive in all grassland. 2  The most suitable sites for yellow rattle will be managed grassland of low to medium fertility that contains a balanced sward of finer grasses not dominated by coarse or vigorous grass (ryegrass, cocksfoot, tall oat-grass or couch).
Yellow rattle is semi parasitic plant which needs grass for it to establish. It can weaken the grass that is there and help open a grass area. So that wild flowers may flourish along side the grass. Establishmen t. 
Yellow Rattle (Rhinanthus minor) is a parasitic plant that can help to restrict grass growth. It can be oversown into an existing grass area, and it will start to feed off the plant roots, meaning that the grasses become less dominant, allowing wildflowers to establish more easily. 
Yellow rattle plant (Rhinanthus minor) is an attractive wildflower that adds beauty to a naturalistic environment or a wildflower garden. However, the plant, also known as yellow rattle weed, spreads rapidly and can become highly invasive. Yellow rattle plants are recognized by the serrated, dark-veined leaves and its stems, which are marked with black spots. Bright yellow, tube-shaped blooms appear from late spring until autumn.
The brown, purse-like calyxes (containing the sepals) of Yellow-rattle give this plant its common name-brush through a wildflower meadow at the height of summer and you'll hear the tiny seeds rattling in their pods. 
Plant, Hemiparasitic. a flowering parasitic plant, such as eyebright and yellow rattle, that lives on the nutrients of other organisms yet is also capable of photosynthesis. 
Yellow rattle may be sown as a component of meadow mixtures on to a prepared seedbed. First year meadow management (mowing) can compromise seed set of yellow rattle. To be sure of getting yellow rattle in the second year, it is best to re-sow yellow rattle in the autumn of the first year (as above). Site Selection. 1  Yellow rattle will not thrive in all grassland. 2  The most suitable sites for yellow rattle will be managed grassland of low to medium fertility that contains a balanced sward of finer grasses not dominated by coarse or vigorous grass (ryegrass, cocksfoot, tall oat-grass or couch).
Qty. Enquire about this product. Yellow Rattle is an annual plant that has toothed, paired leaves and small yellow flowers with minute violet markings on the upper lip. It is hemi-parasitic on some grasses and is often sown in an attempt to weaken vigorous grass growth.
A parasitic plant is one that derives some or all of its nutritional requirements from another living plant. All parasitic plants have modified roots, named haustoria (singular: haustorium), which penetrate the host plants, connecting them to the conductive system-either the xylem, the phloem, or both. Dodder (Cassytha spp., Cuscuta spp.) and red rattle (Odontites vernus) are generalist parasites. Other parasitic plants are specialists that parasitize a few or even just one species. Beech drops (Epifagus virginiana) is a root holoparasite only on American beech (Fagus grandifolia).
Yellow rattle plants are semi-parasitic weeds that survive by drawing nitrogen and other nutrients from nearby plants. The plant thrives in sunny, open locations. Although the plant attempts to tap into the roots of any type of nearby plant, it tends to parasitize grasses more than any other plant. Yellow rattle plants are recognized by the serrated, dark-veined leaves and its stems, which are marked with black spots. Bright yellow, tube-shaped blooms appear from late spring until autumn.