Report Abuse. A tattoo would usually cost about anywhere between 45$ to 600$ or more. Size is a major factor. The bigger a tattoo design is, the longer it will take the tattoo artist to complete it, and the more you will have to pay. But for a smaller tattoo that doesn't take as long to do, you might end up paying around fifty to a hundred dollars.
1 Some tattoo shops will charge by the hour regardless of the design. 2  Their hourly rate can vary anywhere from $50 to $200 per hour. 3  On average, a sleeve done all at once may take 8-25 hours depending on the complexity, colors, and more. 1 The establishment in which the artist works is also another factor to consider. 2  An entire sleeve can range anywhere from $500 to as much as $3,000 or more. 3  Some tattoo shops will charge by the hour regardless of the design. 4
Average tattoo prices are determined usually by price. The bigger the tattoo, the higher the price will become. This is true because the bigger the tattoo, the more work there is to do for the artist. You can get an idea on how much does a tattoo cost by checking on the size of the design. However, tattoo prices by size is usually not the only determinant of the actual price of getting a tattoo as there are a lot of other factors than can affect the cost of tattoo designs. Placemen
1 Most tattoo artists charge an hourly rate that varies from about $75 to $150 an hour, according to Bill Johnson, executive office director of the Alliance of Professional Tattooists.. 2  The length of time it takes to do a tattoo can vary from one to many hours, depending on the size and complexity of the design. 1 And some artists will charge extra for custom designs, but it is more common to ask for a deposit of about $50. 2  If you are unhappy with your tattoo, having it altered or tattooed over might cost hundreds of dollars and removal is even more expensive-up to $10,000 in some cases.
•The size-the bigger the tattoo, the more it will cost. •From a flash or original-if you choose a tattoo right off of a flash, it doesn't take the artist much to just copy and tweak, versus come up with an original design, some artists factor in the time spent drawing the tattoo into the final cost. Size is a major factor. The bigger a tattoo design is, the longer it will take the tattoo artist to complete it, and the more you will have to pay. But for a smaller tattoo that doesn't take as long to do, you might end up paying around fifty to a hundred dollars.
1 If you are unhappy with your tattoo, having it altered or tattooed over might cost hundreds of dollars and removal is even more expensive-up to $10,000 in some cases. 2  Your tattoo will fade over time, so you probably will have to get it touched up in the future. 1 And some artists will charge extra for custom designs, but it is more common to ask for a deposit of about $50. 2  If you are unhappy with your tattoo, having it altered or tattooed over might cost hundreds of dollars and removal is even more expensive-up to $10,000 in some cases.
1 An entire sleeve can range anywhere from $500 to as much as $3,000 or more. 2  Some tattoo shops will charge by the hour regardless of the design. 3  Their hourly rate can vary anywhere from $50 to $200 per hour. 4  On average, a sleeve done all at once may take 8-25 hours depending on the complexity, colors, and more. 1 The establishment in which the artist works is also another factor to consider. 2  An entire sleeve can range anywhere from $500 to as much as $3,000 or more. 3  Some tattoo shops will charge by the hour regardless of the design. 4
The Artist. The cost of a tattoo will depend on the skill of the artisan. Many professional artisans usually charge per hour per work. With this, one is guaranteed a good quality professional work. The cost starts at $100 to $300 per hour and depending on the size, it may augment to thousands of dollars. If one wants a custom tattoo, the price per hour can start from $50 to $300. A tattoo that has a one color is less expensive compared to a more colored one. Tattoo parlors in big flourishing cities will cost more than those in small cities. The price will be much higher if the parlor is located in a vocational spot. An example is, getting a tattoo in California may cost up to $300 compared to getting one in Arkansas which may be $150.
1 Since a wrist tattoo is usually done in a smaller area, plan on budgeting anywhere from $50 to as much as $225. 2  However, for a reputable artist, the costs can be much higher. 3  Artists usually charge for a minimum amount especially if they have state-of-the-art facilities in the clinic. 