Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Vera and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Vera and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Vera is fascinating, learn more about it. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Vera. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Vera, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Vera is a female first name of Slavic origin meaning faith, or of Latin origin meaning true. It can also be a Hindu name. Its name day is on May 31. Gender: Feminine. Usage: Russian, English, German, Hungarian, Scandinavian, Dutch, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Portuguese, Spanish, Albanian, Franch, Romanian.
In the Christian faith, Saint Vera (Faith), her sisters Nadejda (Hope) and Liubov (Love) and their mother Sophia (Wisdom), died a martyr's death in the second century during the persecution of Christians in the Roman Empire under the emperor Hadrian. In Albanian the meaning of the word vera is summer. It can also be a Hindu name. Its name day is on May 31. Gender: Feminine. Usage: Russian, English, German, Hungarian, Scandinavian, Dutch, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Portuguese, Spanish, Albanian, Franch, Romanian.
Vera /ve-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced VEER-ah. It is of Russian and Slavic origin, and the meaning of Vera is faith. Also sometimes associated with the Latin word verus meaning truth, and can also be derived from Albanian ver  meaning summer. Nickname for Guinevere and Veronica. The name was used by two popular novelists in the late 19th century. Vera is a very popular first name for females (#218 out of 4276, Top 5%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#1319 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Meaning & History. Means faith in Russian, though it is sometimes associated with the Latin word verus true. It has been in general use in the English-speaking world since the late 19th century. Related Names.
What does Vera mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Vera is of Latin origin. The meaning of Vera is true desire. It is also of Russian origin, where its meaning is faith, truth. A given name, a patronymic name and a family name. A patronymic name is based on the name of one's father, grandfather, or earlier male ancestor. Russian male patronymic names are formed by adding the suffex-evich or-ovich, female patronymic names by adding the suffex-ovna or-evna.
Comments and insights on the name Vera: | Edit. Reva and Vera are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters. Vera, or Veera, in Tamil means 'brave,' and is appropriate for a girl or a boy. Vera is spelled the same in quite a few languages, including English, Czech, Dutch, German, Portuguese, Slovenian, Albanian and Spanish. This is my great-aunt's name
Latin Meaning: The name Vera is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Vera is: True. American Meaning: The name Vera is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Vera is: True. Russian Meaning: The name Vera is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Vera is: Faith; true.
Origin of the name Vera: Introduced in the late 19th century, Vera is from the Russian Vjera (faith). It coincides with the Latin vera (true), and the name is often believed to be derived from this, rather than the former. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Reva and Vera are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters. Vera, or Veera, in Tamil means 'brave,' and is appropriate for a girl or a boy.