Cobalt, with chemical symbol Co and atomic number 27, is a lustrous grey metal and not found in its pure form in nature. The word cobalt is taken from German word Kobold, which means “goblin”, a name used by miner to refer to cobalt ore.
Summary: Cobalt is a naturally occurring element found in rocks, soil, water, plants, and animals. Cobalt is used to produce alloys used in the manufacture of aircraft engines, magnets, grinding and cutting tools, artificial hip and knee joints.
Cobalt is a metallic chemical element that is rather hard and brittle in its pure form. It is used industrially in a number of ways, and is also refined to produce salts and isotopes that have other practical applications.
Cobalt, often compared to platinum or palladium in color, is a bright white metal that is highly scratch resistant, doesn't chip or shatter and is hypo-allergenic. It looks and feels like white gold, but is a cost-effective alternative.
Today, some cobalt is produced specifically from various metallic-lustered ores, for example cobaltite (Co As S), but the main source of the element is as a by-product of copper and nickel mining. The copper belt in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia yields most of the cobalt mined worldwide.
Full Definition of COBALT. 1. : a tough lustrous silver-white magnetic metallic element that is related to and occurs with iron and nickel and is used especially in alloys — see element table. 2. : cobalt blue 2.
Cobalt is a chemical element with symbol Co and atomic number 27. Like nickel, cobalt in the Earth's crust is found only in chemically combined form, save for small deposits found in alloys of natural meteoric iron. The free element, produced by reductive smelting, is a hard, lustrous, silver-gray metal.
Cobalt is primarily used as the metal, in the preparation of magnetic, wear-resistant and high-strength alloys. Its compounds cobalt silicate and cobalt(II) aluminate (CoAl 2 O 4, cobalt blue) give a distinctive deep blue color to glass, ceramics, inks, paints and varnishes.