Clonidine is the generic name of a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Clonidine works by slowing down your heart rate and relaxing blood vessels. You can take clonidine alone or in combination with other medications to lower blood pressure. Some drugs used to treat heart disease may also interact with clonidine and cause side effects. Types of drugs that interact with clonidine include: 1  Blood pressure medications called beta-blockers, such as acebutolol (Sectral), atenolol (Tenormin, in Tenoretic), and betaxolol (Kerlone).
The combination of clonidine and chlorthalidone treats fluid retention (edema) in people with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or kidney disorders, or edema caused by taking steroids or estrogen. This medication is also used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). They can add to the side effects of clonidine and chlorthalidone. This medication can cause side effects that may impair your thinking or reactions. Be careful if you drive or do anything that requires you to be awake and alert.
Uses. This product is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. This product contains 2 medications: clonidine and chlorthalidone. Clonidine belongs to a class of drugs (central alpha agonists) that act in the brain to lower blood pressure. It works by relaxing blood vessels so blood can flow more easily.
USES: This medication is used alone or with other medications to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Clonidine belongs to a class of drugs (central alpha agonists) that act in the brain to lower blood pressure. 
Summary: Gout is found among people who take Clonidine, especially for people who are 60+ old, have been taking the drug for 5 - 10 years, also take medication Allopurinol, and have High blood pressure. We study 9,266 people who have side effects while taking Clonidine from FDA and social media. Gout. Gout (uric acid crystals building up in the body) has been reported by people with high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, osteoporosis, pain, diabetes. (latest reports from 13,707 Gout patients). On Sep, 7, 2015: 9,259 people reported to have side effects when taking Clonidine.
Catapres (clonidine) is a medication that is used in the treatment of high blood pressure. The most common side effects with clonidine are dry mouth, drowsiness, dizziness, constipation, sedation, low blood pressure, weakness, and nausea. Some drugs used to treat heart disease may also interact with clonidine and cause side effects. Types of drugs that interact with clonidine include: 1  Blood pressure medications called beta-blockers, such as acebutolol (Sectral), atenolol (Tenormin, in Tenoretic), and betaxolol (Kerlone).
Before using this medication, tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulfa drugs, or if you have liver disease, kidney disease, asthma, allergies, gout, lupus, or diabetes. Avoid drinking alcohol, which can increase some of the side effects of clonidine and chlorthalidone. Do not stop using this medication suddenly without first talking to your doctor. Stopping this medication suddenly can cause nervousness, anxiety, severe high blood pressure, or life-threatening symptoms. Avoid drinking alcohol, which can increase some of the side effects of clonidine and chlorthalidone. Avoid becoming overheated or dehydrated during exercise and in hot weather. Follow your doctor's instructions about the type and amount of liquids you should drink.
I have gout and high blood pressure. My gout, which is not triggered by high uric acid levels, is controlled by daily colchicine. For my blood pressure, which uncontrolled would be in the 200 over 100+ range, I take nifedipine 60mg daily, atenolol 25 mg daily, and clonidine .1 mg at midnight and .05 mg at noon. My typical B.P. is 158 over 78, pulse 48
I have gout and high blood pressure. My gout, which is not triggered by high uric acid levels, is controlled by daily colchicine. For my blood pressure, which uncontrolled would be in the 200 over 100+ range, I take nifedipine 60mg daily, atenolol 25 mg daily, and clonidine .1 mg at midnight and .05 mg at noon. My typical B.P. is 158 over 78, pulse 48. Read More. He has been on cyclosporine, imuran, toprol, clonidine, and many other drugs for 10 years. He is hospitalized at this this time and so far the doctors can not find a reason for his symptons. His breathing is very labored (breathing from his stomach) he had a severe case of gout in his hand and elbow.