Definition of CRANIAL NERVE. : any of the nerves that arise in pairs from the lower surface of the brain one on each side and pass through openings in the skull to the periphery of the body and that comprise 12 pairs in reptiles, birds, and mammals and usually 10 in fishes and amphibians. See cranial nerve defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of CRANIAL NERVE. : any of the 12 paired nerves that arise from the lower surface of the brain with one of each pair on each side and pass through openings in the skull to the periphery of the body—see abducens nerve, accessory nerve, auditory nerve, facial nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, hypoglossal nerve, oculomotor nerve, ....
Cranial Nerve X-Vagus Nerve. The vagus nerve, identified as cranial nerve X, originates in the area between the pons at the base of the brain stem and the spinal column, and extends down through the neck into the chest and abdomen.he vagus nerve includes both sensory and motor nerves and, although they contain both voluntary and involuntary branches, the involuntary members predominate. The voluntary components are motor fibers that carry impulses to muscles in the larynx to aid in speech and swallowing. Other sensory ...
Functions. Each of the 12 cranial nerves has a specific function that helps the brain control the actions of the body. 1  The olfactory nerve is involved in the sense of smell. 2  This nerve has access to the cerebral cortex, but does not pass through the thalamus like other cranial nerves. 
Accessory nerve (XI). The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. Cranial nerves related to the innervation of the head muscles include the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens and the hypoglossal nerves. Cranial nerves related to innervation of structures originating from branchial arches include the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves.
The vagus nerve is one of 12 cranial nerves. It is the longest of the cranial nerves, extending from the brainstem to the abdomen by way of multiple organs including the heart, esophagus, and lungs. Also known as cranial nerve X, the vagus forms part of the involuntary nervous system and commands unconscious body procedures, such as keeping the heart rate constant and controlling food digestion.
The vagus nerve includes both sensory and motor nerves and, although they contain both voluntary and involuntary branches, the involuntary members predominate. The voluntary components are motor fibers that carry impulses to muscles in the larynx to aid in speech and swallowing. Other sensory ... Click to read more below. The vagus nerve, identified as cranial nerve X, originates in the area between the pons at the base of the brain stem and the spinal column, and extends down through the neck into the chest and abdomen.
Cranial nerve X: The tenth cranial nerve, and one of the most important, is the vagus nerve. All twelve of the cranial nerves, the vagus nerve included, emerge from or enter the skull (the cranium), as opposed to the spinal nerves which emerge from the vertebral column. And the vagus nerve brings sensory information back from the ear, tongue, pharynx and larynx. The term vagus (Latin for wandering) is apt because the vagus nerve wanders all the way down from the brainstem to the colon, a long wandering trek. Complete interruption of the vagus nerve causes a characteristic syndrome. The back part of the palate (the soft palate) droops on that side. The capacity to gag (the gag reflex) is also lost on that side
The vagus nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and accessory nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. Cranial nerves related to the innervation of the head muscles include the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens and the hypoglossal nerves. Cranial nerves related to innervation of structures originating from branchial arches include the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves.
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). Cranial nerves exchange information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck. Spinal nerves emerge sequentially from the spinal cord with the spinal nerve closest to the head (C1) emerging in the space above the first cervical vertebra. The cranial nerves emerge from the central nervous system above this level. Each cranial nerve is paired and is present on both sides. Depending on definition in humans there are twelve or thirteen cranial nerves pairs, which are assigned Roman numerals I–XII, sometimes also including cranial nerve zero