RSA is one of the first practical public-key cryptosystems and is widely used for secure data transmission. In such a cryptosystem, the encryption key is public and differs from the decryption key which is kept secret. In RSA, this asymmetry is based on the practical difficulty of factoring the product of two large prime numbers, the factoring problem.
A public-key encryption technology developed by RSA Data Security, Inc. The acronym stands for Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman, the inventors of the technique. The RSA algorithm is based on the fact that there is no efficient way to factor very large numbers. 
THE CRYPTOGRAPHY GUIDE: RSA. RSA RSA is a public key algorithm invented by Rivest, Shamir and Adleman. The key used for encryption is different from (but related to) the key used for decryption. The algorithm is based on modular exponentiation. When talking of key lengths in connection with RSA, what is meant is the modulus length. An algorithm that uses different keys for encryption and decryption is said to be asymmetric. Anybody knowing the public key can use it to create encrypted messages, but only the owner of the secret key can decrypt them.
RSA Algorithm. The RSA algorithm is named after Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir and Len Adleman, who invented it in 1977 [ RIVE78 ]. The basic technique was first discovered in 1973 by Clifford Cocks [ COCK73 ] of CESG (part of the British GCHQ) but this was a secret until 1997. The patent taken out by RSA Labs has expired. The RSA cryptosystem is the most widely-used public key cryptography algorithm in the world. It can be used to encrypt a message without the need to exchange a secret key separately. The RSA algorithm can be used for both public key encryption and digital signatures. Its security is based on the difficulty of factoring large integers. Party A can send an encrypted message to party B without any prior exchange of secret keys
RSA involves a public key and a private key. The public key can be known by everyone and is used for encrypting messages. Messages encrypted with the public key can only be decrypted in a reasonable amount of time using the private key. In such a cryptosystem, the encryption key is public and differs from the decryption key which is kept secret. In RSA, this asymmetry is based on the practical difficulty of factoring the product of two large prime numbers, the factoring problem.
The public and the private key-generation algorithm is the most complex part of RSA cryptography. Two large prime numbers, p and q, are generated using the Rabin-Miller primality test algorithm. A modulus n is calculated by multiplying p and q. Many protocols like SSH, OpenPGP, S/MIME, and SSL / TLS rely on RSA for encryption and digital signature functions. It is also used in software programs -- browsers are an obvious example, which need to establish a secure connection over an insecure network like the Internet or validate a digital signature.
RSA Security is a United States-based organization that creates encryption, network and computer security products. Ron Rivest Adi Shamir, and Len Adleman founded RSA as an independent company in 1982. RSA encryption is based on use of a public and a private key. Typically a key fob (such as an RSA SecurID security token) is used by employees in security-sensitive companies. The token generates a public key that changes every minute
RSA Algorithm is christened after its joint inventors, Ron Rivset, Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman who invented it during 1977. This algorithm is the first of its kind that can be used for public key encryption as well as digital signatures. The RSA Algorithm is extremely secure due to long keys and up-to-date implementations. It is widely used in e-commerce protocols. Private Key is used to decrypt the messages that are encrypted using the public key. The message or the data is encrypted using the public key. Encryption involves converting the message into a coded format. The public key is accessible to everyone and anyone can encrypt the message.