According to the Office of Dietary Supplements, chlorophyll contains large amounts of magnesium, helping keep your bones strong. In the body, about 50 percent of magnesium is in the bones, and the remaining 50 percent is distributed in the cells, tissues and organs. You can find chlorophyll in green vegetables such as turnip greens, broccoli, green beans and frozen or fresh spinach. The recommended daily allowance for magnesium is 320 mg for women and 420 mg for men, and half a cup of frozen spinach supplies 75 mg.
Chlorophyll. The most visible pigment in Spirulina is chlorophyll, a green molecule common to plants. It releases ions when struck by the energy of sunlight. These free ions proceed to stimulate the biochemical reactions that form proteins, vitamins and sugars.
Fat-soluble chlorophyll (gel caps) contains chloroplasts such as vitamin A, carotenes, vitamin K, E, as well as minerals such as magnesium and iron. These vitamins and minerals need to be present to prevent free radical damage. 
Chlorophyll possesses an amazing range of benefits and is readily available to everyone. Chlorophyll rich foods are also healthy in their own right and contain essential vitamins and nutrients needed for cardiovascular, muscular, and neural health. Consume foods containing chlorophyll or take a dietary supplement for best effect. Blue-green algae is one of my favorites. 
All leafy green vegetables, such as romaine lettuce, spinach and leeks, contain chlorophyll. Other vegetables that are also high in chlorophyll include green olives, sugar peas, broccoli and green peppers. The nutritional value of including green vegetables as part of a healthy diet is clear. Green vegetables contain fiber, foliate and vitamins A and C. The health benefits of chlorophyll are not as clear. Currently there is not conclusive scientific evidence regarding the health and weight loss claims. More research is needed to definitively understand any health effects chlorophyll may have on human
Nutrional Value of Chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is a super food which is packed with a range of powerful nutrients. It is a good source of vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, vitamin K and beta carotene. Blood clotting: Chlorophyll contains vitamin K which is vital for normal clotting of blood. It is used in naturopathy for the treatment of nose bleeds and for the females suffering from anemic conditions and heavy menstrual bleeding.
Wheatgrass is allowed to grow longer than malt. Like most plants, it contains chlorophyll, amino acids, minerals, vitamins, and enzymes. Claims about the health benefits of wheatgrass range from providing supplemental nutrition to having unique curative properties, though few, if any, have been scientifically proven. 
Liquid chlorophyll is also a good source of most B vitamins, vitamin C, amino acids, some enzymes and many other minerals in trace amounts, although the exact nutritional profile is related to the source of the extract. All dark green plants and vegetables are excellent sources of chlorophyll. In addition to alfalfa, wheatgrass and algae, other widely available sources include spinach, kale, chard, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, green beans and parsley.
a a a. Chlorophyll is a molecule that gives green plants their pigment. It is also responsible for facilitating photosynthesis in plants, which involves using light energy to convert water and carbon dioxide into glucose. The nutritional value of including green vegetables as part of a healthy diet is clear. Green vegetables contain fiber, foliate and vitamins A and C. The health benefits of chlorophyll are not as clear. Currently there is not conclusive scientific evidence regarding the health and weight loss claims. More research is needed to definitively understand any health effects chlorophyll may have on humans