On this page: Eye twitching causes • Remedies. Eye twitching, eyelid tics and spasms are pretty common. Usually only the bottom lid of one eye is involved, but the top eyelid also can twitch. Most eye twitches come and go, although they can last for weeks or even months. Eye strain: Vision-related stress can occur if, for instance, you need glasses or a change of glasses. Your eyes may be working too hard, triggering eyelid twitching. Computer eye strain from overuse of computers, tablets and smartphones is also a very common cause of vision-related stress.
About Us. Twitchy is a ground-breaking Twitter curation site powered by a kinetic staff of social media junkies. We mine Twitter to bring you “who said what” in U.S. politics, global news, sports, entertainment, media, and breaking news 24/7. If it’s news, we’re on it. If it should be news, we’re ahead of it. Get Twitchy and stay connected to our twire — the news wire of the 21st century.
1. twitching-a sudden muscle spasm; especially one caused by a nervous condition. twitch, vellication. cramp, muscle spasm, spasm-a painful and involuntary muscular contraction. tic-a local and habitual twitching especially in the face. Noun. 1. twitching-a sudden muscle spasm; especially one caused by a nervous condition. twitch, vellication. cramp, muscle spasm, spasm-a painful and involuntary muscular contraction. tic-a local and habitual twitching especially in the face. blepharism-condition in which a person blinks continuously.
Eye twitching (blepharospasm) is an involuntary movement of the eyelid every few seconds over the course of a minute or two. Sometimes the spasm is strong enough to make your eyelid close completely before reopening. 
You are sitting down minding your own business when suddenly your eye starts to twitch. This perplexing phenomena is common and affects millions of people every day. For most people, eye twitching is not a serious condition and typically results from excessive fatigue or stress. 
A twitch usually occurs in the upper lid, although it can occur in both the upper and lower lids. For most people, these spasms are very mild and feel like a gentle tug on the eyelid. Others may experience a spasm strong enough that it forces you to close your eyelid completely. The most common causes of eyelid twitch are stress, fatigue, and the use of caffeine. To ease eye twitching, you might want to try any of the following: 1  Drink less caffeine. 2  Get adequate sleep.
Almost all sudden-onset eyelid twitching is benign, meaning the condition is not serious or a sign of a medical problem. However, this kind of eye twitching also can be hard to treat. The only option for making the twitching stop may be to figure out the cause and deal with it. Eye strain: Vision-related stress can occur if, for instance, you need glasses or a change of glasses. Your eyes may be working too hard, triggering eyelid twitching. Computer eye strain from overuse of computers, tablets and smartphones is also a very common cause of vision-related stress.
In this article. Eye twitching is a repetitive, uncontrollable blinking or spasm of the eyelid, usually the upper lid. Eye twitching (blepharospasm) usually affects the eye muscles of both eyes. If you have eye twitching, you may have an involuntary movement that recurs every several seconds for a minute or two. 
Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed. However, other types of twitching may be a sign of a nervous system condition and should be checked out by your doctor. This condition is fairly common, and symptoms usually go away after a couple of days. There are also less common and more serious causes of muscle twitching. These medical conditions and illnesses are often related to your nervous system. They may damage the nerves connected to your muscles, leading to
A twitching eye can be one sign of stress, especially when it is related to vision problems such as eye strain (see below). Reducing the cause of the stress can help make the twitching stop. Tiredness: A lack of sleep, whether because of stress or some other reason, can trigger a twitching eyelid. Eye strain: Vision-related stress can occur if, for instance, you need glasses or a change of glasses. Your eyes may be working too hard, triggering eyelid twitching. Computer eye strain from overuse of computers, tablets and smartphones is also a very common cause of vision-related stress.