Life took off in the Cambrian period (the Cambrian Explosion). By its end, all the main lines of animal types, whose descendants fill the world today, had been established. Al … l of this diversity flourished in the sea; there was still no life on land. Fish w/out jaws were the first vertebrates. 
Trilobites were the dominant species during the Cambrian Period, 540 to 490 million years ago. Credit: Bill Frische | Shutterstock. View full size image. The Cambrian Period is the first geological time period of the Paleozoic Era (the “time of ancient life”). This period lasted about 53 million years and marked a dramatic burst of evolutionary changes in life on Earth, known as the Cambrian Explosion.. The end of the Cambrian Period is marked by evidence in the fossil record of a mass extinction event about 490 million years ago. The Cambrian Period was followed by the Ordovician Period.
An Explosion of Life. marks the beginning of the Paleozoic Era. This period gets its name from a place in Wales where the first examples of this type of ancient life was found. The period lasted for nearly 53 million years, from about 543 million years ago until 490 million years ago. The plants of the Cambrian were mostly simple, one-celled algae. The single cells often grew together to form large colonies. The colonies looked like one large plant. The Cambrian Period began with an explosion of life forms.
The era began with the breakup of one supercontinent and the formation of another. Plants became widespread. And the first vertebrate animals colonized land. Life in the Paleozoic. The Paleozoic began with the Cambrian Period, 53 million years best known for ushering in an explosion of life on Earth. This Cambrian explosion included the evolution of arthropods (ancestors of today's insects and crustaceans) and chordates (animals with rudimentary spinal cords)
The Cambrian Period. The Cambrian Period marks an important point in the history of life on Earth; it is the time when most of the major groups of animals first appear in the fossil record. This event is sometimes called the Cambrian Explosion, because of the relatively short time over which this diversity of forms appears. 
Algae. Plant life was limited to single and multi-celled green algae during the Cambrian period. Land was still a hostile environment so all plant species evolved in the sea. Single-celled algae grew together in colonies, giving them the appearance of being one plant. Save. The Cambrian period spanned the time between 543 to 490 million years ago. During the four billion years prior to the start of this period, the only life forms that had evolved were plankton, bacteria and multi-celled algae.
Plant Life During the Cambrian Period. There is still some controversy about whether any true plants existed as far back as the Cambrian period. If they did, they consisted of microscopic algae and lichens (which don't tend to fossilize well). By Bob Strauss. Before the Cambrian period, 600 or so million years ago, life on earth consisted mostly of single-celled bacteria and algae--but after the Cambrian, multi-celled vertebrate and invertebrate animals dominated the world's oceans.
Cambrian Period. The Cambrian Period is the first period of the Paleozoic Era spanning from approximately 540 to 500 million years ago. It was named in 1835 by the geologist Adam Sedqwick, after the region of Cambria in Southern Wales and England, where rocks of this age were first found. 