Kerosene-type jet fuel (including Jet A and Jet A-1) has a carbon number distribution between about 8 and 16 carbon numbers; wide-cut or naphtha-type jet fuel (including Jet B), between about 5 and 15 carbon numbers. Most civil aircraft have their jets either under-wing or in the tail or on the side of the tail. Most cargo aircraft and bombers have the same configuration. The B-2 has engin … es buried in the wing. Most fighters used to either have the jet embedded in the body or on the side.
The most commonly used fuels for commercial aviation are Jet A and Jet A-1, which are produced to a standardized international specification. The only other jet fuel commonly used in civilian turbine-engine powered aviation is Jet B, which is used for its enhanced cold-weather performance. Jet fuel is a mixture of a large number of different hydrocarbons. The range of their sizes (molecular weights or carbon numbers) is restricted by the requirements for the product, for example, the freezing point or smoke point.
JET B is a fuel in the naptha-kerosene “family” that is prized for its superior cold-weather performance. However, JET B’s lighter composition makes it more dangerous to handle, and it is thus restricted only to areas where its cold-weather characteristics are absolutely necessary. The most common jet fuel is a kerosene and paraffin oil-based fuel classified as JET A-1, which is produced to comply with an internationally standardized set of specifications.
There is another grade of jet fuel, Jet B which is a wide cut kerosene (a blend of gasoline and kerosene) but it is rarely used except in very cold climates. JET A-1 Jet A-1 is a kerosene grade of fuel suitable for most turbine engined aircraft. AVIATION TURBINE FUEL (JET FUEL) CIVIL JET FUELS Aviation turbine fuels are used for powering jet and turbo-prop engined aircraft and are not to be confused with Avgas. Outside former communist areas, there are currently two main grades of turbine fuel in use in civil commercial aviation: Jet A-1 and Jet A, both are kerosene type fuels
Jet fuel, aviation turbine fuel (ATF), or avtur, is a type of aviation fuel designed for use in aircraft powered by gas-turbine engines. It is colourless to straw-colored in appearance. Jet fuel is a mixture of a large number of different hydrocarbons. The range of their sizes (molecular weights or carbon numbers) is restricted by the requirements for the product, for example, the freezing point or smoke point.
Jet B is a distillate covering the naphtha and kerosene fractions. It can be used as an alternative to Jet A-1 but because it is more difficult to handle (higher flammability), there is only significant demand in very cold climates where its better cold weather performance is important. AVIATION TURBINE FUEL (JET FUEL) CIVIL JET FUELS Aviation turbine fuels are used for powering jet and turbo-prop engined aircraft and are not to be confused with Avgas. Outside former communist areas, there are currently two main grades of turbine fuel in use in civil commercial aviation: Jet A-1 and Jet A, both are kerosene type fuels
Jet B. PetroValue strives to bring you the best quality of Jet B at affordable prices to support all your cold climate fuel needs. Jet B is a distillate covering the naphtha and kerosene fractions. Jet B-DIPetroValue also offers Jet B-DI (DI stands for de-icing), which is the Jet B with the Anti-icing of the fuel system (also known as Prist or FSII and sometimes called defroster, but not to be confused with de-icing fluids used to remove ice from aircraft wings!). Product Specifications.
Jet A is a similar kerosene type of fuel, produced to an ASTM specification and normally only available in the U.S.A. It has the same flash point as Jet A-1 but a higher freeze point maximum (-40 C). It is supplied against the ASTM D1655 (Jet A) specification. AVIATION TURBINE FUEL (JET FUEL) CIVIL JET FUELS Aviation turbine fuels are used for powering jet and turbo-prop engined aircraft and are not to be confused with Avgas. Outside former communist areas, there are currently two main grades of turbine fuel in use in civil commercial aviation: Jet A-1 and Jet A, both are kerosene type fuels