The Education Pathways. If you want to become an oncology nurse, you should take the time to look into the different colleges and universities that offer these specialized programs. There are also a number of hospital training programs, which take three years to complete. As an oncology nurse, it will be your role to care for cancer patients in various stages of their disease. You will administer chemotherapy, help identify ways to treat their symptoms and monitor the progress they have made. Furthermore, they will help to create a supportive environment for their patients.
As an oncology nurse practitioner, you will need at least 500 hours of supervised clinical practice in oncology (accrued either during or after completion of the master's program) to be eligible to take the certification examination to become an Advanced Oncology Certified Nurse Practitioner (AOCNP). The Basics. What you'll do: You'll provide and supervise care for cancer patients who are either chronically or critically ill. Oncology nurse practitioners monitor their patients' physical conditions, prescribe medication and formulate symptom management strategies.
To become an oncology nurse practitioner, you will also need to complete a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree, typically obtained through a 2-year program of graduate study. You can then seek recognition through your state board of nursing as an advanced practice nurse (APN) . The Basics. What you'll do: You'll provide and supervise care for cancer patients who are either chronically or critically ill. Oncology nurse practitioners monitor their patients' physical conditions, prescribe medication and formulate symptom management strategies.
For many oncology nurse practitioners, though, the career is also emotionally rewarding. These compassionate care providers improve and even save the lives of cancer patients. The first step to becoming an oncology nurse practitioner is becoming a registered nurse (RN). Some registered nurses begin their careers with only an associate’s degree, but others invest their time in pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree early on. 
Complete requirements to graduate as a Registered Nurse with an associate degree or a bachelor of science degree in nursing, which is a more competitive degree. Study for, and pass, the National License Council examination for Registered Nurses (the NCEX), which grants nursing licenses. Apply to a vocational school, college, or university with a nursing program. The most prestigious of these are 4-year programs, which often have dual-track admission. These require separate admission to the nursing school after some time at the university.
How to Become an Oncology Nurse. Oncology nurse s are registered nurses (RNs) that specialize in providing care specifically to cancer patients. To become an oncology nurse and earn a good salary, some medical training is recommended. Oncology is a medical discipline that focuses on providing care to patients with many different forms of cancer. As of 2015, the middle 50% of oncology nurses earn annual salaries between $56,465 and $68,840. The top 10% earn annual salaries of more than $74,848. A career as an oncology nurse is a great choice for individuals with a strong interest in oncology and providing care to patients with many different type
Tips & Warnings. 1  The most direct way to become an oncology nurse is to apply for jobs in the oncology field after becoming a nurse. 2  States have different licensing requirements, so it is important to learn what your state requires for attaining and maintaining a license. Apply to a vocational school, college, or university with a nursing program. The most prestigious of these are 4-year programs, which often have dual-track admission. These require separate admission to the nursing school after some time at the university.
Education Overview. To become an oncology nurse, a student must finish an undergraduate degree or diploma program in nursing and obtain licensure as a registered nurse (RN). Diploma and associate degree programs take 2-3 years to complete, while bachelor's degree programs are four years in length. 
You must be a registered nurse (RN) to work as a pediatric oncology nurse. This requires you to earn an associate's degree in nursing or registered nursing (ADRN), or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), as well as a state-issued license. Research what it takes to become a pediatric oncology nurse. Learn about education requirements, and licensure and certification requirements to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Nursing degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
A: If you want to be a pediatric oncology nurse, you will first need to be a registered nurse. It will take around four years to acquire theoretical knowledge as well as practical skills. You can also opt for an accelerated program which covers the entire curriculum of a bachelor's degree in two years. 