For population 15 years and over in Hoot Owl town: 1  Never married: 60.4%. 2  Now married: 0.0%. 3  Separated: 0.0%. 4  Widowed: 39.6%. 5  Divorced: 0.0%. Hoot Owl compared to Oklahoma state average: 1  Median household income significantly below state average. 2  Median house value significantly below state average. 3  Unemployed percentage significantly below state average. 4  Median age significantly below state average. 5  Renting percentage significantly below state average. 6  Length of stay since moving in ...
Barn Owl. The distinct face of the barn owl is recognized around the world. In fact, one is as likely to spot the white, heart shaped face in Oklahoma as in Africa, or even Australia. The barn owl is one of the most wide-spread of all land birds. They are found on all continents (except Antarctica) and even on many large, oceanic islands. In Oklahoma, as in across their cosmopolitan range, barn owls can be found in mixed grasslands or open forests and they are often found in close association with man. This distinctive, crow-sized owl grows 15 to 20 inches in height and is mostly white in color although it can appear tan or even yellow at times.
Hoot Owl Ranch is nestled in a beautiful canyon in the panhandle of Oklahoma near Kenton. The ranch house and barn were built in the late 1800s of hand-carved sandstone and the surrounding area is enriched with the history of the Old West. Breakfast is not included with the ranch house rental. Join the owners of Hoot Owl Ranch in Kenton to learn about fascinating excavations in the area, including a Spanish conquistador helmet and breastplate, dinosaur bones and Indian petroglyphs.
Latest news from Hoot Owl, OK collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: English (42.9%), French (42.9%). Hoot Owl compared to Oklahoma state average: 1  Median household income significantly below state average. 2  Median house value significantly below state average. 3  Unemployed percentage significantly below state average. 4  Median age significantly below state average. 5  Renting percentage significantly below state average. 6  Length of stay since moving in ...
Enjoy bird watching in Hoot Owl Canyon, hiking or just relaxing on the porch of one of the ranch's beautiful cabins. Horseback riding is available for those who bring their own horses. Oklahoma's highest peak, Black Mesa, and the Black Mesa Nature Preserve are located just a few miles from the ranch. Breakfast is not included with the ranch house rental. Join the owners of Hoot Owl Ranch in Kenton to learn about fascinating excavations in the area, including a Spanish conquistador helmet and breastplate, dinosaur bones and Indian petroglyphs.
On 4/3/1956, a category F4 (max. wind speeds 207-260 mph) tornado 29.6 miles away from the town center injured 59 people and caused between $500,000 and $5,000,000 in damages. Hoot Owl-area historical earthquake activity is near Oklahoma state average. It is 73% smaller than the overall U.S. average. Hoot Owl compared to Oklahoma state average: 1  Median household income significantly below state average. 2  Median house value significantly below state average. 3  Unemployed percentage significantly below state average. 4  Median age significantly below state average. 5  Renting percentage significantly below state average. 6  Length of stay since moving in ...
The Town of Hoot Owl had a population of 4 as of July 1, 2015. Hoot Owl ranks in the lower quartile for Population Density and the upper quartile for Diversity Index when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in Oklahoma. See peer rankings below. Beneath the boundary map are tables with Hoot Owl population, income and housing data, five-year growth projections and peer comparisons for key demographic data. The estimates are for
Hoot Owl is a town in Mayes County, Oklahoma, United States. As of the 2000 census, the town had a total population of zero (5 in 1990). By 2010, the population had risen to 4. According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 0.1 square miles (0.26 km 2), of which, 0.1 square miles (0.26 km 2) of it is land and none of the area is covered with water. The town is located at 36.35995 N, 95.12137 W. Hoot Owl is located on the eastern shore of Lake Hudson. Geography [edit]. According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 0.1 square miles (0.26 km 2), of which, 0.1 square miles (0.26 km 2) of it is land and none of the area is covered with water.