Travel nurse salary in USA. Travel nurse with good experience can receive a high hourly wage of $40 however a low hourly wage of $30 can be paid for beginners. The employment agencies may pay up to $3000 for a single contract based on the length of the contract. On an annual basis, the highest paid salary of a registered nurse is around $90,000 and the lowest paid registered nurse receives less than $44,000. In addition to that, median salary of a registered nurse is $31.99 per hour.
Travel Nurse (RN) Salary. (United States). The larger portion of Travel Nurses in the United States are women. Median pay in this female-dominated area goes for around $32.32 per hour. Geographic location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Salaries for inexperienced workers average out to $69K, and those with five to 10 years' experience report a lower median of $65K. People with 10 to 20 years of experience make an average of about $65K in this role.
Average Travel Nursing salaries for job postings in Alaska are 26% lower than average Travel Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 49th among states in the country. Average Travel Nursing salaries for job postings in Kentucky are 14% lower than average Travel Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 43rd
Travel nurses usually earn more salary when compared to non-traveling nurses however the salary of travel nurse can be more in a larger city. Apart from earning more, travel nurse can have more benefits from the working agency such as dental insurance, travel insurance, food, accommodation facilities and much more. On an annual basis, the highest paid salary of a registered nurse is around $90,000 and the lowest paid registered nurse receives less than $44,000. In addition to that, median salary of a registered nurse is $31.99 per hour.
Regardless of location and specialty, you can often expect to make a travel nurse salary of about $75,000 a year, based on a 48 hour work year and average $40 an hour. And, of course, a travel nurse salary can even go up from there depending on location, specialty, and overtime pay. Find your dream assignment here. Not only will you be able to receive overtime pay depending on how many hours a week you work, but travel nurses also receive health and medical benefits, the flexibility to choose hours, specialty, and location of job, as well as paid housing and travel costs.
The average hourly rate of registered nurses is about $30.85 and the average nursing salary is $67,525 annually. In addition, a travel nurse earns 20 percent more than the non-travel nurse and gains comprehensive travel nurse salary benefits like agency sponsored location, utilities and renewal bonus. On an annual basis, the highest paid salary of a registered nurse is around $90,000 and the lowest paid registered nurse receives less than $44,000. In addition to that, median salary of a registered nurse is $31.99 per hour.
In Australia, the salary of a re-entry nurse ranges from $52,092 to $70,091 per annum while the hourly wage ranges from $26.27 to $35.35. The clinical nurse receives the salary ranging from $71,297 to $76,376 per annum while the hourly wage ranges from $35.95 to $38.51. Read also about more different nursing salaries. On an annual basis, the highest paid salary of a registered nurse is around $90,000 and the lowest paid registered nurse receives less than $44,000. In addition to that, median salary of a registered nurse is $31.99 per hour.
Average Travel Nurse Salaries. The average salary for travel nurse jobs is $29,000. Average travel nurse salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term travel nurse anywhere in the job listing. 
Additional Benefits. In addition to a fantastic traveling nurse salary, travel nurses can expect to receive many great benefits while on assignment. Typically, a traveling nurse’s housing and living arrangements are taken care of and paid for as part of the compensation package. Not only will you be able to receive overtime pay depending on how many hours a week you work, but travel nurses also receive health and medical benefits, the flexibility to choose hours, specialty, and location of job, as well as paid housing and travel costs.