If your baby is being circumcised and is a newborn, the surgeon is likely to use a local anaesthetic to numb the area. This will be either an injection in the base of your baby’s penis, or the application of a cream between 60 minutes and 90 minutes before the procedure. In the Jewish faith, circumcision is done when a baby is eight days old. In some Islamic communities, circumcision is carried out in babies, while in others it is carried out when the child is older. Your religious leader should be able to provide more information about the correct time in accordance with your beliefs.
Decided to Circumcise -- What to Know. The sooner you schedule your baby's circumcision, the better. Make sure an experienced professional does the procedure. In some states, an obstetrician does it in the hospital. In other states, pediatricians do it. A religious leader who is trained in circumcision is another option. Circumcision doesn't have to be as painful for your baby as it sounds. There are pain management methods that can help to significantly reduce the pain of the procedure for your newborn. Before the procedure takes place, be sure to ask what your options are for relieving your baby's pain. Also, make sure you find out: 1  How and when the circumcision will be done.
If your baby is being circumcised and is a newborn, the surgeon is likely to use a local anaesthetic to numb the area. This will be either an injection in the base of your baby's penis, or the application of a cream between 60 minutes and 90 minutes before the procedure. Circumcision within the Jewish faith is usually done without anaesthetic. Circumcision rates in the UK have fallen, when compared with other Western countries (WHO 2007) . Health professionals believe that baby boys do not need circumcising, unless there is a medical need (NHS Choices 2012) . And doctors have become more expert at deciding whether or not there really is that medical need (Cathcart et al 2006, Groves et al 2010, Quaba and MacKinlay 2004) 
Circumcision is when the skin that covers the end of your baby’s penis is removed during surgery. This skin is also called the foreskin or the prepuce. The foreskin is a double-layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the head (glans) of your baby’s penis. In the Jewish faith, circumcision is done when a baby is eight days old. In some Islamic communities, circumcision is carried out in babies, while in others it is carried out when the child is older. Your religious leader should be able to provide more information about the correct time in accordance with your beliefs.
The best time for infant circumcision is when your baby is between 24 and 72 hours old. (Doctors don’t recommend circumcision before that in case your child has an underlying medical condition.) It’s best to book your child’s circumcision as soon as the attending pediatrician or family doctor gives you the okay. 
If a parent decides to have her baby circumcised, the procedure is usually performed in the baby's first few days of life (assuming the procedure will not be taking place during a religious ceremony). To perform the procedure, the doctor places the baby on a special table and cleans the baby's penis and foreskin. When boys are born, they have a piece of skin that covers the end of the penis, called the foreskin. Circumcision is the surgical removal of the foreskin to expose the tip of the penis. A newborn must be stable and healthy to be circumcised.
Circumcision is surgery to remove the skin at the very tip of the penis. Baby boys are born with a loose flap of skin that covers and protects the rounded top part of the penis. This skin is called the foreskin. It contains nerves, blood vessels, and a tiny part of muscle. 1 Circumcision lowers the risk of cancer of the penis, which is very rare. 2  Boys and men who are circumcised have less chance of getting a sexually transmitted disease (STD). 3  An STD is a disease you catch from sexual contact. 4  An example is AIDS.
During a circumcision, the foreskin is freed from the head of the penis, and the excess foreskin is clipped off. If done in the newborn period, the procedure takes about five to 10 minutes. Adult circumcision takes about one hour. The circumcision generally heals in five to seven days. 