The acute alcohol withdrawal usually is over within 5-8 days but some people suffer from depressions, sleep disturbances and other diffuse symptoms for weeks or even months after a long period of drinking. Alcohol withdrawal is caused when you interrupt constant exposure of alcohol to the central nervous system. Sometimes, withdrawal can be confused with a hangover, especially when hangover duration lasts more than a couple of days.
These may not necessarily be signs of alcohol withdrawal, your symptoms are also warning signs of taking tenormin. Withdrawal can last anywhere for a couple of weeks to a couple months, depending on how much and how often you drank. I think typically 30 to 50 days most people are through the worst of it. Alcohol withdrawal is caused when you interrupt constant exposure of alcohol to the central nervous system. Sometimes, withdrawal can be confused with a hangover, especially when hangover duration lasts more than a couple of days.
• Anxiety. • Irritability. • Depression. Symptoms may begin within a few hours after the last time alcohol was consumed and may last up to 48 to 72 hours. It is important to note that psychological withdrawal may continue long after the physical symptoms subside. 
The withdrawal can begin anywhere from a few hours from the last drink all the way into the span of months, although the withdrawal symptoms are not consistently severe throughout the entire span of time. How long the withdrawal lasts varies from one person to another, and symptoms may overlap. Alcohol withdrawal occurs in stages, according to eMedicineHealth. Keep in mind that every person has varying tolerances as well as varying physical reactions, but there is a general timeline for how long the stages of alcohol withdrawal will last.
Alcohol withdrawal symptoms generally begin when an individual stops consuming alcohol. Depending on how much alcohol you consume, how often you drink alcohol and how long you have been drinking; your withdrawal symptoms may begin within a few hours of your last alcohol use, or they may begin with a few days. It may be comforting to know that some people never experience withdrawal symptoms. If you are wondering “ how long does alcohol withdrawal last ,” and if it is preventing you from getting help, here is some information that may help to put your fears to rest. Of course the best resource for you is to consult with your doctor.
Withdrawal usually begins 6 to 8 hours following a reduction in alcohol use, peaks 24 to 28 hours after the last drink, and can last up to 7 days. After you withdraw from alcohol, however, you can and may experience disrupted sleep patterns or changes in attention and concentration days to months after the last drink. Alcohol withdrawal is caused when you interrupt constant exposure of alcohol to the central nervous system. Sometimes, withdrawal can be confused with a hangover, especially when hangover duration lasts more than a couple of days.
For most people, the worst of the symptoms occur around two to four days after the last drink. Most individuals will experience withdrawal symptoms for around a week, though this will depend on the individual. Let’s take a look at a typical alcohol withdrawal timeline for a long-time, heavy alcohol abuser: Note: that not all people will experience all of these symptoms. The severity of your symptoms will depend on a number of factors, including the duration and severity of your drinking problem. Contents. 1  1 Timeline. 2  1.1 5-10 Hours After Your Last Drink: Tremors and anxiety.
Symptoms of Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome. In general, how severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms become depends on how much and for how long a person has been drinking. Minor alcohol withdrawal symptoms often appear 6 to 12 hours after a person stops drinking. Sometimes a person will still have a measurable blood alcohol level when symptoms start. 
Detoxification (detox) from alcohol varies in length and severity depending on the amount and length of time the alcohol has been consumed. Symptoms will be both mental and physical beginning very shortly after the last drink. Within hours, a heavy drinker will begin to have signs of withdrawal. DTs. Delirium tremens (DTs) can begin within 3 to 5 days after an alcoholic quits drinking. People who drink heavily on a daily basis should be hospitalized so that doctors can monitor for the DTs, which appear as confusion, hyperactivity and extreme blood pressure hikes.
How long alcohol withdrawal lasts depends on several factors, especially how long the person has used alcohol and to what extent the person had developed a chemical dependency upon this particular drug. Alcohol withdrawal occurs in stages, according to eMedicineHealth. Keep in mind that every person has varying tolerances as well as varying physical reactions, but there is a general timeline for how long the stages of alcohol withdrawal will last.