The cost to repair an oil leak on a 99 Ford Escort will usually  cost between $250 and $500 depending on the cause. A worn seal or  gasket is much cheaper than a bent pan or … a ruptured block. 
Best Answer: 1st off, without proper diagnostics you cannot get a proper repair... with that being said... 2nd, depending on which gasket is leaking, make, model, and engine as well as labor costs as to how much its going to cost to fix. If its the head gasket, it will cost more and you will end up replacing other gaskets and seals in the process
1 Since an oil leak can come from many various places, the mechanic will need to use different tools and strategies to reach the leak. 2  On average, the price of an oil leak repair can be anywhere from $400 to as much as $1,800. 3  Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 1 Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 2  For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 3  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300.
Best Answer: It really depends on where the oil is leaking from. Valve covers oil leaks or a leak from the oil pressure sending unit are the cheapest and easiest to fix. Oil leaks from oil pan, front seals and cam seals are more expensive. One of the more expensive seals would be the rear oil seal. Just depends on where it's leaking from. it depends where the leak is and from what part. a worn out gasket is inexpensive to replace, a leak from engine-transmission or transmission-drive shafts it might be a bit more expensive. in any case, the labor might be up to 75% of the total cost (parts are usually less expensive).
If you put a hole in the oil pan, then they would have to take it off and fix it. Then they would have to put in on with new oil pan gasket and oil change too. So a oil change may run just $20 at a cheap place. But the labor and everything, I would guesstimate at about $125. Dealer, $300. That is at a small garage, and not at the dealer
The average cost for an oil leak diagnosis is between $88 to $111. Labor costs are estimated between $88 to $111 while parts are priced between $0 to $0. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
1 For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 2  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300. 3  Oil leaks that come from the pan or any of the seals can be more on the expensive end of the repair process. 1 Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 2  For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 3  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300.
1 On average, the price of an oil leak repair can be anywhere from $400 to as much as $1,800. 2  Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 1 Keep in mind that for something such as an oil leak, the labor will be 80 percent of the price. 2  For example, a less expensive job will come from a leak in the valve cover or oil pressure sending unit. 3  Minor expenses shouldn’t cost no more than $100 to $300.