Extra loose skin is common after losing a large amount of weight and belly fat is always tough to get rid of. The good news is that there are toning exercises that along with eating a healthy diet and performing cardiovascular exercise can help you burn that extra flab and tighten skin on your belly.
So, if you’re losing weight, be sure to give your skin time to adjust. Rapid weight loss doesn’t allow the skin time to adjust; you should only lose three pounds per week max. These yoga abdominal exercise poses will help tighten loose stomach skin -- especially skin below the navel.
There are lots of ways to tighten skin after you lose weight, and many reasons to do so. The loose skin can come from pregnancy or even just dropping a lot of weight at one time. While you might be at your goal weight, you might still feel bulky, and the culprit is loose, sagging skin.
Loose skin after weight loss can be as damaging to your self-esteem as being overweight. Exercise cannot tighten your loose skin, but you can minimize the amount of loose skin you have. If you have excess skin, patience is key as you wait for your skin to adjust to your new size.
After a significant weight loss, your next challenge is to tone up and tighten skin that is left behind. Trying to get rid of loose skin can be extremely frustrating, especially when it's on your arms where it's highly visible.
While you can't tighten loose skin with exercise, strength training increases the size of your muscles. As you build muscle, you minimize the amount of loose skin you experience as the muscle replaces fat.
Treatment. Your skin will get tighter as your body fat decreases, but this can take up to two years, says the Cleveland Clinic. Body contouring surgery is available if you lost massive amounts of weight and you've seen little to no change in your skin’s condition after you’ve kept your weight stable for over a year.
If you've lost weight recently, you may have noticed that you have loose skin hanging around. Whether it's flaps under your arms, or a hanging pouch around your stomach, loose skin can be an embarrassing issue.