http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_long_does_it_take_before_rigor_mortis_sets_in. Rigor Mortis, a stiffening of the muscles, usually starts to take place at around 3 hours after someone is dead with full rigor occuring at about 12 hours after death. After the 12 hour mark the rigor slowly ceases and at around 72 hours ri... Health related question in topics Conditions Illness Biology .We found some answers as below for this question How long does it take for rigor mortis to set it,you can compare them. Rigor Mortis sets in within 3 to 4 hours after death and becomes complete in about 12 hours. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-it-take-for-rigor-mortis-to-set-it ]. More Answers to  How long does it take for rigor mortis to set it 
How long does it take for rigor mortis to set it. Rigor Mortis sets in within 3 to 4 hours after death and becomes complete in about 12 hours. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-it-take-for-rigor-mortis-to-set-it ]. More Answers to  How long does it take for rigor mortis to set it . Health related question in topics Conditions Illness Biology .We found some answers as below for this question How long does it take for rigor mortis to set it,you can compare them. Rigor Mortis sets in within 3 to 4 hours after death and becomes complete in about 12 hours.
Rigor mortis sets in anywhere from 1-8 hours after death, there is a large variation in the amount of time that passes before rigor mortis sets in due to many different factor … s including temperature and how much physical activity the deceased was participating in before death. 14 people found this useful. How long it takes rigor mortis to set in depends on the size of the  dog. The stiffening of the muscles usually begins within three  hours of death and will affect small dog … s much more quickly than  large dogs.
Report Abuse. It usually takes about 3-4 hours for rigor to set in, although it's dependent on the dog's size. The muscle stiffness peaks at about 12 hours after death, before the next stages of decomposition begin to occur. It takes about 3 hours for rigor mortis to set in and a full 72 for it to completely go away depending on a number of factors including temperature and whether or not the dog was active right before death. Source(s): http://chemistry.about.com/cs/biochemist... th3dogmomma · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Confidence votes 3.9K. Rigor Mortis, a stiffening of the muscles, usually starts to take place at around 3 hours after someone is dead with full rigor occurring at about 12 hours after death. After the 12 hour mark the rigor slowly ceases and at around 72 hours rigor disappears. How long it takes rigor mortis to set in depends on the size of the  dog. The stiffening of the muscles usually begins within three  hours of death and will affect small dog … s much more quickly than  large dogs.
If your pet has just died it is perhaps a good idea to wait 3 hours before. Rigor mortis usually sets in within 3 hours and stays with for a number of days. However, this is much more obvious in mammals than in reptiles. A motionless snake could just be sleeping after a large meal. 
Rigor mortis is the reason why the word stiff is a slang term for a dead body. Two or three hours after a person or animal dies, the muscles start to stiffen. This phenomenon progresses in a downward, head-to-toe direction. In 12 to 18 hours the body is, as the saying goes, stiff as a board. At this stage, you can move the joints only by force, breaking them in the process. It takes about two days for rigor mortis to fade, and once it does, decay sets in. If the body isn't embalmed or cooled to 38 degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 degrees Celsius) or below, it will quickly decompose. 