Remove the pit. Cut into the avocado carefully, so as not to injure the pit, which is in the fruit's center. You can do this by scoring the skin/fruit about ½ an inch (1.3 cm) deep all the way around the outside, and then twisting the two halves in opposite directions to open it. Carefully remove the pit and set it aside.
Avocado is a tree. The fruit, a popular food, is a good source of potassium and vitamin D. The fruit, leaves, and seeds are used to make medicine. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow. 
The Skinny on the Fat and Calories. Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories. While guacamole is arguably the most popular way to eat avocado, you can also puree and toss with pasta, substitute for butter or oil in your favorite baked good recipes, or spread or slice onto sandwiches. When ordering at a restaurant, remember that not all avocado dishes are created equal.
Step 1. Cut the avocado and remove the pit. An easy way to do this is to slice into the avocado and cut it all around the pit to remove the halves cleanly. Then insert the tip of your knife into the pit, twist and remove carefully, removing from the end of the knife. Use the avocado on sandwiches or in dips, reserving the pit. While you may automatically discard the avocado pit when you slice into an avocado, you may want top think again. According to a 2004 Journal of Food Chemistry, avocado pits are rich in antioxidants, and are also rich in soluble fiber, which can help those with cholesterol.
Eaten with other foods, your body is better able to absorb the nutrients, such as alpha-and beta-carotene and lutein. Avocado is one of the few fruits that will provide you with good fats. That means it can help keep your cholesterol levels already in the healthy range, and help lower your risk for heart disease. Avocados are one of the best fruits for your health. See: The Best and Worst Vegetables to Eat. 
In fact Avocado Seed has 70% of the antioxidants found in the whole Avocado, and Avocado Seed Oil is also full of antioxidants, lowers cholesterol, and helps fight off disease. And studies show that Avocado Seed has more soluble fiber than oatmeal and just about any other food. In fact in South America Avocado Seeds are used for dysentery and other GI tract problems. Avocado Seeds has lots of phenolic compounds that help to prevent gastric ulcers, and prevent bacterial and viral diseases.
Usually, just the pulp of the avocado is used in food preparation. But the seed, or pit, of the avocado is rich in nutrition and it has a long history of medicinal use in traditional culture. You can grind an avocado seed in a high-powered blender or food processor for use in smoothies and other foods
Avocado Seed helps to prevent cardiovascular disease, lower cholesterol, and prevent strokes. Avocado Seed are great for inflammation of the GI tract and diarrhea too! In fact in South America Avocado Seeds are used for dysentery and other GI tract problems. Avocado Seeds has lots of phenolic compounds that help to prevent gastric ulcers, and prevent bacterial and viral diseases.
How to eat an avocado seed. Probably the favorite way for people to eat avocado seeds is blended into a fruit smoothie or protein shake. The seed is very tough and fibrous and you will need a powerful food processor in order to grind it down. I don’t recommend using one of the cheaper brands of blenders because it can tear them up pretty goo