Coronation of King Felipe VI – Spain's newly crowned King Felipe VI, third from left, poses with family members on the balcony of the royal palace after a swearing-in ceremony Thursday, June 19, in Madrid. To the far left is his father, Juan Carlos, who abdicated after a 39-year reign. 
He was the son of Charles I of Spain. His great-grandparents were Ferdinand and Isabelle making him the great-nephew of Catherine of Aragon. When he was in his mid 20's he was married to his cousin Mary Tudor and became King of England and shortly after that became King of Spain as well. Phillip II was the son of Emperor C … harles V, the regent of Spain between the times of 1542 and 1548, and then king in 1556 until his death. King Phillip of Spain was not crowned, but he took up the style of the King of England.
Miscellaneous Crew. Prince Phillip was born on 10 June 1921 as a Prince of Greece and Denmark. His family was deposed and he lived in France and finally went to boarding school in Gordonstoun in Scotland. Eventually he sent his boys there
Email. The incoming king of Spain, Crown Prince Felipe, 46, represents a new generation said his father, who announced that he is abdicating the throne. King Juan Carlos, 76, has been the country's royal leader for the last 39 years. Read More: Spain's King Plans to Abdicate in Favor of Son. 
Philip II (Spanish: Felipe II; 21 May 1527 – 13 September 1598) was King of Spain from 1556 and of Portugal from 1581 (as Philip I, Filipe I). From 1554 he was King of Naples and Sicily as well as Duke of Milan. Philip carried several titles including Prince of Asturias as heir to the Spanish kingdoms and empire. The newest constituent kingdom in the empire was Navarre, a realm invaded by Ferdinand II of Aragon mainly with Castilian troops (1512), and annexed to Castile with an ambiguous status (1513).
Queen Elizabeth made Philip a Prince of the United Kingdom in 1957. As consort to the widely travelled Queen and Head of the Commonwealth, Philip has frequently been in the public eye, and is an established public figure in the Commonwealth realms. I am answering this presuming that you are referring to the current Prince Phillip of England, husband of Queen Elizabeth II. Prince Phillip is by birth a Prince in Greece a … nd Denmark, but when he married Elizabeth he renounced those titles.
Philip II of Spain. Philip, the only son of Emperor Charles V, was born in Valladolid in 1527. In 1543 he married Mary of Portugal but she died in 1546 giving birth to their son, Don Carlos. Mary Tudor became Queen of England in 1553.
Also known today as Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark, Philip is the only son of Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark and Princess Alice of Battenberg. He has four older sisters: Cecilie, Sophie, Margarita and Theodora. While not British, Philip does have family ties to England. Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, is best known as the husband of Queen Elizabeth II, the father of Prince Charles, and the grandfather of Prince Harry and Prince William.
Prince Philip is a Prince Consort to the Queen. In the UK, a Queen can be Queen regnant (a female monarch) or Queen consort (wife of the king). However on the male side, King … is reserved strictly for a male monarch. Instead, the husband of a ruling Queen is called a Prince Consort. I am answering this presuming that you are referring to the current Prince Phillip of England, husband of Queen Elizabeth II. Prince Phillip is by birth a Prince in Greece a … nd Denmark, but when he married Elizabeth he renounced those titles.