Konan is the female (the only female in the Akatsuki) with blue hair, which she wears a flower in. She is skilled in the art of origami, which led to her unique style of jutsu. She can turn into paper and fold into whatever shape she wishes. Pein is but he answers to Madara Uchiha since that is the real founder of their little clan.  * The fourth hokage is the real leader of the akatsuki. Right before he sealed … the fox inside naruto he switched bodys.
In time, Akatsuki's fame began attracting unwanted attention. They were first approached by Tobi, who claimed to be Madara Uchiha and offered to lend his assistance to Akatsuki, specifically Nagato. Yahiko was wary of Tobi and refused his offer, though Tobi claims Yahiko eventually agreed. They are afterwards sent to Konoha to capture the Nine-Tails, and in the course of the resultant Pain's Assault the village is destroyed. When he finally locates and meets with the Nine-Tails' jinchūriki, Naruto Uzumaki, Nagato begins to doubt the direction he has taken Akatsuki in since Yahiko's death.
Akatsuki (あかつき, 暁, literally dawn) , formerly known as the Venus Climate Orbiter (VCO) and Planet-C, is a Japanese space probe which is intended to explore Venus. It was launched aboard an H-IIA 202 rocket on 20 May 2010. 
Tobi is a hyperactive goofball, and the masked ninja of the Akatsuki. Some think he is Uchiha Madara, founder of the Uchiha clan and Sharingan leader of the Akatsuki. He killed his brother for ever lasting Sharingan and fought the first hokage. Pein is but he answers to Madara Uchiha since that is the real founder of their little clan.  * The fourth hokage is the real leader of the akatsuki. Right before he sealed … the fox inside naruto he switched bodys.
Akatsuki (暁) is the Japanese word for  dawn  or daybreak. The opposite of Ōmagatoki. It may refer to: In anime, manga, or other fictional work 1  : Akatsuki (Naruto) , a fictional organization of criminals in Naruto. 2  ORB-01 Akatsuki, a fictional weapon in Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny. 1 Akatsuki, a fictional character from the anime Log Horizon. 2  Akatsuki Kain, a character from Vampire Knight anime and manga series. 3  Akatsuki, the capital city of Amberground, the fictional world from Tegami Bachi
Meaning & History. Akatsuki means Dawn in Japanese. -------------------------------------. Means dawn, daybreak.. It is a common mistake to believe that the name means red moon (aka= red tsuki= moon). -------------------------------------. From the Japanese word 暁 (akatsuki) , which means dawn, daybreak.
The Akatsuki kanji means daybreak, breaking down the word itself gives us aka meaning red and tsuki meaning moon. Akatsuki was founded in the Rain Country by Yahiko, Konan and Nagato. Yahiko wanted to bring peace to the bloody, war-ridden country and sought like minded individuals at his side. 
6,041 pages on this wiki. Akatsuki (暁, Literally meaning: Dawn or Daybreak) was a group of shinobi that existed outside the usual system of hidden villages. Over the course of several decades, Akatsuki took different forms and was led by different individuals. They are afterwards sent to Konoha to capture the Nine-Tails, and in the course of the resultant Pain's Assault the village is destroyed. When he finally locates and meets with the Nine-Tails' jinchūriki, Naruto Uzumaki, Nagato begins to doubt the direction he has taken Akatsuki in since Yahiko's death.
[ 4 syll. a-kat-su-ki, ak-ats-uki ] The baby boy name Akatsuki is pronounced AA-Kaa-TSuw-Kiy- †. Akatsuki's language of origin is Japanese and it is also predominantly used in the Japanese language. The name means 'dawn'. Akatsuki is not frequently used as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Akatsuki means either Red Moon or Rising Sun, (my friend said the Rising Sun was the real thing I don't believe her). Akatsuki as a whole means 'dawn' or 'daybreak' while Aka means 'Red' and tsuki means 'Moon' so chose your favorite. Alisa · 9 months ago. 