Submit. Rye grass seed sprouts in soil temperatures of 50 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit and air temperatures 10 degrees higher. Cool-season grasses, both annual and perennial rye grasses perform best in spring and fall and deteriorate in the summer heat. Keywords: rye grass temperatures, ryegrass best temperature, rye grass seed
Grass seed needs a minimum temperature of 65 degrees and will germinate faster at higher soil temperatures as long as the increased heat doesn't dry out the seeds and soil. Temperature. Grass seed germinates when the soil temperature is 65 degrees and above. It's important to understand that it is the soil temperature, and not the surrounding air temperature, that is the trigger for seed germination.
Cool season grass requires a minimum range of 45 - 55 degrees. Warm season grass requires a minimum 55- 65 degrees. Note that soil temperatures are usually cooler than air temperature. In addition to the density of the ground that is slower to warm up, moisture evaporating from the surface has a cooling effect. Seed germination is simply the growth process that occurs when the seed absorbs sufficient moisture to start sprouting. This is regulated by soil temperature according to the variety of grass.
Keep in mind that some warm-season grasses, including some cultivars of bermudagrass and St. Augustine grass, don't do well when planted from seed. The soil temperature range for most warm-season grasses is between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit and sometimes higher. Optimal air temperatures for warm-season grasses are 80 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit. Before you purchase seeds and prepare your lawn for planting, research the best seed varieties for your particular climate zone and time of the year, and keep in mind that some varieties may do better when planted with plugs or sod.
Seed that is sown in the spring is almost certain to fail, according to the University of Missouri Extension. Air temperatures for cool-season grasses should be between 60 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit, with soil temperatures between 50 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Before you purchase seeds and prepare your lawn for planting, research the best seed varieties for your particular climate zone and time of the year, and keep in mind that some varieties may do better when planted with plugs or sod.
PLANT WHEN DAYTIME TEMPERATURES ARE BETWEEN 60 & 75 DEGREES: Cool season grasses grow best when the soil temperatures are between 50 and 65 degrees F. These temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees. High temperatures of summer can cause these plants to go dormant and thus planting during summer is asking for problems. 
Usually planted in the early fall, cool-season grass seeds prefer daytime temperatures ranging from 60 to 75 F. With this temperature range, the soil itself is usually between 50 and 65 F -- the right environment for germination. Grass seed not in good contact with the soil cannot warm up correctly for successful germination. Seeds rely on warmth and soil moisture to swell and sprout. If your seeds remain at their ideal temperature range and are planted no more than 1/4 inch deep, you should see germination after three weeks.
Cool season grass such as Fescue, germinate best when the soil temperatures are between 50&deg and 65&deg degrees F. These soil temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60&deg and 75&deg degrees. The fescue grasses, when planted properly, germinate within 10 to 14 days.