Job Description: 1  1) Performs any combination of following duties in care of patients in hospital, nursing home, or other medical facility, under direction of nursing and medical staff: Answers signal lights, bells, or intercom system to determine patients' needs. 2  2) Bathes, dresses, and undresses patients. 
Certified Nursing Assistant Job Description. This certified nursing assistant sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements. 
CNA Job Description. CNA Job Description. A brief CNA job description is provided here to help understand what CNAs do. CNAs are nursing assistants who have taken required training and have passed a competency exam. They provide patient care and perform various care-giving tasks under the supervision of a nurse or doctor
Home Health Aide Job Description. This home health aide sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements. 
A certified nursing assistant, or CNA, works under the supervision of nurses to deliver high quality care to patients. The job requires long hours and many responsibilities, but caring for patients on a daily basis provides some of the greatest rewards any profession could offer. 
A nursing aide, sometimes called a nursing assistant, assists medical staff in providing care for residents of long-term care facilities, such as nursing homes, as well as for short-term hospital patients. During a typical workday, they perform a wide variety of non-medical duties. 
Primary responsibilities. 1  Provide hands-on care to patients in a variety of settings, including hospitals, nursing homes, and mental health facilities. 2  Perform routine tasks under the supervision of registered nurses. 3  Take patient's temperate, pulse, and respiration rate. 4  Take blood pressure and determine if range is abnormal. 5  Answer calls for ... 1 Provide hands-on care to patients in a variety of settings, including hospitals, nursing homes, and mental health facilities. 2  Perform routine tasks under the supervision of registered nurses. 3  Take patient's temperate, pulse, and respiration rate. 4  Take blood pressure and determine if range is abnormal
The Official Certified Nursing Assistant Job Description. Also referred to as a home health aide, personal care assistant, nursing assistant, or patient care technician, a certified nursing assistant (CNA) is a trained professional who can work in a variety of settings. This is due to the fact that the CNA is responsible for direct patient care and personal needs. Certified Nursing Assistant Job Description. Here is a list of duties that may fall under the scope of a CNA’s responsibilities. Keep in mind that duties are directly related to the type of environment you choose to work in. 1  Meals: Patient feeding responsibilitie