Best Answer: Pectin is any of a group of white, amorphous, complex carbohydrates that occur in ripe fruits and certain vegetables. Fruits rich in pectin are the peach, apple, currant, and plum. Protopectin, present in unripe fruits, is converted to pectin as the fruit ripens. Report Abuse. Pectin is a heteropolysaccharide which is in all fruit. However, it is much higher in apple, oranges and quince. Pectin is usually made from citrus peel or apple pomace which are both by-products of juice production.
Pectin is a naturally occurring substance in fruit that makes sweet preserves gel. However, some fruits are low in pectin and need added pectin in order to gel. You can buy commercial pectin, or you can make your own from citrus peels. You can also make pectin from apples. High-pectin citrus peel is what makes marmalade gel without added pectin. Keep in mind that it is the white pith, or inner part of the citrus peel that is rich in pectin. Under-ripe fruits have more of this pith than fully ripe fruits.
Making Pectin. Pectin can be made from any high pectin fruit: crabapples, apples, quinces, lemons or oranges. To extract pectin, the fruit must be first cooked. Commercial pectin is made from citrus peels or apples and in most cases comes in a powdered form, although a liquid pectin is also easily obtainable. If you intend to make your own pectin, look for fruit that is available for free. Pectin Made from Citrus Fruit. Oranges. Pectin is concentrated mainly in the peel-in the white, inner part of the skin (pith), in the membranes between the sections and in the seeds. Citrus fruit produces a lot of super jelling pectin, but it has a pronounced flavor which comes from the slightly bitter pith.
Citrus peels contain the highest amount of pectin, followed by tart apples, citrus pulp, and carrots. When heated with more sugar and acid (often lemon juice or vinegar), pectin causes a thickening that is characteristic to jellies and jams. Make it the old fashioned way and let the natural pectin in the fruit do the work. Second best option is to drop some lemon or orange peels and a few spoonfuls of raw honey into the boiling jam and let it do what nature intended.
PECTIN Overview Information. Pectin is a fiber found in fruits. It is used to make medicine. People use pectin for high cholesterol, high triglycerides, and to prevent colon cancer and prostate cancer. It is also used for diabetes and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
GMO Commercial Pectin. First, pectin can be made from corn and that usually means genetically modified corn unless the product is certified organic. Even “all natural” fruit versions are typically GMO based as they contain dextrose and citric acid, both corn derived products. 
Pectin (from Ancient Greek: πηκτικός pēktikos, pēktikós, congealed) curdled is a structural heteropolysaccharide contained in the primary cell walls of terrestrial. Plants it was first isolated and described in 1825 By Henri. braconnot 