ADVERTISEMENT. Cloacal prolapse or vent prolapse is a condition where the inner tissues of the cloaca protrude (hang out) from the vent, exposing the intestines, cloaca or uterus. The cloaca is the part of the bird’s body which stores urates, feces, urine and egg. The cloacal lips (or vent) are used to control the passage and frequency of droppings and other eliminations.
It also occurs in birds that have a habit of holding in the stool for long periods of time, like overnight, instead of dropping it as it is comes to cloaca. Any combination of the above reasons can lead to straining, dilating and stretching of the vent, making the bird an ideal candidate for cloacal prolapse. 1  1. The cloaca is the part of the bird’s body which stores urates, feces, urine and egg. The cloacal lips (or vent) are used to control the passage and frequency of droppings and other eliminations.
Cloacal opening in an Australian brushtail possum. In zoological anatomy, a cloaca /kloʊˈeɪkə/ is the posterior orifice that serves as the only opening for the intestinal, reproductive, and urinary tracts of certain animal species, opening at the vent. 
prolapse of uterus downward displacement of the uterus so that the cervix is within the vaginal orifice (first-degree prolapse), the cervix is outside the orifice (second-degree prolapse), or the entire uterus is outside the orifice (third-degree prolapse). May be related causally to hypocalcemia in cattle. Uterine prolapse in a mare. Usually the prolapse contains only the mucosa of the ventral floor, but it may also contain the urinary bladder or the cervix. Kinking of the urethra may cause obstruction and eventual rupture of the bladder. Called also estral eversion, vaginal hyperplasia. 1  Facebook.
Prolapse vent in chickens, also known as prolapsed oviduct, blow-out, cloacal prolapse, or pickout, … “is a condition in which the lower part of a hen’s oviduct turns inside out and protrudes through the vent.”1 Prolapse is a very serious condition that is treatable if caught early and is likely to recur. 
Prolapse literally means to fall out of place‚ from the Latin prolabi meaning to fall out.. In medicine, prolapse is a condition where organs, such as the uterus, fall down or slip out of place. It is used for organs protruding through the vagina or the rectum or for the misalignment of the valves of the heart
There are many different causes of cloacal prolapse, and there are even different tissues that can prolapse out the cloaca, so I cannot begin to venture a guess as to what is prolapsing and why. One of the most common reasons for prolapse is from excessive straining secondary to some inciting cause. The urinary bladder, the colon, a hemipenis (in males, of course) or the shell gland (also called the oviduct, and only present in females) may prolapse. So, you see that this is a complex problem.
It sounds as if your beardie has suffered a cloacal prolapse, which means that a section of tissue has become everted and is now protruding out of its cloaca and vent. This is a very serious situation that must be addressed immediately, not in two weeks! However, it could also be tissue from the gastrointestinal tract, the colon. If the prolapse is either colon or oviduct, you should be able to see a lumen, a hole, somewhere in this exposed tissue. But, my suspicion is that your beardie has prolapsed a portion of the oviduct.
Until you can get to a vet there are some things you can do. With a prolapse you will see a mass of tissues protruding from the vent. It is important to keep the tissues clean and moist until you can reinsert the tissues or get to a vet. If the tissues dry they can become necrotic. This makes it harder for the vet to fix or save the hen. The hen will not feel the prolapse go back in and will stop straining to push it back out. 3 … Lubricating and gently replacing the prolapsed tissue is important. Do not use petroleum based lubricants such as Vaseline or Mineral Oil. Mineral oil is a liquid by-product of the distillation of petroleum.