The opposite direction of neural activity is efferent conduction. In the nervous system there is a closed loop system of sensation, decision, and reactions. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons). Afferent neurons' somas are located in the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system, and the axons of these cells travel from ganglion to ganglion and lead back to the spinal cord. The majority of these are unipolar neurons in that they have a single axon leaving the cell body and is sent towards the sensory organ
The afferent and efferent neurons are usually not long enough to go from, say, your big toe all the way up to your brain. Therefore, afferent and efferent neurons use a neuron which forms a connection between two or more neurons that we synonymously call an interneuron or association neuron. This is the most abundant type of neuron in your body. When you first smelled the sock, you were able to send signals up to your brain which registered inside of the brain as a certain type of smell. The nerves responsible for sensing a stimulus and sending information about the stimulus to your central nervous system are called afferent neurons.
The opposite direction of neural activity is afferent conduction. In the nervous system there is a closed loop system of sensation, decision, and reactions. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons). The motor nerves are efferent nerves involved in muscular control.
Afferent and efferent neurons are the two types of nerve fibers that perform these functions. We do a comparison between the two. Before we proceed to the comparison between afferent vs. efferent neurons, it is imperative that we gain some insight into the processing of impulses by the nervous system. This system comprises a closed loop of neurons, which deal with sensation, decision, and reaction.
The most important point of comparison between afferent and efferent neurons is that they perform an exactly contrasting function and follow an opposite electrochemical pathway in the central nervous system loop. 1  Bringing the stimuli from the peripheral organ to the central nervous system. Before we proceed to the comparison between afferent vs. efferent neurons, it is imperative that we gain some insight into the processing of impulses by the nervous system. This system comprises a closed loop of neurons, which deal with sensation, decision, and reaction.
The neuron is a single nerve cell, and you have billions of them. There are three basic types of neurons: association, afferent, and efferent. The association neurons comprise the central nervous system (CNS) that is the brain and spinal cord. The afferent neurons are also known as the sensory neurons: they bring the stimuli from the sensors (e.g., skin, eyes, ears) to the CNS
Afferent vs Efferent. The nervous system is the director of all body activities. Its major functions include communication and control. The nervous system is made up of two major cells; neuron and neuroglia. • Efferent neurons get their input from the other neurons including interneurons and afferent neurons. Unlike efferent neurons, afferent neurons are activated by external stimuli such as vision, hearing, touch etc. • Unlike afferent neurons, efferent neurons involve in muscular control in the body.
In the peripheral nervous system, an afferent nerve fiber is the nerve fiber (axon) of an afferent neuron (sensory neuron). It is a long process (projection) extending far from the nerve cell body that carries nerve impulses from sensory receptors or sense organs toward the central nervous system. Afferent neurons' somas are located in the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system, and the axons of these cells travel from ganglion to ganglion and lead back to the spinal cord. The majority of these are unipolar neurons in that they have a single axon leaving the cell body and is sent towards the sensory organ
Interneurons are relay neurons and their signals, connecting efferent and afferent neurons in network. They can link up the same types or different types of neurons, meaning connecting sensory neurons together, motor neurons together, or the different types together. These neurons are classified by the direction in which they send their messages. Afferent neurons are typically sensory neurons--neurons which send information to the brain and spine. They send information about the body and immediate environment.