Top sirloin steak-topped with an onion ring. Top sirloin is a cut of meat from the primal loin, subprimal sirloin, of a beef carcass. Top sirloin steaks differ from sirloin steaks in that the bone and the tenderloin and bottom round muscles have been removed; the remaining major muscles are the gluteus medius and biceps femoris (top sirloin cap steak). The USDA NAMP / IMPS codes related to this subprimal cut are 181A and 184. 181A is obtained from 181 after removing the bottom sirloin and the butt tender (the part of the tenderloin which is in the sirloin). 184 is obtained from 182 after removing the bottom sirloin
As a steak, the top sirloin (181A) is flavorful but neither as expensive nor as tender as steaks which come from the short loin (173, which is where the filet mignon, tenderloin, New York, Porterhouse, T-bone and other cuts are from). Behind the pin bone sirloin is the Beef Loin Sirloin Steak, Flat Bone (which is the correct and proper name of this cut), which contains the most bone, compared with the other sirloin steaks. In the photograph below, the four large muscles are:
The loin yields the most tender and expensive cuts of beef--but not the most flavorful. The choicest portion is the tenderloin, which is exquisitely tender and lean. The top loin and sirloin aren't as tender, but they're a bit more flavorful. Cuts from the loin require very little work to taste great. Indeed, steak lovers consider it almost a sacrilege to marinate them, or to cook them beyond medium rare.
The sirloin is separated into top sirloin and bottom sirloin. Top sirloin gives us steaks that are good for grilling, while the bottom sirloin gives us roasts like sirloin tip and tri-tip, which are good choices for roasting or barbecuing. Here's a much more in-depth article about the beef sirloin. The tenderloin, which is the tenderest cut of beef, extends from the short loin back into the sirloin, which is the adjacent primal cut, toward the rear of the animal. The short loin is only about 16 to 18 inches long, so it will yield anywhere from 11 to 14 steaks, depending on thickness.
The center sirloin cut and the affordable, versatile sirloin steak are some of the most famous sirloin cuts, and the sirloin steak lends itself to grilled or pan-fried steaks, including savory recipes such as herb-marinated steak or steak with mushroom cream sauce. 
British-tradition cuts. The sirloin steak is a steak cut from the back of the animal. In a common U.S. butchery, the steak is cut from the rear back portion of the animal, continuing off the short loin from which T-bone, porterhouse, and club steaks are cut. The sirloin is actually divided into several types of steak. In a common British, South African, and Australian butchery, the word sirloin refers to cuts of meat from the upper middle of the animal, similar to the American short loin, while the American sirloin is called the rump.
Sirloin Steaks. jump to the recipes. Sirloin steak is a cut of beef that consists of the top and bottom sirloin. The top sirloin cut is more tender than the bottom sirloin (which is more commonly labeled as just sirloin steak). Overall this is a tender cut of steak so it works well for grilling and pan frying. share this page:
Students of barbecue and grilling must learn the differences among the different sections beef, such as the loin, short loin, tenderloin, sirloin, top sirloin, bottom sirloin, and others. This will introduce the sirloin section, from which several sirloin steaks and roasts are cut. Behind the pin bone sirloin is the Beef Loin Sirloin Steak, Flat Bone (which is the correct and proper name of this cut), which contains the most bone, compared with the other sirloin steaks. In the photograph below, the four large muscles are: