Find Sadiki meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Sadiki name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Sadiki. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Sadiki and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Sadiki and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Sadiki we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Pronunciation: (sah DEE kee). Form of: Sadik. The meaning of the name “Sadiki” is: “Believe, sincere”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you consider naming your baby Sadiki we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
In Egyptian the meaning of the name Sadiki is: Faithful. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
Meaning of Sadiki. African name. In African, the name Sadiki means-believe.The name Sadiki originated as an African name. The name Sadiki is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). African Name Meaning-believe.
Sadiki /sadi-ki/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Swahili origin, and the meaning of Sadiki is  faithful, loyal. Sadiki is a rare first name for males. Sadiki is an equally rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Sadiki for boys. Sadiki has yet to be recorded in the Top 1000 so far.
Popularity of the Name Sadiki. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Sadiki displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. If you consider naming your baby Sadiki we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Sadiki for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Sadiki is a unisex name, used as a boy name and a girl name. If you consider naming your baby Sadiki we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.