It is pronounced as Z AE K-eriy- †. Zachary is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Hebrew. The name's meaning is Yahweh has remembered. A biblical name, it is derived from the elements 'zakar' meaning to remember; ' yahweh ' name of God. See also the related form, Jahwe (German). Zachary is popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity rose from the 1940s up to the 1990s; before that, it was of infrequent use only. Its usage peaked in 1993 with 1.237% of baby boys being given the name Zachary. It ranked at #15 then. The baby name has since experienced a fall in popularity
Zachary is a form of the name Zechariah. Variants of the name Zachary include Zachery, Zackary. Zachary has the diminutive (nickname) Zach. Some famous bearers of this name include: Zachary Taylor. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 82 in baby name popularity for boys with 5137 occurrences. It ranked 16337 in popular baby names for girls with 6 occurrences. View the Zachary Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Zachary has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Zachary to other names.
The name Zack is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zack is: and Zachary. American Meaning: The name Zack is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zack is: and Zachary. Hebrew Meaning: The name Zack is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zack is: The Lord has remembered, and of Isaac: He laughs. Laughter
Zach /zach/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name. Zach's name origin is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Zach is the Lord recalled. Zach is an alternate spelling of Zachariah (Hebrew): variation of Zechariah. Zach is also a derivative of Zachary (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Zachha, Zachzi, Zizach. Zach is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#16694 out of 150436, Top 11%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Zach for boys. Zach reached its highest rank of #88 in Ireland in the year 2012, but is not found in the list at the moment.
Answer by Peter Zavon. Confidence votes 52.6K. Zach is a short form of Zachary. According to A Dictionary of First Names, Zachary is a very old English form of the New Testament Greek name, Zacharias, which itslef is a form of the Hebrew name, Zechariah. Zechariah means God has remembered in Hebrew
Zachary is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Za-cha-ry. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 82 in baby name popularity for boys with 5137 occurrences. It ranked 16337 in popular baby names for girls with 6 occurrences. View the Zachary Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Zachary has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Zachary to other names.
The name Zachary is of Hebrew origin, and it means God has Remembered . It's a name commonly given to boys. Zac Efron is an actor and singer with the most prominent portion of his career being from 2 to present. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Zachary is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zachary is: Remembered by God. American Meaning: The name Zachary is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zachary is: Remembered by God. English Meaning: The name Zachary is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zachary is: Jehovah has remembered.' Has experienced a revival in modern times.