In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound organelles.
Each organelle has a specific function:for example, the mitochondria produces most of the cell's energy! Basically, an organelles function is to help run the cell. Go into more description to get a specific answer. There are many types of organelles in a cell, and they each serve a specific function. The most notable organelles are the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells and the chloroplast … s in plants, algae, and protists. Others include the nucleus, vacuoles, Golgi apparatus, and endoplasmic reticulum. 1 person found this useful.
Under the more restricted definition of membrane-bound structures, some parts of the cell do not qualify as organelles. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound organelles.
The nucleus is an organelle that is surrounded by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope separates the contents of the nucleus from the rest of the cell. Eukaryotic cells also have a cell membrane (plasma membrane), cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and various cellular organelles. Examples of organelles found in plant cells and animal cells include: Prokaryotic cells have a structure that is less complex than eukaryotic cells. They do not have a nucleus or region where the DNA is bound by a membrane. Prokaryotic DNA is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid.
1 Organisms are composed of cells, and these cells have specific structures within in them that allow them to carry out their functions. 2  These structures are called Organelles. 3  The fine detail of the cell (which may be revealed by an electron microscope) is called the cell's ultrastructure. Membrane Bound Organelles. 1  The Nucleus is the largest organelle in a cell. 2  It contains a dense structure called the Nucleolus and is surrounded by the Nuclear Envelope, a structure composed of two membranes, seperated by fluid, which contain a number of nuclear pores that can allow relatively large molecules through.
There are many organelles in cells. Each organelle has a specific function:for example, the mitochondria produces most of the cell's energy! Basically, an organelles fun … ction is to help run the cell. Go into more description to get a specific answer. There are many types of organelles in a cell, and they each serve a specific function. The most notable organelles are the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells and the chloroplast … s in plants, algae, and protists. Others include the nucleus, vacuoles, Golgi apparatus, and endoplasmic reticulum.
structure/function: animal cell structure: plant cell structure: outer boundry of the cell cell membrane cell membrane contains genetic material(DNA) nucleus nucleus long, unc … oiled strands of DNA chromatin chromatin watery. There are many types of organelles in a cell, and they each serve a specific function. The most notable organelles are the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells and the chloroplast … s in plants, algae, and protists. Others include the nucleus, vacuoles, Golgi apparatus, and endoplasmic reticulum. 1 person found this useful.
Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive). Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound organelles.