View south toward Crater Flat from Yucca Mountain. Photo by Dr. Gene Ichinose. Used by permission. Yucca Mountain is located in southern Nevada about 145 km northwest of Las Vegas. It lies in the Basin and Range province, which consists of linear mountains and valleys with north-to-northwest trend. Yucca Mountain lies in the largest of the desert basins in the province, Death Valley. 
Yucca Mountain is a 1,200-foot high flat-topped volcanic ridge extending six miles from north to south (see photo above). It is located in Nye County, Nevada, 90 miles northwest of Las Vegas on federally-controlled lands on the edge of the Nevada Test Site. 
Location of Yucca Mountain. The map to the left shows the location of Yucca Mountain, in relation to major highways; surrounding counties, cities, and towns in Nevada and California; the Nevada Test Site; and Death Valley National Park. 
Yucca Mountain is located in Nevada, about anhour northwest of Las Vegas. It is in the desert,and the land it occupies includes public land,Nevada Test Site land, and Nellis Air Force Baseland. However, all of this land is part of theWestern Shoshone traditional homelands. 
This article is about the mountain in Nevada. For the nuclear waste repository, see Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. Yucca Mountain is a mountain in Nevada, near its border with California, approximately 100 miles (160 km) northwest of Las Vegas. Located in the Great Basin, Yucca Mountain is east of the Amargosa Desert, south of the Nevada Test and Training Range and in the Nevada National Security Site. It is the site of the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, which is currently identified by Congressional law as the nation's spent nuclear waste storage facility.
The Yucca Mountain is in western Nevada alongnear the California border. Yucca Mountain was considered for a repository for nuclear waste. Those plans were stopped 2010. 
Yucca Mountain is located in Nye County, in the south-central part of the U.S. state of Nevada approximately 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas. 
Yucca Mountain sits on federal land in Nevada, not far from Death Valley, in a remote stretch of desert, 90 miles northwest of Las Vegas. The nearest commercial establishment is a brothel 15 miles away. 
From RationalWiki. Yucca Mountain, Nevada, is a fantastically expensive hole in the ground which was intended to be used as United States' primary civilian nuclear waste storage facility. 
The Fight Against Yucca Mountain. The state's official position is that Yucca Mountain is a singularly bad site to house the nation's high-level nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel for several reasons: GEOLOGY and LOCATION: There are many unresolved scientific issues relative to the suitability of the Yucca Mountain site