The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), an academic degree, and the Doctor of Education (D.Ed.) and Doctor of Musical Arts (D.M.A.), both professional degrees, are conferred by the University. Recognized as different in purpose, the three doctoral programs consequently have different requirements in certain respects. 
Examples of how people use masters and doctorates. Below are examples of how a masters degree and a doctorate are used in two different fields of study, social work and business. If you want to go to graduate school to study social work, you can study at the masters level or the Ph.D. level. The higher the degree, the longer it takes to earn and the more specialized is its focus. For that reason, it's best to first look at what a doctorate is. Once you understand the relatively narrow scope and use of a doctorate, you may have an easier time understanding the masters by comparison.
An undergraduate degree is, basically, a Bachelor's degree. A graduate degree is one that requires you already have an undergraduate degree (in other words, that you are a g … raduate of a college) in order to even enter the program, such as a Masters or Doctorate. + 5 others found this useful. Sasuke Porta. U.S. Government recognized definition of a 'College Graduate':   Bachelor's degree or higher is a commonly used term by the US Census Bureau and other United States gover … nment agencies on the federal as well as state and local level.
Most programs do not offer as much aid to master's students as doctoral students, and so students often pay most if not all of their tuition. The value of the master's degree varies by field. In some fields, like business, a master's is the unstated norm and necessary for advancement. Other fields do not require advanced degrees for career advancement. In some cases, a master's degree may hold advantages over a doctoral degree. Some programs require a written thesis, others offer an option between a thesis and comprehensive exam. An important way in which master's programs differ from many, but not all, doctoral programs is in the level of financial aid available to students.
A distinction is typically made between graduate schools (where courses of study vary in the degree to which they provide training for a particular profession) and professional schools, which offer specialized advanced degrees in professional fields such as medicine, nursing, business, engineering, or law. Admission to a doctoral program requires a master's degree, both research-oriented and disciplinary focused. High marks are required (typically a tres très bien, honour equating a cum), laude but the acceptance is linked to a decision of The School Academical. board
Capella's online doctoral degree programs, including PhD, DBA, DNP, DSW and more, offer advanced theoretical and practical course work in a diverse range of areas. Program features include original research, comprehensive examinations, field experiences, residential colloquia, and a dissertation. 
Just to clarify, it is called a Juris Doctor, not a Juris Doctorate (which is an inexistent term, and which confusingly connotes a doctorate, e.g. J.S.D. or Ph.D.). (see http://www.law.umich.edu/connection/a2z/... Although it is a first degree IN LAW, a Juris Doctor degree is a post-graduate degree. In reality, it is probably a somewhere between a Masters and Doctorate. It is a professional doctorate but it should not be considered equivalent to a Ph.D/Ed.D (the research degrees) for one very simple reason: THERE IS NO THESIS. All research degrees have some type of thesis element.
The distinction between graduate schools and professional schools is not absolute, as various professional schools offer graduate degrees (e.g., some nursing schools offer a master's degree in nursing). Admission to a doctoral program requires a master's degree, both research-oriented and disciplinary focused. High marks are required (typically a tres très bien, honour equating a cum), laude but the acceptance is linked to a decision of The School Academical. board
Masters degrees are more versatile than doctoral degrees, and have a wide range of professional and academic applications. According to the U.S. Department of Education, three types of masters programs exist: research, professional, and terminal. The higher the degree, the longer it takes to earn and the more specialized is its focus. For that reason, it's best to first look at what a doctorate is. Once you understand the relatively narrow scope and use of a doctorate, you may have an easier time understanding the masters by comparison.
Admission to a doctoral program typically requires a master's degree in a related field, sufficiently high grades, recommendations, samples of writing, a research proposal, and typically an interview with a prospective supervisor. Admission to a doctoral program requires a master's degree, both research-oriented and disciplinary focused. High marks are required (typically a tres très bien, honour equating a cum), laude but the acceptance is linked to a decision of The School Academical. board