If it is a new pond, make sure the pond and filter have been running for at least two weeks to allow the beneficial bacteria to colonize. Taking your fish home: Typically you will buy a pond fish in a plastic bag of water from your fish dealer. Minimize the amount of time from the store to your pond. Placing fish in the pond: Place the bag in the water for at least 30 minutes so that the water in the bag gradually matches the temperature of the pond.
Typically, Koi should be in ponds that are at least 1,000 gallons. Avoid Overstocking the Pond To maintain healthy fish and clear water, do not overload the ecosystem with too many fish. For a new pond, a good rule of thumb is one inch of fish per square foot of surface area.
Further information. During warm weather it is natural for the level of water in a pond to drop. Most of the ponds inhabitants can tolerate these fluctuations but in very small ponds it can be a problem, especially if there are tadpoles present.
Following are some tried and true methods, which will not only help you treat algae, but also help prevent it. Adding Plants to your Pond. In a natural setting, fish produce nutrients that are absorbed by plants, leaving very little for algae.
controlling Green Algae in Pond Water. How to Keep Your Pond Green Free. It’s the number one complaint of pond keepers – algae. This ubiquitous, unwelcome plant life in all its green glory is the bane of the pond keeper's existence and can make the simple pleasures of pond and fish keeping seem like chores.
Green water is caused by single-celled algae, which remains suspended in the water. If conditions are right in a pond, i.e., there are plenty of nutrients and sunlight, as many as five million algae cells per milliliter of pond water can be present. These organisms are so tiny, they pass through even the finest filter.
Water treatments added to the pond water are an excellent option where algae problems already exist. Green water can be controlled using repeated applications of a green water algae treatment. A variety of TetraPond products are available, depending on your pond’s condition.