1 Complete a new Driver License and/or Identification Card application (DL 44) form. 2  NOTE: If you are under 18, your parent(s) or guardian(s) must sign the application form. 3  Pay another application fee. 4  Provide the following again: your SSN, birth date and legal presence, and true full name. If you already have a California license and you want to renew, you will need to: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment(s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44 or DL 44C) or Commercial Driver License Application form (DL 44C).
Apply for an Identification (ID) Card. To apply for your first Texas ID card, you must do the following: 1  Gather documents that verify your identity, U.S. citizenship or lawful presence status, Social Security Number and Texas residency. 2  Complete the application. 3  Apply in person at any driver license office and bring the required documents and fees
How to change your name on your driver license and/or identification (ID) card. To apply for a name change you will need to: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment(s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form DL 44 or DL 44C. ( 3 An original DL 44 or 44C form must be submitted. If you already have a California license and you want to renew, you will need to: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment(s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44 or DL 44C) or Commercial Driver License Application form (DL 44C).
If you did not receive your license, permit or ID card in the mail and your residence and/or mailing address has changed, you must go to a DMV office to apply for a replacement card and pay the replacement fee. If your residence address has changed, you must present proof of your residence address. The post office will not forward your driver license, permit or ID card. If your mailing address is different or changes from the address you provided at the time you applied, you will not receive your card in the mail. It will be returned to DMV as undeliverable.
Identification Requirements. Individuals must complete additional requirements to obtain a driver license or ID card. To help reduce identity theft, individuals must present documents to verify their identity when applying for a driver license or identification card. There are three ways an individual can verify his/her identity: An individual can present one primary document. No other documents are required to verify identity if one primary document is provided. Primary identity documents include: 1  Texas driver license or Texas identification card not expired more than 2 years.
To change your name on your CA ID card you will need to go to a California DMV office in person to: 1  Fill out a Driver License or Identification Card Application (Form DL 44). 2  Give your thumbprint. 3  Have your picture taken. 4  Pay the $28 fee, if you're under 62 years old. To renew your California ID card in person, you will need to visit a CA DMV office and: 1  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application (Form DL 44). 2  Give your thumb print. 3  Have your picture taken.
If your CA ID card is lost or stolen, you can apply for a replacement at a California DMV office. You cannot order a replacement online, by mail or by phone. You will need to: 1  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application (Form DL 44). 2  Give your thumbprint. 3  Have your picture taken. To renew your California ID card in person, you will need to visit a CA DMV office and: 1  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application (Form DL 44). 2  Give your thumb print. 3  Have your picture taken.