Polenta is really a dish, not an ingredient, from northern Italy. It refers to a porridge or mush now made from coarsely ground cornmeal since corn was cultivated in Europe in the 16th century, but was also in the past made with farro, chestnuts, millet, spelt or chickpeas. Polenta is usually made from yellow corn. Stone-ground cornmeal is labeled as such or can also be called water ground, and you can usually assume unlabeled cornmeal is made through the steel roller process. If the package isn't labeled with the coarseness of the grind, it's probably medium.
Cornmeal. Cornmeal is a meal (coarse flour) ground from dried maize (corn). It is a common staple food, and is ground to fine, medium, and coarse consistencies, but not as fine as wheat flour. In the United States, very finely ground cornmeal is also referred to as corn flour. 1 The cornmeal consists of dried corn kernels that have been ground into a fine or medium texture. 2  Steel-ground yellow cornmeal, which is common mostly in the United States, has the husk and germ of the maize kernel almost completely removed.
None. They are exactly the same. Polenta, the Italian term for cornmeal and for the cornmeal mush made with it, is derived from an ancient Roman dish of the poorer classes, called pulmentum. When corn arrived from the New World in the 16th century, it was substituted for cheap grains like millet that had been used to make the dish. 
Types of Cornmeal. Besides the difference in grinds, cornmeal can be made from blue, white, or yellow corn. Stone-ground cornmeal is labeled as such or can also be called water ground, and you can usually assume unlabeled cornmeal is made through the steel roller process. If the package isn't labeled with the coarseness of the grind, it's probably medium.
Using Cornmeal. While cornmeal is the traditional ingredient in cornbread, it is also used for texture and sweetness in cookies and other breads. It is also often used to dust baking surfaces for things like pizza to prevent the dough from sticking, and can also be used as a thickener for soups and chilis. Stone-ground cornmeal is labeled as such or can also be called water ground, and you can usually assume unlabeled cornmeal is made through the steel roller process. If the package isn't labeled with the coarseness of the grind, it's probably medium.
Polenta is best made with either medium-or coarsely-ground cornmeal. Finely-ground cornmeal flour can also be used to make polenta, but we don't like the texture as much and often find that it retains a floury taste. Masa harina is also a finely-ground cornmeal, but with one extra step added. Before the corn is ground, it gets soaked in lime water (or lye water). This process softens the hull, which is removed before grinding, and adds a distinctive flavor to the corn
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Cornmeal is a powdery food product, similar to common wheat flour, that is made by grinding the dried kernels of maize, or corn, through one of several different processes and into one of several different levels of fineness. 
1 Blue cornmeal is light blue or violet in color. 2  It is ground from whole blue corn and has a sweet flavor. 3  The cornmeal consists of dried corn kernels that have been ground into a fine or medium texture. 1 The cornmeal consists of dried corn kernels that have been ground into a fine or medium texture. 2  Steel-ground yellow cornmeal, which is common mostly in the United States, has the husk and germ of the maize kernel almost completely removed.