Within the central nervous system, cholinergic cells (neurons that use ACh as a neurotransmitter) are found in several different locations of the brain, including the striatal complex, the basal forebrain, the diencephalon, pontomesencephalic cell groups, and the medulla. Acetylcholine: A Representative Small Molecule Neurotransmitter. Acetylcholine (ACh), the first neurotransmitter ever to be identified, is a small-molecule excitatory neurotransmitter with a wide variety of known functions. In the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems and at all neuromuscular junctions, ACh is used to signal muscle movement
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
Acetylcholinesterase (HGNC symbol ACHE), also known as AChE or acetylhydrolase, is the primary cholinesterase in the body. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the breakdown of acetylcholine and of some other choline esters that function as neurotransmitters. AChE is found at mainly neuromuscular junctions and in chemical synapses of the cholinergic type, where its activity serves to terminate synaptic transmission. 
This neurotransmitter is present in the brain and the peripheral nervous system, and acetylcholine receptors are found widely throughout the body and brain. In the brain, acetylcholine is involved in learning and memory. It also stimulates muscle tissue. Acetylcholine neurotransmitter and its influence on the body and brain-Function of this brain chemical and how to raise levels How to Increase acetylcholine naturally with supplements and herbs by Ray Sahelian, M.D. February 24 2015.
Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.
Acetylcholine has many functions: It is responsible for much of the stimulation of muscles, including the muscles of the gastro-intestinal system. It is also found in sensory neurons and in the autonomic nervous system, and has a part in scheduling REM (dream) sleep. The plant poisons curare and hemlock cause paralysis by blocking the acetylcholine receptor sites of muscle cells. It is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, meaning that when it finds its way to its receptor sites, it blocks the tendency of that neuron to fire. Dopamine is strongly associated with reward mechanisms in the brain. Drugs like cocaine, opium, heroin, and alcohol increase the levels of dopamine, as does nicotine.
In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.When acetylcholine binds to acetylcholine receptors on skeletal muscle fibers, it opens ligand gated sodium channels in the cell membrane. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator.In the PNS
Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system. Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions.