Overpopulation occurs when a population of a species exceeds the carrying capacity of its ecological niche. Overpopulation is a function of the number of individuals compared to the relevant resources, such as the water and essential nutrients they need to survive. It can result from an increase in births, a decline in mortality rates, an increase in immigration, or an unsustainable biome and depletion of resources. In 2013 the human population was 7 billion. By 2025 the world population is expected to grow by an additional 1 billion. Depending on which estimate of overpopulation is used, human overpopulation may or may not have already occurred.
Working Population: people in employment who have to support the dependent population. Youthful Population: in the population structure of LEDCs, there is often a higher proportion of young people due to high birth rates and a reduction in infant mortality due to better nutrition, education and medical care. This may create problems since the children need feeding, housing, education and eventually a job. Structure (of a population) : the relative percentages of people of different age groups, usually shown on a population pyramid. Urban-Rural Shift: the movement of people out of towns in MEDCs to seek a better quality of life living in the countryside.
In the wilderness, the problem of overpopulation of species is often solved by growth in the population of predators. Predators tend to look for signs of weakness in their prey, and therefore usually first eat the old or sick animals. In 2013 the human population was 7 billion. By 2025 the world population is expected to grow by an additional 1 billion. Depending on which estimate of overpopulation is used, human overpopulation may or may not have already occurred.
Growth and decline can be equally troubling issues for a given population. A significant change in growth, or decline for that matter, can leave a society and ecosystem reeling. The issues of overpopulation have been previously addressed but are not to be confused with rapid population growth. Population Geography also looks at the ideas of how many people live where and what impact it has on the world system. Population geography can essentially be split into two categories: demography and spatial demography.
Demographic Transition. The process of change in a society's population from a condition of high crude birth and death rates and low rate of natural increase to a condition of low crude birth and death rates and a low rate of natural increase, and a higher total population. 
(October 2009). Population geography is a division of human geography. It is the study of the ways in which spatial variations in the distribution, composition, migration, and growth of populations are related to the nature of places. Population geography involves demography in a geographical perspective. While population geography focuses on the impacts of population on spatial structures and processes, geodemography analyzes the effects of space on demographic structures and processes. However, the boundary between population geography and demographic is becoming more and more blurred.
Overpopulation is when a given habitat no longer has the resources to maintain the population of organisms within it. Most typically this term referes to human beings as the population of organisms and the Earth as the habitat. Population Geography also looks at the ideas of how many people live where and what impact it has on the world system. Population geography can essentially be split into two categories: demography and spatial demography.
Medical Definition of OVERPOPULATION. : the condition of having a population so dense as to cause environmental deterioration, an impaired quality of life, or a population crash. — over·pop·u·lat·ed \-ˈpaep-ˈpäp-yə-ˌlāt\ əd. adjective Full Definition of OVERPOPULATION. : the condition of having a population so dense as to cause environmental deterioration, an impaired quality of life, or a population crash. See overpopulation defined for English-language learners. See overpopulation defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.