1 The most common cause of bacterial pneumonia is a type of bacteria known as Streptococcus pneumoniae. 2  Haemophilus influenzae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Legionella pneumophila are some other major bacteria that cause pneumonia. 1 The body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting the lungs. 2  In bacterial pneumonia, bacteria reproduce in the lungs, while the body tries to fight off the infection. 3  This response to bacterial invaders is called inflammation.
A common cause of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. Other bacteria can cause pneumonia, including Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydophila (Chlamydia) pneumoniae, Chlamydophila (Chlamydia) psittaci, and Legionella pneumophila. 
1 Many types of bacteria may cause pneumonia. 2  Pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniaeMycoplasma pneumoniae is sometimes mild and called  walking pneumonia 3  .. Viruses, such as influenza A (the flu virus) and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) can cause pneumonia. 1 In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 3 
Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. People who suffer from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or alcoholism most often get pneumonia from Klebsiella pneumoniae and Hemophilus influenzae. Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that is caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or parasites. It is characterized primarily by inflammation of the alveoli in the lungs or by alveoli that are filled with fluid (alveoli are microscopic sacs in the lungs that absorb oxygen).
Bacterial Pneumonia Causes. 1  Most pneumonia is caused by bacteria or a virus. 2  Pneumonia from any cause can occur at any age, but people in certain age groups are at higher risk for certain types of pneumonia. 1 The body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting the lungs. 2  In bacterial pneumonia, bacteria reproduce in the lungs, while the body tries to fight off the infection. 3  This response to bacterial invaders is called inflammation.
Viruses, bacteria, a fungus, or (in rare cases) parasites or other organisms can cause pneumonia. 1  In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 1 In most cases, the specific organism (such as bacteria or virus) cannot be identified even with testing. 2  When an organism is identified, it is usually the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae. 3  Many types of bacteria may
Bacterial Pneumonia Causes. 1  Most pneumonia is caused by bacteria or a virus. 2  Pneumonia from any cause can occur at any age, but people in certain age groups are at higher risk for certain types of pneumonia. If you inhale toxic materials, you can injure your lungs and cause chemical pneumonia. Fungus also can cause pneumonia. In certain areas of the United States, specific fungi are well known. Coccidioidomycosis causes a pneumonia called San Joaquin fever or  Valley fever  in the desert regions of California.
Overview. Bacterial pneumonia is an infection in one or both lungs. The bacteria cause the lung’s air sacs (alveoli) to become inflamed and engorged with pus, fluid, and cellular debris. This often impairs the body’s ability to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide. If you have bacterial pneumonia you might experience breathlessness or pain as you struggle to take in oxygen.
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. People with pneumonia often complain about coughing, fever, shaking chills, and shortness of breath. 1  Your body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting your lungs. 2  In pneumonia, bacteria reproduce in your lungs, while your body tries to fight off the infection. If you inhale toxic materials, you can injure your lungs and cause chemical pneumonia. Fungus also can cause pneumonia. In certain areas of the United States, specific fungi are well known. Coccidioidomycosis causes a pneumonia called San Joaquin fever or  Valley fever  in the desert regions of California.
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. People with pneumonia usually complain of coughing, mucus production, fever, shortness of breath, and/or chest pain. 1  The body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting the lungs. 1 The body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting the lungs. 2  In bacterial pneumonia, bacteria reproduce in the lungs, while the body tries to fight off the infection. 3  This response to bacterial invaders is called inflammation.