An oil refinery or petroleum refinery is an industrial process plant where crude oil is processed and refined into more useful products such as petroleum naphtha, gasoline, diesel fuel, asphalt base, heating oil, kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas. There is usually an oil depot (tank farm) at or near an oil refinery for the storage of incoming crude oil feedstock as well as bulk liquid products.
Oil is nearly always processed at a refinery; natural gas may be processed to remove impurities either in the field or at a natural gas processing plant. View the Featured Video on Energy In Depth to learm more about the oil and gas development process. Production is the process of extracting the hydrocarbons and separating the mixture of liquid hydrocarbons, gas, water, and solids, removing the constituents that are non-saleable, and selling the liquid hydrocarbons and gas. Production sites often handle crude oil from more than one well.
Show all Base and Process Oils Manufacturers. Base oils and process oils are the raw stock fluids, usually a refined petroleum fraction or a selected synthetic material, blended with additives to produce finished lubricants, greases, thermal oils, hydraulic fluid, and metal working fluids. Group V oils are not used as base oils and process oils; rather, they are esters and polyesters that are used to make oil additives that contribute specific, beneficial characteristics to the finished lubricant.
1 This process is called fractional distillation. 2  You basically heat crude oil up, let it vaporize and then condense the vapor. 3  Newer techniques use Chemical processing on some of the fractions to make others, in a process called conversion. 4  Chemical processing, for example, can break longer chains into shorter ones. 1 You basically heat crude oil up, let it vaporize and then condense the vapor. 2
Oil painting is the process of painting with pigments with a medium of drying oil as the binder. Commonly used drying oils include linseed oil, poppy seed oil, walnut oil, and safflower oil. The choice of oil imparts a range of properties to the oil paint, such as the amount of yellowing or drying time. 
INTRODUCTION TO PROCESS OILS. INTRODUCTION TO PROCESS OILS Process oils are used in the rubber industry to,  improve the processability of rubbers and rubber compoundsprocess aids  increase the bulk of rubber in order to lower cost oil-extended rubbers Main application is process aid. 2.
We are a marketer of Process Oils and Base Oils. We supply Group I and Group II Paraffinic Oils as well as Naphthenic Oils and Aromatic Extract Oils. We also supply Low PAH Alternative Oils for those companies servicing the European Union and beyond. You may also know our company as Chemical Marketing Associates, Inc. 
Premium Process Oils. At Renkert Oil, we provide ParaLux premium process oils from Chevron, for your rubber manufacturing and specialty applications. Uses for these quality oils include modifying TPE and EPDM rubber to create a softer and more flexible product with weather resisting and insulating properties. 
The Oil Drilling Process. The crew sets up the rig and starts the drilling operations. First, from the starter hole, the team drills a surface hole down to a pre-set depth, which is somewhere above where they think the oil trap is located. There are five basic steps to drilling the surface hole: 