Mitral Valve Prolapse. In MVP, when the left ventricle contracts, one or both flaps of the mitral valve flop or bulge back (prolapse) into the left atrium. This can prevent the valve from forming a tight seal. As a result, blood may leak from the ventricle back into the atrium. The backflow of blood is called regurgitation (re-GUR-jih-TA-shun). MVP doesn't always cause backflow.
What is the name of the valve that prevents regurgitation of food from the small intestine back into the stomach? 
For the type of tooth, see dental anatomy. The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The function of the valve is to prevent back flow of blood into the right atrium. 
Mitral regurgitation is sometimes called mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence. In mitral regurgitation the valve does not close properly. This causes blood to leak back (regurgitate) into the left atrium when the left ventricle contracts. Basically, the more open the valve remains, the more blood regurgitates, the more severe the problem. Mitral regurgitation can occur if the valve is weakened or damaged. Mitral valve prolapse. This is also called floppy mitral valve. In this condition the valve is slightly deformed and bulges back into the left atrium when the ventricle contracts. This can let a small amount of blood leak back into the left atrium. As many as 1 in 20 people have some degree of m
See also: aortic insufficiency and tricuspid insufficiency. Mitral insufficiency (MI) , mitral regurgitation or mitral incompetence is a disorder of the heart in which the mitral valve does not close properly when the heart pumps out blood. The mitral valve apparatus comprises two valve leaflets, the mitral valve annulus, which forms a ring around the valve leaflets, and the papillary muscles, which tether the valve leaflets to the left ventricle and prevent them from prolapsing into the left atrium.
1 Mitral regurgitation is the most common type of valve problem. 2  Aortic valve regurgitation may stem from a congenital heart defect, complications of an infection or other more rare causes. 3  Pulmonary or spumoni regurgitation is more rare and is usually a result of other problems like pulmonary hypertension. Regurgitation is the name for leaking heart valves. Sometimes the condition is minor and may not require treatment, but other times valve regurgitation places a strain on the heart. It can cause the heart to work harder to pump the same amount of blood. Regurgitation occurs when:
Mitral valve prolapse and regurgitation. When your heart is working properly, the mitral valve closes completely during contraction of the left ventricle and prevents blood from flowing back into your heart's upper left chamber (left atrium). The bulging may keep the valve from closing tightly. When blood leaks backward through the valve, it's called mitral valve regurgitation. This may not cause problems if only a small amount of blood leaks back into the atrium.
As the right ventricle contracts, the tricuspid valve closes and the pulmonary valve opens. The closure of the tricuspid valve prevents blood from backing into the right atrium and the opening of the pulmonary valve allows the blood to flow into the pulmonary artery toward the lungs. Left Ventricle. Left Ventricle: The left ventricle receives oxygenated blood as the left atrium contracts. The closure of the mitral valve prevents blood from backing into the left atrium and the opening of the aortic valve allows the blood to flow into the aorta and flow throughout the body. Aortic Valve. Aortic Valve: The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta.
Mitral regurgitation is where blood leaks back through the mitral valve in the heart as the valve does not close properly. This increases the pressure in the left atrium and in the blood vessels coming from the lungs. This may lead to various problems and symptoms, depending on the severity of the leak. Mitral valve prolapse. This is also called floppy mitral valve. In this condition the valve is slightly deformed and bulges back into the left atrium when the ventricle contracts. This can let a small amount of blood leak back into the left atrium. As many as 1 in 20 people have some degree of m