The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a non-profit association which regulates athletes of 1,281 institutions; conferences; organizations; and individuals. For several years, the NCAA was a discussion group and rules-making body, but in 1921 the first NCAA national championship was conducted: the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships. Gradually, more rules committees were formed and more championships were created, including a basketball championship in 1939.
There is a lot of talk about how much money college sports generates. But did you know that more than 90 percent of the NCAA’s revenue goes to support student-athletes? The NCAA and its member campuses are committed to providing opportunities for student-athletes to compete in college while pursuing their educations. Student-athlete success on the field, in the classroom and for life is at the heart of our mission. 
Under NCAA rules, Division I and Division II schools can offer scholarships to athletes for playing a sport. Division III schools may not offer any athletic scholarships. Generally, larger schools compete in Division I and smaller schools in II and III. For several years, the NCAA was a discussion group and rules-making body, but in 1921 the first NCAA national championship was conducted: the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships. Gradually, more rules committees were formed and more championships were created, including a basketball championship in 1939.
1 The National Collegiate Players Association (NCPA) is a group started by former UCLA football players with the purpose of organizing student-athletes. 2  Their goal is to change NCAA rules they view as unjust. For several years, the NCAA was a discussion group and rules-making body, but in 1921 the first NCAA national championship was conducted: the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships. Gradually, more rules committees were formed and more championships were created, including a basketball championship in 1939.
In 2014 the NCAA generated almost a billion dollars in revenue. 80 to 90% of this revenue was due to the Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. This revenue is then distributed back into various organizations and institutions across the United States. For several years, the NCAA was a discussion group and rules-making body, but in 1921 the first NCAA national championship was conducted: the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships. Gradually, more rules committees were formed and more championships were created, including a basketball championship in 1939.
Photo by Chris Graythen/Getty Images. Definition: Colleges that belong to the National Collegiate Athletic Association or NCAA designate themselves as Division I, II or III, according to NCAA guidelines about the number of teams, team size, game calendar and financial support. 
Rick, Please clarify how, under the definition of “recruited athlete” that a phone call or two from the coach can prohibit a student from transferring to another division 1 school if/when no scholarship money is involved. Of the 4 rules for being considered a “recruited” athlete, the only questionable one is the last, which asks if coaches initiated more than 1 phone call .. there were many emails and some phone calls with his recruiter.
In the collegiate model of sports, the young men and women competing on the field or court are students first, athletes second. The NCAA membership has adopted amateurism rules to ensure the students’ priority remains on obtaining a quality educational experience and that all of student-athletes are competing equitably. All incoming student-athletes must be certified as amateurs. Additional information regarding NCAA amateurism rules is available on the NCAA Eligibility Center’s website by clicking on the “Resources” link at the top of the page. Another resource is the Guide for the College Bound Student-Athlete.
Amateurism. Amateur competition is a bedrock principle of college athletics and the NCAA. Maintaining amateurism is crucial to preserving an academic environment in which acquiring a quality education is the first priority. Additional information regarding NCAA amateurism rules is available on the NCAA Eligibility Center’s website by clicking on the “Resources” link at the top of the page. Another resource is the Guide for the College Bound Student-Athlete.