Plant tissue culture is widely used to produce clones of a plant in a method known as micropropagation. Different techniques in plant tissue culture may offer certain advantages over traditional methods of propagation, including: Plant tissue culture relies on the fact that many plant cells have the ability to regenerate a whole plant (totipotency).
I. TYPES OF CELLS GROWN IN CULTURE. Tissue culture is often a generic term that refers to both organ culture and cell culture and the terms are often used interchangeably. Cell cultures are derived from either primary tissue explants or cell suspensions. Primary cell cultures typically will have a finite life span in culture whereas continuous cell lines are, by definition, abnormal and are often transformed cell lines.
Plant tissue culture is a collection of techniques used to maintain or grow plant cells, tissues or organs under sterile conditions on a nutrient culture medium of known composition. Plant tissue culture relies on the fact that many plant cells have the ability to regenerate a whole plant (totipotency).
Growing cells in the laboratory is known as cell culture. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are generated by transferring cells from a preimplantation-stage embryo into a plastic laboratory culture dish that contains a nutrient broth known as culture medium. The cells divide and spread over the surface of the dish. 
In its simplest form, cell culture involves the dispersal of cells in an artificial environment composed of nutrient solutions, a suitable surface to support the growth of cells, and ideal conditions of temperature, humidity, and gaseous atmosphere. Tissue culture was first developed in the early 1900’s as a method for studying the behavior of cells – free of the variations that might arise in the whole organism – in reponse to normal and induced experimental stress.
1. Prepare a cell suspension, either directly from a cell culture or from a concentrated or diluted suspension (depending on the cell density) and combine 20 μl of cells with 20 μl of trypan blue suspension (0.4%). Cell cultures are derived from either primary tissue explants or cell suspensions. Primary cell cultures typically will have a finite life span in culture whereas continuous cell lines are, by definition, abnormal and are often transformed cell lines.
Cell culture technicians grow living cells in culture flasks, bioreactors, plates and other kinds of containers. The types of cells they grow can come from plants or animals. Sometimes cell culture technicians start cultures directly from tissues such as umbilical cords or tumor biopsies. Sometimes they grow and maintain cultured cells that are obtained from commercial suppliers and organizations such at the ATTC.
5.1 Primary Cultures. Primary cultures are derived directly from excised, normal animal tissue and cultures either as an explant culture or following dissociation into a single cell suspension by enzyme digestion. Such cultures are initially heterogeneous but later become dominated by fi broblasts. 5.3 Culture Morphology. In terms of growth mode cell cultures take one of two forms, growing either in suspension (as single cells or small free fl oating clumps) or as a monolayer that is attached to the tissue culture fl ask.
In such a system, a researcher can precisely measure the response of the cell’s alterations in culture, prospective drugs, the presence or absence of other kinds of cells, carcinogenic agents, and viruses. Cell cultures and DNA can be established from blood or small fragments of tissue (biopsies). Tissue culture was first developed in the early 1900’s as a method for studying the behavior of cells – free of the variations that might arise in the whole organism – in reponse to normal and induced experimental stress.
Animal or plant cells, removed from tissues, will continue to grow if supplied with the appropriate nutrients and conditions. When carried out in a laboratory, the process is called Cell Culture. It occurs in vitro (‘in glass’) as opposed to in vivo (‘in life’). The culture process allows single cells to act as independent units, much like a microorganism such as a bacterium or fungus.