See: types of pasta and 10 most famous pasta dishes of Italy. A variety of thick soups made with vegetables, beans and pasta, rice or potatoes. Common ingredients include beans, onions, celery, carrots, stock, and tomatoes. It is served as a primo as an alternative to a pasta or risotto plate. . . . Common Italian foods and dishes include all types of pasta, risotto and pizza, some soups (minestroni and zuppe) and delicious meat and fish dishes.
Italian cuisine is characterized by its simplicity, with many dishes having only four to eight ingredients. Italian cooks rely chiefly on the quality of the ingredients rather than on elaborate preparation. With culinary traditions from Rome and Athens, a cuisine developed in Sicily that some consider the first real Italian cuisine. Arabs invaded Sicily in the 9th century, introducing spinach, almonds, and rice.
Italian cuisine has a great variety of different ingredients which are commonly used, ranging from fruits, vegetables, sauces, meats, etc. In the North of Italy, fish (such as cod, or baccala), baccalà, potatoes, rice (corn), maize, sausages, pork and different types of cheeses are the most common. ingredients With culinary traditions from Rome and Athens, a cuisine developed in Sicily that some consider the first real Italian cuisine. Arabs invaded Sicily in the 9th century, introducing spinach, almonds, and rice.
Traditional Italian Food. We can't discuss Italian traditions without talking about food. It's an essential part of Italian life, and may be the one Italian tradition that non-Italians know best. The most well-known Italian dishes are pasta and pizza, but Italian cuisine varies tremendously from one region to another. 
Start the meal with simple small bites. In Italy, big meals are treated as an event, with several courses of delicious, simple dishes and, of course, lots of good company. Learn about the traditional Italian meal, and choose recipes from each category to create your own Italian-style feast. Antipasto. 
Staple dishes in the north were rice and polenta, and pasta was most popular throughout the south. During the last decades of the twentieth century (1980s and 1990s), however, pasta and pizza (another traditional southern food) became popular in the north of Italy. Pasta is more likely to be served with a white cheese sauce in the north and a tomato-based sauce in the south. Italians are known for their use of herbs in cooking, especially oregano, basil, thyme, parsley, rosemary, and sage. Cheese also plays an important role in Italian cuisine.
This is a list of Italian dishes and foods. Italian cuisine has developed through centuries of social and political changes, with roots as far back as the 4th century BC. Italian cuisine has its origins in Etruscan, ancient Greek, and ancient Roman cuisines. Significant changes occurred with the discovery of the New World and the introduction of potatoes, tomatoes, bell peppers and maize, now central to the cuisine but not introduced in quantity until the 18th century. 
Gnocchi and spaetzle spätzle are sometimes considered; pasta they are both traditional in parts Of. Italy as with, pizza pasta is the core part of the recipe but can be combined with many different types of food such as various, meats, cheeses herbs and. sauces A very popular Italian dish is the minestrone soup. This soup makes excellent use of one of the most popular ingredients in Italian food – beans. Beans are widely used in Italian food and are the feature ingredient in many soups, not just the minestrone. Together with beans, nuts are another popular ingredient.
Traditional Central Italian cuisine uses ingredients such as tomatoes, all kinds of meat, fish, and pecorino cheese. In Tuscany pasta (especially pappardelle) is traditionally served with meat sauce (including game meat). With culinary traditions from Rome and Athens, a cuisine developed in Sicily that some consider the first real Italian cuisine. Arabs invaded Sicily in the 9th century, introducing spinach, almonds, and rice.