Side View of the Prostate. The prostate is a walnut-sized gland located between the bladder and the penis. The prostate is just in front of the rectum. The urethra runs through the center of the prostate, from the bladder to the penis, letting urine flow out of the body. The prostate secretes fluid that nourishes and protects sperm.
Facts about the prostate gland. The prostate gland is about the size of a walnut. It's located just below the bladder and it surrounds the urethra (a tube that carries urine and semen out of the body). The prostate is partly muscular and partly glandular, with ducts opening into the prostatic portion of the urethra. Function of the prostate gland. As part of the male reproductive system, the prostate gland’s main purpose is to secrete a slightly alkaline fluid that forms part of the seminal fluid, a fluid that carries sperm.
Prostate cancer is a common disorder of the prostate that often necessitates the surgical removal of the prostate.... Click to read more below. Found only in men, the prostate is a walnut-sized gland that grows throughout a man’s life and may eventually interfere with or prevent urination by blocking the urethra. The prostate makes a significant contribution to the production and ejaculation of semen during sexual intercourse. 
The prostate (from Greek προστάτης, prostates, literally one who stands before, protector, guardian) is a compound tubuloalveolar exocrine gland of the male reproductive system in most mammals. It differs considerably among species anatomically, chemically, and physiologically. 
The prostate gland is an essential part of the male reproductive system. The prostate gland, as it is commonly called, is not really a gland at all, but an organ that consists of about 70 percent glandular tissue and 30 percent fibromuscular tissue. 
Prostate cancer is a cancer that starts in the prostate gland. Cancer causes cells in the body to change and grow out of control. Most types of cancer form a lump or a growth called a tumor. If there is a cancerous tumor in the prostate, a man may not know it. Most cases of prostate cancer develop very slowly. 
The prostate is a small gland in men that is part of the reproductive system. It's about the shape and size of a walnut. The prostate rests below the bladder and in front of the rectum. It surrounds part of the urethra, the tube that carries urine from the bladder. When a man reaches the age of 40, the prostate gland might have increased from the size of a walnut to that of an apricot. By the time he reaches the age of 60, it might be the size of a lemon. Because it surrounds part of the urethra, the enlarged prostate can squeeze the urethra.
The prostate gland is a male reproductive organ whose main function is to secrete prostate fluid, one of the components of semen. The muscles of the prostate gland also help propel this seminal fluid into the urethra during ejaculation. The prostate is a muscular gland that weighs about three-fourths of an ounce (20 grams) about the size of a small apricot. It surrounds the urethra just beneath the bladder
A man's prostate gland is a solid organ found immediately below his bladder (see Figure 1), and it surrounds the urethra -- which is the tube connecting the bladder and the penis through which a man urinates. The other important parts of the male urogenital system are the seminal vesicles and the testicles. Figure 1. | Control of the prostate. Only males have prostates, so only men can get cancer of the prostate. That's the good news for women! The prostate is an important part of a man's urogenital system, and proper functioning of the prostate is important to proper bladder control and normal sexual function.