Stargardt disease is the most common form of inherited juvenile macular degeneration. The progressive vision loss associated with Stargardt disease is caused by the death of photoreceptor cells in the central portion of the retina called the macula. 
In rare cases--one in 20,000--macular degeneration is diagnosed in children and teenagers. Of those cases, the most common cause is Stargardt disease, named for Karl Stargardt, a German ophthalmologist who first reported a case in his practice in 1901. Stargardt disease is the result of a gene called ABCA4 and is usually a recessive trait. When both parents carry the ABCA4 mutation, there is a 25 percent chance their children will have Stargardt disease.
Stargardt disease, or fundus flavimaculatus, is an inherited form of juvenile macular degeneration that causes progressive vision loss usually to the point of legal blindness. Several genes are associated with the disorder. Symptoms, mainly vision loss, typically develop before age 20, and also include wavy vision, blind spots, blurriness, impaired color vision, and difficulty adapting to dim lighting.
Stargardt macular dystrophy is an inherited eye condition that affects your macula, which is a tiny part of the retina, the light sensitive film at the back of your eye. Stargardt macular dystrophy causes a reduction in your central, or detailed, vision. This is the vision you use when looking directly at something. 
Stargardt disease: An hereditary eye disease that is one of the most frequent causes of macular degeneration in childhood. 
Central vision loss also occurs, while peripheral vision usually is retained. Stargardt's disease is diagnosed by the presence of small, yellowish spots of deteriorating tissue (drusen) sloughed off from the colored or outer covering of the retina (retinal pigment epithelium). Progressive vision loss eventually leads to blindness in most cases. 
In this article. Juvenile macular degeneration is the term for several inherited eye diseases -- including Stargardt's disease, Best disease, and juvenile retinoschisis -- that affect children and young adults. These rare diseases cause central vision loss that may begin in childhood or young adulthood. 
Stargardt's disease. a congenital form of macular degeneration that first appears between the ages of 6 and 20 and is marked by rapid loss of visual acuity with a cystlike macular lesion that in the early stages resembles egg yolk. Called also Stargardt's macular degeneration.
Stargardt disease (also known as fundus flavimaculatus and Stargardt macular dystrophy) is the most common form of inherited juvenile macular degeneration. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait, it is a severe form of MD that begins in late childhood, leading to legal blindness. 
Stargardt Disease. From Wikipedia: “Stargardt disease, or fundus flavimaculatus, is an inherited form of juvenile macular degeneration that causes progressive vision loss usually to the point of legal blindness. 