The wombat is a medium sized marsupial that is found only in Australia and it's surrounding islands. Wombats are burrowing mammals that spend most of the day under ground, coming out at night to feed. The common wombat is thought to be a descendant of the giant wombat that existed around 50 million years ago. When the baby wombats are first born they are very small and undeveloped and crawl into the mother wombat's pouch almost immediately. The baby wombat stays in the pouch of the mother wombat until the baby wombat is around 5 months old. By the time the baby wombat is roughly 7 months old, it is able to care for itself. Wombats have long claws which they use to dig burrows
Wombats are one of the oddest-looking animals you'll ever see! Native to Australia, the comical animals look like short, stocky bears. But wombats are really marsupials, related to koalas and kangaroos. 
WOMBAT Description The wombat is a marsupial. It has a pouch which faces backward so no dirt gets in when it is burrowing. Wombats are closely related to the koala. There are three types of wombats, the Common Wombat, the Southern Hairy-nosed Wombat and the extremely rare Northern Hairy-nosed Wombat. 
Australian literature contains many references to the wombat. Notable examples are Mr. Walter Wombat from the adventures of Blinky Bill and a wombat is one of the main antagonists in the The Magic Pudding by Norman Lindsay. Wombats have sometimes been featured in popular culture, particularly in video games. Female wombats give birth to a single young in the spring, after a gestation period, which like all marsupials can vary, in the case of the wombat: 20–21 days. They have well-developed pouches, which the young leave after about six to seven months.
The wombat is a small, rather charming, herbivorous marsupial found in Australia and Tasmania. They are solitary animals, with short brown fur and a large nose, looking somewhat like a cross between a kangaroo and a koala. Others describe it as resembling petite bears, since they are so stocky. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The common wombat (Vombatus ursinus), also known as the coarse-haired wombat or bare-nosed wombat, is a marsupial, one of three species of wombats and the only one in the genus Vombatus. The common wombat grows to an average of 98 cm (39 in) long and a weight of 26 kg (57 lb). Common wombat in Narawntapu National Park, Tasmania. It is widespread in the cooler and better-watered parts of southern and eastern Australia, including Tasmania, and in mountain districts as far north as the south of Queensland, but is declining in western Victoria and South Australia.
Introduction to Wombat. One of the interesting marsupials is the Wombat. They can be up to 39 inches long. They are short and very muscular. They have a tail that is nothing more than a nub. There are 3 different species.