Your goal is to minimize the time a food is in the danger zone — between 40 and 140 F (4 and 60 C) — when bacteria can quickly multiply. When you're ready to eat leftovers, reheat them on the stove, in the oven or in the microwave until the internal temperature reaches 165 F (74 C). Because they may not get hot enough, slow cookers and chafing dishes aren't recommended for reheating leftovers.
You can refrigerate them for up to 5 days as long as they are stored properly — wrapped in a paper towel and then sealed inside a plastic bag. Fresh Beans/Peas: Depending on the variety, they can be kept, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator for 3-5 days. These types of cheeses can be kept for 2-3 weeks in the refrigerator. (They don’t need to be in the coldest part of the refrigerator.). Poultry/Ground Meats/Stew Meats/Lamb or Pork Chops: These raw ingredients can be kept, wrapped well, in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
First, within two hours after dinner has been served, make sure to pack up leftovers right away and store in the refrigerator. For every 20 minutes over two hours your food sits at room temperature, the level of bacteria doubles in quantity, so don’t procrastinate! Leftovers can safely keep for 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator, or 3 to 4 months in the freezer. Follow the following USDA guidelines for handling leftovers safely: 
And don’t overstuff your fridge. Cold air needs to circulate above and beneath food to keep it properly chilled. Most leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the fridge. If you have more food than you plan to eat within four days, freeze within two hours after it’s cooked. When you’re ready to eat your leftovers, reheat them to an internal temperature of 74 C (165 F), measured by a digital food thermometer
Cooked Food: Leftover, cooked foods should be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container and eaten within 4-5 days. Food, whether cooked or not, should not be left at room temperature for more than 4 hours otherwise the risk of food poisoning increases. These types of cheeses can be kept for 2-3 weeks in the refrigerator. (They don’t need to be in the coldest part of the refrigerator.). Poultry/Ground Meats/Stew Meats/Lamb or Pork Chops: These raw ingredients can be kept, wrapped well, in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
You can store your leftovers in the refrigerator for up to four days. Try to reheat only what you'll be serving at one time rather than reheating the entire portion. 
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food. When you're ready to eat leftovers, reheat them on the stove, in the oven or in the microwave until the internal temperature reaches 165 F (74 C). Because they may not get hot enough, slow cookers and chafing dishes aren't recommended for reheating leftovers.
As a rule of thumb, you shouldn't keep already prepared meals longer than three or four days [source: Dakss ]. That goes for pretty much all your leftovers, from salads to meatloaf. Remember, just because you put all your excess food in the fridge doesn't mean it won't go bad. Since, in this case, the destination is spoiled food, you want to drag it out for as long as possible, so be sure to stick whatever food you won't be eating into the fridge within two hours after it's prepared. Of course, some foods fester faster than others.
Depending on the variety, they can be kept, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator for 3-5 days. Image Credit: Getty Images. Onions: Once cut into, they should be tightly wrapped and stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator and used within 4 days. Image Credit: Getty Images. Potatoes: Stored in a cool, dark place, generally most potatoes will keep for up to 2 weeks while new potatoes should be used within a few days. When storing food in the refrigerator or freezer, make sure it’s in an airtight container or bag. Image Credit: Getty Images. Prepared Salads: These salads, like tuna or chicken, can generally be stored for up to 3-4 days in the refrigerator.
In addition, it's always important to get the food in the refrigerator within 2 hours after it's cooked or sooner if it's cooled enough. If food has been left out for longer than 2 hours, don't put it back in the refrigerator and don't keep it for later. It's not safe to eat. The following foods will keep only 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator: 1  Fresh (raw) ground meats and stew meats. 2  Gravy and meat broth. 3  Fresh poultry and fresh fish.