The Roman Emperors and Empresses were rulers of the Roman Empire, wielding power over its citizens and military. Under the republic, regions of the empire were ruled by provincial governors answerable to and authorised by the  Senate and People of Rome . Rome and its senate were ruled by a variety of magistrates – of whom the consuls were the most powerful.
Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, and Marcus Aurelius, known as the Five Good Emperors, were a series of excellent emperors who ruled in Rome from 96-180 AD. following the Flavian Dynasty. 
1 The Reign of Emperor Hadrian Hadrian is known as one of the emperors who contributed the most to the Roman Empire. 2  His reign lasted from 177 to 138 A.D., and in that time, he made changes to Rome and to 3  …. The Rise and Fall of Emperor Domitian Emperor Domitian was the third and final emperor under the Flavian Dynasty. The emperors of the Julio-Caudian dynasty were Augustus 27 BC-14 AD) Tiberius (14-37) Caligula (37-41) Claudius (41-54) and Nero (54-68). In the year of the Four Emperors (68- … 69 AD) four men fought each other over the imperial title.
All Roman emperors had faults that ancient historians and biographers criticized. Many emperors had unusual sexual appetites and more were guilty of murder, but somehow these five stand out as too bizarre or excessive -- today. 
A Byzantine group of claimant Roman Emperors existed in the Empire of Trebizond until its conquest by the Ottomans in 1461. In western Europe the title of Roman Emperor was revived by Germanic rulers, the  Holy Roman Emperors , in 800, and was used until 1806. The Romans considered the office of emperor to be distinct to that of a king. The first emperor, Augustus, resolutely refused recognition as a monarch. Although Augustus could claim that his power was authentically Republican, his successor, Tiberius, could not convincingly make the same claim.
A Roman emperor was the man who ruled over the empire. The first Emperor ruled Rome after years of fighting between rival leaders. His name was Octavian. He took a new name, Augustus, when he became Emperor in 27 BC. Augustus brought peace after years of fighting. Not all the emperors were good and wise. Some were terrible. Some wanted to be gods
During this time there were over 140 different emperors! Augustus: Augustus was the first emperor. He was Julius Caesar's adopted son. In 31 BCE, after 30 years of civil war, Augustus defeated Anthony and Cleopatra, and because the first emperor of ancient Rome. He called himself emperor because he knew the people would never accept the title of king.
Valens: Valens was not the last emperor of ancient Rome. There were a couple more after him who tried their best. Oddly, the last emperor of ancient Rome was named Romulus Augustus-Emperor Augustus. So the first and last emperors of ancient Rome were both called Emperor Augustus. He was Julius Caesar's adopted son. In 31 BCE, after 30 years of civil war, Augustus defeated Anthony and Cleopatra, and because the first emperor of ancient Rome. He called himself emperor because he knew the people would never accept the title of king.
The empire was developed as the Roman Republic invaded and occupied most of Europe and portions of northern Africa and western Asia. Under the republic, regions of the empire were ruled by provincial governors answerable to and authorised by the  Senate and People of Rome . Rome and its senate were ruled by a variety of magistrates – of whom the consuls were the most powerful.
The Eastern (Byzantine) emperors ultimately adopted the title of  Basileus  (βασιλεύς), which had meant king in Greek, but became a title reserved solely for the Roman emperor and the ruler of the Sasanian Empire. Other kings were then referred to as rēgas. The Romans considered the office of emperor to be distinct to that of a king. The first emperor, Augustus, resolutely refused recognition as a monarch. Although Augustus could claim that his power was authentically Republican, his successor, Tiberius, could not convincingly make the same claim.