Trusted Results with How long does rotisserie chicken last in the fridge. Rotisserie Chicken Jump-starts Snazzy Meals-Allrecipes. Tips when buying rotisserie chicken. ... It's easier to separate while warm, it saves room in the fridge, and you can start your recipe without delay. ... Making Chicken Stock-Allrecipes. A step-by-step tutorial for making chicken stock. 
The amount of time you can leave food in the fridge depends on the food -- and the food's expiration date. Some foods can be left in the fridge a long time and still be safe to eat. Cheeses and soy milk may last a few months. 1  Keep milk and cream for 1 to 5 days after the sell-by date, according to Clemson University. 2  Leave yogurt in your fridge 7 to 10 days after the sell-by date, notes
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
The USDA notes that if the product comes with a sell by date, you can generally keep raw meat and eggs in the fridge past that date by using the following guidelines: 1  Chicken, turkey, sausage, ground poultry, and ground meat: 1 to 2 days past sell-by date. 2  Beef, lamb, pork, and veal: 3 to 5 days past sell-by date. Cheeses and soy milk may last a few months. 1  Keep milk and cream for 1 to 5 days after the sell-by date, according to Clemson University. 2  Leave yogurt in your fridge 7 to 10 days after the sell-by date, notes
1sweetpea Apr 20, 2011 11:27 AM. If you take the meat off the bone as soon as you bring it home, I'd say it's good for about 3 days in the fridge. Beyond that, you'll have to do a taste test. If the meat tastes gummy, mushy, rubbery or off in any way, turf it. That's only because it will cool down faster if it's not on the bone, especially with a large bird like a turkey. It doesn't make any difference to a supermarket roast chicken because it's much smaller to begin with. I've found that cooked chicken is good for four or five days.
You can keep beef roasts and steaks in the refrigerator safely for three to five days by storing the meat at 40 degrees Fahrenheit, advises the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Be sure to consume ground beef, liver, kidneys and beef tongue within two days. Meat is only safe to keep in the refrigerator for a certain length of time, after which you should throw it out.
I bought the chicken on Thursday and it is now Saturday. I just made a pasta dish with it, and my general rule of thumb is that once cooked meats (poultry, beef, pork) are good for another two days. (Possibly a little conservative I know.) I am thrown by the rotisserie chicken though because it was cooked on... Usually 5-6 days are okay for cooked meats that are stored in refrigeration. The main concern then is quality not safety. You have a good (yes conservative) rule so relax. While taking a course in Microbiology we were to bring in a food item.
You should cook a thawed out 7 pound chicken in a rotisserie for at  least 2 to 3 hours. If the chicken is frozen this will take longer. How long does a 4lb chicken take to cook in a rotisserie? To cook a 4 pound chicken in a rotisserie at a temperature of 350  degrees Fahrenheit can take nearly two hours. However, you should  use a meat thermometer to check that th … e internal temperature of  the chicken is about 165 degrees Fahrenheit.