Zebra mussels are believed to have come from the Caspian Sea in Europe. They arrived in the late 1980s in the ballast water of ships. Zebra mussels have spread to 20 of the United States and the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec. 1 Zebra mussels have spread to 20 of the United States and the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec. 2  First found in Lake St. Clair, they have spread south to the Gulf of Mexico and north into southern Canada. 3  Zebra mussels can be up to two inches (50 mm) long.
Zebra Mussel (Dreissena polymorpha). Zebra Mussels are an invasive species that have inhabited Wiscsonsin waters and are displacing native species, disrupting ecosystems, and affecting citizens' livelihoods and quality of life. 
1 Zebra mussels get their name from the striped pattern of their shells. 2  However, the pattern varies greatly to where there are no stripes, only dark or light colored shells. 3  Zebra mussels can grow to a maximum length of about 50 mm (5-10 mm in the first year) and live four to five years. 1 As a native to Russia, zebra mussels were introduced into the Great Lakes in 1985 or 1986, when one or more transoceanic ships discharged ballast water into Lake St. Clair. 2  Being a temperate, freshwater species, the zebra mussels found the plankton-rich Lakes St. Clair and Erie to their liking.
Identification: The zebra mussel is a small shellfish named for the striped pattern of its shell. Color patterns can vary to the point of having only dark or light colored shells and no stripes. 
Definition of ZEBRA MUSSEL. : a chiefly freshwater Eurasian lamellibranch mollusk (Dreissena polymorpha) that was accidentally introduced into the Great Lakes and has spread to other waterways where it colonizes and clogs water intake pipes and competes with native fish for food. ADVERTISEMENT.
Zebra mussels. Many zebra mussels attached to a native mussel. Species and Origin: Zebra mussels are small, fingernail-sized animals that attach to solid surfaces in water. Adults are 1/4 to 1-1/2 inches long and have D-shaped shells, often with alternating yellow and brownish colored stripes. Female zebra mussels can produce 100,000 to 500,000 eggs per year
The zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) is a small freshwater mussel. This species was originally native to the lakes of southern Russia, being first described in 1769 by the German zoologist Peter Simon Pallas in the Ural, Volga and Dnieper rivers. 
(Zebra Mussel Frequently Asked Questions). How to identify a zebra mussel: 1  Zebra mussels look like small clams, with a yellow or brownish D-shaped shell, often with dark and light-colored stripes. 2  They can be up to two inches long, but most are under an inch. 3  They usually grow in clusters, and are generally found in shallow (6-30 feet) water. Order your free Watch card! The zebra mussel is a barnacle-like shellfish that poses a multi-billion-dollar threat to industrial, agricultural and municipal water supplies across North America. Since it was spotted in the Great Lakes in 1988, it has become a nuisance for shipping, boating, fishing and clamming in freshwater as well
Transporting zebra mussels is illegal. Possession or transportation of zebra mussels in Texas is a Class C misdemeanor for the first offense, punishable by a fine of up to $500. Repeat offenses can be elevated to a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $2,000, jail time up to 180 days, or both. Zebra mussels are a small, destructive invasive species that can spread across Texas by hitching a ride on boats and trailers. They grow to only about 1 ½ inches and develop a distinctive zebra-striped shell.