The history of sign language goes all the way back to the fifth century BC, as written of by Socrates. And it was also mentioned in Bible times. People were Deaf back then, of course, and had ways of communicating through gesture. It was not understood then as a language, and Deafness was not well understood. The first notable pioneer, perhaps inventor of sign language is Juan Pablo Bonet. He was a Spanish secretary to a wealthy family. This family had a Deaf son
Confidence votes 5. A language cannot technically be invented so much as it is developed over time, so it's impossible to pinpoint exactly when the language began. The first school for the deaf in the United States was established in Hartford, Connecticut in 1817. British sign language has evolved  and improved, as all languages do, fro … m these origins by  modification, invention and demand Thomas Braidwood a teacher from  Edinburgh founded 'Braidwood's Academy for the Deaf and Dumb' in  1760 which is recognised as the first school for the deaf in  Britain.
The Sign Language was invented in 1620 when the first book was published by Juan Pablo de Bonet to teach sign language to the deaf. Bonet published the book on the basis of an Italian physician Girolamo Cardano’s works that learning can be acquired without hearing. 
American Sign Language was not invented but evolved from a community. It's history is closely tied with French Sign Language (LSF), Martha's Vineyard Sign Language and family gestures. American Sign Language (ASL), used in the US and most parts of Canada, is derived from French Sign Language whereas the other three countries sign dialects of British, Australian and New Zealand Sign Language.
The Invention of Sign Language. No one person invented sign language. It is reasonable to think that sign language was widely used before standardized systems were developed. Deaf people needed a way to communicate with others and many had a set of signs that they used at home to make themselves understood. The first system of hand signals as a language was invented by Juan Pablo de Bonet in 1620. He created the first book with sign language signals for teaching deaf people.
Laurent Clerc and Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet started the first American school for the deaf in 1817 and were believed to be the inventors for the American Sign Language. Though Laurent was a European and taught French Sign Language but Thomas brought him to America to take his help in the school. He was the first to use sign language. In 1620 Juan Pablo de Bonet was the one to write a book which had the first alphabet system known to man. He used different signs through hand shapes to represent different sounds of speech.
Sign language for the deaf was first systematized in France during the 18th century by Abbot Charles-Michel l'Epee. Epée French Sign (LANGUAGE) fsl was brought to The United states in 1816 By Thomas, gallaudet founder of The American school for The deaf In, Hartford. conn French Sign Language (FSL) was brought to the United States in 1816 by Thomas Gallaudet, founder of the American School for the Deaf in Hartford, Conn.
ASL was then invented using signs from French Sign Language, as well as signs from the community in Martha's Vineyard, and may have been influenced by the signing system of the Great Plains Native Americans. American Sign Language. American Sign Language, or ASL became prominent in the 1800's thanks to Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet. He wanted to help Alice Cogswell who was his neighbor's deaf daughter, so he travelled to Europe to study how to communicate with deaf people.
American Sign Language was invented for the same reason that all languages are invented, for communication. It is mainly for communication among people that are Deaf, hard of … hearing or sometimes people that are mute. British sign language has evolved  and improved, as all languages do, fro … m these origins by  modification, invention and demand Thomas Braidwood a teacher from  Edinburgh founded 'Braidwood's Academy for the Deaf and Dumb' in  1760 which is recognised as the first school for the deaf in  Britain.
American Sign Language was invented for the same reason that all languages are invented, for communication. It is mainly for communication among people that are Deaf, hard of … hearing or sometimes people that are mute. American Sign Language (ASL), used in the US and most parts of Canada, is derived from French Sign Language whereas the other three countries sign dialects of British, Australian and New Zealand Sign Language.