Igneous rocks are created from solidified magma (rock that has been melted inside the earth), sedimentary rocks are created when smaller bits of rock or sand are cemented together, and metamorphic rock are formed when other types of rocks are subjected to heat and pressure. Intrusive rocks harden slowly beneath the surface of the earth, and often form large mineral crystals within the rock. Granite is a good example of an intrusive rock. Porphyritic intrusive rocks have large crystals embedded in a matrix of smaller crystals.
Concrete, for example, is made up of stones, sand and gravel and mixed with cement. Rocks are also used to make medicine, weapons and cosmetics. Various types of rock have been used to make historic monuments, like the ancient Egyptian pyramids. Rock that contains metals is called ore. Iron, copper, lead, gold, and uranium are among the most important ores. These organic sediments harden and turn into rock. Sandstone and limestone are two of the most important and widespread sedimentary rocks. These sediments contain fossil fuels, like oil and gas. Limestone is made up of shells and skeletons of living things.
GEOLOGICAL COMPOSITION OF FLORIDA. In Florida, sedimentary rocks are the most common type of rock. These rocks are made up of cemented mineral particles. One example is shell fragments (the mineral aragonite) that are cemented together by calcite to form the sedimentary rock coquina. 
Many of these rock types also have galleries with multiple photos. You may also want to use the Rock Type Identification Key. Both documents require you to determine whether your rock is igneous, sedimentary or metamorphic. The Rock Type Identification Key has a brief list of tips for that purpose beneath the tables. 
Shale, sandstone, and limestone are the most common types of sedimentary rocks. They are formed by the most common mineral that is found on or near the surface of the Earth. The mineral that forms these sedimentary rocks is feldspar. Sedimentary rocks are formed in three ways from these different sized sediments. A sedimentary rock is a layered rock that is formed from the compaction, cementation, and the recrystallization of
It all starts with igneous rocks. The Earth is believed to have been entirely molten in its early stages of development. Hence, all other rock types are derivatives of igneous rocks. Some important igneous rocks from left to right: gabbro, andesite, pegmatite, basalt, pumice, porphyry, obsidian, granite, and tuff.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris. It can also be a chemical sedimentary rock formed by the precipitation of calcium carbonate from lake or ocean water. Most limestones form in shallow, calm, warm marine waters. Limestone is by definition a rock that contains at least 50% calcium carbonate in the form of calcite by weight. All limestones contain at least a few percent other materials. These can be small particles of quartz, feldspar, clay minerals, pyrite, siderite and other minerals.
Rock types are specific assemblages of minerals (most rocks are composed of minerals). Rocks are much more vaguely defined than minerals. Even rocks within one rock type may have a highly variable composition. Hence, all other rock types are derivatives of igneous rocks. Some important igneous rocks from left to right: gabbro, andesite, pegmatite, basalt, pumice, porphyry, obsidian, granite, and tuff.
There are three types of rocks: metamorphic, sedimentary, and igneous rocks. Metamorphic rocks are rocks transformed from one form to another by intense heat, intense pressure, or the action of hot fluids. For example, sand can be compacted until it is pressure-hardened into sandstone, or sandstone can form when sand grains are cemented together by chemical residues or intergrown crystals. Rock salt and gypsum are examples of sedimentary rocks that formed by precipitation during the evaporation of salt water or brine.
Here is a list of major rock types recognized by geologists. Immense number of rock types have been defined (their definitions often overlapping) and many rock classifications exist. However, there seems to be a fair number of terms and classification principles that have successfully stood the test of time. Hence, all other rock types are derivatives of igneous rocks. Some important igneous rocks from left to right: gabbro, andesite, pegmatite, basalt, pumice, porphyry, obsidian, granite, and tuff.