It is of Spanish and Greek origin, and the meaning of Rita is pearl. Short form of Margarita, from Margaret. Use in Hindi is from Sanskrit, meaning right. First used as an independent name a few hundred years ago. The Italian Saint Rita (15th century) has roses for her emblem. Rita is a very popular first name for women (#104 out of 4276, Top 2%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#20219 out of 150436, Top 13%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Rita for girls.
The Hidden Meaning of the name Rita using NumerologyNumerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The Hidden Meaning of the name Rita using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Rita.
The Meaning of the name Rita The meaning of the name Rita is as follows: Pearl. The Origin of the name Rita The origin of the name Rita is believed to be: Greek. The Hidden Meaning of the name Rita using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Rita.
Spanish Meaning: The name Rita is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Rita is: Pearl. American Meaning: The name Rita is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rita is: Pearl. Persian Meaning: The name Rita is a Persian baby name. In Persian the meaning of the name Rita is: Child of light. Famous Bearer: Margaret Thatcher, former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. Greek Meaning: The name Rita is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Rita is: Speaker. Can also be a Pearl.
Rita has its origins in the Old Greek language. It is used largely in the English, German, Italian, Polish, and Spanish languages. Rita is a contraction (English, German, Italian, Polish, and Spanish) of the Italian Margherita and a contraction of the English and Scottish Margaret. Rita is rare as a baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 1930, 0.469% of baby girls were given the name Rita. It had a ranking of #42 then.
Meaning of Rita. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Rita means-from margareta.The name Rita originated as an Spanish name. The name Rita is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-from margareta. Origin-Spain. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rita and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Rita and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Rita is fascinating, learn more about it. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Rita are: 1  Spanish meaning: Derivative: A short form of Margarita. 2  Greek meaning: Precious pearl.