The Woman’s Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) was founded in November 1874 in Cleveland, Ohio. After Frances Willard took over leadership in 1879, the WCTU became one of the largest and most influential women’s groups of the 19th century by expanding its platform to campaign for labor laws, prison reform and suffrage. 
It was influential in the temperance movement, and supported the 18th Amendment. The WCTU was originally organized on December 23, 1873, in Hillsboro, Ohio, and officially declared at a national convention in Cleveland, Ohio in 1874. This 1902 illustration from the Hawaiian Gazette newspaper humorously illustrates the Anti-Saloon League and the Women's Christian Temperance Union's campaign against the producers and sellers of beers in Hawaii.
People were against the temperance movement becasue they felt it was restricting and unfair. They argued that the movement was unnecessary because only minority of people abused alcohol, the movement is unnecessary. People believed that the temperance movement hurt the economy by restricting the sale of alcohol, hurting many business owners. Minortity abusive drinkers. People who opposed the temperance movement believed it was unfair to restrict everybodys drinking if only some abused alcohol. They blamed the want for the temperance movement on Irish and German immagrants, who were believed to be heavy drinkers.
Background. The 19th and early 20th century saw considerable organizing for temperance or prohibition. Temperance usually refers to seeking to inspire individuals to moderate liquor use or abstain from drinking liquor. Prohibition usually refers to making it illegal to manufacture or sell alcohol. The Progressive movement often took the side of temperance and prohibition. In 1918 and 1919, the federal government passed the 18th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, making manufacture, transportation and sale of intoxicating liquors illegal under its power to regulate interstate commerce.
The Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) was the first mass organization among women devoted to social reform with a program that linked the religious and the secular through concerted and far-reaching reform strategies based on applied Christianity .. This 1902 illustration from the Hawaiian Gazette newspaper humorously illustrates the Anti-Saloon League and the Women's Christian Temperance Union's campaign against the producers and sellers of beers in Hawaii.
A cartoon from Australia. The temperance movement began in the early 19th century (around the 1820s). Before this, although there were diatribes published against drunkenness and excess, total abstinence from alcohol (i.e., teetotalism) was very rarely advocated or practiced. An early temperance movement began during the American Revolution in Connecticut, Virginia and New York state, with farmers forming associations to ban whiskey distilling.
Members of the temperance movement played a key role in the 1912 campaign for woman suffrage in Oregon. Temperance workers campaigned for woman suffrage by distributing literature, holding lectures and debates, launching advertising campaigns, and even going door-to-door to get pledges of support. The temperance movement was a move to apply the moral principle of living with moderation and self-control to the issue of alcohol consumption. Many temperance organizations led the campaign for prohibition of alcohol during this period. Like the woman suffrage movement, it was organized on local, state, regional, national, and international levels. Many of the woman suffrage campaign leaders supported temperance and vice versa
Temperance, Prohibition, Alcohol Control. The anti alcohol, or temperance, movement was created in the early nineteenth century by physicians, ministers, and large employers concerned about the drunkenness of workers and servants. By the mid 1830s temperance had become a mass movement of the middle Class. The temperance campaign was devoted to convincing people that alcoholic drink in any form was evil, dangerous, and destructive. Throughout the nineteenth century, temperance supporters insisted that alcohol slowly but inevitably destroyed the moral character and the physical and mental health of all who drank it.