Mourning Doves raise three or more broods in a single breeding season. Both parents build a flimsy platform nest of twigs located from 5 to 25 feet up in a tree or bush. Two white eggs hatch in about 14 - 16 days. One egg is laid in the evening, and the second on the next morning. Its flight speed has been clocked at 40-55 mph, but a strong tailwind will result in higher ground speeds, making it a difficult bird for a hunter to hit. The Mourning Dove is from 11 to 13 inches long, with a wingspan of 17 to 19 inches. Weights range from 4.5 to 6 ounces.
If the doves are scared away from their nest by human commotion, they will usually return once things quiet down. Mourning dove with babies Eggs are incubated for 14 to 15 days. The female doves sits on the eggs at night and during part of the day. The male dove stands guard at night, often some distance away. During the day the male relieves the female so she can defecate, eat, and drink.
Mourning dove with bigger babies It takes a pair of mourning doves on an average of 33 days to raise a brood. They will make 5 or 6 attempts and of those attempts they will have 3 to 4 successful broods. From the 6 to 8 eggs that are laid they will raise 5 to 6 young birds. Eggs are incubated for 14 to 15 days. The female doves sits on the eggs at night and during part of the day. The male dove stands guard at night, often some distance away. During the day the male relieves the female so she can defecate, eat, and drink.
- Can lay up to 6 clutches. - Both male and female incubate. - Incubation is approx 14 days. - Fledging is approx 11-15 days. So at the sight of the 4th pair of eggs, I grabbed an old IP camera, set it above their nest and had it take a shot every minute and upload it to the interwebs. I saved all the shots to make a time lapse movie.
Female mourning doves feed the young most during the first 15 days after hatching but after that males take over the responsibility for feeding the young. The young continue to stay near the nest and beg for food after they have fledged, but can survive on their own after 21 days old if there is food nearby. Incubation lasts 14 to 15 days. Young mourning doves are fed regurgitated food by both parents. For the first 3 to 4 days after hatching the young are fed only crop milk, an energy rich substance that is produced in the crops of both male and female parents.
Don't get excited if the dove is not sitting on the egg or is standing over the egg not getting it warm. They will sit on it when they are ready. The incubation will take about 15 days for the eggs to fully hatch. Dove eggs do not have a waterproof membrane like chicken eggs so it is important not to get a dove egg wet. Anything you put on the egg will penetrate the shell and affect the baby inside. Dove eggs are larger than those of the average bird. They are a glossy white about 2/3 the size of a golf ball. Sometimes it is difficult to determine which is the small end of the egg and which is the large end. There are usually 2 in each clutch.
The female and the male dove both share the incubation of the eggs.  The incubation rate for the doves is 14 days. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
Female mourning doves generally lay two small, white eggs in an open nest. The young leave the nest about 15 days after hatching but remain nearby until they are more accomplished at flying, usually at about 30 days old. Incubation lasts 14 to 15 days. Young mourning doves are fed regurgitated food by both parents. For the first 3 to 4 days after hatching the young are fed only crop milk, an energy rich substance that is produced in the crops of both male and female parents.