By extension, demurrage refers to the charges that the charterer pays to the shipowner for its extra use of the vessel. Officially, demurrage is a form of liquidated damages for breaching the laytime as it is stated in the governing contract (the charter party). The demurrage sometimes causes a loss to the seller as it increases cost of the total freight. Today, however, demurrage has a slightly differen meaning. The reverse of demurrage is despatch. If the charterer requires the use of the vessel for less time than the laytime allowed, the charter party may require the shipowner to pay despatch for the time saved. The term demurrage has been incorrectly extended to use in the hire or rental of assets other than ships.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For the carrying cost of currency, see Demurrage (currency) . The term  demurrage  /dɪˈmɜrɪdʒ/ originated in vessel chartering and referred to the period when the charterer remained in possession of the vessel after the period normally allowed to load and unload cargo (laytime). The reverse of demurrage is despatch. If the charterer requires the use of the vessel for less time than the laytime allowed, the charter party may require the shipowner to pay despatch for the time saved. The term demurrage has been incorrectly extended to use in the hire or rental of assets other than ships.
Definition of DEMURRAGE. 1. : the detention of a ship by the freighter beyond the time allowed for loading, unloading, or sailing. 2. : a charge for detaining a ship, freight car, or truck. ADVERTISEMENT. 1. : the detention of a ship by the freighter beyond the time allowed for loading, unloading, or sailing. 2. : a charge for detaining a ship, freight car, or truck
Demurrage. The term demurrage originated in vessel chartering and refers to the period when the charterer remains in possession of the vessel after the period normally allowed to load and unload cargo. By extension, demurrage refers to the charges that the charterer pays to the shipowner for its extra use of the vessel. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: demurrage (noun). a charge required as compensation for the delay of a ship or freight car or other cargo beyond its scheduled time of departure.
DEFINITION of 'Demurrage'. A term used in currency trading to denote the cost of currency ownership and/or storage. It is essentially considered to be the cost of carrying money, and is in some respects considered superior to interest payments, as it stimulates currency circulation and economic growth. Next Up. In a physical sense, demurrage represents a delay that occurs during the transportation of goods via truck. When this happens, the trucking firm delivering the product can opt to pay a flat fee to the receiver to cover any loss incurred as a result of the delay.
TARIFF OF DEMURRAGE AND DETENTION DEFINITIONS: “Demurrage”: the charge, related to the use of the equipment only, the merchant pays for carrier's equipment kept beyond the free time allowed by the carrier for taking delivery of goods in the port, terminal or depot. 
• DEMURRAGE (noun). The noun DEMURRAGE has 2 senses: 1. a charge required as compensation for the delay of a ship or freight car or other cargo beyond its scheduled time of departure. 2. detention of a ship or freight car or other cargo beyond its scheduled time of departure. Familiarity information: DEMURRAGE used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
2. demurrage-detention of a ship or freight car or other cargo beyond its scheduled time of departure. delay, holdup-the act of delaying; inactivity resulting in something being put off until a later time. Translations. [dɪˈmʌrɪdʒ] N (Naut) → estadia estadía (F) → comm sobrestadia. sobrestadía f 1. demurrage-a charge required as compensation for the delay of a ship or freight car or other cargo beyond its scheduled time of departure. charge-the price charged for some article or service; the admission charge.