Baby names meanings search results: The name Alejandro is a baby boy name. The name Alejandro comes from the Spanish origin. In Spanish The meaning of the name Alejandro is: Spanish form of Alexander defends mankind. Similar Names: 1  Alejandra (Spanish). Name Information Boy or Girl ?: boy Origin of name: Spanish Meaning: Spanish form of Alexander defends mankind. Expression number: 8 SoulUrge Number: 4 Average Visitor Rating: 4.60 (Out of 5) Number of ratings: 47.
Alejandro /ale-jan-dro/ [4 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced al-ay-HAHN-droh. It is of Spanish and Greek origin, and the meaning of Alejandro is man's defender, warrior. Variant of Alexander. Kreatif forms: Aialejandro, Alejandroai, Alejandroau. Alejandro is a very popular first name for males (#305 out of 1220, Top 25%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#5468 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Alejandro for boys
Alejandro is the Spanish form of the name Alexander. It may also refer to: 1  Alejandro de Humboldt National Park (Parque Nacional Alejandro de Humboldt), a national park in Cuba. 2  Alejandro Selkirk Island, an island in the Juan Fernandez Fernández islands off the coast Of South.  3 America (alejandro) , song a song By Lady.  gaga
Greek Meaning: The name Alejandro is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Alejandro is: Defender; protector of mankind. Famous Bearer: Alexander the Great. American Meaning: The name Alejandro is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Alejandro is: Defender; protector of mankind. Famous Bearer: Alexander the Great. Spanish Meaning: The name Alejandro is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Alejandro is: Defends mankind.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Alejandro. Alejandro is the Spanish form of the male name Alexander, from the Greek “alexein” meaning ‘to defend’ plus “andros” meaning ‘man, warrior’. Alexander’s most notable namesake was Alexander the Great, a 4th century B.C. Alejandro brings a soft and poetic sound to the age-old Greek name Alexander. Popularity of the Boy Name Alejandro. You need Adobe Flash Player 6 (or above) to view the charts. It is a free and lightweight installation from Adobe.com.
Alejandro is the Spanish form of the name Alexander. It may also refer to: 1  Alejandro de Humboldt National Park (Parque Nacional Alejandro de Humboldt), a national park in Cuba. 2  Alejandro Selkirk Island, an island in the Juan Fernandez Fernández islands off the coast Of South.  america It may also refer to: 1  Alejandro de Humboldt National Park (Parque Nacional Alejandro de Humboldt), a national park in Cuba. 2  Alejandro Selkirk Island, an island in the Juan Fernandez Fernández islands off the coast Of South.  3 America (alejandro) , song a song By Lady.  gaga
Here are pictures of people with the name Alejandro. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
The name Alejandro is of Spanish origin, and it means Defender of the People . It's a name commonly given to boys. 