The Sahara Desert is the world's largest hot desert, covering much of North Africa. The adaptations of the wildlife and plants to the treacherous environment are fascinating, and the cultural history of this geographic crossroads complex and involved. The dromedary camel, one of the Sahara's most famous animals. 
North Africa is further divided into two smaller regions: Maghreb and the Sahara. The Maghreb region makes up northwestern Africa along the Atlas Mountains, including Western Sahara, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya. The countries in the Sahara region are Egypt, Sudan, and South Sudan. North Africa is a region of Africa, separated from the rest of Africa by the Sahara Desert. Eight countries make up the northern region of Africa: Western Sahara, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Sudan, and South Sudan. Print.
The Sahara Desert covers most of North Africa. The Sahara Desert is  the largest subtropical hot desert and third largest desert in the  world, after Antarctica and the Arct … ic. The largest desert in the world is Antarctica which is not in  northern Africa. The second largest  desert in the world is the Sahara which is in northern Africa,
North Africa Map. North Africa is a region of Africa, separated from the rest of Africa by the Sahara Desert. Eight countries make up the northern region of Africa: Western Sahara, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Sudan, and South Sudan. Print.
Namib Desert: The Namib is a coastal desert in southern Africa that stretches for more than 2,000 km (1,200 mi) along the Atlantic coasts of Angola, Namibia, and South Africa, extending southward from the Carunjamba River in Angola, through Namibia and to the Olifants River in Western Cape, South Africa. 
The Deserts of Africa -- Unimaginable Beauty. Africa-the second largest continent in the world is also home to the largest desert in the world-the Sahara. In fact there are three deserts on the continent-The Sahara, the Namib and the Kalahari. 
1 Kalahari Desert – a desert covering much of Botswana and parts of Namibia and South Africa. 2  Karoo Desert-a desert covering parts of southern South Africa. 3  Namib Desert – a desert in present-day Namibia. 4  Mocamedes Moçâmedes-desert a desert located in Southwest angola near the border With namibia just at north of The Namib.  desert 
North Africa or Northern Africa is the northernmost region of Africa. Geopolitically, the United Nations definition of Northern Africa includes seven countries or territories; Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia, and Western Sahara.
The Sahara Desert, which is the largest hot desert in the world is found in north Africa The Kalahari Desert is found in southern Africa and stretches between Namibia, South … Africa and Botswana The Namib Desert is found in southern Africa along the west coast of Namibia Sahara and Kalahari. The Sahara covers most of the northern third of Africa. It is the largest hot desert in the world and the second largest overall, behind the Antarctic Desert. For more information on the largest deserts click here: 2 people found this useful.
It is third largest desert overall after Antarctica and the Arctic, which are cold deserts. At 3.6 million square miles (9.4 million square kilometers), the Sahara, which is Arabic for The Great Desert, engulfs most of North Africa. The desert covers large sections of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. 