Shellfish allergy is an abnormal response by the body's immune system to proteins in certain marine animals. Shellfish include marine animals with shells, such as shrimp, crab, oysters and lobster, as well as octopus, squid and scallops.
Despite the name, shellfish are not a kind of fish, but are simply water-dwelling animals. Many varieties of shellfish (crustaceans in particular) are actually closely related to insects and arachnids, making up one of the main classes of the phylum Arthropoda.
There are two kinds of shellfish: crustacea (such as shrimp, crab and lobster) and mollusks (such as clams, mussels, oysters and scallops). Reactions to crustacean shellfish tend to be particularly severe. If you are allergic to one group of shellfish, you might be able to eat some varieties from the other group.
Shellfish is among the most common food allergens. It is also one of the most dangerous, sending more food-allergic people to hospital emergency rooms than any other. A shellfish allergy is different from an allergy to fish. Those who are allergic to shellfish do not necessarily have to avoid fish, and vice versa.
Shellfish is a culinary and fisheries term for exoskeleton-bearing aquatic invertebrates used as food, including various species of molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms. Although most kinds of shellfish are harvested from saltwater environments, some kinds are found in freshwater.
Shellfish is a term used by cooks which includes crustaceans such as shrimps, crawfish, crabs, lobster, langoustines, and mollusks such as clam, mussels oysters, scallops, and sea urchins. Shellfish allergy is one of the most common food allergies in the United States, affecting about 2% of the adult population.
To prevent a reaction, strict avoidance of shellfish and shellfish products is essential. Always read ingredient labels to identify shellfish ingredients. In addition, avoid touching shellfish, going to the fish market, and being in an area where shellfish are being cooked (the protein in the steam may present a risk).