Welcome to Rich's Pegopedia. The following is a sampling of my research into the legends and uses of the mythical winged horse. Over the years I have compiled a fairly exhaustive list of winged horses, which I call pterippi (a word I coined meaning winged horses in Greek). The use of the Flying Red Horse, or Pegasus symbol was adopted as a trademark in the US in 1931, but its first use can be traced back to 1911 where Pegasus was used as a symbol of speed and power for the Mobil company in South Africa. Mobil Sckiyu in Japan, however, first colored it red.
Pegasus (Ancient Greek: πήγασος, Pēgasos; Latin: Pegasus) is one of the best known creatures in Greek mythology. He is a winged divine stallion usually depicted as pure white in color. He was sired by Poseidon, in his role as horse-god, and foaled by the Gorgon Medusa. He was the brother of Chrysaor, born at a single birthing when his mother was decapitated by Perseus.
Symbolic Meanings of the Horse. Horse symbol meanings date back to prehistory, and the first civilized, written acknowledgement of the Horse comes in the third millennium BC where historians uncovered slate tablets in Elam (present day Iraq and Iran) which reference this noble, wild beast. Romans also believed the Horse to be a symbol of the continuity of life, and would sacrifice a horse to the god Mars every October, keeping its tail through the winter as a sign of fertility and rebirth. In Hindu Brihadaranyaka, the Horse is linked to Varuna and as such, is equated to the cosmos.
You can also learn more about the enchanting symbolism of the horse here. Symbolic Meaning of Wings on Lions: In alchemy, the lion is symbolic of gold-a spiritual quality that is lusciously luminescent and gloriously rich in value. Bling of the heart. The symbolic meaning of the horse is pretty intense with themes of power and mobility. The horse alone also carries archetypal themes of unifying grounded stability (four feet on the ground) with higher ideals (from speed and mobility). This theme really comes to life when we add wings to the horse.
The symbolism of Pegasus varies with time. Symbol of wisdom and especially of fame from the Middle Ages until the Renaissance, he became one symbol of the poetry and the creator of sources in which the poets come to draw inspiration, particularly in the 19th century. He was sired by Poseidon, in his role as horse-god, and foaled by the Gorgon Medusa. He was the brother of Chrysaor, born at a single birthing when his mother was decapitated by Perseus.
Consider, mythology gives us oodles of winged beasts in the form of hybrids: Meaning of Wings on Horses: Known as pterippi (pteros in Greek means winged and hippos means horse). Pegasus is a pterippus, and a magnificent one at that. The symbolic meaning of the horse is pretty intense with themes of power and mobility. The horse alone also carries archetypal themes of unifying grounded stability (four feet on the ground) with higher ideals (from speed and mobility). This theme really comes to life when we add wings to the horse.
The Magnificent Mount of the Muses, A study by Timothy Youngblood Copyright © The Master's Table. The Winged Horse of Greek Mythology... Notice how this symbol is used by many that want success. They profess Jesus in their Churches but look to this pagan god. Pegasus, the Winged Horse, was the son of Poseidon and Medusa, sprang from the blood of Medusa when it dropped into the sea after her head had been severed by Perseus. 
Pegasus. In folklore and religion we find frequent mention of the winged horse. This symbolises the sexual or instinctive drives that have not been repressed, but allowed, in conjunction with consciousness and reason, to develop the higher possibilities latent in them.
In modern times Pegasus is seen virtually everywhere. The winged horse has come to be a symbol of immortality and the protector of the spirit, the guardian of the soul. The image of Pegasus is used in logo's and advertising everywhere tosymbolize, strength, purity and justice. Leo Yardley · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
In Greek mythology, the white winged horse Pegasus was the son of Poseidon and the gorgon Medusa. Poseidon was also the creator of horses, creating them out of the breaking waves when challenged to make a beautiful land animal. 