What You Can Eat. That depends on your blood type. Here's what D'Adamo recommends for each type: Type O blood: A high-protein diet heavy on lean meat, poultry, fish, and vegetables, and light on grains, beans, and dairy. No. Exercise: The Blood Type Diet recommends exercises based on your blood type. For instance, it suggests yoga or tai chi for type A’s, and vigorous aerobic exercises like jogging or biking for up to an hour a day for type O’s.
People with type B positive blood shouldn't eat ketchup. Not all blood types are the same. There are four types of blood, A, B, AB and O, and the presence or absence of certain antigens is what determines your blood type, according to the American Red Cross. Based on these differences, Dr. Peter D’Adamo created the Blood Type Diet, which is often called the Eat Right For Your Type Diet. If you have type B positive blood, there are certain foods that D'Adamo recommends you avoid to achieve and maintain good health. 
Blood group A: good and bad foods for your blood type. chicken, turkey, ostrich, guinea fowl. Bad: beef, duck, goose, lamb, mutton, porc, pheasant, veal, game. Tip: Eat white meat, but only in small quantities: your body doesn't tolerate it well. Good: cod, mackerel, monkfish, salmon, sardines, trout, whiting. 1 Blood type B: good and bad foods for blood group B. 2  Blood type B: good and bad foods for blood group B. 3  Nutrition for blood group AB. 4  Blood type AB: good and bad foods for blood group AB. 5  Blood group AB: good and bad foods for your blood type. 6  Expert advice on the blood type diet.
In it, naturopathic physician Peter D’Adamo argued that by eating foods most compatible with your blood type, you can lose weight, lessen chronic health conditions and help avoid certain diseases. The book lists foods that are good and bad for each of the four major blood types. Foods to Avoid for Blood Type A Positive. An egg frying in a pan. Photo Credit foodfashion/iStock/Getty Images. Many medical professionals dispute the theory of a link between food, blood type and health, but the idea of a blood-type diet was popularized in the 1996 book “Eat Right 4 Your Type..
The good doctor believes that certain foods are good for your blood type, and that others are dangerous. Eat foods from the latter category, and you may experience a variety of health issues, ranging from inflammation and bloating to a slower metabolism and even diseases such as cancer. Or so the book says. The good doctor believes that certain foods are good for your blood type, and that others are dangerous. Eat Right For Your Blood Type gives you portions of the best foods listed for you. It also lists foods that encourage both weight gain and loss for each blood type.
D'Adamo claims that the foods you eat react chemically with your blood type. If you follow a diet designed for your blood type, your body will digest food more efficiently. You'll lose weight, have more energy, and help prevent disease. No. Exercise: The Blood Type Diet recommends exercises based on your blood type. For instance, it suggests yoga or tai chi for type A’s, and vigorous aerobic exercises like jogging or biking for up to an hour a day for type O’s.
Nuts, Seeds, Beans and Legumes. Pumpkin seeds and peanuts are good for blood type A individuals, says D'Adamo, as are beans and legumes like lentils, black-eyed peas, red soybeans, black beans and pinto beans. Type A people are warned to avoid pistachios, cashews and beans such as navy, red, garbanzo or kidney beans. Dairy Products and Eggs. Type A individuals following the Blood Type diet are instructed to avoid all dairy products and eggs. If you need a substitute, use rice or soy milk. Some type A people may be able to occasionally eat yogurt, goat cheese or kefir without experiencing health problems, says D'Adamo.
Foods to Avoid. D’Adamo says people of every blood type should avoid processed foods, but Type As have a number of other foods to avoid, too. He recommends people with type-A blood avoid meat, poultry, eggs and dairy products. If you like fish, it should be consumed in only limited amounts. Foods to Avoid for Blood Type A Positive. An egg frying in a pan. Photo Credit foodfashion/iStock/Getty Images. Many medical professionals dispute the theory of a link between food, blood type and health, but the idea of a blood-type diet was popularized in the 1996 book “Eat Right 4 Your Type..