Search Southwest Flights. 1  When you have to change your flight, some airlines charge up to $150 on top of paying a difference in fare. 2  Unlike our competitors, we understand unexpected events may happen. 3  Our No Change Fees Policy lets our Customers know we care. When you fly with Southwest, sit back, relax and enjoy
For example, if you paid $500 for a ticket and you had to change or cancel your flight, you would get a credit voucher of $500 on US Airways and would have to pay the change fee to access the credit. Last month, United increased its change fee on nonrefundable domestic tickets to $200, up from $150. US Airways quickly followed suit. Thus far, American and Delta have not raised their domestic change fees, which are currently $150.
1 When you have to change your flight, some airlines charge up to $150 on top of paying a difference in fare. 2  Unlike our competitors, we understand unexpected events may happen. 3  Our No Change Fees Policy lets our Customers know we care. When you fly with Southwest, sit back, relax and enjoy. 1 
Change fees are in addition to any change in ticket price; for example, if a traveler were to purchase a domestic ticket for $300 and then want to change the dates of travel, and the price had then increased to $350, the airline would charge the fare difference of $50 plus the change fee. Delta and American Airlines both increased their change fees this week, upping the fee to change a domestic flight from $150 to $200.
Change fees are in addition to the charge for the difference in fare. So, if a traveler were to purchase a domestic ticket for $300 and then want to change the dates of travel, and the price had then increased to $350, the airline would charge the fare difference of $50 plus the change fee. Especially if that flight is on US Airways or United. Last week, United quietly increased the fee for changing a flight from $150 to $200 for domestic flights. Today, US Airways matched the fee increase. The change was reflected on their web site. The $150 change fee has become industry standard and is charged by the majority of domestic carriers
Change Fees. Based on the fare rules, you may have to pay a service fee and/or a difference in fare. For travel within the 50 United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the fee is $200 for Delta-marketed flights. For travel outside the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the change fee for Delta-marketed flights is typically $200 to $500, but can vary based on location and type of fare. Changes are usually permitted only to the return portion of an international itinerary.
The fee is $110 for award flights. There is no fee to change or cancel a flight ticketed within 24 hours, so long as the reservation was made at least 7 days prior to departure. United Airlines charges change fees of $200 for domestic flights and up to $400 or more for international itineraries. Same day changes can be made for $75, but that fee is waived for MileagePlus Premier Gold, Premier Platinum and Premier 1K members. Delta Air Lines also charges a $200 change fee for paid domestic flights (including to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico), and up to $450 for international flights. Same day confirmed and standby changes are permitted for Delta SkyMiles Medallion elite members, but there’s a $50 fee for Silver Medallion members.
If there is an increase in your new airfare, you will be required to pay the difference, but there is no additional fee. However, Southwest has announced a change to its policy for travelers who do not cancel their flight at least 10 minutes before departure. Last month, United increased its change fee on nonrefundable domestic tickets to $200, up from $150. US Airways quickly followed suit. Thus far, American and Delta have not raised their domestic change fees, which are currently $150.
Award tickets can be changed with no fee 8 days or more prior to departure; otherwise the $75 change fee applies. Hawaiian Airlines charges a $200 change fee for flights to the US mainland, and between $50 and $200 for international flights. There is also a $30 change fee for flights within the Hawaiian islands. Delta Air Lines also charges a $200 change fee for paid domestic flights (including to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico), and up to $450 for international flights. Same day confirmed and standby changes are permitted for Delta SkyMiles Medallion elite members, but there’s a $50 fee for Silver Medallion members.