Sorry, America. China just overtook the US to become the world's largest economy, according to the International Monetary Fund. Chris Giles at the Financial Times flagged up the change. He also alerted us in April that it was all about to happen. Basically, the method used by the IMF adjusts for purchasing power parity, explained here. So the IMF measures both GDP in market-exchange terms and in terms of purchasing power. On the purchasing-power basis, China is overtaking the US right about now and becoming the world's biggest economy. We've just gone past that crossover on the chart below, according to the IMF.
China – GDP $9.0 trillion. China's shift to a market-oriented economy has buoyed its growth and rise to one of the largest economies in the world. China is the fastest growing economy with average annual growth rates of 10%. The Chinese are the largest exporters in the world. The United States has been the world's largest economy for at least a century. One third of the world's millionaires and 40% of the worlds billionaires live in the United States, making it the wealthiest nation
In the nominal GDP method, we can see that the developed world leads the pack, but that China has already broken into this exclusive club, and is now the second largest economy in the world by both measures. When we look at PPP GDP, all of the BRIC countries (China, India, Brazil and Russia) are all within the top 10. 
France has long been one of the most developed and wealthiest economies in the world, and this year clocks in at 5th. More than 30 of the world's 500 biggest companies are French and the country is considered one of the best places to locate the headquarters of Fortune Global 500 companies. The United States has been the world's largest economy for at least a century. One third of the world's millionaires and 40% of the worlds billionaires live in the United States, making it the wealthiest nation in the world.
Nigeria is now Africa's largest economy thanks to a long overdue 'rebasing' of GDP. Founder of Zenith Bank Group Jim Ovia discusses the risks and rewards of investing in the country. 
For the first time in more than 140 years, the US has lost the title of the world's largest economy-it has been stolen by China, according to the IMF. But with a population of 1.36 billion people, China really should be the world's largest economy, argues Matthew Crabbe, author of Myth-Busting China's Numbers. He's spent more than 20 years looking at the country's figures and the facts behind them.
1. United States. The US economy is the largest economy in the world in terms of nominal GDP (measured at current prices in US dollars). The $17.41 trillion US economy is approximately 22.44 percent of the gross world product. France. France, the most visited country in the world is the fifth largest economy in the world with a nominal GDP of $2.9 trillion. Its GDP in terms of PPP is around $2.59 trillion. France has a low poverty rate and high standard of living, which is reflected in its GDP (PPP) per capita of $40,445
The news that China is now the largest economy in the world is an embarrassment for Barack Obama and ends America's 142 years at the top. Britain had out-produced the U.S. and its European rivals for much of the 19th century, at the height of the industrial revolution and with trade links across the Empire. In 1872, its economy overtook Britain to become the world's largest, a position it held for the next 142 years. Productivity, leading brands and innovation, coupled with the success of the US dollar and the fact that 62 per cent of the world's financial reserves are held in the currency, kept America on top.