Dixon was primarily hired to tone down much of the campiness inherent in the stage musical. The 2007 film's script is based primarily on the stage musical rather than the 1988 film, so several changes already made to the plot for the stage version remain in this version.
Hairspray is an American musical with music by Marc Shaiman, lyrics by Scott Wittman and Shaiman and a book by Mark O'Donnell and Thomas Meehan, based on the 1988 John Waters film Hairspray. The songs include 1960s-style dance music and downtown rhythm and blues. In 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, plump teenager Tracy Turnblad's dream is to dance on The Corny Collins Show, a local TV dance program based on the real-life Buddy Deane Show. When Tracy wins a role on the show, she becomes a celebrity overnight, and meets a colorful array of characters
Hairspray is a 2007 American musical romantic comedy film based on the 2002 Broadway musical of the same name, which in turn was based on John Waters 's 1988 comedy film of the same name. The 2007 film's script is based primarily on the stage musical rather than the 1988 film, so several changes already made to the plot for the stage version remain in this version.
Hairspray is explicitly set in Baltimore, Maryland and the original 1988 film had been shot on location there, but the 2007 film was shot primarily in Toronto because the city was better equipped with the sound stages necessary to film a musical. The 2007 film's script is based primarily on the stage musical rather than the 1988 film, so several changes already made to the plot for the stage version remain in this version.
AllMusic Review by William Ruhlmann. Hairspray began life in 1988 as the first John Waters film to earn a PG rating, despite such subversive elements as the casting of cross-dressing Waters favorite Divine as Edna, the mother of the main character, tubby teenager Tracy Turnblad. 
1. Ladder and Tangle Prevention for Stockings-Apply hairspray on your stockings, which will stiffen the undergarment’s strands. When the hairstyle solution settles, your stockings will have a hairspray-based covering that will make your stockings ladder and tangle resistant. 2. Zipper Stiffener-Zippers have a tendency to unzip, especially if they are attached to a tight pair of jeans. 
The costumes hit the dateline mark and albeit the set bright and a tad shaky it brings us back to 1962. Based off of the 1988 John Waters film, this is a fun and still engaging show and this Hairspray rendition will entertain you. The timely theme of integration in its various forms is brought to light. ...Hairspray is one of the great audience shows in modern American musical theater. Its dancing is irresistible, Tracy Turnblad is a genuine heroine, and the view of racism is apt without taking over the show. Plus Drury Lane audiences get an introduction to Joshlyn Lomax, a lass with star written all over her..
Following the success of the Broadway musical of the same name, which won eight Tony Awards in 2003, New Line Cinema, who owned the rights to the 1988 John Waters film upon which the stage musical is based, became interested in adapting the stage show as a musical film. The 2007 film's script is based primarily on the stage musical rather than the 1988 film, so several changes already made to the plot for the stage version remain in this version.