El Chupacabra A mythical animal from the US Southwest, Mexico, and Puerto Rico. It supposedly sucks the blood from its victims rather than eating the flesh. The Chupacabra i … s said to be a mysterious creature that sucks the life out of small animals. It was not known to attack larger animals,(eg bulls, cows, horses) but only the smaller ones. El Chupacabra is Spanish for the goat sucker. Many believers in the legends ascribe mystical or supernatural attributes to the chupacabra. El Chupacabra is a cryptid that originated in Mexico. In Spanish El Chupacabra means Goat Sucker.. It allegedly sucked the blood out of goats, leaving only skin and bones, and a 3-pronged puncture wound. The reports also came from a suburb in Chile where a growling creature jumped through a child's window and killed him, and tried to carry away the body.
Chupacabras can be literally translated as goat-sucker, from chupar (to suck) and cabra (goat). It is known as both chupacabras and chupacabra throughout the Americas, with the former being the original word, and the latter a regularization of it. The name in Spanish can be preceded by a singular masculine article (el chupacabras), or the plural masculine article (los chupacabras).
The chupacabra or chupacabras (. [tʃupaˈkaβɾas] , literally goat-sucker) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas, with the first sightings reported in Puerto Rico. The name comes from the animal's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, especially goats. Physical descriptions of the creature vary. It is known as both chupacabras and chupacabra throughout the Americas, with the former being the original word, and the latter a regularization of it. The name in Spanish can be preceded by a singular masculine article (el chupacabras), or the plural masculine article (los chupacabras).
Chupacabra Sighting in Canovanas, 1995. The earliest chupacabra sightings took place in rural, and more notably, Canovanas, Canóvanas Puerto rico in, 1995 rapidly linking together numerous sightings of-goat sucking creatures around the, world some In indonesia and The philippines that look place nearly two centuries. earlier 
El Chupacabra. The chupacabra or chupacabras is a creature said to inhabit parts of the Americas. It is associated particularly with Puerto Rico (where it was first reported), Mexico, and the United States, especially in the latter's Latin American communities. Soon after the animal deaths in Puerto Rico, other animal deaths were reported in other countries, such as the Dominican Republic, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Panama, Peru, Brazil, the United States and, most notably, Mexico. Both in Puerto Rico and Mexico, El Chupacabra gained urban legend status.
While some believe that chupacabra sightings date back to the 1970s or earlier, the monsteractually first appeared in 1995 in Puerto Rico; there are no records of any vampiric chupacabras before that time. Theories about the chupacabra's origin are as varied as the sightings themselves. The most popular explanation is that it is the product of top-secret U.S. government genetics experiments in the rainforest of Puerto Rico. 
The origin of the name “chupacabra” (literally: goat sucker) is attributed in some popular sources to Silverio Perez, pérez A Puerto rican, comedian who used the word to describe the Animal tolentino claimed to see and to link that sighting with a rash of unexplained animal deaths on the. island The first modern report of the chupacabra occurred in Puerto Rico in 1995, when Madelyne Tolentino claimed to see a lizard-like creature that skeptic Benjamin Radford has persuasively argued was in fact derived from a memory of the imaginary extraterrestrial in the 1995 movie Species.
El Chupacabra translated into English means the goat-sucker, because that's exactly what it does. El Chupacabra made its first appearance in the farmlands of Puerto Rico where it left tons of goats dead. All of the goats had been left fully intact, but were drained of all their blood. Since its first attack on the Puerto Rican goats, El Chupacabra has attacked livestock all over North and South America, making its way as far as Chile in 2000. Its most destructive time was in the winter of 1995. There were 35 sightings in Cavanas, Puerto Rico in the span of only three months