The obturator nerve in human anatomy arises from the ventral divisions of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves in the lumbar plexus; the branch from the third is the largest, while that from the second is often very small. The obturator nerve is responsible for the sensory innervation of the skin of the medial aspect of the thigh. It is also responsible for the motor innervation of the adductor muscles of the lower extremity (external obturator. adductor longus, adductor brevis, adductor magnus, gracilis) and the pectineus (inconstant).
Obturator internus. The obturator internus is a fan-shaped muscle located in the pelvis. The muscle originates partly from the inner surface of the obturator membrane that covers most of the obturator foramen, an opening between two sections of the hip bone. The rest of the muscle originates along the bony back edge of the foramen. 
obturator. 1. a disk or plate that closes an opening. 2. a prosthesis for closing an acquired or congenital opening of the palate (cleft palate). obturator sign pain on outward pressure on the obturator foramen as a sign of inflammation in the sheath of the obturator nerve, probably caused by appendicitis. (ob'tū-rā'tŏr), Any structure that occludes an opening. 2. Denoting the obturator foramen, the obturator membrane, or any of several parts in relation to this foramen. 3. A prosthesis used to close an opening in the hard palate, usually in a cleft palate.
A palatal obturator is a prosthesis that totally occludes an opening such as an oronasal fistula (in the roof of the mouth). They are similar to dental retainers, but without the front wire. A palatal obturator may be used in cases of a deficiency in tissue, when a remaining opening in the palate occurs. In some cases it may be downsized gradually so that tissue can strengthen over time and compensate for the decreasing size of the obturator.
Definition of OBTURATOR. : one (as a prosthetic device) that closes or blocks up an opening (as a fissure in the palate). ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, from Latin obturare. Medical Definition of OBTURATOR. 1. a: either of two muscles arising from the obturator membrane and adjacent bony surfaces: (1) : obturator externus (2) : obturator internus b: obturator nerve. 2.
1. n. That which closes or stops an opening. 2. a. Serving as an obturator; closing an opening; pertaining to, or in the region of, the obturator foramen; as, the obturator nerve. 3. n. Any device for preventing the escape of gas through the breech mechanism of a breech-loading gun; a gas check. Definition of Obturator. 1. Noun. A prosthesis used to close an opening (as to close an opening of the hard palate in cases of cleft palate).
obturator. 1. a disk or plate that closes an opening. 2. a prosthesis for closing an acquired or congenital opening of the palate (cleft palate). obturator sign pain on outward pressure on the obturator foramen as a sign of inflammation in the sheath of the obturator nerve, probably caused by appendicitis. Any structure that occludes an opening. 2. Denoting the obturator foramen, the obturator membrane, or any of several parts in relation to this foramen. 3. A prosthesis used to close an opening in the hard palate, usually in a cleft palate.
Obturator nerve. The obturator nerve begins at the medial border of the psoas major muscle. It travels through the obturator foramen (an opening in the pelvic bone) before entering the thigh, where it branches into two parts, an anterior branch and posterior branch. The obturator nerve is part of the group of nerves called the anterior lumbar plexus.
2. a: a prosthetic device that closes or blocks up an opening (as a fissure in the palate) b: a device that blocks the opening of an instrument (as a sigmoidoscope) that is being introduced into the body. Medical Definition of OBTURATOR. 1. a: either of two muscles arising from the obturator membrane and adjacent bony surfaces: (1) : obturator externus (2) : obturator internus b: obturator nerve. 2.