The Process of Phagocytosis. Let's use the example of a white blood cell engulfing an invading bacterium to illustrate the process of phagocytosis. A cell that engages in phagocytosis is called a phagocyte. First, the white blood cell has to recognize the invader and realize that it needs to be destroyed. It recognizes signal molecules released by the bacterium and is drawn toward it. 
Neutrophils are normally found in the bloodstream and are the most abundant type of phagocyte, constituting 50% to 60% of the total circulating white blood cells. One litre of human blood contains about five billion neutrophils, which are about 10 micrometers in diameter and live for only about five days. This material is then displayed to other cells of the immune system. Some phagocytes then travel to the body's lymph nodes and display the material to white blood cells called lymphocytes. This process is important in building immunity, and many pathogens have evolved methods to evade attacks by phagocytes.
Phagocytosis. Several types of cells in the immune system engulf microorganisms via phagocytosis. 1  Neutrophils. 2  Neutrophils are abundant in the blood, quickly enter tissues, and phagocytize pathogens in acute inflammation. 3  Macrophages. 4  Macrophages are closely related to monocytes in the blood. 
A basophil is a type of white blood cell and a type of granulocyte. Blood. A tissue with red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, and other substances suspended in fluid called plasma. Blood takes oxygen and nutrients to the tissues, and carries away wastes. T-Lymphocytes (T-Cells). A type of white blood cell. T-lymphocytes are part of the immune system and develop from stem cells in the bone marrow. They help protect the body from infection and may help fight cancer. Also called T cell and thymocyte.
Lymphocytes. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell that is part of the immune system. There are two main types of lymphocytes: B cells and T cells. The B cells produce antibodies that are used to attack invading bacteria, viruses, and toxins. T-Lymphocytes (T-Cells). A type of white blood cell. T-lymphocytes are part of the immune system and develop from stem cells in the bone marrow. They help protect the body from infection and may help fight cancer. Also called T cell and thymocyte.
B-Lymphocytes (B-Cells). A type of white blood cell that makes antibodies. B lymphocytes are part of the immune system and develop from stem cells in the bone marrow. Also called B cell. T-Lymphocytes (T-Cells). A type of white blood cell. T-lymphocytes are part of the immune system and develop from stem cells in the bone marrow. They help protect the body from infection and may help fight cancer. Also called T cell and thymocyte.
Answer by Nik vik. Confidence votes 54. Phagocytes A type of white blood cell the eats dead cells, and other debris in the blood. ----------------------------- A phagocyte is a white blood cell that 'engulfs' not only dead cells and debris but also reacts against Pathogens (disease causing micro-organisms). There are different types of phagocytes e.g. Macrophages or Neutrophils
Phagocytosis is one such tactic wherein special types of cells called phagocytes ingest and kill invading organisms. Phagocytes also ingest dead cells and debris caused by tissue injury. Three types of white blood cells can act as phagocytes: neutrophils, eosinophils and monocytes. These white blood cells circulate in the bloodstream awaiting chemical signals of invasion and inflammation. Upon receiving these signals, the white blood cell phagocytes migrate to the site of infection. Neutrophils. Special stem cells in the bone marrow give rise to neutrophils, which are normally the most abundant white blood cells in the circulation. Neutrophils typically comprise 40 to 60 percent of the white blood cells in the circulation. The primary function of neutrophils is phagocytosis.