diabetic neuropathy a complication of diabetes mellitus consisting of chronic symmetrical sensory polyneuropathy affecting first the nerves of the lower limbs and often affecting autonomic nerves. Pathologically, there is segmental demyelination of the peripheral nerves. In Western nations, diabetes is the most common cause of neuropathy. Symptoms usually include loss of sensation or unpleasant sensations in the feet, erectile dysfunction, focal motor deficits, gastroparesis, loss of the ability to maintain postural blood pressure, and diseases of cardiac innervation.
In simple terms, neuropathy is an inflammation of the nerves caused by damage to the nerves outside the brain and spinal cord, therefore called peripheral neuropathy. This inflammation may be associated with disease, metabolic problems or traumatic injuries to the nerves. If the neuropathy is caused by alcohol abuse, the treatment is to avoid alcohol. If peripheral neuropathy is caused by a certain medication, other medications can be prescribed. In the case of diabetic neuropathy, careful monitoring of blood sugar can decrease the symptoms of
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is damage to or disease affecting nerves, which may impair sensation, movement, gland or organ function, or other aspects of health, depending on the type of nerve affected. 
Peripheral neuropathy describes damage to the peripheral nervous system, which transmits information from the brain and spinal cord to every other part of the body. More than 100 types of peripheral neuropathy have been identified, each with its own characteristic set of symptoms, pattern of development, and prognosis. Impaired function and symptoms depend on the type of nerves -- motor, sensory, or autonomic -- that are damaged. 
(Neuropathy means nerve disease or damage.) Symptoms can range from numbness or tingling, to pricking sensations (paresthesia), or muscle weakness. Areas of the body may become abnormally sensitive leading to an exaggeratedly intense or distorted experience of touch (allodynia). 
Neuropathy--also called peripheral neuropathy--refers to any condition that affects the normal activity of the nerves of the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system is the network of nerves that connects the central nervous system--the brain and spinal cord--to the rest of the body. 
Neuropathy describes a condition in which a person suffers from peripheral nerve damage often associated with an underlying disease. Though not a disease itself, neuropathy is diagnosed in many people for whom no pre-existing cause can be determined. Long-term malnutrition may result in peripheral nerve damage. Individuals suffering from diabetic neuropathy may have trouble feeling pain in their feet. Repetitive motion can cause carpal tunnel syndrome, a type of neuropathy.
Autonomic neuropathy: Autonomic neuropathy is damage to the nerves of the involuntary nervous system. These nerves that control the heart and circulation (including blood pressure), digestion, bowel and bladder function, the sexual response, and perspiration. Nerves in other organs may also be affected. These nerves are part of the peripheral nervous system. Accordingly, peripheral neuropathy is neuropathy that affects the nerves of the extremities-the toes, feet, legs, fingers, hands, and arms. The term proximal neuropathy has been used to refer to nerve damage that specifically causes pain in the shoulders, thighs, hips, or buttocks
Neuropathy (Nerve Damage). Nerve damage from diabetes is called diabetic neuropathy (new-ROP-uh-thee). About half of all people with diabetes have some form of nerve damage. It is more common in those who have had the disease for a number of years and can lead to many kinds of problems. 