You can freeze Pumpkin soup for up to 5 weeks, it doesn't go off until 3 months tho. But it is suggested to eat before 5 weeks if frozen. Global warming is the rising average … temperature of Earth's atmosphere and oceans since the late 19th century and its projected continuation. Putting fruits in the fridge such as plum extensively prolongs the ripping process. So plums can last in the fridge anywhere from 1-4 weeks depending on how ripe the plum was … initially and the overall temperature of the fridge.
Refrigerate: Whole and leftover homemade pumpkin pie should be stored in the refrigerator. Allow the pie to cool completely (approximately 2 hours) and then cover with plastic or place in an airtight container. The pie can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. It is not recommended to freeze baked pumpkin pies. It would be better to freeze the pie crust and the homemade pumpkin puree separately and then preparing the pie just before it is needed. Thaw pie crust and puree in the refrigerator. How to Make Pumpkin Pie-Additional Articles: Selecting and Preparing the Pumpkin | Preparing Homemade Pumpkin Puree.
By John Gregerson. Assuming it is properly packaged, leftover soup will last 3-4 days. Never remove a large pot of soup from the stove and place it directly in the refrigerator. Large masses of food can take hours--even days--to chill properly. A slowly cooling medium provides an ideal environment for bacterial growth. 
It depends on the ingredients and the temperature in the fridge. I made one with many vegetables and little spice. It's been 5 days now, the top is kind of foamy but tas … te ok. But I'd say 3-5 days to be safe. Putting fruits in the fridge such as plum extensively prolongs the ripping process. So plums can last in the fridge anywhere from 1-4 weeks depending on how ripe the plum was … initially and the overall temperature of the fridge.
Pin. Homemade soup is the perfect make-ahead meal since it keeps well in the refrigerator or can be frozen for up to several months in airtight containers. Likewise, a supply of homemade stocks kept in the freezer can come in handy for soups, stews, and braised meats. Share. Tweet.
4. Cover with foil and bake for 30 minutes. 5. Remove the foil and bake for another 20-30 minutes or until the sweet potato is tender and browned on top. Allow to cool a little before serving. VARIATIONS. vegan / dairy-free – replace cream with coconut milk. 
Depending on how your potato soup is made, you will want to permit it to keep in the refrigerator for about three to four days. Ideally it should be eaten within about two days, but if it is not, it will remain edible for at least four days time. If you are planning to keep it longer, your best bet is to freeze it. The reason we recommend that potato soup be kept in the refrigerator only a few days is that it is a very low acid soup. It contains a lot of materials that are low in acid and do not’ keep well over a long span of time in normal refrigeration.
If you bring the leftovers to a boil for a couple of minutes, you can extend the shelf life a couple of days. Soups with pasta tend to turn sour sooner than without....especially when made with chicken stock. In general, 5 days is the norm in my kitchen. 