Learn more: Angina is chest pain or discomfort caused when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. It may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The discomfort also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. But, angina is not a disease.
1 Chest pain or discomfort. 2  Chest pain is the most common heart attack symptom, but some women may experience it differently than men. 3  It may feel like a squeezing or fullness, and the pain can be anywhere in the chest, not just on the left side. These six heart attack symptoms are common in women: 1  Chest pain or discomfort. 2  Chest pain is the most common heart attack symptom, but some women may experience it differently than men.
There are many causes of chest pain. One is angina which results from inadequate oxygen supply to the heart muscle. Angina can be caused by coronary artery disease or spasm of the coronary arteries. Chest pain can also be due to a heart attack (coronary occlusion) and other important diseases. Do not try to ignore chest pain and work (or play) through it.. Chest pain is a warning to seek medical attention. 
Chest pain is one of many symptoms associated with a heart attack. If you are experiencing chest pain accompanied by pain radiating up through your arm and possibly into your neck and lower jaw, you may be having a heart attack and should seek medical attention immediately. Other medical conditions of which chest pain is a symptom include: 1  Aortic Dissection: a tear in the side of the aorta, which causes abrupt severe pain in the chest and back. 2  Pericarditis: an inflammation of the surrounding area of the heart, causing discomfort in the middle of the chest.
Myocardial infarction (heart attack). This reduction in blood flow through heart blood vessels causes the death of heart muscle cells. Though similar to angina chest pain, a heart attack is usually a more severe, crushing pain usually in the center or left side of the chest and is not relieved by rest. Sweating, nausea, shortness of breath, or severe weakness may accompany the pain. Myocarditis. 
The most common symptom of coronary artery disease is angina, or chest pain. Angina can be described as a discomfort, heaviness, pressure, aching, burning, fullness, squeezing, or painful feeling in your chest. It can be mistaken for indigestion or heartburn. Symptoms of a Heart Attack. Symptoms of a heart attack can include: 1  Discomfort, pressure, heaviness, or pain in the chest, arm, or below the breastbone. 2  Discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, or arm. 3  Fullness, indigestion, or choking feeling (may feel like heartburn)
Chest pain can be a serious, life-threatening symptom and is the classic symptom of a heart attack. Chest pain is often associated with a heart attack and other types of heart and cardiovascular disease, but it can also occur with a wide variety of other diseases, disorders and conditions. Chest pain includes any type of pain or discomfort that occurs between your upper belly area and your lower neck. Chest pain can occur in any age group or population and may be described as chest tightness, chest pressure, or a feeling of burning or fullness in the chest.
In general, chest discomfort related to a heart attack or another heart problem may be described by or associated with one or more of the following: 1  Pressure, fullness or tightness in your chest. 2  Crushing or searing pain that radiates to your back, neck, jaw, shoulders and arms — particularly your left arm. 