Definition. Written contract under which the owner of a copyright, know how, patent, servicemark, trademark, or other intellectual property, allows a licensee to use, make, or sell copies of the original. 
Licensing Agreements Law & Legal Definition. A licensing agreement is a legal contract between two parties, known as the licensor and the licensee. 
License Agreement. A contract between the inventor or patent holder of a product and another party which grants that party the legal right to market, sell, or otherwise profit from that product. 
Enterprise Agreement. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement offers the best value to organizations with 250 or more users or devices that want a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement.
DEFINITION of 'Licensing Agreement'. This term refers to a written agreement entered into by the contractual owner of a property or activity giving permission to another to use that property or engage in an activity in relation to that property. The property involved in a licensing agreement can be real, personal or intellectual.
Uses for Non-Exclusive Licenses. Non-exclusive licenses can provide you a lucrative source of income. If you are an artist, you can use a non-exclusive license to grant printmakers a license to manufacture reproductions, either numbered or mass-produced, of your original work. 
Term; Renewal; Early Termination; Perpetual License. Term. The term of the agreement should be explicitly stated, either as a date certain, or a specified amount of time following the effective date of the contract. Renewal. 
Maximize your investment in Microsoft technologies with best pricing and benefits. The Enterprise Agreement is designed for organizations that want to license software and cloud services for a minimum three-year period. The Enterprise Agreement offers built-in savings ranging from 15 percent to 45 percent. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement offers the best value to organizations with 250 or more users or devices that want a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement.
license, an agency-or government-granted permission issued to a health care professional to engage in a given occupation on finding that the applicant has attained the degree of competency and met educational requirements necessary to ensure that the public health, safety, and welfare are reasonably well-protected. 1 License agreement. 2  licensed counselor. 3  licensed dietitian. 4  licensed health professional. 5  licensed marriage and family therapist. 6  licensed medicine. 7  licensed occupational therapist. 8  licensed practical nurse. 9  licensed psychologist.
A purely personal license is not assignable. A gratuitous license is revocable by notice at any time.. A common example is allowing a person to walk across your lawn which, if it were not for the license, would constitute trespass. In the 1991 case of Edwards v O'Connor, the New Zealand court wrote: A license is simply an authority or permission to do what is otherwise wrongful or illegal and in ordinary usage it extends to the document certifying or recording that the appropriate permission has been given by the competent authority..