Calcification of soft tissue (arteries, cartilage, heart valves, etc.) can be caused by vitamin K2 deficiency or by poor calcium absorption due to a high calcium/vitamin D ratio. This can occur with or without a mineral imbalance. It normally occurs in the formation of bone, but calcium can be deposited abnormally in soft tissue, causing it to harden. Calcifications may be classified on whether there is mineral balance or not, and the location of the calcification.
Calcium deposits in soft tissue (Soft Tissue Calcification, STC) are well known phenomena in the medical world. Unlike healthy calcification that is responsible for bones and teeth, STC is associated with numerous diseases and conditions that pose serious health concerns. 
Calcifications can also occur in the glandular tissue where milk is produced (the lobules) and in the ducts that carry milk to the nipple. Even when you're not pregnant or breastfeeding, the lobules secrete small amounts of calcium-containing fluid. If that calcium crystallizes, it may show up on a mammogram. Benign breast calcifications can form as a response to injury. When any part of the breast is damaged — by surgery, radiation, trauma, infection, or a cyst — fat cells die, releasing fatty acids that combine with calcium to form deposits.
Calcification is a gradual accumulation of calcium in an area of your body tissue. Most of the calcium absorbed by your body ends up in your bones and teeth, where it is most needed. Excess calcium is usually dissolved in the bloodstream for excretion in the urine, but it is normal for a certain amount to collect in an area of the body tissues; this collection of calcium then hardens the tissue. Also, tumors (cancerous or noncancerous) can result in calcification within the tumor tissue. Calcification becomes a problem when its location, shape or size interferes with the organ function, such as calcifications that harden and block blood vessels in the heart, brain and kidney.
Calcification is the process in which calcium builds up in body tissue where there normally isn’t any calcium. Over time, the buildup can harden and disrupt your body’s normal processes. Calcium is transported through the bloodstream, so calcification can occur in almost any part of the body. According to the Institute of Medicine, about 99 percent of calcium in the body is transported to teeth and bones. The remaining 1 percent is in the blood, muscles, fluid outside the cells, and other body tissues. A variety of disorders can cause this remaining 1 percent to travel to various areas of the body
metastatic calcification. deposition of calcium in tissues as a result of abnormalities of calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood and tissue fluids. nutritional calcification. calcification in soft tissues as a result of an increased intake of calcium. soft tissue calcification. see metastatic calcification (above), dystrophic calcification (above). More discussions about calcification.
Tissue (Definition). The body is composed of tissue that are classically described as beiing derived from three basic embyonic layers known as the endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm that then differentiate into the structures that compose the body such as skin, soft tissues, bone, muscle, organs, etc.
Calcification is the accumulation of calcium salts in a body tissue. It normally occurs in the formation of bone, but calcium can be deposited abnormally in soft tissue, causing it to harden. Calcifications may be classified on whether there is mineral balance or not, and the location of the calcification.
''Suspicious'' calcifications may be benign or an early sign of cancer; therefore, your doctor may recommend you have a biopsy. During a biopsy, a small amount of breast tissue containing the calcification is removed and sent to a laboratory to be examined for cancer cells. A. A. A. Breast calcifications are small calcium deposits that develop in a woman's breast tissue. They are very common and are usually benign (noncancerous). In some instances, certain types of breast calcifications may suggest early breast cancer.