An important distinction is that a swale is not a drain. It is a water collection device. The cheapest way to store water is in the soil. And of course, by stopping the run-off, it prevents erosion as well. Call me ignorant but I have no idea what swales are. I've seen the word a lot on this site and others but have no clue as to what they are and how they prevent erosion or if that is their main function.....
Definition of SWALE. : a low-lying or depressed and often wet stretch of land; also: a shallow depression on a golf course.
Swale railway station is at the southern end of the Kingsferry Bridge. There are four towns in the borough: Sittingbourne and Faversham on the mainland, and Sheerness and Queenborough on Sheppey. The district is named after the narrow channel called The Swale, a channel that separates the mainland of Kent from the Isle of Sheppey, and which occupies the central part of the district.
Swale is a local government district with borough status in Kent, England and is bounded by Medway to the west, Canterbury to the east, Ashford to the south and Maidstone to the south west. Its council is based in Sittingbourne. The district is named after the narrow channel called The Swale, a channel that separates the mainland of Kent from the Isle of Sheppey, and which occupies the central part of the district.
A swale is a slight depression that runs along the contour of the land. That is to say, it is level all along its length. It can be deep or shallow, or even hidden (a ditch filled with gravel and capped with topsoil), and the dirt from digging the swale is usually used to make a berm on the downhill side. Call me ignorant but I have no idea what swales are. I've seen the word a lot on this site and others but have no clue as to what they are and how they prevent erosion or if that is their main function.....
swale. n. 1. A low tract of land, especially when moist or marshy. 2. A long, narrow, usually shallow trough between ridges on a beach, running parallel to the coastline. 3. A shallow troughlike depression that carries water mainly during rainstorms or snow melts. Noun. 1. swale-a low area (especially a marshy area between ridges). trough-a narrow depression (as in the earth or between ocean waves or in the ocean bed). 1  Facebook.
The swale concept has also been popularized as a rainwater harvesting and soil conservation strategy by Bill Mollison, Geoff Lawton and other advocates of permaculture. In this context it usually refers to a water-harvesting ditch on contour. This type of swale is created by digging a ditch on contour and piling the dirt on the downhill side of the ditch to create a berm. In arid climates, vegetation (existing or planted) along the swale can benefit from the concentration of runoff.
The term swale or beach swale is also used to describe long, narrow, usually shallow troughs between ridges or sandbars on a beach, that run parallel to the shoreline. This type of swale is created by digging a ditch on contour and piling the dirt on the downhill side of the ditch to create a berm. In arid climates, vegetation (existing or planted) along the swale can benefit from the concentration of runoff.
Swale is defined as a narrow or shallow piece of land. An example of a swale is a low lying grassland. 1  a hollow, depression, or low area of land. ⌂ 2  such a place in a wet, marshy area. 1 A low tract of moist or marshy land. 2  A long narrow and shallow trough between ridges on a beach, running parallel to the coastline. 3  A shallow troughlike depression that's created to carry water during rainstorms or snow melts; a drainage ditch.
A swale is a low tract of land, especially one that is moist or marshy. The term can refer to a natural landscape feature or a human-created one. Artificial swales are often designed to manage water runoff, filter pollutants, and increase rainwater infiltration. This type of swale is created by digging a ditch on contour and piling the dirt on the downhill side of the ditch to create a berm. In arid climates, vegetation (existing or planted) along the swale can benefit from the concentration of runoff.