Choosing a product certified by NSF lets you know the company complies with strict standards and procedures imposed by NSF. From extensive product testing and material analyses to unannounced plant inspections, every aspect of a product's development is thoroughly evaluated before it can earn our certification. NSF certification is your key to making sure that the products you use meet strict standards for public health protection. 1  Appliances and Home Products. 2  Bottled Water. 3  Cosmetic and Personal Care Products. 4  Dietary/Sport Supplements. 5  Faucets/Plumbing. 6  Gluten-Free Products. 7  Non-GMO/GE Products. 8  Organic Products
Not necessarily. NSF certification is a voluntary process and NSF International charges a fee to the manufacturer to have the product certified. Many products are manufactured that meet or exceed the NSF safety standards but are not inspected or certified by NSF. For the professional kitchen, NSF certification is very important. For many restaurants, the use of NSF certified products is a necessity to show the company has done their job in protecting their customers by selecting products known and tested to be safe.
The NSF certification process is specific to the product, process or service being certified and the type of certification, but generally follows seven steps: 1  Application and information submission. 2  Product evaluation. 3  Product testing in lab. 4  Manufacturing facility inspection, production confirmation and product sampling. Third-party certification provides information to stakeholders that allows them to determine compliance to regulatory and purchase specifications, to apply risk management principles and to determine general suitability of products, systems and processes.
Most importantly, NSF certification is not a one-time event, but involves regular on-site inspections of manufacturing facilities and regular re-testing of products to ensure that they continue to meet the same high standards required to maintain certification over time. NSF certification is your key to making sure that the products you use meet strict standards for public health protection. 1  Appliances and Home Products. 2  Bottled Water. 3  Cosmetic and Personal Care Products. 4  Dietary/Sport Supplements. 5  Faucets/Plumbing. 6  Gluten-Free Products. 7  Non-GMO/GE Products. 8  Organic Products
Certified for Sport® Products. Welcome to the NSF Certified for Sport® online directory of certified products. You can search for certified products by product name, company name, nutrient or supplement type, goal, or mode of consumption. Search by: Nutrients. Mode of Consumption.
Searching for NSF Certified Food Equipment is quick and easy. If you have any problems, please contact NSF International. For more info, visit the NSF Food Equipment Program. Enter at least three letters of a Model, Trade Name or Product Type. Tips: Try synonyms(e.g.,knives vs. cutlery). 
Based in the United States, the NSF International provides certification of products around the world that meet their standards for consumer safety. Contrary to what some salesmen may tell you, NSF is not a government entity, but an independent, non-profit organization. For the professional kitchen, NSF certification is very important. For many restaurants, the use of NSF certified products is a necessity to show the company has done their job in protecting their customers by selecting products known and tested to be safe.
NSF Standards and Product Certification. Many U.S. and Canadian codes and regulations require products to meet NSF standards or more accurately the ANSI-accredited and public domain NSF/ANSI standards. People are often confused into thinking that products then must have NSF or must have NSF certification.. This is not correct. 