[ syll. ni-mat, nim-at ] The baby girl name Nimat is pronounced NAHMaeT †. Nimat has its origins in the Hebrew language and it is used largely in Arabic. Nimat is a form of the Arabic, English, Hebrew, and Indian Nima. Nimat is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Nimat include Nachmanit, Nechamit, Neginoth, Neginothe, Negynoth, Negynothe, and Nissanit.
What Does My Name Mean. To know what does your baby name mean, type your baby name or any name in the search box and know the meaning and origin of that name. Baby Name Meaning and the Parental Instinct. When you are finally ready to name your baby, you have probably had an opportunity to observe the baby and intuitively come to a few conclusions about the baby's personality. How your baby looks also impacts this decision.
Nina /ni-na/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced NEE-nah, NYNE-ah. It is of Spanish and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Nina is little girl; great-granddaughter. Also diminutive of Ann (Hebrew) He (God) has favored me. In Slavic, a short form of names ending with-nina, such as Antonina. Neena is also a Hindi name meaning pretty eyes. Nina was the name of one of Christopher Columbus's three ships. Ballerina Dame Ninette de Valois. Nina is a very popular first name for women (#268 out of 4276, Top 6%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#34503 out of 150436, Top 23%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Nina for girls.
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. 
Meaning of Nimat. African name. In African, the name Nimat means-blessing grace.The name Nimat originated as an African name. The name Nimat is most often used as a boy name or male name. African Name Meaning-blessing grace.
Nimat is a seductive and glamorous woman who is understanding, communicative, pleasant and friendly in her interactions with others. *To note: : It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic...
You have a vivid imagination who can bring inspired messages to the world. You like to enjoy the pleasures of life, and when self is overcome, you can rise to the heights. You have an ability to avoid trouble-that is why you often fails to learn from experiences. 
Nikita /niki-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Nikita) is pronounced nih-KEE-tah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Nikita is unconquered. From Aniketos. Also a nickname for Nicole, which is derived from Nike, the Greek goddess of victory. In Russia, also a male name.