The stratovolcanoes Teide and Pico Viejo (Old Peak, although it is in fact younger than Teide) are the most recent centres of activity on the volcanic island of Tenerife, which is the largest (2,058 km 2 or 795 sq mi) and highest (3,718 m or 12,198 ft) island in the Canaries. It has a complex volcanic history. Teide is the main symbol of Tenerife and the most emblematic natural monument of the Canary Islands. An image of Teide appears gushing flames at the centre of Tenerife's coat of arms. Above the volcano appears St. Michael, the patron saint of Tenerife.
Click here for info on the Teide volcano on Tenerife Island. Sources of Information: Carracedo, J.C., 1994, The Canary Islands: an example of structural control on the growth of large oceanic-island volcanoes. J. Volcanology and Geothermal Research, v. 60, p. 225-241. Teide is a stratovolcano capped by the Las Canadas caldera. The caldera is 7-12 miles (12-20 km) in diameter and partial filled by Montana Blanca, Pico Viejo (which has a large explosion crater), and Pico de Teide. Pico de Teide and other vents of Teide have erupted several times since the island was settled in 1402.
Volcanoes in Tenerife. In the heart of the island of Tenerife is Mount Teide, an ancient volcano that can be seen from other islands, whose summit is covered with snow during most of the year. Mount Teide is the tallest mountain in all of Spain (3718 meters) and the third highest volcano in the world. On the eastern Canary Island of Lanzarote, we find the famous Timanfaya National Park, a vast terrain of volcanic origin. Of the twenty-five volcanoes of Tenerife, the last one to erupt was the Timanfaya volcano in the 18 th century.
At 7,500 m (24,600 ft) from its base on the ocean floor, it is the third highest volcano on a volcanic ocean island in the world after Mauna Kea, Mauna Loa and others in Hawaii. Its elevation makes Tenerife the tenth highest island in the world. Teide is the main symbol of Tenerife and the most emblematic natural monument of the Canary Islands. An image of Teide appears gushing flames at the centre of Tenerife's coat of arms. Above the volcano appears St. Michael, the patron saint of Tenerife.
[ˈpiko ðel ˈteiðe] , Teide Peak) is a volcano on Tenerife in the Canary Islands. Its 3,718-metre (12,198 ft) summit is the highest point in Spain and the highest point above sea level in the islands of the Atlantic. Teide is the main symbol of Tenerife and the most emblematic natural monument of the Canary Islands. An image of Teide appears gushing flames at the centre of Tenerife's coat of arms. Above the volcano appears St. Michael, the patron saint of Tenerife.
Tenerife also has the highest elevation of Spain, a World Heritage Site that is the third largest volcano in the world from its base, El Teide. Tenerife is also the largest and most populous island of Macaronesia. About five million tourists visit Tenerife each year, the most of any of the Canary Islands. It is also one of the most important tourist destinations in Spain. Tenerife hosts one of the world's largest carnivals and the Carnival of Santa Cruz de Tenerife is attempting to become a World Heritage Sit
Tenerife (/tɛnəˈriːf/ ; [teneˈɾife]) is the largest and most populous island of the seven Canary Islands; it is also the most populated island of Spain, with a land area of 2,034.38 square kilometres (785 sq mi) and 898,680 inhabitants, 43 percent of the total population of the Canary Islands. Tenerife is also the largest and most populous island of Macaronesia. About five million tourists visit Tenerife each year, the most of any of the Canary Islands. It is also one of the most important tourist destinations in Spain. Tenerife hosts one of the world's largest carnivals and the Carnival of Santa Cruz de Tenerife is attempting to become a World Heritage Site
Canary Islands eruptions-last century. 1  1971: eruption of the Teneguia Volcano on the island of La Palma. 2  1949: eruption of the San Juan volcano, also on the island of La Palma. 3  1909: eruption of the Chinyero volcano, on Tenerife. An undersea volcano erupting just south of Spain's Canary Islands may be the beginnings of a new island, or an extension to an existing one. For some, it's a colourful spectacle-for others a major blow to their livelihood.
The many Canary Island volcanoes and beautiful beaches of theCanary archipelagomake these Spanish volcanic islands a popular tourist destination for visitors from around the world. The Canary Islands are an archipelago formed of 7 islands and islets located in the Atlantic Ocean near the African coast. On the eastern Canary Island of Lanzarote, we find the famous Timanfaya National Park, a vast terrain of volcanic origin. Of the twenty-five volcanoes of Tenerife, the last one to erupt was the Timanfaya volcano in the 18 th century.