IUI insemination: In general, anywhere from $200- $600 for each insemination (keep in mind that you may inseminate twice in one cycle, which would double the cost) This definitely varies by region/clinic. For example in Missouri you may be paying $250, while in NY you may be paying closer to $600 per IUI. The cost of clinical insemination will also vary if you decide to use fertility drugs, such as Clomid (relatively inexpensive) or injectibles (more expensive). Note: State mandates for coverage of infertility vary widely, and that’s before you throw anything gay into the mix.
1 Artificial insemination typically costs between $300 and $500 per attempt. 2  The typical success rate is 10 to 20 percent, so five to ten attempts could be required. 3  However, success can vary widely by individual, age and cause of infertility; some patients never achieve a pregnancy through artificial insemination. 1 IUI is the more commonly used type of artificial insemination, because it has a higher success rate than placing sperm in the cervix. 2  Ultrasounds, which are almost always used to monitor progress, cost up to $300 each.
In the United States, the average cost of an IUI cycle using your partner's sperm is about $865. Keep in mind that treatment costs vary depending on how much medicine you need, where you live, and whether your state mandates insurance coverage for infertility. The granddaddy of all fertility treatments, artificial insemination dates back to the late 18th century. In those days, the method involved healthy sperm and something like a turkey baster. Today, sperm is washed and carefully placed in the uterus, using a procedure called intrauterine insemination, or IUI.
1 For every attempt at artificial insemination, the patient will be charged anywhere from $275 to as much as $550. 2  The total cost for most patients will be between $3,000 and $6,500 without any type of insurance. 1 Before artificial insemination even begins, a consultation will be required. 2  During this consultation, they will make sure that the patient is a qualified candidate for the procedure. 3  For every attempt, experts state that the success rate hovers around 20 percent.
1 On average, the artificial insemination process will be charged per attempt. 2  For every attempt at artificial insemination, the patient will be charged anywhere from $275 to as much as $550. 1 Before artificial insemination even begins, a consultation will be required. 2  During this consultation, they will make sure that the patient is a qualified candidate for the procedure. 3  For every attempt, experts state that the success rate hovers around 20 percent.
Average Cost. The average cost of artificial insemination will be anywhere between $300 and $500. This is what you will pay each and every time that you decide to go through with this process. This price can add up really fast. Depending on the type of artificial insemination you are having completed, you could find that the clinic will also charge you to wash the sperm. This can cost you anywhere between $100 and $200 each vial.
How much is it? 1  On average, the artificial insemination process will be charged per attempt. 2  The total cost for most patients will be between $3,000 and $6,500 without any type of insurance. 3  Some insurance policies do cover this type of procedure. 4  For those that do not have health insurance or are looking for a new policy, eHealthInsurance.com ... 1 Before artificial insemination even begins, a consultation will be required. 2  During this consultation, they will make sure that the patient is a qualified candidate for the procedure. 3  For every attempt, experts state that the success rate hovers around 20 percent.
The IUI themselves are $400 each month and that includes a wash and insemination on back to back days. My clomid was roughly $100 a month and my Ovidrel was $85 so total each month was about $600. 
1 Sperm washing, which is always necessary for IUI, can cost about $100. 2  IUI is the more commonly used type of artificial insemination, because it has a higher success rate than placing sperm in the cervix. 3  Ultrasounds, which are almost always used to monitor progress, cost up to $300 each. 1 IUI is the more commonly used type of artificial insemination, because it has a higher success rate than placing sperm in the cervix. 2  Ultrasounds, which are almost always used to monitor progress, cost up to $300 each.