[…] that it is one of your top choices and the reasons why. Use some of your thoughts from your “why do you want to work here” answer to plug into this one. Companies know you are probably interviewing elsewhere (the interviewing […]. What to write in a thank you note after an interview January 10, 2013 at 9:34 pm ·.
1 If it's a career improvement, say so. 2  If you need a job and you are asked that question, say that you want to work there because you like the company and say why. 3  For example: their hygiene levels are high and that it has a comfortable and efficient work environment. 4  Compliment them. 1 So do your research and connect to the company's mission statement and the company's core values.  2 I think this company would fully enhance my professional career growth.. 3  Honestly, if you need a job, then say you need a job and intend to work hard at the job and to become more valuable to the company.
How do you answer 'Why do you think you would like to work for this company' in an interview?   I would say something like-I know (not think) I would like to work for this company because of the ability to grow as a person with a company that has as good as reput … ation as yours. 
1 Honestly, if you need a job, then say you need a job and intend to work hard at the job and to become more valuable to the company. 2  If it's a career improvement, say so. 3  If you need a job and you are asked that question, say that you want to work there because you like the company and say why. 1 So do your research and connect to the company's mission statement and the company's core values.  2 I think this company would fully enhance my professional career growth.. 3  Honestly, if you need a job, then say you need a job and intend to work hard at the job and to become more valuable to the company.
Now that you understand the 'why do you want to work for us' vocabulary, practise it by creating your own answers in English for these interview questions. In this online exercise on 'job interview questions', we will look at professional English vocabulary for answering both questions in a job interview. Click here to see more of our free online exercises on vocabulary to use in CVs/resumes and job interviews.
For 'why do you want to work for this company?', do your homework about the company and make a list of good things about it. In this online exercise on 'job interview questions', we will look at professional English vocabulary for answering both questions in a job interview. Click here to see more of our free online exercises on vocabulary to use in CVs/resumes and job interviews.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You’ve got a reputation for (insert quality from your research) and I like the fact that I’d be (how you would be helping them). I like the idea of going to work for a company where I can use my skills and experience. It makes me feel kind of like I have a stake in what’s going on. I also think I would be a good fit as (Job title).
If you want to make a hit, then take the time to understand the basics of your target company's brand. Be prepared to tap into the company's carefully crafted reputation from your first conversation all the way through the hiring process. Here are five possible answers to the why do you want to work here question. Pick and choose from them, and expand with the facts of your particular situation. Thereby, you can demonstrate that you've done your research, your interest is real and your candidacy makes sense: 1
1 If you need a job and you are asked that question, say that you want to work there because you like the company and say why. 2  For example: their hygiene levels are high and that it has a comfortable and efficient work environment. 3  Compliment them. 1 So do your research and connect to the company's mission statement and the company's core values.  2 I think this company would fully enhance my professional career growth.. 3  Honestly, if you need a job, then say you need a job and intend to work hard at the job and to become more valuable to the company.