The process by which a species becomes better suited to its environment is called adaptation. It occurs when natural selection acts on a heritable trait, or characteristic, that allows an individual to better survive in its environment. 
Adaptation is, first of all, a process, rather than a part of a body. An internal parasite (such as a liver fluke) can illustrate the distinction: such a parasite may have a very simple bodily structure, but nevertheless the organism is highly adapted to its specific environment. Adaptation is the evolutionary process whereby an organism becomes better able to live in its habitat or habitats. 2. Adaptedness is the state of being adapted: the degree to which an organism is able to live and reproduce in a given set of habitats.
IMPROVED ANSWER:    Adaptation is a characteristic of an organism that makes it better  able to survive and reproduce in its environment.    Some forms of life … are adapted to living in many different  environments. For example, people live in all kinds of climates,  ranging from the tropics to the Arctic. An adaptation is a feature which helps an organism survive in its normal habitat.   For example animals which live in the arctic have thick fur to reduce heat loss. T … he thick fur is an adaptation.
In biology, adaptation is the process by which an organism changes to become better suited to survive in their environment. An adaptation is a feature which helps an organism survive in its normal habitat.   For example animals which live in the arctic have thick fur to reduce heat loss. T … he thick fur is an adaptation.
Share. By Jennifer Kennedy. Definition: An adaptation is a physical or behavioral characteristic that has developed to allow an organism to better survive in its environment. Adaptations are the result of evolution, and may occur when a gene mutates, or changes by accident. Examples: One physical adaptation used in the intertidal zone is a crab's hard shell, which protects it from predators, drying out and being crushed by waves. A behavioral adaptation in the oceans is the use of loud, low-frequency calls by fin whales to communicate with other whales over great distances.
Adaptation is the evolutionary process where an organism becomes better suited to its habitat. This process takes place over many generations. It is one of the basic phenomena of biology. When people speak about adaptation, they often mean a 'feature' (a trait) which helps an animal or plant survive. Adaptation is the evolutionary process whereby an organism becomes better able to live in its habitat or habitats. 2. Adaptedness is the state of being adapted: the degree to which an organism is able to live and reproduce in a given set of habitats. 3.
Adaptation. An adaptation is a feature that is common in a population because it provides some improved function. Adaptations are well fitted to their function and are produced by natural selection. One example is vestigial structures. A vestigial structure is a feature that was an adaptation for the organism's ancestor, but that evolved to be non-functional because the organism's environment changed. Fish species that live in completely dark caves have vestigial, non-functional eyes.