What is the EHIC? The European Health Insurance Card or EHIC was introduced in 2004 across the European Union. It allows Irish residents to access health services in any EU country and in Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, if they become ill or injured while on a temporary stay in that country. No. Your card will be valid for 4 to 5 years. Check that you and your family's cards are valid before you travel, and if they have expired, it's easy to renew them online at www.ehic.ie or at your Local Health Office.
Answers. Best Answer: An EHIC card is free and takes 7 days to arrive. You obviously have clicked on one of the websites which charges you needlessly. You will have to go back to the website you ordered your card from and have a look at their FAQs section. Linked is the official EHIC website where it is free. I'm going to Italy on a school trip, and I realized today that my EHIC card has gone missing. I leave in exactly 7 days (next Monday) and I need it.
The quickest way is to apply online. Your EHIC will normally arrive within seven days and will usually be valid for five years. This means at a reduced cost or sometimes free of charge. Even with an EHIC, you may have to pay towards your treatment, depending on the rules of the country you’re visiting. You may be able to claim the money back – always try to apply for a refund before you return home. Find out how to do this in the country-by-country guide for the EHIC
How long does it take to post a YouTube video? Not long it takes about 20-25 seconds to upload now. 20-25 seconds my butt!!!!! My video is a 4 minute and 36 seconds video and has been uploading for about 5 minutes and is … only at 2% It takes a while. I think it takes about 20-25 or 60 minutes to upload a video. 
Only treatment provided under the state scheme is covered. However, to obtain treatment you will need to take a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) with you. Please note: Not all UK residents are covered in Denmark, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland. Click on the 'Health Advice for Travellers' link below, if you are unsure whether you are covered. 1 The EHIC is not a substitute or replacement for private travel insurance. 2  You should always take out an appropriate private policy in addition to carrying your EHIC. 3  It will not cover the costs of private healthcare or services that are not part of the state healthcare system.
EHIC: packing for your holiday. Be prepared for your holiday, and make sure you have a valid European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). It costs nothing to apply for or renew an EHIC. For more information call the Overseas Healthcare Team on 0191 218 1999. You can renew an EHIC up to six months before the expiry date, but any time left on the card will not be added to your new card. Renewing your card is free – you can renew online if none of your personal details have changed.
You can apply online for an EHIC, which is free of charge. You can also apply by phoning the automated service on 0300 330 1350, or you can download the EHIC application form (PDF, 122kb) and return it to the NHS Business Services Authority (address below). You can renew an EHIC up to six months before the expiry date, but any time left on the card will not be added to your new card. Renewing your card is free – you can renew online if none of your personal details have changed.
You can apply for an EHIC online or by calling the automated EHIC application service on 0300 3301350. You can also download an application form (PDF, 122kb) and apply by post. This means at a reduced cost or sometimes free of charge. Even with an EHIC, you may have to pay towards your treatment, depending on the rules of the country you’re visiting. You may be able to claim the money back – always try to apply for a refund before you return home. Find out how to do this in the country-by-country guide for the EHIC