Gamelan (/ˈɡaeməlaen/) ˈɡæməlæn is the traditional ensemble music Of java And bali In, indonesia made up predominantly of percussive. instruments The word gamelan comes from the low Javanese word gamel, which may refer to a type of mallet used to strike instruments or the act of striking with a mallet. The term karawitan refers to the playing of gamelan instruments, and comes from the word rawit, meaning 'intricate' or 'finely worked'.
Gamelan is the music of Indonesia (pronounced Gah-Meh-Lahn). Gamelan orchestras are usually percussion oriented, but some varieties may feature flutes, bowed and plucked strings, or vocalists in a prominent role. Many different islands, or regions within islands, have their own unique Gamelan instruments and traditions. Technically put, Gamelan is really just music. The suffix -an converts the word gamel from a verb to a noun. Today the word Gamelan is used to distinguish Indonesian music as a style. But, at one time, Gamelan meant all kinds of music.
Balinese Gamelan Angklung. Balinese Gamelan music is very similar to Javanese Gamelan music. The music is in cycle too, however, it is usually faster. One of the characteristic of Balinese gamelan music is that, it has a lot of sudden changes in tempo and dynamics. Like the Javanese gamelan, the instruments in Balinese gamelan includes metallophones and gongs.
Gamelan gong kebyar is a style or genre of Balinese gamelan music. Kebyar means the process of flowering , and refers to the explosive changes in tempo and dynamics characteristic of the style. It is the most popular form of gamelan in Bali, and its best known musical export. 
Introduction. Gamelan is a term for various types of orchestra played in Indonesia. It is the main element of the Indonesian traditional music. Each gamelan is slightly different from the other; however, they all have the same organization, which based on different instrumental groups with specific orchestral functions.
Gamelan (/ˈɡaeməlaen/) ˈɡæməlæn is the traditional ensemble music Of java And bali In, indonesia made up predominantly of percussive. Instruments the most common instruments used are metallophones played by mallets and a set of-hand played drums called kendhang which register the. beat The word gamelan comes from the low Javanese word gamel, which may refer to a type of mallet used to strike instruments or the act of striking with a mallet. The term karawitan refers to the playing of gamelan instruments, and comes from the word rawit, meaning 'intricate' or 'finely worked'.
Gamelan music. People playing gamelan instruments in the UK. The word 'gamelan' means 'to hammer'. Gamelan music is found mainly in Bali and Java, the two styles differ but are based on the same principles. Gamelan music: 1  has political and religious roots and plays an important part in sustaining traditional life. 2  is heard at celebrations and theatre performances
The term gamelan refers to the ensemble of percussion instruments on which traditional gamelan music of Java and Bali is played. A complete Javanese court-style gamelan comprises two sets of instruments, one for each tuning system: slendro (sléndro a-five tone) scale and (pelog pélog-a seven). tone scale Gamelan: Refers to both the Indonesian percussion orchestra and the type of music played on it. Gendhing: Composition or piece-can also refer to a specific form of piece. Gerong: Gérong chorus of male. Vocalists: Karawitan gamelan. music