From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mastoiditis is the result of an infection that extends to the air cells of the skull behind the ear. Specifically, it is an inflammation of the mucosal lining of the mastoid antrum and mastoid air cell system inside the mastoid process. The mastoid process is the portion of the temporal bone of the skull that is behind the ear which contains open, air-containing spaces. Some common symptoms and signs of mastoiditis include pain, tenderness, and swelling in the mastoid region. There may be ear pain (otalgia), and the ear or mastoid region may be red (erythematous).
Mastoiditis Mastoiditis is an infection of the mastoid process, the portion of the temporal bone of the skull that is behind the ear. It is usually caused by untreated acute otitis media (middle ear infection) and used to be a leading cause of child mortality. 
Mastoiditis is an inflammation or infection of the mastoid bone. This bone is part of the skull and is located behind the ear. The mastoid bone is made of cells that drain the middle ear. Mastoiditis may be mild. It can also be very serious. 
The mastoid bone, which sits behind the ear, consists of air spaces that help drain the middle ear. When the mastoid cells become infected or inflamed, often as a result of an unresolved middle ear infection (otitis media), mastoiditis can develop. In acute mastoiditis, infection may spread outside of the mastoid bone and cause serious health complications. Mastoiditis Symptoms. Mastoiditis symptoms may include: 1  Fever, irritability, and lethargy. 2  Swelling of the ear lobe. 3  Redness and tenderness behind the ear. 4  Drainage from the ear. 5  Bulging and drooping of the ear (in acute mastoiditis).
As mentioned above, mastoiditis most often develops as a result of a middle ear infection. Bacteria from the middle ear can travel into the air cells of the mastoid bone. In addition, a type of skin cyst in the middle ear, called a cholesteatoma, may block drainage of the ear, leading to mastoiditis. Mastoiditis Symptoms. Mastoiditis symptoms may include: 1  Fever, irritability, and lethargy. 2  Swelling of the ear lobe. 3  Redness and tenderness behind the ear. 4  Drainage from the ear. 5  Bulging and drooping of the ear (in acute mastoiditis).
Mastoiditis is usually a result of an extension of the inflammation of the middle ear infection into the mastoid air cells. A child with mastoiditis usually has a history of having a recent ear infection or has middle ear infections that continue to reoccur. Swelling of the ear lobe. Recent ear infection. Fever. Irritability. Redness or swelling of the bone behind the ear. Drainage from an ear infection. Headache. Hearing loss. The symptoms of mastoiditis may resemble other medical conditions or problems. Always consult your child's doctor for a diagnosis.
Mastoiditis. Mastoiditis is an inflammation or infection of the mastoid bone, which is a portion of the temporal bone. The mastoid consists of air cells that drain the middle ear. Mastoiditis can be a mild infection or can develop into life-threatening complications. Mastoiditis is usually a complication of acute otitis media (middle ear infection). Swelling of the ear lobe. Recent ear infection. Fever. Irritability. Redness or swelling of the bone behind the ear. Drainage from an ear infection. Headache. Hearing loss. The symptoms of mastoiditis may resemble other medical conditions or problems. Always consult your child's doctor for a diagnosis.
Your Eustachian tube connects your middle ear to the back of your throat. If an infection develops in your middle ear and your Eustachian tube is blocked, it may cause an infection in the mastoid bone. This serious infection is known as mastoid bone infection of the skull, or mastoiditis. The mastoid bone is located in the inner ear and may not be visible due to the infection. Therefore, your doctor may perform other tests to confirm the diagnosis. These include: 1  a white blood cell count to confirm the presence of an infection. 2  a CT scan of your ear and head.
If you have symptoms of an ear infection, your doctor will examine your ears and head to determine if the infection has spread to your mastoid bone. The mastoid bone is located in the inner ear and may not be visible due to the infection. Therefore, your doctor may perform other tests to confirm the diagnosis. These include: 1  a white blood cell count to confirm the presence of an infection. 2  a CT scan of your ear and head.
Mastoiditis is an inflammation or infection of the mastoid bone, which is a portion of the temporal bone, or the bone behind the ear. The mastoid consists of air cells that drain the middle ear. Mastoiditis can be a mild infection or can develop into life-threatening complications. Symptoms may include: 1  Protrusion of the ear (the ear sticks out more). 2  Pain behind the ear. 3  Recent ear infection. 4  Fever. 5  Irritability. 6  Redness or swelling of the bone behind the ear. 7  Drainage from an