Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Ok, first of all, whether the first civilization was in Africa or not is not relevant to whether people are African nowadays. My direct ancestors a couple of generations back came from Ireland and Finland, but I am not Irish or Finnish, I'm American. No it didn't. While homo sapiens first occurred in Africa, civilized people first developed their civilizations in the Near East. Points for Africa: the longest continuous civilization was that of ancient Egypt. Voxygen8 · 9 years ago.
It did start in Mesopotamia based on evidence found in that area. I would not use wikipedia as a source for something like this, as you can go in and alter what it says. As time went on populations spread to the surrounding areas; including Africa, Asia, and Europe. 
These fossils were found in East and South Africa (Azania). Some of the fossils may be as old as 5 million years. For example Australopithecus robustus fossils found in an East Turkana Kenya site were at least 4 million year old. Millions of years ago human life started in Africa, Australopithecus aphaeresis and Australopithecus africanus and Australopithecus robustus were all key rungs in the development of humanity.
The vestiges of this early civilization have been found in Nubia, the Egyptian Sudan, West Africa, Egypt, Mashonaland, India, Persia, Mesopotamia, Arabia, South America, Central America, Mexico, and the United States. It is pretty well settled that the city is the Negro's great contribution to civilization, for it was in Africa where the first cities grew up. E. Haldeman-Julius.
The history of Africa begins with the emergence of Homo sapiens in East Africa, and continues into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states. The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt, and later in Nubia, the Sahel, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa. During the Middle Ages, Islam spread through the regions. Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel, a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu. European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the Scramble for Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It is widely believed that Africa had up to 10,000 different states and autonomous groups with distinct languages and customs before it was colonized.
Africa, which developed the world's oldest human civilization, gave humanity the use of fire a million and half to two million years ago. It is the home of the first tools, astronomy, jewelry, fishing, mathematics, crops, art, use of pigments, cutting and other pointed instruments and animal domestication. In short Africa gave the world human civilization. Millions of years ago human life started in Africa, Australopithecus aphaeresis and Australopithecus africanus and Australopithecus robustus were all key rungs in the development of humanity.
Even before the appearance about 300,000 years ago of Homo sapiens, the ancestors of modern human beings, other hominid species, such as Homo erectus, had moved outward from Africa to Asia and Europe. Africa, therefore, holds a special place in the development of the human species. It was the scene of human origins. Moreover, in cultural terms, Africa participated in the early development of civilization. Despite the false image of Africa as the dark and isolated continent, it was, in fact, often in contact with other areas of the world. 
Not necessarily the first civilization, but the first people came out of Africa, around 50,000 yrs ago, and migrated all over the world. So yes, we are all the same race, and technically, African in origin. No it didn't. While homo sapiens first occurred in Africa, civilized people first developed their civilizations in the Near East. Points for Africa: the longest continuous civilization was that of ancient Egypt. Voxygen8 · 9 years ago.