The tusks are 0.5 m (1.6 ft) long in females, and 1 m (3.3 ft) long and 3-6 kg (6-13 pounds) heavy in males. In females, they have a round section, whereas in males they are elliptical, and they can help to determine the age of the animal. 
Ivory is a hard, white material from the tusks and teeth of animals, that is used in art or manufacturing. It consists of dentine, a tissue that is similar to bone. It has been valued since ancient times for making a range of items, from ivory carvings to false teeth, fans, and dominoes. Elephant ivory is the most important source, but ivory from mammoth, walrus, hippopotamus, sperm whale, killer whale, narwhal and wart hog are used as well. Elk also have two ivory teeth, which are believed to be the remnants of tusks from their ancestors.
Walrus tusks can grow up to 3 feet (1 m). The tusks are canine teeth and stick out from either side of the animal's mouth. Walruses use their tusks to break through ice, and to assist in climbing out of the water and onto the ice. 
The female tusks are more slender and have less taper going from the base to the tip. Typically the length of female walrus tusks is similar to a male but the base is more round than oval, say 4 cm (1.5) diameter, and the weight runs 0.5 to 1.0 kg (1 to 2 lbs.) Walrus Skulls Walrus skulls are impressive. Walrus Oosik. Walrus oosik is a dense bone popular for carving and knife handles. Typically they are 45 to 50 cm (18-20) in length and 2 to 4 cm (1-1.5) in diameter in the middle. There is only a small porous core that leaves plenty of thickness for carving or shaping.
Both sexes of walrus grow long tusks, which can be up to 30 inches long. When removed from the animal, tusks must be carefully dried, or—much like improperly cured wood—they will develop longitudinal cracks that penetrate both cementum and dentine. 
Walrus Tusk. A walrus is a large seallike animal that lives in the cold North, near the edge of the polar ice. A walrus can be most easily recognized by its white, daggerlike tusks that never stop growing. The tusks are really two overgrown teeth that curve downward from the mustached upper tip. 
Walruses use their iconic long tusks for a variety of reasons, each of which makes their lives in the Arctic a bit easier. They use them to haul their enormous bodies out of frigid waters, thus their tooth-walking label, and to break breathing holes into ice from below. 
The walrus (Odobenus rosmarus) is a large Arctic marine mammal with flippers, a broad head, short muzzle, small eyes, tusks and whiskers. Walruses are cinnamon brown in color. They are able to turn their hind flippers forward to aid in movement on land. Their front flippers are large and each has five digits. Both males and females have large tusks that are used for defense, cutting through ice and getting out of the water. The tusks can be more than three feet long in males and about two and a half feet long in females.
Long in the Tooth Both male and female walruses have long ivory tusks, although the tusks of the males tend to be longer and thicker than those of females. The tusks are the walrus' very long upper canine teeth, and they grow to an average length of about 36 cm / 14 inches, but they can grow as long as 100 cm / 39 inches in males. However, the main role of the tusks is a social one, and walruses use them in dominance and mating displays. They are only secondarily used as weapons, but when walruses cross tusks, there are often injuries involved. The scars seen on the necks and shoulders of adult males are evidence of tusking.