Click here to view the patient information booklet. About VCMC. Ventura County Medical Center (VCMC) is a fully-integrated, comprehensive system of hospital, clinic and specialty services. The system provides access to high quality, compassionate health care to residents throughout Ventura County. 
Deer Lodge Medical Center. Deer Lodge Medical Center is a non-profit 501c3 community hospital located in Deer Lodge, Montana. Managed by Cy press Healthcare, Deer Lodge Medical Center is a certified critical access hospital serving Powell County and the outlying communities.
Olive View – UCLA Medical Center is a 377-bed state-of-the-art hospital that serves much of the San Fernando Valley and the Antelope Valley, with out-patient clinics that provide primary care and hospital services for those who need specialty care or surgery. Olive View-UCLA Center was the first Los Angeles County-owned hospital to achieve “Baby Friendly” designation by the World Health Organization and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
We operate four hospitals – Community Regional Medical Center, Clovis Community Medical Center, Fresno Heart & Surgical Hospital and Community Behavioral Health Center – other health care facilities and a physician residency program in conjunction with the University of California, San Francisco. 1  Corporate. Based in Fresno, California, Community Medical Centers is the region's largest health care provider and private employer.
Welcome to Irvine Regional Hospital and Medical Center, one of Orange County's newest hospitals. A full-service 176-bed acute care hospital, Irvine Regional Hospital and Medical Center offers a full range of health care services available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. http://www.memorialcare.org/anaheim/about.cfm. Anaheim Memorial has served the communities of North Orange County since 1958. Through the years, the medical center has remained committed to providing the highest quality of health care services in a compassionate and caring environment.
Fountain Valley Regional Hospital and Medical Center (FVRH) is a 400-bed, full-service, acute care facility located in western Orange County. We are accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), the nation's largest and oldest accrediting body in healthcare. http://www.memorialcare.org/anaheim/about.cfm. Anaheim Memorial has served the communities of North Orange County since 1958. Through the years, the medical center has remained committed to providing the highest quality of health care services in a compassionate and caring environment.
UCI Medical Center offers a number of services designed to help visitors during their stay. For information not included in this site, contact UCI Medical Center staff. UCI Medical Center is the only university medical center serving Orange County and surrounding areas. http://www.memorialcare.org/anaheim/about.cfm. Anaheim Memorial has served the communities of North Orange County since 1958. Through the years, the medical center has remained committed to providing the highest quality of health care services in a compassionate and caring environment.
We offer you and your family a wide range of services from neurology, cardiology, trauma, emergency, burn services, rehabilitative care, to programs for seniors, women, and children. Orange County Global Medical Center progressive heritage dates back to March 5, 1902, when we first opened our doors. For over 112 years, we’ve dedicated ourselves to meeting the health care needs of our families, friends and neighbors
Our Mission. Stevens Community Medical Center's mission is to strive for excellence in the delivery of inpatient and outpatient care through cooperation with qualified health care providers; through the provision of appropriate facilities and technology; and through active promotion of health education among the public. Locations. Stevens Community Medical Center is pleased to have again participated in the Summer Health Care Internship Program (SHCIP). “Funding for the SHCIP... Allergist Starting July 16th and 17th. We are pleased to welcome a new allergist to SCMC.