The Facts Solubility of the hydroxides The hydroxides become more soluble as you go down the Group. This is a trend which holds for the whole Group, and applies whichever set of data you choose. Some examples may help you to remember the trend: Magnesium hydroxide appears to be insoluble in water. However, if you shake it with water, filter it and test the pH of the solution, you find that it is slightly alkaline. This shows that there are more hydroxide ions in the solution than there were in the original water. Some magnesium hydroxide must have dissolved. Calcium hydroxide solution is used as lime water. 1 litre of pure water will dissolve about 1 gram of calcium hydroxide at room temperature. Barium hydroxide is soluble enough to be able to produce a solution with a concentration of around 0.1 mol dm-3 at room temperature.
This explains the formation of rust when insoluble iron is exposed to the atmosphere, lowering the pH in the water and oxidizing the iron. Bacteria can produce insoluble iron compounds like ferric hydroxide or iron carbonate as a waste product, which can end up as film on fixtures and appliances. Insoluble, commonly called red water iron, is immediately apparent upon pouring a glass. The water can appear rusty or yellowish in color. This happens because the iron is being oxidized by the atmosphere and forming ferric hydroxide-also known as rust. Soluble iron is also called clear water iron.
The solubility in water of the other hydroxides in this group increases with increasing atomic number. Magnesium hydroxide Mg(OH) 2 is a strong base as are the hydroxides of the heavier alkaline earths, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide and barium hydroxide. A solution/suspension of calcium hydroxide is known as limewater and can be used to test for the weak acid carbon dioxide. Hydroxide is a diatomic anion with chemical formula OH − . It consists of an oxygen and hydrogen atom held together by a covalent bond, and carries a negative electric charge. It is an important but usually minor constituent of water. It functions as a base, a ligand, a nucleophile and a catalyst.
Iron(II) hydroxide or ferrous hydroxide is a compound with the formula Fe(OH) 2. It is produced when iron(II) ions, from a compound such as iron(II) sulfate, react with hydroxide ions. Iron(II) hydroxide itself is practically white, but even traces of oxygen impart a greenish tinge. Iron(II) hydroxide is poorly soluble (1.43 × 10 −3 g / L).
Precipitation reactions. Transition metal hydroxides are insoluble in water. If a solution of any soluble transition metal compound is mixed with sodium hydroxide solution then there is displacement reaction. The sodium is the more reactive metal, and displaces the transition metal from its compound.
Dissolved iron is mainly present as Fe(OH) 2 + (aq) under acidic and neutral, oxygen-rich conditions. Under oxygen-poor conditions it mainly occurs as binary iron. Iron is part of many organic and inorganic chelation complexes that are generally water soluble. The water solubility of some iron compounds increases at lower pH values. Other iron compounds may be more water soluble than the examples mentioned above. Iron carbonate has a water solubility of 60 mg/L, iron sulphide of 6 mg/L, and iron vitriol even of 295 g/L. Many iron chelation complexes are water soluble. Usually there is a difference between water soluble Fe 2+ compounds and generally water insoluble Fe 3+ compounds. The latter are only water soluble in strongly acidic solutions, but water solubility increases when these are reduced to Fe 2+ under certain conditions
The natural analogue of iron(II) hydroxide compound is a very rare mineral amakinite, (Fe,Mg)(OH) 2. Iron(II) hydroxide is poorly soluble (1.43 × 10 −3 g / L). It precipitates from the reaction of iron(II) sulfate and hydroxide ions (from a soluble compound containing hydroxide ion): Iron(II) hydroxide is poorly soluble (1.43 × 10 −3 g / L)
The rule of thumb for hydroxide salts is actually that all hydroxides are insoluble save those of the alkali metals, $\ce{Ca^{2+}}$, $\ce{Sr}^{2+}$, and $\ce{Ba}^{2+}$. 