Charles Spencer Chaplin was born in London, England, on April 16th 1889. His father was a versatile vocalist and actor; and his mother, known under the stage name of Lily Harley, was an attractive actress and singer, who gained a reputation for her work in the light opera field.
Charlie lived with his father for a short of time during his childhood. Charles Sr. died May 9, 1901, at the age of 37 from illnesses stemming from alcoholism. Chaplin's Mother Hannah Chaplin Charlie's mother Hannah became a singer in the London Music Halls after marrying Charles Chaplin Sr. in 1885.
- Linda Wada Sydney Chaplin, Charlie Chaplin's son, has died at the age of 82. ednapurviance.org Part 1 - Charlie's Ideal Part 2 - Chaplin's Wives Part 3 - Chaplin's Family. Chaplins Parents Chaplin's Father Charles Spencer Chaplin Sr. Charlie wrote in his book that he really never knew his father.
December 26, 1977 Charlie Chaplin Dead at 88; Made the Film an Art Form By BOSLEY CROWTHER harlie Chaplin, the poignant little tramp with the cane and comic walk who almost single-handedly elevated the novelty entertainment medium of motion pictures into art, died peacefully yesterday at his home in Switzerland.
Sydney Chaplin, son of famous actor Charlie Chaplin and himself a Tony-winning actor who starred on Broadway opposite Judy Holliday in Bells Are Ringing and Barbra Streisand in Funny Girl, has died at 82. He's shown here in 1998 with a stamp honoring his father.
She died August 28, 1928. Charlie Chaplin's Brothers Sydney Earl Chaplin, (half-brother) Wheeler Dryden (half-brother) Charlie had two half-brothers. Sydney Chaplin grew up with Charlie and was the one person who really knew Chaplin the best.
1 His corpse was stolen. 2  Three months after Chaplin died on Christmas, 1977, his body was stolen in an effort to extort money from his family. 3  Chaplin's body was recovered 11 weeks later after the grave-robbers were captured. 4  He is now buried under 6 feet of concrete to prevent further theft attempts.
1 Three months after Chaplin died on Christmas, 1977, his body was stolen in an effort to extort money from his family. 2  Chaplin's body was recovered 11 weeks later after the grave-robbers were captured. 3  He is now buried under 6 feet of concrete to prevent further theft attempts. 4  He has an asteroid named after him.
1978: Charlie Chaplin's stolen body found The coffin containing the body of Charlie Chaplin-missing since his grave was robbed 11 weeks ago-has been found. It was dug up from a field about a mile away from the Chaplin home in Corsier near Lausanne, Switzerland.