Varieties of Chard. There always seems to be a new hybrid coming out in garden centers but sometimes the best Swiss chard variety is the tried and true type. 1  One of the chards that will provide bright contrast color in the vegetable garden is a red midrib type. 2  Three seeds to try are Burgundy, Rhubarb and Ruby.
Combine a mixture of seeds, cool weather, and organic soil and, from that, you can grow a number of types of Swiss chard, including Rhubarb Chard, Lucullus, and Bright Lights. In this article, we'll discuss methods to grow Swiss chard and the different types of Swiss chard. Swiss chard is basically a beet without the bottom. It's a biennial that is grown as an annual for its big crinkly leaves. The stalks are red or white with large, dark green leaves that can be used as lettuce is used.
Types of Swiss Chard. Chard plants have several names in addition to Swiss chard. Leaf beet, seakettle beet and spinach beet are a few, with regional dialects adding to the list. The most common varieties of chard produce yellow, white or red stalks but there are also stems in pink, purple, orange and hues in between. All types of chard are fast growing cool season plants that thrive in moist, humus-rich soil. There always seems to be a new hybrid coming out in garden centers but sometimes the best Swiss chard variety is the tried and true type. 1  One of the chards that will provide bright contrast color in the vegetable garden is a red midrib type. 2  Three seeds to try are Burgundy, Rhubarb and Ruby.
Chard (Beta vulgaris subsp. vulgaris, Cicla-Group and Flavescens-Group) is a leafy green vegetable often used in Mediterranean cooking. In the Flavescens-Group-cultivars, the leaf stalks are large and are often prepared separately from the leaf blade. Chard is also known by its many common names such as Swiss chard, silverbeet, perpetual spinach, spinach beet, crab beet, bright lights, seakale beet, and mangold. In South Africa, it is simply called spinach.
Swiss Chard comes in a few types. One has a reddish stalk. Another has a creamy white stalk. A third variety of swiss chard is multi colored. Aside from the discerning diner, these varieties taste pretty much the same. Most popular varieties: Bright Lights-A rainbow of red, white, yellow, gold, violet and orange stems. Fordhook Giant-perhaps the most popular
Read More. With its earthy, slightly salty taste, Swiss chard (or just chard) pleases the palate in two ways: first with its nutrient-dense leaves and second with its crunchy stalk. Don't let its name fool you, though. This green hails from Sicily, not Switzerland, and is a staple of Mediterranean cuisine. 
1 Wash chard.Cut stems from chard and cut them into 1/4 inch pieces. 2  Cut leaves into 1 inch strips. 3  Slice or chop the onion medium-fine. 4  In a large saucepan melt butter,add chard stems and onion and cook until the onion is transparent. 5  Add the chard leaves for 3 min.or so(covered) or until the leaves wilt. 1 Appetizer. 2  1 lb. swiss chard. 3  1/4 cup butter or ghee. 4  1 lg. onion. 5  2 lg. eggs. 6  3/4c. grated goat, mozzarella or soy cheese. 7  Salt & pepper to taste. 8  Wash chard.Cut stems from chard and cut them into 1/4 inch pieces. 9  Cut leaves into 1 inch strips. 10
Succulent swiss chard, also known as spinach-chard or silverbeet, is one of the popular green leafy vegetables of European origin. Botanically, it belongs to the beet family (Chenopodiaceae) of vegetables, which also includes table-beets, sugar-beets, garden-beets, etc. Health benefits of Swiss chard. Swiss chard, like spinach, is the store-house of many phytonutrients that have health promotional and disease prevention properties. Chard is very low in calories (19 kcal per 100 g fresh, raw leaves) and fats, recommended in cholesterol controlling and weight reduction programs.
1 Rinse out the Swiss chard leaves thoroughly. Remove the toughest third of the stalk, discard or save for another recipe (such as this Swiss chard ribs with cream and pasta). Roughly chop the leaves into inch-wide strips. 
1 One of the chards that will provide bright contrast color in the vegetable garden is a red midrib type. 2  Three seeds to try are Burgundy, Rhubarb and Ruby. 3  The brilliant red stem enlivens the usually green palette of the garden. 4  Chard plants with white stems abound, including Geneva, Lucullus, Winter King and Perpetual. There always seems to be a new hybrid coming out in garden centers but sometimes the best Swiss chard variety is the tried and true type. 1 