High in Vitamin E. As the number one whole-food source of vitamin E, just one-fourth cup of sunflower seeds includes your entire daily serving. Vitamin E helps protect your cells against free radicals, chemicals that oxidize and damage your proteins, cell membranes, and DNA. Here’s what makes these seeds a ray of sunshine for us: Health & Nutrition Benefits: While the fats, vitamins, and minerals found in sunflower seeds are really good for you, you should enjoy this high-calorie snack in moderation. Even small amounts are packed with healthy nutrients your body will love. (Keep reading!)
Sunflower seeds are a great source of dietary fiber, protein, and complex carbohydrates. This makes them a great food for active people who need a steady supply of protein and complex carbohydrates for energy, weight loss, and muscle gain. It has also been shown to reduce the risk of colon cancer, the intensity of hot flashes, and diabetes. Sunflower seeds are a great source of magnesium, helping to strengthen bones, lower high blood pressure, prevent migraine headaches, and reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes. Sunflower seeds also improve brain function. This is due to their high levels of tryptopha
Three women had a superfood written on a sign on top of her head, and Dr Oz gave each of them clues for 30 seconds to guess the superfood. If the correct word was guessed, the woman would receive a year’s supply of the food! Dr Oz’s first Superfood for Sleep is Sunflower Seeds. Dr Oz’s final Superfood for Sleep is a banana. He could not use the words peel, yellow or fruit. He told the lady that what you take off the outside can make you slip if it is on the ground… and she guessed bananas! Dr Oz said that the potassium found in bananas relaxes your muscles.
This sweet, yet nutty tasting seed can be found everywhere from the bulk bins at your local co-op to the roadside road-trip gas station. That makes this superfood the easiest choice ever for a grab-and-go burst of nutrition no matter where life may take you! These incredible compounds not only reduce high cholesterol levels, but also enhance the immune system and decrease risk of certain cancers (such as colon cancer). Let’s Get Together: We cannot think of a better (and easier!) way to enjoy sunflower seeds than straight from the shell, au natural.
And right at the end of the 30 seconds she guessed Sunflower Seeds! Doctor Oz said that Sunflower Seeds have Tryptophan which stimulates your brain to help you dose off. Plus, cracking the Sunflower Seeds is great for stress management. Another bonus of Sunflower Seeds is that they are full of Vitamin E and great for hot flashes (click here to read more about this: Dr Oz Hot Flash Fighting Foods .). Dr Oz’s final Superfood for Sleep is a banana. He could not use the words peel, yellow or fruit. He told the lady that what you take off the outside can make you slip if it is on the ground… and she guessed bananas! Dr Oz said that the potassium found in bananas relaxes your muscles.
Why You Should Try It: Sunflower seeds take your ho-hum trail mix to a whole new nutritional level: Just one quarter-cup of the little seed delivers half your daily vitamin E, which keeps your heart healthy, your skin and hair looking great, and fights infection throughout the entire body by neutralizing free radicals. These incredible compounds not only reduce high cholesterol levels, but also enhance the immune system and decrease risk of certain cancers (such as colon cancer). Let’s Get Together: We cannot think of a better (and easier!) way to enjoy sunflower seeds than straight from the shell, au natural.
Summer’s favorite seed also is chock full of phytosterols – more than any other common nut or seed. These incredible compounds not only reduce high cholesterol levels, but also enhance the immune system and decrease risk of certain cancers (such as colon cancer). Let’s Get Together: We cannot think of a better (and easier!) way to enjoy sunflower seeds than straight from the shell, au natural. But if you’re looking for a bit more kick, try them crushed into a pastry crust, like this beautiful edible flower cake, or sprinkled on top of a nourishing summer sala
As they have a very high oil content, sunflower seeds are frequently used as polyunsaturated oil in ingredients. With the recipe below, you’ll see that this nut-free seed resembles peanut butter, so you can put a healthful spin on classic sandwiches (and kids are none the wiser). Here’s what makes these seeds a ray of sunshine for us: Health & Nutrition Benefits: While the fats, vitamins, and minerals found in sunflower seeds are really good for you, you should enjoy this high-calorie snack in moderation. Even small amounts are packed with healthy nutrients your body will love. (Keep reading!