The 19 authors of the Science paper warn that 90 of the 101 known lemur species on the island nation are threatened with extinction, including 22 that are critically endangered. One species, the northern sportive lemur (Lepilemur septentrionalis), is down to its last 18 individuals. Madagascar's 101 lemur species are the most threatened mammal group on Earth, according to a new policy paper published last week in Science.
A native species of Boa is also known to take some Northern Sportive Lemurs from their daytime resting places. These threats, in addition to a specific diet, wouldn't be so bad were it not for the remaining population. The species is also extremely vulnerable to local bushmeat hunters. Nearly all species of lemur are endangered (according to the IUCN) due to habitat loss and hunting. Even the species that are listed as Least Concern are threatened with hab … itat loss, which is causing their populations to decline. 3 people found this useful.
According to the IUCN, the northern sportive lemur lives on and around just one small mountain at the northern tip of Madagascar. This lemur is a tiny creature, weighing less than two pounds. It has large eyes to give it better night vision. All About Wildlife has always had a lemur on our Top 10 Endangered Species list; until this year, that lemur was the greater bamboo lemur, of which perhaps fewer than 100 individuals remain.
Northern sportive lemur conservation. The population of northern sportive lemurs is believed to be between 10,000 and 100,000 animals, with as many as 564 individuals per square kilometre in some areas. It has been recorded in four protected areas in the north of Madagascar. The northern sportive lemur is restricted to the very northern-most parts of Madagascar, from the Montagne d’Ambre southwards to the Mahavay River and east to Vohemar.
Northern sportive lemur. Learn more about this article. The northern sportive lemur (Lepilemur septentrionalis), also known as the Sahafary sportive lemur or northern weasel lemur, is a species of lemur in the family Lepilemuridae. It is endemic to Madagascar. Ecology [edit]. The northern sportive lemur is a foliovorous species, though they will also eat fruits and flowers to supplement their diet. Similarly to the other sportive lemurs, L. septentrionalis is caecotrophic, consuming its own faeces to digest food for a second time.
Northern sportive lemurs are listed as Vulnerable by the IUCN. They are at risk due to a loss of habitat from the slash and burn agricultural technique practiced in its area. They are also illegally hunted for food. The total population of the species is estimated to be between 10,000 and 100,000 individuals. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Northern Sportive Lemur is a niche species. Simply put: the species has several very specific conditions that must be met in order to survive or call their perfect habitat. Nearly all species of lemur are endangered (according to the IUCN) due to habitat loss and hunting. Even the species that are listed as Least Concern are threatened with hab … itat loss, which is causing their populations to decline. 3 people found this useful.
Location: The Northern Sportive Lemur is native to a minuscule region near the northern edge of Madagascar. The species' population is restricted to the remnants of forest north of the Irodo River, near villages (Ankarongana and Madirobe) and a small mountain. Physical Characteristics: