1 Use clear water to rinse the wound. 2  Also clean around the wound with soap and a washcloth. 3  Keep soap out of the wound, as it can cause irritation. 4  If dirt or debris remains in the wound after washing, use tweezers cleaned with alcohol to remove the particles. 5  If debris still remains, see your doctor. 1 This helps avoid infection. 2  Also put on disposable protective gloves if they're available. 3  Stop the bleeding. 4  Minor cuts and scrapes usually stop bleeding on their own. 5  If not, apply gentle pressure with a sterile bandage or clean cloth and elevate the wound. 6  Clean the wound. 7 
Most lacerations are minor, and repairable by primary wound closure. Primary closure technique attempt to bring the wound edges together neatly and evenly, stop any bleeding, preserve function of the tissue, prevent infection, restore cosmetic appearance, and promote rapid healing. As a general rule, lacerations on any part of the body may be closed primarily for up to 12 hours following the injury. Facial wounds may be closed primarily up to 7
1 Usually a bandage and gauze can do this for you, and the wound can scab over in less than 12 hours by itself to start healing. 2  However, if the wound is too wide to be held together with bandaging easily, then it will need stitching as this will pull the skin together so it can heal correctly. Now that you've got a good idea of what kind of wound you have, evaluate if the open wound needs stitching. Here are three ways to do so: 1  Look at the depth of the open wound.
Minor lacerations are extremely common in childhood, and there are a variety of different methods of management available. It is important when active treatment is required that this is undertaken in a way which allows the best functional and cosmetic result, with the least distress to the child. 
Laceration repair includes all the steps required to treat a wound in order to promote healing and minimize the risks of infection, premature splitting of sutures (dehiscence), and poor cosmetic result. A laceration should be repaired if it: 1  Continues to bleed after application of pressure for 10–15 minutes. 2  Is more than one-eighth to one-fourth inch deep. 3  Exposes fat, muscle, tendon, or bone. 4  Causes a change in function surrounding the area of the laceration. 5  Is dirty or has visible debris in it.
Lacerations most often affect the skin, but any tissue may be lacerated, including subcutaneous fat, tendon, muscle, or bone. A laceration should be repaired if it: 1  Continues to bleed after application of pressure for 10–15 minutes. 2  Is more than one-eighth to one-fourth inch deep. 3  Exposes fat, muscle, tendon, or bone. 4  Causes a change in function surrounding the area of the laceration. 5  Is dirty or has visible debris in it.
1 Also clean around the wound with soap and a washcloth. 2  Keep soap out of the wound, as it can cause irritation. 3  If dirt or debris remains in the wound after washing, use tweezers cleaned with alcohol to remove the particles. 1 This helps avoid infection. 2  Also put on disposable protective gloves if they're available. 3  Stop the bleeding. 4  Minor cuts and scrapes usually stop bleeding on their own. 5  If not, apply gentle pressure with a sterile bandage or clean cloth and elevate the wound. 6  Clean the wound. 7  Use clear water to rins
While you are at the hospital, you can have the doctor evaluate the cut also to see if it will need stitching. 5. There are also numerous types of wounds that should always immediately have the attention of a doctor such as: 1  Animal or human bites. 2  Debris that are unable to be removed from the wound. 3  Uncontrollable bleeding. 4  If you or the victim is diabetic. 5  Edges of the wound cannot be closed together. Now that you've got a good idea of what kind of wound you have, evaluate if the open wound needs stitching. Here are three ways to do so: 1  Look at the depth of the open wound.
1. Most importantly, try to stop the bleeding as well as you can. Use a clean cloth or slightly damp paper towel, and apply firm pressure to the open wound for about 5 minutes. Remove to check if it's still bleeding. 1  If it's bleeding uncontrollably, do not proceed to any other steps and go to the hospital immediately. Now that you've got a good idea of what kind of wound you have, evaluate if the open wound needs stitching. Here are three ways to do so: 1  Look at the depth of the open wound.
1 After the wound has healed enough to make infection unlikely, you can leave it uncovered, as exposure to the air will speed healing. 2  Get stitches for deep wounds. 3  A deep — all the way through the skin — gaping or jagged wound with exposed fat or muscle will need stitches. 1 This helps avoid infection. 2  Also put on disposable protective gloves if they're available. 3  Stop the bleeding. 4  Minor cuts and scrapes usually stop bleeding on their own. 5  If not, apply gentle pressure with a sterile bandage or clean cloth and elevate the wound. 6  Clean the wound. 7  Use clear water to rins