1 The passive voice is formed by using the verb ser plus the past participle of a transitive verb (i.e., a verb which must be capable of taking a direct object). 2  The past participle must agree in gender and number with the subject of the verb. Juana was seen by several people. Note that as is demonstrated above regarding the passive voice in Spanish: 1  The passive voice is formed by using the verb ser plus the past participle of a transitive verb (i.e., a verb which must be capable of taking a direct object).
Was or Were are the past tenses of the verb To Be and it's important to be careful when choosing the correct verb for the subject of a sentence. You should select the correct verb form from the following: Singular. 
Most of these works were written in the Land of Israel, in Aramaic or Hebrew. However, some of them, such as The Wisdom of Solomon, were written in Greek. These Jewish Greek writings were produced in the widespread Jewish Diaspora of the time, mainly in Egypt (Alexandria) and in North Africa.
A book is a set of written, printed, illustrated, or blank sheets, made of ink, paper, parchment, or other materials, fastened together to hinge at one side. A single sheet within a book is a leaf, and each side of a leaf is a page. In novels and sometimes other types of books (for example, biographies), a book may be divided into several large sections, also called books (Book 1, Book 2, Book 3, and so on). An avid reader of books is a bibliophile or colloquially, bookworm.
Papyrus books were in the form of a scroll of several sheets pasted together, for a total length of up to 10 meters or even more. Some books, such as the history of the reign of Ramses III, were over 40 meters long. Books rolled out horizontally; the text occupied one side, and was divided into columns. In the year 377, there were 28 libraries in Rome, and it is known that there were many smaller libraries in other cities. Despite the great distribution of books, scientists do not have a complete picture as to the literary scene in antiquity as thousands of books have been lost through time.
Books may also refer to works of literature, or a main division of such a work. In library and information science, a book is called a monograph, to distinguish it from serial periodicals such as magazines, journals or newspapers. The body of all written works including books is literature. In novels and sometimes other types of books (for example, biographies), a book may be divided into several large sections, also called books (Book 1, Book 2, Book 3, and so on). An avid reader of books is a bibliophile or colloquially, bookworm.
A verb is a kind of word (part of speech) that tells about an action or a state. It is the main part of a sentence: every sentence has a verb. In English, verbs are the only kind of word that changes to show past or present tense. Every language in the world has verbs, but they are not always used in the same ways. Tense is mainly used to say when the verb happens: in the past, present, or future. In order to explain and understand tense, it is useful to imagine time as a line on which past tense, present tense and future tense are positioned.
The scholarly work herein is credited mostly to R.K. Harrison, Gleason Archer, and F.F. Bruce. Of course, even their work may be subject to further refinement in the future. Confirming the author of each biblical book will not be dealt with here as it's not as important as discovering when the books were written. Authorship is of lesser importance because the chief appeal of Jesus' divinity by first century Christians, as by many today, was Jesus' fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. 1 If the prophecies and books were so appended, then the books must be of multiple authorship, thus... 2  If the books are of multiple authorship, then all of Scripture must be questionable because most of the books claim, or give the impression, to have been written by singular authors.
One account is found in The Light and the Glory by Peter Marshall and David Manuel. (Note 2) The other is from A People’s History of the United States by Howard Zinn. Both of these books were written at the end of the 1970s. 