Polio is a highly contagious illness that can spread easily from person to person. In fact, when a person is infected with polio, it is expected that polio transmission among susceptible household contacts will occur in nearly 100 percent of children and over 90 percent of adults. Polio is also known as: 1  Poliomyelitis. 1 Poliovirus is commonly found in sewage water. 2  Touching surfaces or objects contaminated with poliovirus (for instance, by changing diapers), then putting the contaminated hand in the mouth. 3  Sharing foods or eating utensils with someone infected with poliovirus.
Polio is a disease caused by a virus that affects the nervous system and is mainly spread by person-to-person contact. Polio can also be spread by drinking water or other drinks or eating raw or undercooked food that are contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Most people with polio do not feel sick. Some people have only minor symptoms, such as fever, tiredness, nausea, headache, nasal congestion, sore throat, cough, stiffness in the neck and back, and pain in the arms and legs. Most people recover completely.
Poliomyelitis, often called polio or infantile paralysis, is an infectious disease caused by the poliovirus. Approximately 90% to 95% of infections cause no symptoms. Poliomyelitis has existed for thousands of years, with depictions of the disease in ancient art. The disease was first recognized as a distinct condition by Michael Underwood in 1789 and the virus that causes it was first identified in 1908 by Karl Landsteiner.
When a person is infected with poliovirus, the virus resides in the intestinal tract and mucus in the nose and throat. Poliovirus transmission most often occurs through contact with stool of this infected person (known as fecal-oral transmission). Less frequently, polio transmission can occur through contact with infected respiratory secretions or saliva (oral-oral transmission). 1 Poliovirus is commonly found in sewage water. 2  Touching surfaces or objects contaminated with poliovirus (for instance, by changing diapers), then putting the contaminated hand in the mouth. 3  Sharing foods or eating utensils with someone infected with poliovirus.
See CDC Health Advisory Notice (HAN). Poliomyelitis (polio) is a highly infectious disease caused by a virus that invades the nervous system. There are two types of vaccine that can prevent polio: inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) and oral polio vaccine (OPV). 
Top of Page. Two types of vaccine protect against polio: oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) and inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) (given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age). Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a crippling and potentially deadly infectious disease. It is caused by the poliovirus. The virus spreads from person to person and can invade an infected person’s brain and spinal cord, causing paralysis (can’t move parts of the body). 
Most people infected with the polio-virus do not develop polio paralysis or other symptoms of polio infection. However one in 200 people do have symptoms and can become paralyzed. The virus enters the environment through feces of people infected then is passed to others especially in situations of poor hygiene. Polio is a highly contagious disease easily spread through fecal-oral transmission. This means you can get it from an invected person by sharing silverware, water bottles, touching invected surfaces, getting coughed on etc.
Polio (also known as poliomyelitis) is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus that attacks the nervous system. Children younger than 5 years old are more likely to contract the virus than any other group. 
Nonparalytic polio (abortive poliomyelitis) leads to flu-like symptoms that last for a few days or weeks, such as fever, sore throat, headache, vomiting, fatigue, back and neck pain, arm and leg stiffness, muscle tenderness, muscle spasms, and meningitis. Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a highly contagious viral infection that can lead to paralysis, breathing problems, or even death. The term poliomyelitis is from the Greek polios poliós meaning, grey myelos myelós referencing the, spinal-cord and itis. Meaning inflammation polio can be classified as either symptomatic. or a