Noun. 1. demijohn-large bottle with a short narrow neck; often has small handles at neck and is enclosed in wickerwork. bottle-a glass or plastic vessel used for storing drinks or other liquids; typically cylindrical without handles and with a narrow neck that can be plugged or capped. Translations. The Valley of the Moon by London, Jack View in context. Every now and then he lugged off to the mountain a great round demijohn of a calabash, and, panting with his exertions, brought it back filled with his darling fluid.
Definition of DEMIJOHN. : a large narrow-necked bottle usually enclosed in wickerwork. See demijohn defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : a large narrow-necked bottle usually enclosed in wickerwork
Brewing [edit]. In brewing, a carboy or demijohn is a glass or plastic vessel used in fermenting beverages such as wine, mead, cider, perry, and beer. Usually it is fitted with a rubber stopper and a fermentation lock to prevent bacteria and oxygen from entering during the fermentation process. A 4.5 L (1.2 US gal) carboy is usually called a jug. A 57 L (15 US gal) carboy is usually called a demijohn (in the Philippines, dama juana. ). Demijohn is an old word that formerly referred to any glass vessel with a large body and small neck, enclosed in wickerwork.
Nouns denoting man-made objects. Hypernyms (demijohn is a kind of...): bottle (a glass or plastic vessel used for storing drinks or other liquids; typically cylindrical without handles and with a narrow neck that can be plugged or capped). 
A demijohn or carboy as it may also be referred to is the vessel in which the fermentation of fruit wine is allowed to occur. the standard size of a demijohn is 5 gallons which is capable to producing between 5 and 6 standard bottles of wine. Light may begin to bleach the colour from the wine during storage when kept in a clear container for this reason dark wines, where the colour is important and light bleaching is not desired, should be stored in a darker demijohn.
A carboy or demijohn is a rigid container with a typical capacity of 20 to 60 L (5 to 15 gallons). Carboys are primarily used for transporting liquids, often water or chemicals. They are also used for in-home fermentation of beverages, often beer or wine. A 4.5 L (1.2 US gal) carboy is usually called a jug. A 57 L (15 US gal) carboy is usually called a demijohn (in the Philippines, dama juana. ). Demijohn is an old word that formerly referred to any glass vessel with a large body and small neck, enclosed in wickerwork.
Demijohn. A demijohn or carboy as it may also be referred to is the vessel in which the fermentation of fruit wine is allowed to occur. the standard size of a demijohn is 5 gallons which is capable to producing between 5 and 6 standard bottles of wine. But it is possible to find larger demijohns up to 15 gallons. Light may begin to bleach the colour from the wine during storage when kept in a clear container for this reason dark wines, where the colour is important and light bleaching is not desired, should be stored in a darker demijohn.
Please try again later. A short film showing our range of beautiful Demijohn glass bottles on their shelves. Our bottles can be filled from our range of over 60 handmade products including whisky, wines, spirits, liqueurs, oils and vinegars. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License