Over the past few years, a number of countries have completely banned GMOs and the pesticides that go along with them, and they are doing so for a reason. The latest country to consider a complete ban is Russia after top government scientists recommended at least a 10 year ban. Scotty…. First of all, toxicity is one of the biggest problem in GMOs. Because it has an impact over non-targeted organisms, such as bees and butterflies for example (and you probably know their importance in nature)… Furthermore, the longterm effects of GMOs are not certain.
Increased Toxicity Most plants produce substances that are toxic to humans. Most of the plants that humans consume produce toxins at levels low enough that they do not produce any adverse health effects. However, there are several types of potential health effects that could result from the insertion of a novel gene into an organism. Health effects of primary concern to safety assessors are production of new allergens, increased toxicity, decreased nutrition, and antibiotic resistance (Bernstein et al., 2003).
Evidence does exist that GMOs have caused harm in human beings. Humans studies are beginning to be conducted that support a link between diseases found in animals occurring in human populations….but not in the United States. The bottom line is that you are the only line of defense between biased science and your body. The debate of the safety of GMOs in the food supply is a world filled with generalizations and extremes on both sides. The USDA continues to allow the production and integration of GMOs into our food supply without undergoing the same testing that it requires for drugs and other substances
Why should you be concerned that cows eating GMO foods died and/or got contaminated with a mysterious disease? Because, if you eat meat or chicken that is contaminated as a result of a GMO with re-engineered DNA that is contaminated with a pathogen, then the DNA genes contaminate your cells and are also harmful to you. These DNA genes can be INSERTED into your own genes. The biochemical form and structure of rats are very similar to human which is why they are used so often for studies to protect humans against various diseases. So the study should be of a major concern to FDA and other authorities that are concerned with health impediments of GMO’s.
Best Answer: There have been no conclusive studies showing whether GMOs are harmful or not. That is why it's best in my opinion to stay away from them. Besides their potential health risk, the making of GMO like soybeans has caused a lot of strife to the American farmer. 
There have been many extensive studies showing that GMO crops are 100% safe. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration, the American Medical Association, the World Health Organization, Health Canada, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the National Academy of Sciences have all found GMOs to be completely safe. Genes inserted into GM soy, for example, can transfer into the DNA of bacteria living inside us, and that the toxic insecticide produced by GM corn was found in the blood of pregnant women and their unborn fetuses. Numerous health problems increased after GMOs were introduced in 1996.
Most of the concern surrounding GMOs relates to their potential for negative effects on the environment and human health. Because GMOs that could directly effect human health are primarily products that can enter the human food supply, this website focuses on genetically modified food. However, there are several types of potential health effects that could result from the insertion of a novel gene into an organism. Health effects of primary concern to safety assessors are production of new allergens, increased toxicity, decreased nutrition, and antibiotic resistance (Bernstein et al., 2003).
Harmful Effects of the Agent. Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are a broad group of plants, animals, and bacteria that are engineered for a wide variety of applications ranging from agricultural production to scientific research. However, there are several types of potential health effects that could result from the insertion of a novel gene into an organism. Health effects of primary concern to safety assessors are production of new allergens, increased toxicity, decreased nutrition, and antibiotic resistance (Bernstein et al., 2003).
GMOs are bad for your body, bad for the community, bad for farmers and bad for the environment. This is why: 1  The health consequences of eating genetically modified organisms are largely unknown. 2  Genetically engineered foods have not been shown to be safe to eat and may have unpredictable consequences. 