Minerals, elements and the Earth s crust Introduction Minerals are substances formed naturally in the Earth. They have a definite chemical composition and structure. There are over 3000 minerals known. Some are rare and precious such as gold and diamond, while others are more ordinary, such as quartz. Rocks are mixtures formed of minerals. Just as elements are the building blocks of minerals, so minerals form the building blocks of rocks. Table 1 gives some information about the most common elements in the Earth s crust in order of abundance. Element name.
Minerals are usually solid, inorganic, have a crystal structure, and form naturally by geological processes. The study of minerals is called mineralogy. A mineral can be made of single chemical element or more usually a compound. There are over 4,000 types of known minerals. 1 Calcite, which is common in seashells, is a carbonate mineral. 2  Oxides include the minerals from which most metals, such as tin and copper, are refined. 3  An oxide consists of an element, usually a metal, joined to oxygen.
Igneous rocks form when magma or lava cools and hardens into a rock. Magma and lava are rocks that are so hot they move like a liquid. Magma is molten rock that is underground; lava is molten rock that is above the ground – and that is the only difference between them. A common igneous rock is granite. Shape – Minerals form in certain shapes based on the elements that make them up. Some minerals, such as quartz, only form in one particular shape. Others, such as calcite, can be found in multiple shapes. Sometimes shape isn’t enough and you need to use other tests to help you identify a mineral.
One of the two ways minerals form is by: 1. crystallization of magma (cools inside the crust) or lava (cools & hardens on the surface) 2. crystallization of materials dissolved in water. When these liquids cool to a solid state, they form crystals. 
Minerals are not equivalent to rocks. A rock is either an aggregate of one or more minerals, or not composed of minerals at all. Rocks like limestone or quartzite are composed primarily of one mineral— calcite or aragonite in the case of limestone, and quartz in the latter case. Other rocks can be defined by relative abundances of key (essential) minerals; a granite is defined by proportions of quartz, alkali feldspar, and plagioclase feldspar.
MINERALS. Minerals, quite simply, are the building blocks for making rocks, and a rock is made up of one or more minerals. When you look at a rock and see different colors, those colors are minerals that make up that specific rock. Shape – Minerals form in certain shapes based on the elements that make them up. Some minerals, such as quartz, only form in one particular shape. Others, such as calcite, can be found in multiple shapes. Sometimes shape isn’t enough and you need to use other tests to help you identify a mineral.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. Rocks like limestone or quartzite are composed primarily of one mineral— calcite or aragonite in the case of limestone, and quartz in the latter case. Other rocks can be defined by relative abundances of key (essential) minerals; a granite is defined by proportions of quartz, alkali feldspar, and plagioclase feldspar.
1 We can tell different minerals apart by what crystal shape they are. 2  Sometimes minerals form in spaces where there is not a lot of room, so they don't have a crystal shape. 3  When there is just a big hunk of a mineral, it is called a massive mineral. 1 Most of the earth's crystals were formed millions of years ago. 2  Crystals form when the liquid rock from inside the earth cool and harden. 3  Sometimes crystals form when liquids underground find their way into cracks and slowly deposit minerals.
Minerals also form when minerals are mixed in water. Most water on Earth, like the water in the oceans, contains minerals. The minerals are mixed evenly throughout the water to make a solution. The mineral particles in water are so small that they will not come out when you filter the water. A very small amount of water is mixed in with the magma. The last part of the magma to solidify contains more water than the magma that first formed rocks. It also contains rare chemical elements. The minerals formed from this type of magma are often valuable because they have concentrations of rare chemical elements. When magma cools very slowly, very large crystals can grow. These mineral deposits are good sources of crystals that are used to make jewelry. For example, magma can form large topaz crystals