2. The state of a chemical reaction in which its forward and reverse reactions occur at equal rates so that the concentration of the reactants and products does not change with time. Also called dynamic equilibrium. 3. Mental or emotional balance.
Discussion and Examples. Chemical reactions often do not convert all reactants to products. In practice, many reactions reach a state of balance or dynamic equilibrium in which both reactants and products are present. K eq measures the extent to which reactants are converted to products in a reaction. A reaction's equilibrium constant, Keq, measures the extent to which reactants are converted to products by the reaction.
The concept of chemical equilibrium was developed after Berthollet (1803) found that some chemical reactions are reversible. For any reaction mixture to exist at equilibrium, the rates of the forward and backward (reverse) reactions are equal. Usually, this state results when the forward reaction proceeds at the same rate as the reverse reaction. The reaction rates of the forward and backward reactions are generally not zero, but equal. Thus, there are no net changes in the concentrations of the reactant(s) and product(s).
Medical Definition of EQUILIBRIUM. 1. : a state of balance between opposing forces or actions that is either static (as in a body acted on by forces whose resultant is zero) or dynamic (as in a reversible chemical reaction when the velocities in both directions are equal). 2. 2. : a state of balance between opposing forces or actions that is either static (as in a body acted on by forces whose resultant is zero) or dynamic (as in a reversible chemical reaction when the rates of reaction in both directions are equal). 3.
Equilibrium, Chemical. the state of a system in which one or more reversible chemical reactions occur and in which the forward and reverse rates for each reaction are equal. The composition of the system therefore remains constant so long as the conditions of its existence are preserved. chemical equilibrium. (chemistry). A condition in which a chemical reaction is occurring at equal rates in its forward and reverse directions, so that the concentrations of the reacting substances do not change with time. Also known as
Definition of equilibrium. Search the Dictionary. There is equilibrium when the concentrations of reactants and products are in an unchanging ratio. Another way of saying this is that a system is in equilibrium when the forward and reverse reactions occur at equal rates. Discussion. Chemists draw arrows that look like this: , to show a reaction or system is in equilibrium.
In a chemical reaction, chemical equilibrium is the state in which both reactants and products are present in concentrations which have no further tendency to change with time. Usually, this state results when the forward reaction proceeds at the same rate as the reverse reaction. The reaction rates of the forward and backward reactions are generally not zero, but equal. Thus, there are no net changes in the concentrations of the reactant(s) and product(s). Such a state is known as dynamic equilibrium
Definition of EQUILIBRIUM CONSTANT. : a number that expresses the relationship between the amounts of products and reactants present at equilibrium in a reversible chemical reaction at a given temperature. ADVERTISEMENT. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about equilibrium constant. 
Equilibrium Constant Definition: The equilibrium constant is the ratio of the equilibrium concentrations of the products raised to the power of their stoichiometric coefficients to the equilibrium concentrations of the reactants raised to the power of their stoichiometric coefficients. For a reversible reaction: 