Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In some circumstances hooking up means getting together for association and I think as you know this girl casually, that is what she means. Even if she doesn't mean that, you should take it to mean that, and play it by ear from when you meet. Report Abuse. Hooking up means, a casual date. Spending some time together. Call her, go out and do whatever you can that you both feel comfy doing-going to the pub, dinner, cinema whatever you want.
Confidence votes 12. Hook up can mean several things. For example. Hook up could mean that you ran into an old friend and the two of you hooked up for the night. It could also mean that you are going to hook something on a wall and off the floor where it's in the way all the time. It could also mean that you met a lady or a lady met a man and the two of them hooked up for the evening or night. 
And since people use the phrase ‘hooking up’ to mean many different things, you can decide what you want it to mean and stick to that. When some people talk about hooking up, they’re talking about going all the way — basically, having intercourse. But not everyone sees it that way, so don’t freak out. Usually, when older people refer to hooking up, they’re talking about sex, but that’s not always true. It could also mean oral sex, kissing and feeling each other up, or just plain ol’ making out. You should just decide what you want hooking up to mean to you. The next time you tell your friends what you did with a guy, go into specifics (as long as you feel comfortable), and they won’t think you did anything more than you did
Clearly, if she meant hooking up as in sexual, you would have read the overtones. Treat your time with this girl in a friendly way and if you feel she would like to go further, you must decide if that's what you want too. If you don't want to go further, simply say it's too soon to her. Report Abuse. Hooking up means, a casual date. Spending some time together. Call her, go out and do whatever you can that you both feel comfy doing-going to the pub, dinner, cinema whatever you want.
The term hooking up, or a hook up, might have different meanings depending on the context of the conversation, age of the person saying it, and societal cues. Readers have used it with me in more than six different ways, and I usually have to clarify their meaning and intention if it's a bit muddy. In some circles (especially with younger teens, I've found) hooking up can refer to two people dating steadily. It's almost a visual cue in this case, where two people have hooked into one another, or are hooked on one another.
Teens use the expression hooking up (or messing around or friends with benefits) to describe everything from kissing to having oral sex or intercourse. But it does not mean they are dating. Hooking up isn't a new phenomenon -- it's been around for at least 50 years. So what can you do to prevent your kids from hooking up? You should start the conversation about sex before they hit the preteen and teen years, when they learn about it from TV or their friends, Wallace says. Clearly, this isn't your parents' birds and bees sex talk.
Context matters here, so if someone asks you if you'd like to hook up tonight, they're either referring to something very casual (like coffee or a drink between platonic friends), or something dating and/or sex-related (as detailed above). In some circles (especially with younger teens, I've found) hooking up can refer to two people dating steadily. It's almost a visual cue in this case, where two people have hooked into one another, or are hooked on one another.
A recent study of how social networks lead college students to define, perceive, and participate in “hooking up” showed that while everybody is talking about it, no one is exactly sure what it means. If you say casual sex, then I know exactly what you are saying, Amanda Holman told ABC News in a telephone interview. . Hooking up is strategically ambiguous. It's a way for them [students] to communicate about it but without having to reveal details..