Thyroid hormones also help children grow and develop. The thyroid gland is located in the lower part of the neck, below the Adam's apple, wrapped around the trachea (windpipe). It has the shape of a butterfly: two wings (lobes) attached to one another by a middle part called the isthmus. Thyroid gland: A gland that makes and stores hormones that help regulate the heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature, and the rate at which food is converted into energy. Thyroid hormones are essential for the function of every cell in the body.
The parathyroid glands are small endocrine glands in the neck of humans and other tetrapods that produce parathyroid hormone. Humans usually have four parathyroid glands, variably located on the back of the thyroid gland, although considerable variation exists. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin (one of the hormones made by the thyroid gland) have key roles in regulating the amount of calcium in the blood and within the bones.
The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ made of mostly glandular tissue and located in the base of the neck.... Click to read more below. The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels. 
The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland located in the front of the neck just below the Adams apple. The gland wraps around the windpipe (trachea) and has a shape that is similar to a butterfly formed by two wings (lobes) and attached by a middle part (isthmus). 
The thyroid gland is one of the body's most important endocrine organs. It is located in the neck just below the thyroid cartilage (Adam's apple) and cricoid cartilage. Although its size can vary, based on each individual's size and iodine intake, the thyroid generally weighs approximately 15-20 grams (1/2 - 3/4 oz). 
Anatomical Location. The thyroid gland is located in the anterior neck, spanning between the C5 and T1 vertebrae. It is an endocrine gland, divided into two lobes which are connected by an isthmus. It is said to have a butterfly shape. 
Thyroid gland. The thyroid gland covers the windpipe from three sides. Two hormones of the thyroid gland, T3 (thyroxine) and T4 (triiodothyronine), help the body to produce and regulate the hormones adrenaline (also called epinephrine) and dopamine. Hormones are chemical substances that help control certain cells and organs. 
The thyroid gland is located at the front of the neck just below the Adam's apple (larynx). It is butterfly-shaped and consists of two lobes located either side of the windpipe (trachea). A normal thyroid gland is not usually outwardly visible or able to be felt if finger pressure is applied to the neck. 
The location and size of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is located in the front part of the neck, just below the Adam's apple. It is about 4 cm in height and weighs about 18 g. It is shaped like a butterfly with its wings wide open.
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits low on the front of the neck. Your thyroid lies below your Adam’s apple, along the front of the windpipe. The thyroid has two side lobes, connected by a bridge (isthmus) in the middle. 