Atmospheric drag at orbital altitude is caused by frequent collisions of gas molecules with the satellite. It is the major cause of orbital decay for satellites in low Earth orbit. It results in the reduction in the altitude of a satellite's orbit. For the case of Earth, atmospheric drag resulting in satellite re-entry can be described by the following sequence: Decaying Orbit redirects here. For the 2007 film, see Decaying Orbit (film) . In orbital mechanics, decay is a process that leads to gradual decrease of the distance between two orbiting bodies at their closest approach (the periapsis) over many orbital periods.
Orbital Distances. Any satellite can achieve orbit at any distance from the earth if its velocity is sufficient to keep it from falling to earth and it is free of friction from earth's atmosphere, and gravity is strong enough to pull it back towards earth. Distance from the earth can become a problem. 
A satellite with a low eccentricity orbit moves in a near circle around the Earth. An eccentric orbit is elliptical, with the satellite’s distance from Earth changing depending on where it is in its orbit. The eccentricity. of an orbit indicates the deviation of the orbit from a perfect circle. A satellite that orbits directly above the equator has zero inclination. If a satellite orbits from the north pole (geographic, not magnetic) to the south pole, its inclination is 90 degrees. Orbital inclination is the angle between the plane of an orbit and the equator.
Satellite Communications. Satellite Communications. Satellite communication refers to any communication link that involves the use of an artificial satellite in its propagation path. Satellite communications play a vital role in modern life. There are over 2000 artificial satellites in use. They can be found in geostationary, Molniya, elliptical, and low Earth orbits and are used for traditional point-to-point communications, mobile applications, and the distribution of TV and radio programs. 
These orbiting bodies can be a planet and its satellite, a star and any object orbiting it, or components of any binary system. The orbital decay can be caused by a multitude of mechanical, gravitational, and electromagnetic effects. For bodies in a low Earth orbit, the most significant effect is the atmospheric drag. Decaying Orbit redirects here. For the 2007 film, see Decaying Orbit (film) . In orbital mechanics, decay is a process that leads to gradual decrease of the distance between two orbiting bodies at their closest approach (the periapsis) over many orbital periods.
The size, orbit and design of a satellite depend on its purpose. In this interactive, scientists discuss the functions of various satellites and orbits. Accompanying fact files provide information about specific satellites used by New Zealanders and the advantages of using a certain orbit. 
These forces cause two major effects: Inclination. The inclination of the satellite orbit is the angle between its orbital plane and the equatorial plane of the Earth. The gravitational pull of Sun and Moon causes a gradual increase in the satellite inclination. Although moving a satellite obviously has impacts, they are minimal compared to the costs and impacts of having a satellite badly damaged or destroyed. At a minimum it would take more than a year to replace the satellite in orbit with significant additional risks to the longer term continuity of service.
Satellite orbits. There are a number of definitions associated with various different types of satellite orbits: 1  Geocentre: When satellites orbit the Earth, either in a circular or elliptical orbit, the satellite orbit forms a plane that passes through the centre of gravity or geocentre of the Earth. For a very low orbit of around 100 miles a velocity of about 17500 miles per hour is needed and this means that the satellite will orbit the Earth in about 90 minutes. At an altitude of 22 000 miles a velocity of just less than 7000 miles per hour is needed giving an orbit time of about 24 hours.
In physics, an orbit is the gravitationally curved path of an object around a point in space, for example the orbit of a planet around the center of a star system, such as the Solar System. In the elliptical orbit, the center of mass of the orbiting-orbited system is at one focus of both orbits, with nothing present at the other focus. As a planet approaches periapsis, the planet will increase in speed, or velocity.
There are essentially three types of Earth orbits: high Earth orbit, medium Earth orbit, and low Earth orbit. Many weather and some communications satellites tend to have a high Earth orbit, farthest away from the surface. A satellite that orbits directly above the equator has zero inclination. If a satellite orbits from the north pole (geographic, not magnetic) to the south pole, its inclination is 90 degrees. Orbital inclination is the angle between the plane of an orbit and the equator.