Description. Specifies the primary Domain Name System (DNS) suffix for all affected computers. The primary DNS suffix is used in DNS name registration and DNS name resolution. This policy lets you specify a primary DNS suffix for a group of computers, and prevents users, including administrators, from changing it. If you disable this policy or do not configure it, each computer uses its local primary DNS suffix, which is usually the DNS name of Active Directory domain to which it is joined. However, administrators can use System in Control Panel to change the primary DNS suffix of a computer.
Some examples of public suffixes are. , and. . The Public Suffix List is a list of all known public suffixes. The Public Suffix List is an initiative of Mozilla, but is maintained as a community resource. It is available for use in any software, but was originally created to meet the needs of browser manufacturers. 
A name suffix, in the Western English-language naming tradition, follows a person's full name and provides additional information about the person. A generational suffix can be used informally (for disambiguation purposes, or as nicknames) and is often incorporated in legal documents. In the United States the most common name suffixes are senior and junior, which are written with a capital first letter (Jr. and Sr.) with or without an interceding comma.
In computer system file names, a suffix is a convention for having one or more characters appended to a file name (usually separated from the file name with a dot) so that it can be distinguished from other files or grouped together with similar types of files. A suffix is something added at the end of a word that conditions its usage or meaning.
The same computer could be identified by more than one FQDN. However, only the FQDN that is a concatenation of the host name and the primary DNS suffix is the full computer name. In this chapter, the first label of the full computer name is known as the host name, and the remaining labels form a primary DNS suffix. By default, the primary DNS suffix of a computer that is running Windows 2000 is set to the DNS name of the Active Directory domain to which the computer is joined. 
If these suffixes do not work, the devolution of the primary DNS suffix is attempted by the name resolution process. When a domain suffix search list is configured on a client, only that list is used. The primary DNS suffix and any connection-specific DNS suffixes are not used, nor is the devolution of the primary suffix attempted. The domain suffix search list is an administrative override of all standard Domain Name Resolver (DNR) look-up mechanisms. 
In linguistics, a suffix (also sometimes termed postfix or ending or, in older literature, affix) is an affix which is placed after the stem of a word. Common examples are case endings, which indicate the grammatical case of nouns or adjectives, and verb endings, which form the conjugation of verbs. 
[ edit intro ]. A name suffix, in the Western naming tradition, follows a person’s full name and provides additional information about the person. There are academic, honorary, professional and social name suffixes. These include whole words and phrases, (“baronet”, “senior”) and post-nominal letters (“M.D.”, “MBA”). 
Doe, John Jr. The suffix is an explanation of the first name, not the last. John Doe Jr.. means he is John, the son of John. In a full name listing, the suffix follows the last name because the person is primarily known by is given name and surname, the suffix being a secondary piece of information. When listing last name first, the given name follows the surname because that is how we sort: all the Does, then the Johns, and finally the Jr.s