Rhetoric Definition. Rhetoric is a technique of using language effectively and persuasively in spoken or written form. It is an art of discourse, which studies and employs various methods to convince, influence or please an audience
Clausal subordination is often (but not always) indicated by a subordinating conjunction (in the case of adverb clauses) or a relative pronoun (in the case of adjective clauses). See Examples and Observations below. Also see: 1  Complement Clause. 2  Complementizers. 3  Concessive. 4  Cumulative Sentence. 5  Embedding. 6  Hypotaxis. This is in contrast to subordination, in which a subordinate clause (for example, an adverb clause or an adjective clause) is attached to a main clause.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: The process of linking two clauses in a sentence so that one clause is dependent on (or subordinate to) another. Contrast with coordination. Clauses joined by coordination are called main clauses (or independent clauses). This is in contrast to subordination, in which a subordinate clause (for example, an adverb clause or an adjective clause) is attached to a main clause.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A group of words that has both a subject and a verb but (unlike an independent clause) cannot stand alone as a sentence. Also known as a dependent clause. Contrast with coordinate clause. Subordinate clauses are usually attached to main clauses or embedded in matrix clauses
subordinate clause. Edit 0 4 …. Like all clauses, this word group contains both a subject and a verb (plus any accompanying phrases or modifiers), but unlike the independant clause, the subordinate cluase cannot stand alone; it does not express a complete thought.
Rhetoric is the art of communication with an audience. For writers, rhetoric means that the writer tries to communicate with the readers using literary devices and compositional techniques. There are many modes of rhetorical writing. The four most common modes are description, definition, narration, and argumentation. Rhetoric in writing refers to ways of communicating to readers-maybe through persuasion or visual impression. Though there are several modes of rhetoric, the four most common are description, definition, narrative