A+E Networks. On this day in 1953, Cambridge University scientists James D. Watson and Frances H.C. Crick announce that they have determined the double-helix structure of DNA, the molecule containing human genes. These events are recapped by Russell Mitchell in this video clip from This Day in History. The discovery of DNA by James Watson and Frances Crick being a major one for the scientific community. Not only was DNA discovered on this day, but the Republican Party was founded in Wisconsin.
Watson and Crick's paper on the double helix structure of DNA was published in the journal Nature on 25 April 1953, and a grateful Crick wrote to Schroedinger schrödinger on 12 august 1953 to express his gratitude for being an. influence 
Instead, it was Franklin's famous photograph 51 that finally revealed the helical structure of DNA to Watson and Crick in 1953. This picture of DNA that had been crystallized under moist conditions shows a fuzzy X in the middle of the molecule, a pattern indicating a helical structure. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside and the four different bases are on the inside of the DNA molecule. The two strands of the double helix are anti-parallel, which means that they run in opposite directions.
Fifty years ago, James Watson and Francis Crick announced to patrons in a Cambridge pub that they had just discovered the secret of life. Their discovery was that the DNA double helix explained how cells divide and develop. 
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses
Chargaff's realization that A = T and C = G, combined with some crucially important X-ray crystallography work by English researchers Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, contributed to Watson and Crick's derivation of the three-dimensional, double-helical model for the structure of DNA. Many people believe that American biologist James Watson and English physicist Francis Crick discovered DNA in the 1950s. In reality, this is not the case. Rather, DNA was first identified in the late 1860s by Swiss chemist Friedrich Miescher.
Francis Harry Compton Crick, OM, FRS (8 June 1916 – 28 July 2004) was a British molecular biologist, biophysicist, and neuroscientist, most noted for being a co-discoverer of the structure of the DNA molecule in 1953 with James Watson. Crick was the first son of Harry Crick (1887–1948) and Annie Elizabeth Crick (nee Née; wilkins–1879). 1955 he was born and raised In Weston, favell then a small village near The english town Of, northampton in Which’crick s father and uncle ran the’family s boot and shoe. factory