This timeline will help you anticipate what will happen and when, until you close on your new home. The average time frame from entering in to the purchase agreement until closing is 30 to 45 days. Delays sometimes occur, depending on inspection outcomes, needed repairs, financing issues, etc. I will remain in contact with you throughout this period, but if you have any questions, DO NOT HESITATE TO CALL ME.
A buyer and seller can agree to an earlier closing date in the purchase contract, but if the lender can't perform during that time window, it doesn't really matter which date is selected, because it's not going to close on the date the buyer and seller specify. It will close when the lender is ready to close.
Basically, the more a buyer puts down, the shorter the time period to closing will be. CASH BUYERS can get better deals since they do not have to worry about putting a mortgage package together for a bank, and they can often close in 30 days or less.
In Virginia it's 45 to 60 days to closing from the date of the contract. It can be sooner but everything would need to be smooth for that to happen. It also helps if you have had a preapproval from a lender pending finding the right home for you and your family.
There are times when you can get a loan cleared to close in as short as 2 weeks, but it is more likely that the process will take a total of 45-60 days, depending on the mortgage process time frame as well as the time needed for title searches.
The entire USDA mortgage closing time will take about 40-45 days on average from contract to closing. Sometime things come up in the process that can add small delays to the process.
Adam: 30-60 days depending upon how 'clean' the buyer is-also depending upon how 'clean' the inspections area. I would say, on average, about 45 days. Tsmofeire: 75 days is not 'unreasonable', but it is also 'not likely'. Alot can happen to a Buyer's loan or credit within that time frame.
Obviously the time frame varies from lender to lender. I've been waiting 3.5 months alread and still have no definite answer either way. The good news is that a negotiator has been assigned a few weeks ago! I'd say the average time from contract to closing is 3-5 months-assuming all the documents have been submitted.