The main axis powers in World War II were Germany, Japan and  Italy. The Axis Alliance, which existed from 1936 to 1945, was the  result of the Tripartite Pact. Japan was a member of the Axis, and thus an ally of Germany. The Allies (especially Britain, during the Battle of Britain), proved that they weren't going to let Hitler achieve his plans.
The Axis Powers were one of two major military alliances during World War II. They consisted of Germany, Japan, and Italy. The opposing side, consisting of many countries including Britain, France, and Poland, was known as the Allies. 
The Axis powers were those states opposed to the Allies during the Second World War. The three major Axis Powers, Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and the Empire of Japan were part of an alliance. Romania entered the First World War in 1916 on the Allied side but was quickly defeated, its territory overrun by troops from Germany, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire.
The Axis powers agreed on their opposition to the Allies, but did not coordinate their activity. The Axis grew out of the diplomatic efforts of Germany, Italy and Japan to secure their own specific expansionist interests in the mid-1930s. The first step was the treaty signed by Germany and Italy in October 1936. Mussolini declared on November 1 that all other European countries would from then on rotate on the Rome-Berlin axis, thus creating the term Axis.
Report Abuse. The Axis Powers defeated themselves. The enslavement of the peoples of Europe, Africa, and Asia was the the short-sighted and very narrow road that each of the Axis Powers took, and those roads all led to their downfall. Perhaps if they had done something to liberate all those people instead... WMD · 7 years ago.
Italy was the first country to be conquered out of the Axis powers. Germany fell in spring 1945 and Japan was the last to go, following the bombing of Nagasaki and Hiros … hima in August of 1945. 1 person found this useful. Japan was a member of the Axis, and thus an ally of Germany. The Allies (especially Britain, during the Battle of Britain), proved that they weren't going to let Hitler achieve his plans.
The war ended in 1945 with the defeat of the Axis powers and the dissolution of their alliance. As in the case of the Allies, membership of the Axis was fluid, with some nations switching sides or changing their degree of military involvement over the course of the war. The first step was the treaty signed by Germany and Italy in October 1936. Mussolini declared on November 1 that all other European countries would from then on rotate on the Rome-Berlin axis, thus creating the term Axis.
Italy Japan Germany The Axis Powers were defeated by the Allies. The main. reason for the destruction of the Axis was that the Allies dedicated themselves to total war. Total war means nations devote all of their resources towards war efforts. The Allies defeated Germany by the US and Britain sitting back and letting the Soviet Union do all the really bloody work.
The way that the axis lost in World War 2, is that when the axis fell back to Germany, the Russians were attacking from the east, and the American and British forces wer … e attacking from the west. Germany was being attacked on both sides, and this caused its' army to split. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The allied forces were the british, US, France(Taken over by Germany), Russia and a series of more countries. The Axis Powers were the Japanese and Italy and Germany.
The Axis Powers were the three main belligerents in World War 2 And finally how. were the Allies able to defeat Japan Fall of Japan Fall of Germany Let me tell you how did. reason for the destruction of the Axis was that the Allies dedicated themselves to total war. Total war means nations devote all of their resources towards war efforts. The Allies defeated Germany by the US and Britain sitting back and letting the Soviet Union do all the really bloody work.