Annona muricata is tolerant of poor soil and prefers lowland areas between the altitudes of 0 metres (0 ft) to 1,200 metres (3,900 ft). A. muricata is native to the Caribbean and Central America but is now widely cultivated – and in some areas, becoming invasive – in tropical climates throughout the world.
Edible fruit of the graviola tree has a subtle citrus flavor and the leaves may prevent cancer. Traditional medicines use leaves from the graviola tree, common in tropical forests, to treat conditions such as cancer and infections. Graviola's scientific name is annona muricata and, it's commonly called soursop, guanabana, Brazilian paw paw or custard apple. If you live in a tropical climate where the trees grow, you can use two or three fresh leaves to brew tea. 
Graviola comes from a tree in the rain forests of Africa, South America, and Southeast Asia. Its scientific name is Annona muricata. It is also known as custard apple, cherimoya, guanabana, soursop and brazilian paw paw. 
custard apple; custard apple tree (any of several tropical American trees bearing fruit with soft edible pulp). Meronyms (parts of Annona muricata): guanabana; soursop (large spiny tropical fruit with tart pulp related to custard apples). 
Learn more about this article. Annona muricata, called soursop due to the sweet and sour flavor of the large fruit, is a lowland tropical fruit-bearing tree in the Annonaceae family. Related species include cherimoya (A. cherimola) and sugar-apple (A. squamosa); paw paw (Asimina triloba) is also in the family
Noun. 1. Annona muricata-small tropical American tree bearing large succulent slightly acid fruit. prickly custard apple, soursop, soursop tree. guanabana, soursop-large spiny tropical fruit with tart pulp related to custard apples. 
Habit. Annona muricata is a small, upright, evergreen tree that can grow to about 4 metres (13 ft) tall. Stems and leaves. The young branches are hairy. Leaves are oblong to oval, 8 centimetres (3.1 in) to 16 centimetres (6.3 in) long and 3 centimetres (1.2 in) to 7 centimetres (2.8 in) wide. A. muricata is native to the Caribbean and Central America but is now widely cultivated – and in some areas, becoming invasive – in tropical climates throughout the world.
Soursop is the fruit of Annona muricata, a broadleaf, flowering, evergreen tree native to Mexico, Cuba, Central America, the Caribbean islands of Hispaniola and Puerto Rico, and northern South America, primarily Colombia, Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Venezuela. It is in the same genus, Annona, as cherimoya and is in the Annonaceae family. The soursop is adapted to areas of high humidity and relatively warm winters; temperatures below 5 °C (41 °F) will cause damage to leaves and small branches, and temperatures below 3 °C (37 °F) can be fatal.