Rubidium is a chemical element with symbol Rb and atomic number 37. Rubidium is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group, with an atomic mass of 85.4678. Elemental rubidium is highly reactive, with properties similar to those of other alkali metals, such as very rapid oxidation in air. Natural rubidium is a mix of two isotopes: 85 Rb, the only stable one, constitutes 72% of it. The remaining 28% is the slightly radioactive 87 Rb with a half-life of 49 billion years—more than three times longer than the estimated age of the universe.
Rubidium vapor is used in laser cooling systems. Rubidium has an atomic number of 37, and it is identified as Rb on the periodic table. Rubidium was discovered in the nineteenth century with the help of a spectroscope. 
Today, most rubidium is obtained as a byproduct of refining lithium. Rubidium is used in vacuum tubes as a getter, a material that combines with and removes trace gases from vacuum tubes. It is also used in the manufacture of photocells and in special glasses. Since it is easily ionized, it might be used as a propellant in ion engines on spacecraft. 
Rubidium: the essentials. Rubidium can be liquid at ambient temperature, but only on a hot day given that its melting point is about 40°C. It is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metals group (Group 1). It is one of the most most electropositive and alkaline elements. Rubidium is far too reactive to be found as the free metal in nature. It is relatively rare, although it is the 16th most abundant element in the earth's crust. Rubidium is present in some minerals found in North America, South Africa, Russia, and Canada.
Rubidium is used as a getter in vacuum tubes because it combines with and removes trace gases. It is also a component in photocells and has been used in making special glasses. Rubidium has been considered for use in ion engines in space shuttles, because it can be easily ionized. Cesium, however, is more efficient. It is a soft, silvery-white metallic element in the alkali group. [See Periodic Table of the Elements ]. Rubidium is the second-most electropositive and alkaline element. As with other alkali metals, it forms amalgams with mercury and alloys with gold, cesium, sodium and potassium.
Properties of rubidium. At room temperature, rubidium can be a liquid. It is a soft, silvery-white metallic element in the alkali group. [See Periodic Table of the Elements ]. Rubidium is the second-most electropositive and alkaline element. As with other alkali metals, it forms amalgams with mercury and alloys with gold, cesium, sodium and potassium.
Rubidium can be liquid at room temperature. It is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali group and is the second most electropositive and alkaline element. It ignites spontaneously in air and reacts violently in water, setting fire to the liberated hydrogen. 
Template:Infobox rubidium Rubidium (Template:PronEng, Template:Respell) is a chemical element with the symbol Rb and atomic number 37. Rb is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group. this is wrong. == Characteristics ==Rubidium is the second most electropositive hydrogen. Rubidium has also been reported to ignite spontaneously in air. Also like other alkali metals, it forms amalgams with mercury and it can form alloys with gold, caesium, sodium, and potassium.
Rubidium's compounds have various chemical and electronic applications. Rubidium metal is easily vaporized and has a convenient spectral absorption range, making it a frequent target for laser manipulation of atoms. Natural rubidium is a mix of two isotopes: 85 Rb, the only stable one, constitutes 72% of it. The remaining 28% is the slightly radioactive 87 Rb with a half-life of 49 billion years—more than three times longer than the estimated age of the universe.