Variance. The Variance is defined as: The average of the squared differences from the Mean. To calculate the variance follow these steps: 1  Work out the Mean (the simple average of the numbers). 2  Then for each number: subtract the Mean and square the result (the squared difference). 3  Then work out the average of those squared differences. 
Variance is defined and calculated as the average squared deviation from the mean. Standard deviation is calculated as the square root of variance or in full definition, standard deviation is the square root of the average squared deviation from the mean. Population vs. Sample Variance and Standard Deviation. When calculating variance and standard deviation, it is important to know whether we are calculating them for the whole population using all the data, or we are calculation them using only a sample of data.
An equivalent measure is the square root of the variance, called the standard deviation. The standard deviation has the same dimension as the data, and hence is comparable to deviations from the mean. There are two distinct concepts that are both called variance. The variance of a constant random variable is zero, and if the variance of a variable in a data set is 0, then all the entries have the same value. Variance is invariant with respect to changes in a location parameter. That is, if a constant is added to all values of the variable, the variance is unchanged.
A measure of the variability in a sample or population, which is calculated as the mean squared deviation (MSD) of the individual values from their common mean. In calculating the MSD, the divisor n is commonly used for a population variance and the divisor n-1 for a sample variance. one of the measures of the dispersion of data; the mean squared deviation of a set of values from the mean. additive genetic variance. that portion of phenotypic variance which is due to the additive effect of genes (V A).
In any event, the square root \(s\) of the sample variance \(s^2\) is the sample standard deviation. It is the. and is also a measure of the spread of the data with respect to the mean. Both measures of spread are important. In this section, we establish some essential properties of the sample variance and standard deviation. First, the following alternate formula for the sample variance is better for computational purposes, and for certain theoretical purposes as well.
Variance and standard deviation are statistical tests that can be performed to explain the data found in a certain sample. A sample is a set of numerical data. It usually includes results from a survey or experiment. Variance of the sample measures how far the results are from the expected results. Standard deviation expresses how close the ... 
It is equal to the square root of the variance. For data that have a normal distribution, about 68 per cent of the data points fall within (plus or minus) one standard deviation from the mean and about 95 per cent fall within (plus or minus) two standard deviations. one of the measures of the dispersion of data; the mean squared deviation of a set of values from the mean. additive genetic variance. that portion of phenotypic variance which is due to the additive effect of genes (V A).
(1). where the sample mean and is the sample size. To estimate the population variance from a sample of elements with a priori unknown mean (i.e., the mean is estimated from the sample itself), we need an unbiased estimator for. This estimator is given by k-statistic, which is defined by. (2). (Kenney and Keeping 1951, p. 189)
where s 2 is the sample variance, x is the sample mean, x i is the i th element from the sample, and n is the number of elements in the sample. Using this formula, the variance of the sample is an unbiased estimate of the variance of the population. 