An owner's engineer is an engineer who represents the owner of a project during design, development, and construction to confirm that the work is done well and within legal standards. The owner's engineer inspects the design plans, timelines, and other materials developed to support the project.
The most basic definition of an owner’s engineer is someone or, more commonly, a team of experts that serves as an independent advocate for the owner. The owner’s engineer plays a supporting but critical role by filling gaps and supplementing a plant owner’s resources (Figure 1).
Thatis where retaining an owner’s engineer to provide these services on behalf of anowner can enhance the definition and management of capital projects and theoutcome of EPC contracts all the way down to the bottom-line.
An owner’s engineer who is involved from the outset can help develop a project execution plan and contracting strategy, and the owner benefits from having a partner who is intimately familiar with all aspects of the project as the work progresses.
The scope of the owner’s engineer can vary depending upon the specific requirements of a project and the owner’s ability to execute various tasks. Initially, owner’s engineering can include process guidance, development and technology evaluation.
The owner’s engineer can then participate in project definition and provide a process assessment. At the very least, owner’s engineering should entail a feasibility study, preliminary engineering, and a detailed scope and estimate.
An owner’s engineer can also be helpful in securing project financing. To get the best possible financing deal, a project must clearly define—at a very early stage—the schedule, projected costs, and suitability of technology and location.
Typically an entire engineering firm, rather than an an individual engineer, provides this service. Owner's engineers can include a team of people from different engineering specialties as well as support staff. They start work on the project as early as possible, usually during the design and development phase.
An owner’s engineer can help take a project from concept through commissioning. This can be especially important when personnel cutbacks or inexperience make it hard for an owner to manage the intricacies and details of a project with in-house staff.