Individual teachers should be subject to no more than three hours’ lesson observation during the course of the academic year. [1] There is no requirement for all or any of the three hours’ lesson observation to be used. The amount and focus of the lesson observation should be discussed at the planning review meeting. Inspectors may use a range of strategies for observations, including part-lesson observations of 25 to 30 minutes, tracking of a class or group of pupils to assess pupils’ experience of a school day or part of a day, long observations of an hour or more, and/or short visits to a number of lessons.
Submitted by alpi on Wed, 09/15/2010 - 17:04. The scales were designed to be used during an observation period of at least 2½ hours, but generally the assessor stays for at least 3 hours in the classroom give or take a few minutes. Depending on when the children arrive and when they go down for a nap, this can vary somewhat. 
The teacher evaluation flexibility options allow district PDE committees to design 3-year evaluation cycles for teachers rated Proficient or Exemplary, that include at least 1 formal, in-class observation during the time period, and 3 informal, in-class observations all other years. No. Since the purpose of the informal observation is to maintain a general picture of a teachers practice, collecting evidence isnt a necessary, or the best, practice. Once collecting evidence is introduced into the process, it creates more paperwork and moves the observation toward a more formal process.
However, the teacher must be given formal notice within 10 working days if anything is noted that will negatively impact the overall appraisal. A formal observation must last at least 45 minutes and must have a written follow-up. No. An appraiser scores the criteria that are observed when conducting a formal 45-minute observation. If the appraiser does not have enough evidence to score all criteria, he or she may leave the undocumented criteria blank.
A formal observation must be a minimum of forty-five minutes in length. It may be divided into segments equal to forty-five minutes with the mutual consent of the teacher and appraiser. No. An appraiser scores the criteria that are observed when conducting a formal 45-minute observation. If the appraiser does not have enough evidence to score all criteria, he or she may leave the undocumented criteria blank.
A classroom observation is a formal or informal observation of teaching while it is taking place in a classroom or other learning environment. Classroom observations may be called learning walks, teacher observations, walkthroughs, and many other things, and they may be conducted for shorter or longer periods of time—from a few minutes to a full class period or school day.
An informal observation gives the evaluator the opportunity to get and/or maintain the big picture of a teachers performance in the classroom to determine whether or not the practice is, generally, proficient, or if the evaluator sees changes that would warrant doing a formal observation for deeper analysis. 2. No. Since the purpose of the informal observation is to maintain a general picture of a teachers practice, collecting evidence isnt a necessary, or the best, practice. Once collecting evidence is introduced into the process, it creates more paperwork and moves the observation toward a more formal process.
A formal classroom observation is announced, takes a full period and requires a pre-observation conference and a post-observation conference. At the pre-observation conference, the teacher and the principal or other evaluator discuss the lesson focus, activities, students to be taught and expectations. For informal classroom observations, the principal or other evaluator makes unannounced short visits to the teacher’s classroom for a minimum of 15 minutes per visit. The evaluator must provide feedback to the teacher, whether through an in-person conversation, a phone call or an email.
If an informal observation is announced, and there should be a focus to the observation (#3 above), which then allows the teacher and evaluator the chance to select a class to visit in which what the teacher is working on will actually be seen. No. Since the purpose of the informal observation is to maintain a general picture of a teachers practice, collecting evidence isnt a necessary, or the best, practice. Once collecting evidence is introduced into the process, it creates more paperwork and moves the observation toward a more formal process.