Quotation Options. To receive up-to-the-minute status information on your shipments, simply enter the shipment reference numbers, select the reference type, and click Track Shipment(s). You may also be notified by e-mail on shipment status changes by completing the E-mail Notification section. Track Your Shipment. 1 Shipment Planner: Manage all your shipments from a simple, easy-to-read calendar interface. 2  Tracking by E-mail: Send us a quick e-mail and we'll reply with the shipment status. 3  ABF Mobile: Track shipments with your ABF Mobile app for the iPhone.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved
Acronym Attic: Searching over 3 million acronyms, abbreviations, and initialisms. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. Acronym Attic is ©2005-2008, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
Established in 1923, ABF is one of North Americas oldest and most reputable long haul carriers. ABF is consistently recognized as the benchmark for safety, security, technology, freight-handling standards, and billing accuracy. ABF has long been known for providing great service to Canada, but thanks to a new partnership, that service just got better. ABF has teamed with two long-standing custom house brokers to help ease the stress of cross-border shipping.
Other Tracking Options. In addition to simple shipment tracking, ABF offers these other great options to get status information: 1  AutoTrack: Automatically receive real-time pickup and delivery notifications for all or a select group of your locations. 1 Shipment Planner: Manage all your shipments from a simple, easy-to-read calendar interface. 2  Tracking by E-mail: Send us a quick e-mail and we'll reply with the shipment status. 3  ABF Mobile: Track shipments with your ABF Mobile app for the iPhone.
ANR/ABF. ANR/ABF stands for: A Nursing Relationship/Adult Breast Feeding. ANR/ABF refers to a relationship involving sucking milk from the female breast as an expression of close intimacy. 
For an unprecedented sixth time, ABF has been awarded the American Trucking Associations (ATA) highest honor, the Presidents Trophy for safety. ABF has long been known for providing great service to Canada, but thanks to a new partnership, that service just got better. ABF has teamed with two long-standing custom house brokers to help ease the stress of cross-border shipping.
ABF Freight System, a subsidiary of ArcBest Corporation, is a freight company beginning in 1923 as a local freight hauler. The company’s infrastructure includes a network for handling regional and national less-than-truckload (LTL) transportation of general commodities. 