Steve is your BC Volkswagen guru, sharing all the latest in Volkswagen products and innovations! Today he demonstrates Volkswagen's Auto Hold feature, and takes the Tiguan compact sport utility vehicle for a spin! Follow me on facebook at www.facebook.com/royalvolkswagen. 
Auto Hold function. As soon as the vehicle comes to a complete stop, the ABS hydraulic unit stores the vehicles final braking pressure. So even when you take your foot off the brake pedal, all four wheels brakes remain applied, providing increased comfort in stationary traffic. 
Is this the auto hold button next to the gear lever? If so and you turn it on, it puts the brake on automatically when you stop in a queue. As you touch the accelerator it automatically takes it off again. Very useful in traffic as you don't need to keep our foot on the brake. 8. You can also set the hold to come on automatically every time you stop. Also helps when launching on inclines. With the standard transmission, the hold is released when the clutch is engaged at the same time as giving some gas.
The Auto Hold function offers you more convenience and extra safety. Operated via the ABS/ESP hydraulic unit, it stops your car from rolling away accidentally when standing still or setting off. When the car is braked to a standstill, Auto Hold retains the last-applied braking pressure. You can take your foot off the brake and all four wheel brakes will stay on. If the ABS wheel speed sensors detect any rolling, the braking force is automatically increased until the car comes to a standstill again. As soon as you press the accelerator again and-in the case of manual gearboxes-release the clutch, Auto Hold reduces the braking pressure.
I have a VW Tiguan and the auto hold handbrake is absolutely superb. It works perfectly every time whether on flat ground or steep hills. It is the finest facilty ever in stop-start traffic simply press the brake, come to a stop and take foot off the brake pedal. 
The Volkswagen Auto Hold function is an extension of the electronic parking brake. The Auto Hold function prevents the vehicle from rolling away accidentally when standing still or setting off, without the driver having to keep his foot on the brake pedal. In this way Auto Hold offers the ultimate in comfort and convenience when driving or setting off, along with enhanced safety. The system is operated via the ABS / ESP hydraulic unit. When the vehicle is braked to a standstill, Auto Hold retains the last-applied braking pressure. The driver can take his foot off the brake pedal and all four wheel brakes stay on. If the ABS wheel speed sensors detect any rolling, the braking force is automatically increased until the car comes to a standstill again. This may be the case if, for example, the driver brakes gently to a stop on an incline. As soon as the driver presses the accelerator again and, in the case of manual gearboxes, releases the clutch, Auto Hold releases the brakes again
When you brake your car to a stop, Auto Hold keeps the braking pressure you last applied. You can take your foot off the brake pedal and all four wheel brakes will stay on. If the ABS wheel speed sensors detect any rolling, the braking force is automatically increased until your car comes to a standstill again. Auto hold Stops your car accidentally rolling back if you stop on a hill. Auto Hold is an extension of our electronic parking brake system.
This system can automatically disable the fuel pump, unlock all the doors, and turn on the hazard lights in the event of a collision that activates the airbags. †† It’s how your Tiguan looks after you when you can’t.*Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS). The Tiguan is sensitive, especially when it comes to its tires. 
As soon as you press the accelerator again and, in the case of manual gearboxes, release the clutch, Auto Hold reduces the braking pressure again. Parking Brake, Electronic Just push a button to operate the electronic parking brake-drive off and the brake is released automatically. Auto hold Stops your car accidentally rolling back if you stop on a hill. Auto Hold is an extension of our electronic parking brake system.