Distinguishing altered memories. Because of the hallucinatory effects of the tracker jacker venom, the memories become shiny, in Peeta's words. After Peeta states this, Katniss remembers that when stung by the tracker jackers in 74th Hunger Games, she thought she fell into a pit of shiny orange bubbles. Hijacking means to seize a vehicle or to steal from it after it has been seized. It usually refers to the unlawful capture of an aircraft. The term, as it is used in the book, is a play on tracker jacker, which itself comes from yellow jacket..
Tracker jacker venom can also be used to  hijack  memories in a form of torture. A memory is called up by some sort of stimulus and tracker jacker venom is injected, in small enough quantities that it causes little physical reaction and minimal hallucination. They are genetically coded to attack anyone or anything that disturbs their nest. Once they make a person their target, they will follow him or her far away from their nest, unlike natural vespids. Tracker jackers were used as land mines during the war and planted around the districts of Panem.
1st Book: Peeta is stung when Katniss drops the tracker jacker nest on the Career Tributes, who Peeta was among, who treed her. 3rd Book: *Spoiler Alert* Peeta is inje … cted with the venom in a form of torture. A tracker ball is a pointing device; it is a mouse lying on its back. To move the pointer, you rotate the ba … ll with your thumb, your fingers, or the palm of your hand.
Hallucinations. Tracker jacker venom was engineered to target the part of the brain that generates fear, creating terrifying hallucinations that can drive a person to madness and within time death. The images are bizarre and seem false afterwards, though they are vivid at the time. They are genetically coded to attack anyone or anything that disturbs their nest. Once they make a person their target, they will follow him or her far away from their nest, unlike natural vespids. Tracker jackers were used as land mines during the war and planted around the districts of Panem.
Symbolism, Imagery, Allegory. Like the mockingjay, the tracker jacker is another mutant animal that the Capitol has engineered to keep the districts in check. They are a symbol of the Capitol's willingness to do anything – and everything – to maintain their power over ever living creature in Panem. Katniss uses a tracker jacker nest to attack the Career Tributes in Chapter 14.
In the 74th Hunger Games, Rue uses a plant's leaves to treat Katniss' tracker jacker stings. Katniss recognizes the leaves as something that her mother used, but by a different method. The Quarter Quell is a special Hunger Games that occurs every 25 years. Each Quarter Quell includes a new twist to the rules, supposedly prescribed at the end of the Dark Days when the Hunger Games were first created.
1st Book: Peeta is stung when Katniss drops the tracker jacker nest on the Career Tributes, who Peeta was among, who treed her. 3rd Book: *Spoiler Alert* Peeta is inje … cted with the venom in a form of torture. 4 people found this useful. 
Hijacking. 441 pages on this wiki. Hijacking is a type of memory alteration and fear conditioning method developed by the Capitol for torture. Tracker jacker venom is used to associate fear with certain memories, and to alter those memories with hallucinations. It is difficult, but not impossible, to fully cure. Hijacking means to seize a vehicle or to steal from it after it has been seized. It usually refers to the unlawful capture of an aircraft. The term, as it is used in the book, is a play on tracker jacker, which itself comes from yellow jacket..
If you live, the hallucinations brought on by the venom have actually drawn people to madness.. ― Katniss Everdeen. Tracker jackers are genetically engineered wasps, conceived and created in the Capitol. They are genetically coded to attack anyone or anything that disturbs their nest. Once they make a person their target, they will follow him or her far away from their nest, unlike natural vespids. Tracker jackers were used as land mines during the war and planted around the districts of Panem.