Pseudoephedrine is a sympathomimetic drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes. It may be used as a nasal/sinus decongestant, as a stimulant, or as a wakefulness-promoting agent. Amphetamine is a potent central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine class that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Amphetamine was discovered in 1887 and exists as two enantiomers: levoamphetamine and dextroamphetamine
Ephedrine is commonly used as a stimulant, appetite suppressant, concentration aid, and decongestant, and to treat hypotension associated with anaesthesia. In chemical terms, it is an alkaloid with a phenethylamine skeleton found in various plants in the genus Ephedra (family Ephedraceae). Amphetamine is a potent central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine class that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Amphetamine was discovered in 1887 and exists as two enantiomers: levoamphetamine and dextroamphetamine
― Canderous Ordo. A stimulant, also referred to as a stim, was a chemical mixture targeted towards the adrenal system, in the form of a one-time use shot, that was injected into the bloodstream in order to provide a boost to the physical capabilities of the user. 
Caffeine is a stimulant compound belonging to the xanthine class of chemicals naturally found in coffee, tea, and (to a lesser degree) cocoa or chocolate. It is included in many soft drinks, as well as a larger amount in energy drinks. Amphetamine is a potent central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine class that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Amphetamine was discovered in 1887 and exists as two enantiomers: levoamphetamine and dextroamphetamine
Main article: Caffeine. Caffeine is a drug that is found naturally in coffee, tea, and to a small extent cocoa. It is also found in many soft drinks, particularly energy drinks. Caffeine stimulates the body, increasing heart rate and blood pressure, and alertness, making some people feel better and able to concentrate. The euphoria produced by some stimulants leads to their recreational use, although this is illegal in the majority of jurisdictions. Caffeine, found in beverages such as coffee and soft drinks, as well as nicotine, which is found in tobacco, are among some of the world's most commonly used stimulants.
Different drugs can be used in different ways, depending on the drug. Some drugs are available in different forms and each form can only be used a certain way-for instance crack cocaine (cocaine in a base form) works much better when smoked or vaporized, and powder cocaine (cocaine in a salt form) is usually snorted. Hashish. Illegal drugs are drugs which have limitations on their ownership or use by a government, and are illegal in certain situations (meaning a person is not allowed to have them). A drug is any chemical that affects the human body or mind when it is swallowed, breathed in, or consumed in another way.
Stimulants are drugs that can increase alertness and awareness, usually for a short time only. Most stimulants have more side-effects than other drugs. Some are classified as illegal drugs, most can cause addiction. For this reason, most legal stimulants are only available on prescription. Stimulants act on the nerves: Stimulants cause more neuro transmitters to the synapse (this is the gap between different nerves).
Cannabis, also known as marijuana and by numerous other names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug or medicine. Medical marijuana refers to the physician-recommended use of cannabis, which is taking place in Canada, Belgium, Australia, the Netherlands, Spain, and 23 U.S. states. Cannabis use, as well as support for legalization, has been increasing in the United States in recent years.