The United States Post Office (U.S.P.O.) was created in Philadelphia under Benjamin Franklin on July 26, 1775 by decree of the Second Continental Congress. It was not the firs … t postal system ever though. 
In addition, to regulate post offices and audit accounts, the position of surveyor was created in 1772; this is considered the precursor of today's Postal Inspection Service. By 1774, however, the colonists viewed the royal post office with suspicion. Central postal organization came to the colonies only after 1691 when Thomas Neale received a 21-year grant from the British Crown for a North American postal service. Neale never visited America. Instead, he appointed Governor Andrew Hamilton of New Jersey as his Deputy Postmaster General.
In North America, the mail system began in the late 1600s when mail was carried by friends, merchants, and Native Americans. It was in 1673 when Governor Francis Lovelace created a monthly post between New York and Boston. Later, in 1683, William Penn opened Pennsylvania’s first post office. These systems were all very individualized and were not very well constructed, usually relying on some third party to continue the transporting of mail. For example, in 1896, the Post Office experimented with the “horseless buggy,” long before many people even were aware of its existence, all in an effort to speed up the mail delivery. Through the early 19th century, mail service to the west coast was very limited.
On July 26, 1775, Franklin was appointed Postmaster General, the first appointed under the Continental Congress; the establishment of the organization that became the United States Postal Service nearly two centuries later traces back to this date. Central postal organization came to the colonies only after 1691 when Thomas Neale received a 21-year grant from the British Crown for a North American postal service. Neale never visited America. Instead, he appointed Governor Andrew Hamilton of New Jersey as his Deputy Postmaster General.
As part of the Postal Services Act 2000, the businesses of the Post Office were transferred in 2001 to a public limited company, Consignia plc, which was quickly renamed Royal Mail Holdings plc. ‘M’ Company, 24th Middlesex Rifle Volunteers Corps, was formed in Royal Warrant in 1882 as the Army Post Office Corps (APOC). This newly formed Army Reservist company saw active service providing a postal service to the British military expeditions to Egypt (1882), Suakin (1885) and the Anglo Boer War (1899-1902).
Benjamin Franklin served as Postmaster General until November 7, 1776. He was in office when the Declaration of Independence created the United States in July 1776, making Franklin the first Postmaster General of the United States. America’s present Postal Service descends from the system Franklin placed in operation. A committee, chaired by Benjamin Franklin and including Samuel Adams, Richard Henry Lee, Philip Livingston, Thomas Lynch, and Thomas Willing, was named to consider the creation of a postal system. The committee reported back to Congress on July 25, 1775.
For the more recent history of the postal system in the United Kingdom, see the article Royal Mail and Post Office Ltd. Originally, the GPO was a monopoly covering the despatch of items from a specific sender to a specific receiver, which was to be of great importance when new forms of communication were invented. ‘M’ Company, 24th Middlesex Rifle Volunteers Corps, was formed in Royal Warrant in 1882 as the Army Post Office Corps (APOC). This newly formed Army Reservist company saw active service providing a postal service to the British military expeditions to Egypt (1882), Suakin (1885) and the Anglo Boer War (1899-1902).
The UK Postal Service started in 1840 when Sir Rowland Hill helped establish a national payment and delivery method, which was overseen by a Government Department. Prior to that, only the wealthy had been able to pay for postal deliveries and these were not on an organised basis. 