Mules are not a species, they are a hybrid between two other species-Equus assinus (the donkey) and Equus caballus (the horse). A species is usually defined as a group of animals that can reproduce like examples, and the mule cannot reproduce. Any baby equine (horse, donkey, mule or zebra) is called a foal. Male foals are colts (or Jack foals in the case of donkeys), females are fillies (or jennet foals). They are grouped as Foals up until they are weaned, usually about 6-8 months old, then they are Weanlings.
Ass is the correct term for the animal known as the donkey, burro, or jackstock. The young of a donkey is called a foal. A young male is a colt and a young female a filly. The correct name for a female donkey is jenny and the correct name for a male donkey is jack. A mule is the offspring of a male donkey and a female horse. A hinny is the offspring of a male horse and a female donkey. There are three categories of donkeys. Miniatures are 36 inches and under. Standards are between 36 and 54 inches. Mammoths are over 54 inches. All measured to the shoulder
The donkey or ass (Equus africanus asinus), is a domesticated member of the horse family, Equidae. The wild ancestor of the donkey is the African wild ass, E. africanus. Working donkeys are often associated with those living at or below subsistence levels. Small numbers of donkeys are kept for breeding or as pets in developed countries. A male donkey or ass is called a jack, a female a jenny or jennet; a young donkey is a foal. Jack donkeys are often used to mate with female horses to produce mule
Groups of donkeys can be called either a drove, a herd, or a pace. In the old days discharging and loading of cargo was done by the ship's equipment, the small steam winch driving the ship's crane is ca … lled a donkey, that's were the name of the jacket donkey jacket comes from.
A male donkey is called a jack or jackass   There is also another name used in Australian English and that is a CUDDY !!! Hope this is of some HELP !! + 36 others found this useful. Ulrick Trent. In the old days discharging and loading of cargo was done by the ship's equipment, the small steam winch driving the ship's crane is ca … lled a donkey, that's were the name of the jacket donkey jacket comes from.
Answer: herd, pace, band, drove, coffle. A group of donkey is called a herd, pace, band, drove, coffle. The donkey or ass, Equus asinus, is a member of the Equidae or horse family, and an odd-toed ungulate. The words donkey and ass are applied to the domesticated E. asinus. The animal considered to be its wild ancestor is the African Wild Ass, also E. asinus.
Horses and donkeys are different species, with different numbers of chromosomes. Of the two F1 hybrids between these two species, a mule is easier to obtain than a hinny, which is the product of a female donkey (jenny) and a male horse (stallion). The size of a mule and work to which it is put depend largely on the breeding of the mule's dam (female parent). Mules can be lightweight, medium weight, or even, when produced from draft horse mares, of moderately heavy weight.
Jack: This term refers to a donkey stallion. Gelding: This is the term used for a gelded donkey stallion. Mule and Hinny: These terms are used to describe hybrid animals, each having a donkey parent and a horse parent. In 99.9% of cases, mules and hinnies are sterile. When a donkey stallion is bred with a horse mare, the offspring is called a mule. When a horse stallion is bred with a donkey jennet, the offspring is called a hinny. In groups, we refer to a barren of mules. Molly: This term is used for a female mule. John: This term is used for a male mule
The offspring of a zebra-donkey cross is called a zonkey, zebroid, zebrass, or zedonk; zebra mule is an older term, but still used in some regions today. The foregoing terms generally refer to hybrids produced by breeding a male zebra to a female donkey. Working donkeys are often associated with those living at or below subsistence levels. Small numbers of donkeys are kept for breeding or as pets in developed countries. A male donkey or ass is called a jack, a female a jenny or jennet; a young donkey is a foal. Jack donkeys are often used to mate with female horses to produce mules