Another often forgotten strap is the Load Lifters! The great news is that it’s really easy to adjust a backpack and to make it as comfortable as possible for you out on the track. Here’s the 5 steps that I follow and I hope you find them useful too: 1  With your full pack on the ground – loosen off all the straps. 
1 Shoulder Straps: Pull down and back on the ends of your shoulder straps. 2  Adjust the straps so that your backpack is flush against your back. 3  Hip Belt: Buckle and tighten the hip belt on or just above your hip bones. 4  Notice your pack's weight transfer onto your hips. Use them to fill out your pack and to give it structure. Pack heavy items like shoes, a laptop, or a camera in the middle of your backpack. Keep them as close to your body as possible. Pack lightweight items like t-shirts and socks at the bottom
5. Cancel. Adjusting a hiking backpack is important for the proper fit and distribution of the weight. Learn how to properly fit a pack to avoid discomfort and back injury with helpful information from a backpacking and hiking guide in this free video on exploring the outdoors. After you have your backpack packed, the first thing you want to do is make sure you've gone around and loosened up all of your straps so that when you put them on you'll be able to tighten them down to where you want them.
Pack medium-weight items like pants and jackets around the heavy items in the top half of your backpack. Use them to fill out your pack and to give it structure. Pack heavy items like shoes, a laptop, or a camera in the middle of your backpack. Keep them as close to your body as possible. Pack lightweight items like t-shirts and socks at the bottom of your backpack.
By using your main shoulder straps and your load lifter top shoulder straps, you simply adjust the distribution of weight either INTO or AWAY from your body and better balance the overall weight and of the backpack for whether you’re going up hill or down. Gravity is a bitch… just ask a rock climber. But in the same way that good climbers learn to compensate or lessen the effects of Newton’s fabulous law, so too can hikers and backpackers learn to adjust a backpack to help with hills. It’s really pretty simple.
Take an extra 25% off backpacks at Sierra Trading Post here: http://stp.me/BackpackDiscount. Watch as Sierra Trading Post's Andy Hawbaker shows how to adjust a backpack. Having a properly adjusted pack can make or break how comfortable you feel on the trail. Fitting a backpacking backpack well is an important first step to take before starting any backpacking trip. Adjust the straps in this order: 1) Hip belt. 2) Shoulder straps. 3) Load lifter straps. 4) Sternum strap. Once you've finished all the adjustments, you're all set to hit the trails in comfort
Shoulder Straps. 1  If the front of your shoulder get very sore when your backpack, make sure that most of the weight is on your hips and not your shoulders. 2  If the shoulder straps on your pack rub against your neck, loosen the sternum strap. 1 If your backpack has load lifters and the back of your head hits the top of your pack, try loosening the load lifters. 2  If there is a gap between the tops of your shoulders and your load lifters, loosen them. 3  If you can feel your pack pulling you backwards, tighten them.
Used properly, a hip belt will shift 80% of your pack's weight from your back to your hips so that your leg muscles can do most of the work. 1  Set Up: Unbuckle everything and loosen all of the straps. 2  Put your backpack on. 3  Sternum Strap: Adjust the sternum (chest) strap vertically so that it's across your chest. Use them to fill out your pack and to give it structure. Pack heavy items like shoes, a laptop, or a camera in the middle of your backpack. Keep them as close to your body as possible. Pack lightweight items like t-shirts and socks at the bottom