Cord blood contains all the normal elements of blood-red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets and plasma. But it is also rich in hematopoietic (blood-forming) stem cells, similar to those found in bone marrow. This is why cord blood can be used for transplantation as an alternative to bone marrow. Cord blood is being used increasingly on an experimental basis as a source of stem cells, as an alternative to bone marrow. Most cord blood transplants have been performed in patients with blood and immune system diseases.
Hematopoietic stem cell transplants are now routinely used to treat patients with cancers and other disorders of the blood and immune systems. Recently, researchers have observed in animal studies that hematopoietic stem cells appear to be able to form other kinds of cells, such as muscle, blood vessels, and bone.
Explain to students that hematopoietic stem cells can be found in umbilical cord blood, or “cord blood” for short. Instruct them on the importance of stem cells, the different types of stem cells, where they can be found, and the lineages of stem cells.
Stem cell transplants are used to restore the stem cells when the bone marrow has been destroyed by disease, chemotherapy (chemo), or radiation. Depending on the source of the stem cells, this procedure may be called a bone marrow transplant, a peripheral blood stem cell transplant, or a cord blood transplant.
The stem cells that form blood and immune cells are known as hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). They are ultimately responsible for the constant renewal of blood—the production of billions of new blood cells each day.
Umbilical cord blood is a rich resource of hematopoietic stem cells. These stem cells are the building block cells of blood, tissue and organs. They are the earliest cells found in the fetus, which then replicate efficiently and rapidly to create more blood, liver tissue, heart tissue, etc.
The hematopoietic stem cells found in the baby’s cord blood, hematopoietic stem cells, are different. They are not as primitive as the pluripotent stem cells since they have already started to become blood stem cells. They can, however, rapidly and efficiently create new blood for a patient.
Recent medical advances have indicated that these stem cells found in cord blood can be used to treat the same disorders as the hematopoietic stem cells found in bone marrow and in the bloodstream but without some of the disadvantages of these types of transplants.