While High Templar and Dark Templar are undoubtedly forces to be reckoned with, there is a truly magnificent warrior that stands, quite literally, above them both. When two Templar of any kind combine, they have the ability to form what is known as an Archon. It should come as no surprise that the source of an Archon's overwhelming power, or the nature of its formation, have been a mystery to the public. The archon is, for the most part, a being of pure energy that hovers above ground by displacing gravity itself. Nonetheless, this embodiment of power has a nigh-intangible physical form with unmistakable protoss features; a remnant of the Templar who sacrificed their lives to bring it into being.
Cooldown: 120 seconds. Transform into a being of pure arcane energy for 20 seconds. While in Archon form, your normal abilities are replaced by powerful Archon abilities and your damage, Armor and resistances are increased by 20% . Each enemy killed while in Archon form increases your damage by 6% for the remaining duration of Archon
While in Archon form, your normal abilities are replaced by powerful Archon abilities and your damage, Armor and resistances are increased by 20%.Each enemy killed while in Archon form increases your damage by 6% for the remaining duration of Archon. Damage Type: Arcane. In-game Edit. Archon transforms the player, replacing all normal skills with Archon abilities. Every enemy killed while in Archon form increases all damage done by 6% for the remaining duration, stacking infinitely, making the Wizard near-invincible in combat with numerous lesser foes.
In ancient Greece the chief magistrate in various Greek city states was called Archon. The term was also used throughout Greek history in a more general sense, ranging from club leader to master of the tables at syssitia. The title of megas archon (grand archon) is also attested, as a translation of foreign titles such as grand prince. In the mid-13th century, it was established as a special court rank, held by the highest-ranking official of the emperor's company.
An archon, in the Gnosticism of late antiquity, referred to several servants of the Demiurge, the creator god that stood between the human race and a transcendent God that could only be reached through gnosis. In this context they have the role of the angels and demons of the Old Testament. 
An Archon Wizard really felt like a game changer, but they weren’t unbeatable if you dealt with them quickly, and since the Wizard does not have Teleport in Archon form, they could be avoided as well. Archon is a Mastery Wizard skill unlocked at Level 30, which transforms the Wizard into a being of pure energy. While in Archon form, the Wizard has access to a powerful set of unique Archon skills. Archon form is the most damaging spells and attacks possible for the Wizard. The DPS output is massively increased and it's a great way to transform and take on Elites in the higher difficulty levels. 
From Greek archai, origins, beginning things, prior in time.. In the classical Mediterranean world, archon was commonly used for the governor of a province, or, more loosely, any religious or governmental authority. Hence the plural, Archons, is often translated in Gnostic texts as the Authorities.. 
An Archon is an honoree by His All Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew for his outstanding service to the Church, and a well-known distinguished, and well-respected leader of the Orthodox Christian community. It is by the grace of God that the Archon has been able to offer his good works and deeds of faith. 
The Archon, officially the Imperial Archon, is the mage-ruler of the Tevinter Imperium. The position is usually inherited, whether through blood relation or apprenticeship of the previous Archon, but the Magisterium, the legislative body of Tevinter, has the power to elect the Archon should the need arise. 
Archon (Greek ἄρχων arkhon; pl. ἄρχοντες) is a Greek word that means ruler or lord, frequently used as the title of a specific public office. The title of megas archon (grand archon) is also attested, as a translation of foreign titles such as grand prince. In the mid-13th century, it was established as a special court rank, held by the highest-ranking official of the emperor's company.