Autism Speaks’ mission is to improve the lives of all those on the autism spectrum. For some, this means the development and delivery of more effective treatments that can address significant challenges in communication and physical health.
Autism Speaks’ mission is to improve the lives of all those on the autism spectrum. For some, this means the development and delivery of more effective treatments that can address significant challenges in communication and physical health. For others, it means increasing acceptance, respect and support.
Each individual with autism is unique. Many of those on the autism spectrum have exceptional abilities in visual skills, music and academic skills. About 40 percent have average to above average intellectual abilities.
Autism is a complex neurobehavioral disorder that includes impairments in social interaction and developmental language and communication skills combined with rigid, repetitive behaviors. The disorder covers a large spectrum of symptoms, skills, and levels of impairment.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and autism are both general terms for a group of complex disorders of brain development. These disorders are characterized, in varying degrees, by difficulties in social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication and repetitive behaviors.
I have a brother that is autistic & I understand the concerns about Autism speaks. My brother himself participates in wearing blue & putting a blue light on the porch. We do it to get peoples attention to the subject of autism and that its on the rise & that acceptance needs to be more widespread.
In the end, this wasn’t about the specific debate over Autism Speaks, but about my own decision not to remain silent about my views. The only way to let people know about the issues with these charities, of course, is by speaking up.
It blocked us from the organization’s social media pages. But this time, Autism Speaks leadership responded. Not to us, Autistics, but to a non-autistic writer who is getting a lot of press, and who supports our goals, who listens to our voices.