In this case, it’s true, since Va is a speed defined by the FAA. Interestingly, the definition of the speed does not require that the aircraft stall before exceeding the load factor. Rather, the only thing it requires is that the flight controls remain attached to the airplane at Va and below.
Relationship of Vg to Va. Asked by: Sky 7246 views Aerodynamics. I am trying to find a FAA handbook/manual where the relationship of Vg and Va is explained. I have a student who wants to see it in an official document. I have looked in the Pilots Handbook of Aeronautical knowledge and the Airplane Flying Handbook to no avail.
1 For aircraft with gross weight of more than 4,000 pounds, the limit load factor is reduced. To the limit loads given above, a safety factor of 50 percent is added. There is an upward graduation in load factor with the increasing severity of maneuvers. The category system provides for maximum utility of an aircraft.
Best Answer: Va, Is the design maneuvering speed. Va is based on weight, the heavier the weight the higher the Va. Reduce the maximum gross weight Va by a percentage equal to half the weight reduction. 10% weight reduction reduces Va by 5%. I find that thinking of it as driving over country railroad tracks.
Jim Foley on Oct 15, 2011. If you are using ‘Vg’ to mean ‘glide speed’ (actually depicted as Vl/d), then there is no relationship. Vl/d is the hightest ratio of lift per unit of drag on a particualar aircraft, which is determined by the manufacturer. Va, or manouvering speed is dependent on aircraft gross weight, in order to avoid imparting too many Gs on the airframe. If you are in fact referencing the VG diagram, sorry, I can’t hep you there.
2. Va is a design speed, it doesn't change with weight unless the manufacturer actually provides a range of Va v's weight.
1. FAR 23.335(C) shows that Va can be selected from a range of speeds, the simplified design load criteria in Appendix A seems to allow an even lower Va than the full requirement. 2. Va is a design speed, it doesn't change with weight unless the manufacturer actually provides a range of Va v's weight. 3.