Preparation. 1  Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 5  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes.
Report Abuse. I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook. Salmon should be moist and flake easily. I foil wrap mine this way.... Set Oven to 450*F 12x18' Heavy Duty Aluminum Foil per each piece of salmon Always use some type of liquid (Lemon pepper marinade) or other liquid of choice, chicken broth 1/4-1/2 cup, your choice of marinade.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Even thick fillets of salmon will cook very quickly so don't wander too far from the oven. Aim for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch of thickness. Since most fillets are about one inch thick in the thickest part, start checking around 8 minutes.
1 Place a well-greased rack into a greased baking dish and set the salmon (skin-side down) onto the rack. 2  Sprinkle the top of the fillets with seasoning salt. 3  At this point you can cover an refrigerate until ready to bake. 4  Set heat to 425 convection-bake (must use a hot oven). 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum baking time. 
Baking salmon in a low-temperature oven slowly melts the fat between the flesh and leaves the fillets incredibly moist and tender. Lemon and thyme, a classic Mediterranean combination, add another layer of flavor without sacrificing this dish's elegant simplicity. 1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes.
1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes.
1 Place salmon skin-side down on foil. 2  Spread a thin layer of mustard on the top of each fillet, and season with salt and pepper. 3  Top with bread crumbs, then drizzle with melted butter. 4  Bake in a preheated oven for 15 minutes, or until salmon flakes easily with a fork. 
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired