Consumer buyer behaviour is considered to be an inseparable part of marketing and Kotler and Keller (2011) state that consumer buying behaviour is the study of the ways of buying and disposing of goods, services, ideas or experiences by the individuals, groups and organizations in order to satisfy their needs and wants. Moreover, the following popular definitions have been proposed for the term of consumer buyer behaviour: 1  According to Blackwell et al (2006) consumer buying behaviour is itself is a complex, dynamic issue which cannot be defined easily and commonly.
To define consumer behavior: it is the study of consumers and the processes they use to choose, use (consume), and dispose of products and services. A more in depth definition will also include how that process impacts the world. Consumer behavior incorporates ideas from several sciences including psychology, biology, chemistry and economics. All marketing decisions are based on assumptions and knowledge of consumer behavior, (Hawkins and Mothersbaugh, 2007). 
(April 2011). Consumer Behaviour is the study of individuals, groups, or organizations and the processes they use to select, secure, use, and dispose of products, services, experiences, or ideas to satisfy needs and the impacts that these processes have on the consumer and society. Customer behavior study is based on consumer buying behavior, with the customer playing the three distinct roles of user, payer and buyer.
Alternatively, consumer buying behaviour “refers to the buying behaviour of final consumers, both individuals and households, who buy goods and services for personal consumption” (Kumar, 2010, p.218). Moreover, the following popular definitions have been proposed for the term of consumer buyer behaviour: 1  According to Blackwell et al (2006) consumer buying behaviour is itself is a complex, dynamic issue which cannot be defined easily and commonly.
LESSON 1: INTRODUCTION TO CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR Introduction As a consumer we are all unique and this uniqueness is reflected in the consumption pattern and process of purchase. The study of consumer behaviour provides us with reasons why consumers differ from one another in buying using products and services. Exploring the link between marketing and Customer orientation Definition, role and importance of consumer behavior for a marketer Identify the major factors that influence a consumer’s purchase decision and behavior A simplified model of the consumer decision-making framework Define consumer behavior.
1 The definition formed by Solomon et al (1995) describes consumer buying behaviour as a process of choosing, purchasing, using and disposing of products or services by the individuals and groups in order to satisfy their needs and wants. Moreover, the following popular definitions have been proposed for the term of consumer buyer behaviour: 1  According to Blackwell et al (2006) consumer buying behaviour is itself is a complex, dynamic issue which cannot be defined easily and commonly.
Definition. A management theory component which analyzes the purchasing habits of individuals and/or groups. Primarily used for marketing purposes, the analysis includes an examination of perception, desire, decision-making and satisfaction. The four models that are often used include economic model, learning theory model, psychoanalytic model and information processing model.
1 Complex buying behavior-This type of behavior involves a high degree of consumer involvement in the buying process with the consumer seeing a great difference among brand choices. 1 Habitual buying behavior-A typical consumer's involvement in the buying process is low because the consumer doesn't see much difference between available brands in habitual buying behavior.
Example of previous research used to define consumer behaviour. Moreover, the following popular definitions have been proposed for the term of consumer buyer behaviour: 1  According to Blackwell et al (2006) consumer buying behaviour is itself is a complex, dynamic issue which cannot be defined easily and commonly.
In a laymans language consumer behaviour deals with the buying behaviour of individuals. The main catalyst which triggers the buying decision of an individual is need for a particular product/service. Consumers purchase products and services as and when need arises. 