Statins Inhibit Coenzyme Q10 Synthesis. Since coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) and cholesterol are both synthesized from the same substance, mevalonate, statin drugs (Lipitor, Zocor, etc) also inhibit the body's synthesis of coenzyme Q10. This is not a side effect, of statins, but a direct, inherent function of the drugs. Yet the heart-healthy establishment guidelines hit CoQ10 with a double-whammy: statin drugs hit the body's own synthesis of CoQ10, while red meat and organ meats have both been ridiculed as unhealthy artery-clogging foods, yet are the primary source of dietary CoQ10.
Zocor is a prescription medicine for the reduction of cholesterol that is often marketed as a generic alternative to Lipitor. Zocor was developed from a different method of synthesis by the Merck Pharmaceutical Company. Zocor is also used to treat high blood pressure and heart diseases that can lead to heart attack. Liptor works by enzyme blocking. The drug blocks an enzyme in the liver that leads to the reduction of Low Density Cholesterol that can lead to a heart attack or stroke. Zocor functions in a similar manner to dissolve cholesterol deposits within blood vessels that cause high blood pressure and
Cholesterol synthesized by the liver, as well as any dietary cholesterol in the liver that exceeds hepatic needs, is transported in the serum within LDLs. The liver synthesizes VLDLs and these are converted to LDLs through the action of endothelial cell-associated lipoprotein lipase. The level of cholesterol synthesis is regulated in part by the dietary intake of cholesterol. Cholesterol from both diet and synthesis is utilized in the formation of membranes and in the synthesis of the steroid hormones and bile acids. The greatest proportion of cholesterol is used in bile acid synthesis.
Squalene is converted to cholesterol. Pathway of cholesterol biosynthesis. Synthesis of cholesterol begins with the transport of acetyl-CoA from within the mitochondria to the cytosol. The rate limiting step in cholesterol synthesis occurs at the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reducatase, HMGR, catalyzed step. The level of cholesterol synthesis is regulated in part by the dietary intake of cholesterol. Cholesterol from both diet and synthesis is utilized in the formation of membranes and in the synthesis of the steroid hormones and bile acids. The greatest proportion of cholesterol is used in bile acid synthesis.
ABSTRACT. Simvastatin is a semisynthetic derivative of the fungal polyketide lovastatin and is an important drug for lowering cholesterol levels in adults. We have developed a one-step, whole-cell biocatalytic process for the synthesis of simvastatin from monacolin J. By using an Escherichia coli S. Simvastatin (Fig. 1) is a cholesterol-lowering compound that significantly reduces the risk of heart diseases associated with hypercholesterolemia (17). Simvastatin is marketed by Merck as Zocor and is the second-best-selling drug in the United States, with annual sales exceeding $5 billion. 
Lipitor and Zocor both are taken to reduce high blood pressure caused by cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke for those with clogged arteries. Liptor works by enzyme blocking. The drug blocks an enzyme in the liver that leads to the reduction of Low Density Cholesterol that can lead to a heart attack or stroke. Zocor functions in a similar manner to dissolve cholesterol deposits within blood vessels that cause high blood pressure and heart attack.
Lipitor and Zocor are both pharmaceutical drugs for heart disease and cholesterol reduction. Lipitor is developed by Pfizer and is known as the best selling prescription medicine in the world, with over $12 billion USD in annual sales. Liptor works by enzyme blocking. The drug blocks an enzyme in the liver that leads to the reduction of Low Density Cholesterol that can lead to a heart attack or stroke. Zocor functions in a similar manner to dissolve cholesterol deposits within blood vessels that cause high blood pressure and heart attack.
Description. Statins inhibit endogenous cholesterol production by competitive inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase (HMGCR), the enzyme that catalyzes conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, an early rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis. 