Students that were spending about a half an hour on math homework were reporting that their grades and test scores were actually better.. Tai says the study is a wake up call for educators. Teachers need to be much more clear about why they are assigning homework and what the homework is for, Tai said.
Maybe students are right to complain about too much homework. A Stanford researcher has found that students in high-achieving communities who spend too much time on homework experience more stress, physical health problems, a lack of balance, and alienation from society.
When it comes to kids and homework, more isn't necessarily better, according to a new study out of the University of Virginia. 'When Is Homework Worth the Time' looks at student achievements in comparison to time spent on homework. Researchers said the findings were surprising.
As another school year begins, our schools and children are under the gun as never before. Increasing numbers of students are facing batteries of new standardized tests, and both parents and teachers feel the pressure. Many educators are now turning to an old remedy, ratcheting up the homework required of our children.
One of America's biggest educational fallacy is that more homework makes better students. In fact, if homework were a prescription drug, the FDA would long ago have demanded its recall.
Many students said that they often do homework they see as pointless or mindless in order to keep their grades up. To this, Pope argues that homework assignments should have a purpose and benefit, and it should be designed to cultivate learning and development.
Inundating children with hours of homework each night is detrimental, the research suggests, while an hour or two per week usually doesn't impact test scores one way or the other. However, homework only bolsters students' academic performance during their last three years of grade school.
STANFORD (CBS SACRAMENTO) – A new study found that too much homework is bad for children’s health. Researchers at Stanford say hitting the books for three or more hours a night won’t necessarily make a child perform better in school, but it can make them sick.
Our schools and children are under the gun as never before. Increasing numbers of students are facing batteries of new standardized tests, and both parents and teachers feel the pressure. Many educators are now turning to an old remedy: ratcheting up the homework required of our children.