Self-pollination is when pollen from the same plant arrives at the stigma of a flower (in flowering plants) or at the ovule (in Gymnosperms). There are two types of self-pollination: In autogamy, pollen is transferred to the stigma of the same flower. In geitonogamy, pollen is transferred from the anther of one flower to the stigma of another flower on the same flowering plant, or from microsporangium to ovule within a single (monoecious) Gymnosperm.
Self-Pollination   If the pollen lands on stigma of the same flower, it is called self-pollination.   Cross-Pollination   When the pollen of a flower lands … on the stigma of another flower of the same plant, or that of a different plant of the same kind, it is called cross-pollination. The transfer of pollen from a stamen to a pistil; fertilization in flowering plants. It takes place through self-pollination or cross-pollination. Please note that this answer … refers specifically to the pollination of angiosperms and gymnosperms. Self-pollination: Please see the related link below.
Pollenization is simply the transfer of pollen from one plant to another. Fertilization is the joining of the male part with the … female part to produce offspring. The act of transferring pollen is done by insects and the wind. Fertilization is what happens AFTER the transfer which results in offspring, fruit. The transfer of pollen from a stamen to a pistil; fertilization in flowering plants. It takes place through self-pollination or cross-pollination. Please note that this answer … refers specifically to the pollination of angiosperms and gymnosperms. Self-pollination: Please see the related link below.
1. pollination-transfer of pollen from the anther to the stigma of a plant. pollenation. fecundation, fertilisation, fertilization, impregnation-creation by the physical union of male and female gametes; of sperm and ova in an animal or pollen and ovule in a plant. The process by which plant pollen is transferred from the male reproductive organs to the female reproductive organs to form seeds. In flowering plants, pollen is transferred from the anther to the stigma, often by the wind or by insects.
Nouns denoting natural events. Synonyms: pollenation; pollination. Hypernyms (pollination is a kind of...): fecundation; fertilisation; fertilization; impregnation (creation by the physical union of male and female gametes; of sperm and ova in an animal or pollen and ovule in a plant).
• POLLINATION (noun). The noun POLLINATION has 1 sense: 1. transfer of pollen from the anther to the stigma of a plant. Familiarity information: POLLINATION used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (pollination is a kind of...): fecundation; fertilisation; fertilization; impregnation (creation by the physical union of male and female gametes; of sperm and ova in an animal or pollen and ovule in a plant).
Pollination can also be accomplished by cross-pollination. Cross-pollination is the transfer of pollen, by wind or animals such as insects and birds, from the anther to the stigma of flowers on separate plants. There are two types of self-pollination: In autogamy, pollen is transferred to the stigma of the same flower. In geitonogamy, pollen is transferred from the anther of one flower to the stigma of another flower on the same flowering plant, or from microsporangium to ovule within a single (monoecious) Gymnosperm.
Definition of POLLINATION. : the transfer of pollen from an anther to the stigma in angiosperms or from the microsporangium to the micropyle in gymnosperms. See pollination defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Pollination: The transfer of pollen from the anthers of a flower to the stigma of the same flower or of another flower. Pollination is a prerequisite for fertilization: the fusion of nuclei from the pollen grain with nuclei in the ovule. Fertilization allows the flower to develop seeds. 
Pollination is a process in which pollen is transferred to the female reproductive organs of seed plants, thereby enabling fertilization and reproduction through growth of the pollen tube and eventual release of sperm. 