Question: What is antithetical parallelism in Hebrew poetry?. Answer: A major literary device in Hebrew poetry is parallelism. Often, the parallelism is synonymous—the same idea is restated in different words, side by side (see Psalm 40:13). Antithetical parallelism provides an antithesis, or contrast. Their inclinations are antithetical. Often, but not always, antithetical parallelism is set up with the conjunction but. Here s another example, from Proverbs 19:16: He who obeys instructions guards his life, but he who is contemptuous of his ways will die.
Parallelism in Hebrew Writing. Dennis Bratcher. A common literary feature of Hebrew poetry in the Old Testament is called parallelism, in which the words of two or more lines of text are directly related in some way. 
(August 2014). Antithetic parallelism is a form of parallelism where the meaning of two or more excerpts of text are obversed, although directly linked by providing the same meaning from differing perspectives. 
Antithetic Parallelism Antithetic means marked by being exactly opposite Form A and-A Summary Opposite Thoughts Definition The idea in the first part of a line/verse is the opposite of the idea in the second part of a line or opposite of the idea in another verse. Proverbs 3:33 Synthetic Parallelism Synthetic means put together, compounded Form A expands to A1 Summary Expanded Thought Definition The idea in the first part of a line/verse is expanded or developed into a fuller thought in the second part of a line or
The second type of parallelism identified by Lowth is known as antithetic parallelism, which is nearly the opposite of synonymous parallelism. This occurs when the second stich is directly contrasted to the first, and it is done to emphasize or confirm the thought of the first. Synonymous parallelism is perhaps the easiest to spot while reading. This term applies to successive lines of text which state essentially the same concept in two different ways. Unger defined it as “the first line (or, stich) reinforc[es] the second and giving a distich” (Unger 1951, p. 281).
Parallelism is the use of components in a sentence that are grammatically the same; or similar in their construction, sound, meaning or meter. Parallelism examples are found in literary works as well as in ordinary conversations.
Definition of Antithesis. Antithesis is the use of contrasting concepts, words, or sentences within parallel grammatical structures. This combination of a balanced structure with opposite ideas serves to highlight the contrast between them. Juxtaposition also does not necessitate a parallel grammatical structure. The definition of antithesis requires this balanced
Definition. Antithesis is a rhetorical term for the juxtaposition of contrasting ideas in balanced phrases or clauses. Plural: antitheses. Adjective: antithetical. In grammatical terms, antithetical statements are parallel structures
♦. Antithesis is the use of contrasting concepts, words, or sentences within parallel grammatical structures. This combination of a balanced structure with opposite ideas serves to highlight the contrast between them. Juxtaposition also does not necessitate a parallel grammatical structure. The definition of antithesis requires this balanced