1 15% of men with prostate cancer have a normal PSA. 2  There is no conclusive evidence that detection of early prostate cancer leads to longer survival. 3  The test cannot distinguish between aggressive and slow-growing cancers and may detect tumours that would not otherwise become evident in the patient's lifetime. 
Therefore, men with BPH tend to have higher levels of free PSA and men with prostate cancer tend to have lower amounts of free PSA. A relatively low level of free PSA increases the chances that a cancer is present, even if the total PSA is not significantly elevated. The PSA test and DRE cannot, in general, predict the course of a person's disease. PSA exists in two main forms in the blood: complexed (cPSA, bound to other proteins) and free (not bound). The most frequently used PSA test is the total PSA, which measures the sum of complexed and the free PSA in the blood.
The PSA test is a blood test that measures the amount of PSA in the blood. PSA is produced by the prostate and is normally present in a man’s blood in small amounts. An elevated PSA level may be an indication that cancer is present. Men who have a prostate infection or prostate growth that is not cancerous (like benign prostatic hyperplasia-BPH) may also have high levels of PSA. No test is right all the time, and this is true of the PSA test. For every 100 men over age 50, with no symptoms, who have the PSA test 1  : 10 men out of 100 tested will have a higher than normal level of PSA.
While Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) testing is the most widespread form of prostate cancer screening, its specificity of 63.1% and low sensitivity of 34.9% calls for a statistically improved and more effective method to more accurately and consistently detect the ninth most common form of cancer. Currently the PSA test and DRE are the most commonly used forms of prostate cancer screening in existence. However, research shows that sensitivity is significantly lower than 50% for the PSA test, DRE, and for both tests combined, thus resulting in a great deal of false negatives (Marcus 2004).
Importantly, the board acknowledged that the evidence is not overwhelmingly conclusive against testing: “PSA-based screening identifies more prostate cancers, but most trials found no effect on risk for death from prostate cancer. “Prostate-specific antigen–based screening results in small or no reduction in prostate cancer–specific mortality and is associated with harms related to subsequent evaluation and treatments, some of which may be unnecessary.”. In short, the panel recommended that men no longer take a PSA test.
It should be stressed that the PSA test is not conclusive by itself in diagnosing prostate cancer. No treatment decision should ever be made on the basis of the PSA value by itself; however, an elevated PSA reading may suggest the need for further laboratory tests. The most common is the enlargement of the prostate gland that occurs with BPH. Infections and traumas such as a biopsy or even an overly vigorous digital rectal exam can sometimes increase PSA levels. Ejaculation (orgasm) can elevate PSA for as long as 48 hours.
All men have some amount of PSA in their blood. However, prostate cancer and other prostate disease can cause PSA levels to rise. Men with prostate cancer might not have an elevated PSA. And the PSA test cannot tell the difference between cancer and a benign condition. A biopsy is needed to confirm cancer. Some scientists argue that routine PSA testing can lead to anxiety and unnecessary biopsies. 
A PSA test is a simple blood test used to measure the levels of prostate specific antigen (PSA) in the bloodstream. PSA is a protein produced in the prostate which leaks into the bloodstream. It’s normal for all men to have small amounts of PSA in their blood, but higher levels leak from the prostate if it is damaged. This urine test looks for a prostate specific gene that is not affected by other non-cancerous conditions such as an enlarged prostate (BPH), or prostatitis, so it is therefore more conclusive than a standard PSA test. Following analysis, the sample is given a score which indicates the likelihood of prostate cancer.
1 The simplest and most common prostate cancer screening tests are not conclusive proof of cancer's presence or absence. 2  If a DRE (digital rectal exam) or a PSA blood test indicate the possibility of prostate problems, further tests may be needed to rule out or diagnose cancer. 
The PSA test is a blood test that can detect the early signs of an enlarged prostate. It is the most common initial test for men who are worried about prostate cancer. The test, which can be done at a GP surgery, measures the level of PSA (prostate-specific antigen) in your blood. The higher the level of PSA, the more likely it is to be a sign of cancer. If your PSA level is definitely raised, your GP will arrange for you to see a specialist for further tests to find out if you have prostate cancer. A PSA test alone cannot tell you whether