The American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT) is a dog breed. Is a medium-sized, solidly built, short haired dog whose early ancestors came from England and Ireland. It is a member of the molosser breed group. When compared with the English Staffordshire Bull Terrier (another breed within the type commonly called pit bulls), the American Pit Bull Terrier is larger by margins of 6–8 inches (15–20 cm) in height and 25–35 pounds (11–16 kg) in weight. The dog was bred first to bait bulls and bears
The American Staffordshire Terrier and the American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT) were bred from the same lineage, but received different names from the two American kennel clubs; Staffordshire was the name given by the American Kennel Club (AKC), and American Pit Bull Terrier by the United Kennel Club (UKC). When compared with the English Staffordshire Bull Terrier (another breed within the type commonly called pit bulls), the American Pit Bull Terrier is larger by margins of 6–8 inches (15–20 cm) in height and 25–35 pounds (11–16 kg) in weight. The dog was bred first to bait bulls and bears
The American Bully was started by crossing the American Pit Bull Terrier with other dogs in the bully breed family and sometimes dogs outside the bully family. The American Bully is becoming its own breed, and is not the same breed as the American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT). Zeppelin the American Pit Bull Terrier at 2 years old. Tigger the American Pit Bull Terrier at 20 months old, weighing 60 pounds. This is Danger the 6 1/2 year old red nose Pit Bull / American Bully mix. His mother was a American Pit Bull Terrier game dog and his father is an American Bully.
The American Staffordshire Terrier also known as Amstaff is a medium-sized, short-coated American dog breed. It is one of several breeds commonly known as pit bulls. 
Vital Stats: The American Pit Bull Terrier is one of the so-called bully breeds often labeled a pit bull. In fact, pit bull isn't a breed, but a term used to describe the American Pit Bull Terrier, the Bull Terrier, the American Staffordshire Terrier, and the Staffordshire Bull Terrier. Some people say the American Pit Bull Terrier is the same as the American Staffordshire Terrier.
The American Pit Bull Terrier is a companion and family dog breed. Originally bred to bait bulls, the breed evolved into all-around farm dogs, and later moved into the house to become nanny dogs because they were so gentle around children. In fact, pit bull isn't a breed, but a term used to describe the American Pit Bull Terrier, the Bull Terrier, the American Staffordshire Terrier, and the Staffordshire Bull Terrier. Some people say the American Pit Bull Terrier is the same as the American Staffordshire Terrier.
The American Pit Bull Terrier (also known as Yankee Terrier, and closely related to the American Staffordshire Terrier) derived from crossing Bulldogs with an older Terrier line. The American breed was recognized as a distinct breed in 1936. The American Pit Bull Terrier is loyal, tough on itself, and tenacious. It has a lot of stamina and makes a good watchdog. American Pit Bull Terriers exude strength and agility. They are stubborn and fearless, but very gentle and kind with family.
About the Breed: The American Pit Bull Terrier, casually called the Pit Bull, Pit or Pitty is a medium to large dog with a sturdy, athletic build and a muscular head. Its name is often abbreviated as the APBT. Contrary to its tough appearance, the Pit is a gentle, loyal and highly affectionate dog breed.