Fractures can occur in any bone in the body. There are several different ways in which a bone can fracture; for example a clean break to the bone that does not damage surrounding tissue or tear through the skin is known as a closed fracture or a simple fracture. 1 Oblique fracture-A fracture that is diagonal to a bone's long axis. 2  Pathological fracture-when an underlying disease or condition has already weakened the bone, resulting in a fracture (bone fracture caused by an underlying disease/condition that weakened the bone).
A fracture is the separation of an object or material into two or more pieces under the action of stress. The fracture of a solid usually occurs due to the development of certain displacement discontinuity surfaces within the solid. A fracture is also the term used for a particular mask data preparation procedure within the realm of integrated circuit design that involves transposing complex polygons into simpler shapes such as trapezoids and rectangles.
In an open fracture, the ends of the broken bone tear the skin. When the bone and skin are exposed, they are at risk of infection. This type of fracture is also called a compound fracture. In a closed fracture, the broken bone does not break the skin. A broken bone can be described as a: 1  nondisplaced fracture: The bone is broken into pieces that can be aligned in place. 2  displaced fracture: The bone is broken into pieces that don’t align. 3  hairline fracture: The bone is broken in a thin crack. 4  single fracture: The bone is broken only in one place.
A fracture is a broken bone. It can range from a thin crack to a complete break. A bone can fracture crosswise, lengthwise, in several places, or into many pieces. Typically, a bone becomes fractured when it is impacted by more force or pressure than it can support. A broken bone can be described as a: 1  nondisplaced fracture: The bone is broken into pieces that can be aligned in place. 2  displaced fracture: The bone is broken into pieces that don’t align. 3  hairline fracture: The bone is broken in a thin crack. 4  single fracture: The bone is broken only in one place.
A fracture is a broken bone. Fractures can range in severity from a crack (known as a hairline or greenstick fracture), to a complete break and separation of a bone that may protrude through your skin (known as an open or compound fracture). A closed fracture is one in which the bones do not break the skin, while in an open (also known as compound) fracture, one or more bone fragments protrudes through the skin. Open fractures are more difficult to treat and have a greater risk of infection
The word fracture is often applied to bones of living creatures (that is, a bone fracture), or to crystals or crystalline materials, such as gemstones or metal. Sometimes, in crystalline materials, individual crystals fracture without the body actually separating into two or more pieces. A fracture is also the term used for a particular mask data preparation procedure within the realm of integrated circuit design that involves transposing complex polygons into simpler shapes such as trapezoids and rectangles.
Fractures usually result from a traumatic injury to a bone where the continuity of bone tissues or bony cartilage is disrupted or broken. The illustrations above feature common sites where fractures occur. A fracture usually results from traumatic injury to bones causing the continuity of bone tissues or bony cartilage to be disrupted or broken. Fracture classifications include simple, compound, incomplete and complete.
Persistent bone or bone marrow infection-if there is a break in the skin, as may happen with a compound fracture, bacteria can get in and infect the bone or bone marrow, which can become a persistent infection (osteomyelitis). Patients may need to be hospitalized and treated with antibiotics. 1 Oblique fracture-A fracture that is diagonal to a bone's long axis. 2  Pathological fracture-when an underlying disease or condition has already weakened the bone, resulting in a fracture (bone fracture caused by an underlying disease/condition that weakened the bone).