These heavy vehicles can cause severe damage over time regardless of the concrete thickness. Now the only way to guarantee the right concrete thickness for your soil type, is to hire a soils engineer to evaluate your soil and come up with a concrete pavement design for you. However, that can multiply the price of a concrete driveway by two to three times! 
The walkway only needs to be thicker in the area of the driveway. For example, pour a 4-inch thick walkway along the street using 2-by-4-inch boards for forms, and use 2-by-8-inch boards for forms where the walkway crosses the driveway. Base Thickness. A base or bed of gravel between 4 and 8 inches thick supports the concrete walkway. Pack the gravel using a vibrating plate tamper to produce a firm bed for the concrete. Never pour sidewalks or walkways over grass or sod.
The cost to upgrade to a 5 inch thickness on an average driveway is chicken feed when you compare it to the total cost of the job. For example, if your driveway measures 720 square feet, a 4 inch thick pour will require 9 cubic yards of concrete. Increasing the thickness to 5 inches requires 11 cubic yards of concrete. The extra two yards of concrete will only cost about $130.00. (1999 pricing-adjust for inflation).
The soil upon which you will pour the concrete must be well-drained and compact. You can use a hand-tamping tool for this task. If the soil is a thick clay, add 2 inches of small, rounded gravel to the area where you will pour the concrete. This gravel will help improve drainage. The sidewalk should be poured at least 4 inches thick. 
Using 2-by-4-inch boards as forms and leaving a 1/2-inch clearance under the boards produces a 4-inch thick walkway slab. At this thickness, 1 cubic yard of concrete covers about 80 square feet of walkway. Base Thickness. A base or bed of gravel between 4 and 8 inches thick supports the concrete walkway. Pack the gravel using a vibrating plate tamper to produce a firm bed for the concrete. Never pour sidewalks or walkways over grass or sod.
Place concrete at a minimum thickness of 4 inches. Increasing the thickness from 4 inches to 5 inches will add approximately 20% to your concrete cost, but will also boost your driveway's load-carrying capacity nearly 50% , according to the Tennessee Concrete Association. 
Joints should also be spaced 2-3 times in feet the thickness of the concrete: so a 4 thick driveway should have joints no farther than 8- 12 feet, and e) A simple broom finish for sufficient traction We also found out that concrete can now be made to match any almost any color desired. The concrete thickness should be 4-5 Inches, we went with the 5 inches thick driveway, 4) When it came to reinforcing with rebar, most contractors balked at doing it. They preferred wire mess, because it is very easy to work with. Rebar will take time to install.
Common Thickness. Most builders pour a 4-inch thick slab for a sidewalk or walkway, which provides a solid surface to support foot traffic and light-wheeled vehicles such as bicycles or hand carts. Properly cured concrete is hard, durable and water resistant. Base Thickness. A base or bed of gravel between 4 and 8 inches thick supports the concrete walkway. Pack the gravel using a vibrating plate tamper to produce a firm bed for the concrete. Never pour sidewalks or walkways over grass or sod.