Physical therapist assistants (PTAs) work as part of a team to provide physical therapy services under the direction and supervision of the physical therapist. The terms physical therapist assistant and physical therapy aide or technician are not synonymous. PTAs complete an intensive education culminating in an associate degree. Aides and technicians are on-the-job trained and not eligible to provide physical therapy by many payers, including Medicare.
What Physical Therapist Assistants and Aides Do. Physical therapist assistants (sometimes called PTAs) and physical therapist aides work under the direction and supervision of physical therapists. They help patients who are recovering from injuries and illnesses regain movement and manage pain. Physical therapist assistants are involved in the direct care of patients. Physical therapist aides often do tasks that are indirectly related to patient care, such as cleaning and setting up the treatment area, moving patients, and performing clerical duties.
Physical Therapy Assistant (PTA). Physical therapy assistants do a range of things to help a physical therapist implement programs to help clients to improve and/or maintain their ability to physical function independent of anyone or any tools. Physical therapy assistants make a varying amount of money depending on how much education and experience they have and where they work. The average salary is $49,000/year for a licensed assistant. Certified assistants can make $51,000, but that requires more education and more specialization.
Most work Physical Therapy Assistants in clinics, hospitals or therapy centers. Job Description. A Physical Therapist Assistant works under the direct supervision of a physical therapist. PT Assistants help therapists administer treatment and therapies to patients who have physical disabilities. Assistants perform many tasks, some of which include lifting or assisting in the movement of their patients. Many PT Assistants are trained on the job, but some do obtain associate's degrees. Daily Duties.
The physical therapist is responsible for the services provided by the PTA. Physical therapists (PTs) are health care professionals who examine each individual and develop a plan using treatment techniques to promote the ability to move, reduce pain, restore function, and prevent disability. The terms physical therapist assistant and physical therapy aide or technician are not synonymous. PTAs complete an intensive education culminating in an associate degree. Aides and technicians are on-the-job trained and not eligible to provide physical therapy by many payers, including Medicare.
As a Physical Therapist Assistant, you work with Physical Therapists to help patients develop mobility, relieve pain, and prevent or lessen physical disability. 
The Basics. What you'll do: PTAs help physical therapists in their daily activities which include assisting patients during rehabilitation. You'll be trained to conduct therapeutic exercises, provide therapeutic massage, observe patients and evaluate data on a patient's progres
Physical therapist assistants (PTAs) provide physical therapy services under the direction and supervision of a licensed physical therapist. PTAs help people of all ages who have medical problems, or other health-related conditions that limit their ability to move and perform functional activities in their daily lives. Today, physical therapist assitants provide health care services to patients of all ages and health conditions in a variety of settings, including: 1  Outpatient clinics or offices. 2  Hospitals. 3  Inpatient rehabilitation facilities. 4  Skilled nursing, extended care, or subacute