This long-established surname, with the modern spelling forms Larcher, L'Archer and Archer, is of early medieval English origin, and is occupational, deriving from the Middle English archere, itself coming from the Old French archier, meaning a (professional) bowman. 
Archer is an unusual given name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#958 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Archer for boys. Archer reached its top position of #303 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Archibald is the only other prominent varying form of Archer (#303 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000.
Meaning of Archer. English name. In English, the name Archer means-bowman. Other origins for the name Archer include-English, French.The name Archer is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-bowman. Origin-England. Alternate Origins-French
English Meaning: The name Archer is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Archer is: Bow, a bowman. Derived from a surname of Latin origin borne by skilled Middle Ages archers. It has been used occasionally as a first name since the 19th century. An English surname. The name Archer is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Archer is: Bow, a bowman. Derived from a surname of Latin origin borne by skilled Middle Ages archers. It has been used occasionally as a first name since the 19th century.
Etymology [edit]. The name is derived from the Middle English archere, and Old French archer, archier. The surname originated as an occupational name denoting an archer. By the 14th century, the mentioned Middle English and Old French words replaced the native English bowman. In North America, the surname Archer has absorbed many like-sounding names, and cognates (for example, the French Archier).
Archer /arch-er/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced AR-cher. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Archer is bowman. From the word arcarius. An English surname from medieval times when bows and arrows were essential hunting and fighting equipment. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Archer for boys. Archer reached its top position of #303 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Archibald is the only other prominent varying form of Archer (#303 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Archer. Archer is the transferred use of an English surname originating as an occupation name to signify one who made a profession out of being a bowman. The word comes directly from the Old French “archier” from the Latin “arcus” meaning “bow”. 
Hello, Guest. Archer is an Anglo-Saxon surname that feels more modern than most because of its on-target occupational and Hunger Games associations. And it's a nice way to bypass the clunky Archibald to get to the cool nickname Archie. Four years ago, we named Archer one of our Hottest Names of 2011—and, indeed, it jumped 102 places that year, thanks in part to Archer's similarity to popular Asher and its cross-gender appeal. Moms may like its literary gentility and dads its tough-guy FX cartoon appeal. Or, of course, vice versa.