Color. Rubellite is one of the colors in the commercial market that is often miss represented. In my opinion there are a lot of stones being called Rubellite that are not the correct color. A true Rubellite color is a medium to dark saturated red/red, red/purple, to red/purple/very slight peach. Think Raspberry like the fruit.
Rubellite Value, Price, and Jewelry Information. Rubellite is the name given to dark pink to red tourmalines, especially those with reasonably saturated colors and medium to dark tones. Ruby red stones with little orange or brown overtones are the most highly sought after. Avoid rough handling. Rubellite is the name given to dark pink to red tourmalines, especially those with reasonably saturated colors and medium to dark tones. Ruby red stones with little orange or brown overtones are the most highly sought after.
Classification and Chemical Features. Rubellite is a variety of elbaite [Na(Li,Al)3Al6(Bo3)3 Si6O18(OH)4], which is a variety of tourmaline, while ruby is a type of corundum [Al2O3] with chemical inclusions of chrome providing the red color. A rubellite is the same color in both natural and artificial light. Ruby can range from bright red to dark red-brown in color. The most desirable color for rubellite is a deep red or pinkish red, while the most desirable color for ruby is a deep red called pigeon's blood.
Rubellite Tourmaline. The rubellite is a particularly beautiful gemstone from the colourful family of the tourmalines. Its colour shines in the most beautiful nuances from red to shocking pink. Tourmalines are closely related gemstones which have been created by Nature in many different colours. 
It's not an easy task. Gemologists would argue that rubellite is not a specific variety of tourmaline, distinguished by its chemical composition in the way that elbaite, liddicoatite and uvite are. On the other hand, there is little point to the term rubellite if it refers to all pink and red tourmaline. There is some confusion in the gemstone trade about what exactly counts as rubellite and how it can be identified. We've wondered ourselves which tourmaline to label as rubellite, and sometimes whether we should have a category of rubellite at all on our website.
Ruby and rubellite are both rare translucent minerals which come in a range of red shades that are used in jewelry and can be found across the world. They differ in a variety of ways including composition and source location. A rubellite is the same color in both natural and artificial light. Ruby can range from bright red to dark red-brown in color. The most desirable color for rubellite is a deep red or pinkish red, while the most desirable color for ruby is a deep red called pigeon's blood.
Rubellite. Rubellite is pink to red tourmaline. As such it has the mystical properties of tourmaline as well as its own. It is a stone of balance and calm. Emotionally, rubellite helps bring emotional balance and helps open up, relax, and detach from personal pain. It can be used with lepidolite as a super-powerful energy for calming people in distress.
Rubellite Information. Rubellite is the name given to dark pink to red tourmalines, especially those with reasonably saturated colors and medium to dark tones. Ruby red stones with little orange or brown overtones are the most highly sought after. Avoid rough handling. Rubellite is the name given to dark pink to red tourmalines, especially those with reasonably saturated colors and medium to dark tones. Ruby red stones with little orange or brown overtones are the most highly sought after.