Giant George was proclaimed on Feb. 15, 2010 by the Guinness Book of World Records to be both the tallest living dog and the world's tallest dog ever. A solid gray Great Dane male, he was measured at 43 inches at the shoulder. George died Oct. 17, 2013, but the current record holder keeps Great Danes on top for height. A Great Dane named Zeus, who stands 44 inches tall beat George by an inch in 2013 to become the tallest dog and the new tallest dog ever. Weight minimums are 105 pounds for females and 120 pounds for males. For the Great Dane, the AKC standard requires 28- and 30-inch height minimums for females and males, respectively, but suggests an ideal minimum of 30 and 32 inches and lists no maximum height.
Size and Weight. The preferred height for male Great Danes is 32 inches at the shoulder, or higher. Females should stand 30 inches or taller. Show dogs will be disqualified if they are male and stand less than 30 inches, or female and stand less than 28. They stand upwards of 30 inches at the shoulders and weigh anywhere from 120 to 150 pounds. The Great Dane comes in several colors inclughing fawn, brindle, black, blue, harlequin or mantle. Though they are massive dogs, they should be square in proportion, with the length of the body matching the height.
The American Kennel Club sets standard heights for dogs: for Great Danes the male must be at least 30 inches at the shoulders and preferably should be 32 inches or more; the female should be at least 28 inches, but it's preferred that her height be 30 inches or taller. If you are curious about the height of your Great Dane but don't require exact show measurements, you can easily measure the dog at home with a few simple tools. Step 1. Position the dog in on a level surface with one side against a blank wall.
Using a wall, measuring tape and a level, you can measure the height of your Great Dane. Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Dog height is measured at the withers --- the highest peak of the dog's shoulder blades. If you are curious about the height of your Great Dane but don't require exact show measurements, you can easily measure the dog at home with a few simple tools. Step 1. Position the dog in on a level surface with one side against a blank wall.
The height of the Dane is measured in inches at the shoulder; at the highest point in contact with the start of the neck withers, see illustration below. As explained above, remember again that the officially acceptable height of a Dane to even enter a championship competition is 28 at shoulder for a female and 30 inches if a male. Many Danes are below that standard.
The German name of the breed is Deutsche Dogge, or German mastiff. The Great Dane is one of the world's tallest dog breeds. The world record holder for tallest dog was a Great Dane called Zeus (died September 2014; aged 5), who measured 112 cm (44 in) from paw to shoulder. Great Danes are known for seeking physical affection from their owners. From year to year, the tallest living dog is typically a Great Dane. Previous record holders include Gibson, Titan, and George; however, the current record holder is a black Great Dane named Zeus who stood 112 cm (44 in) at the shoulder before his death in September 2014.
Discussion. The minimum size requirements set forth in the Standard apply to all Great Danes age 6 months and over; however, the judge will rarely encounter a 30 male or a 28 bitch after the 6-9 month puppy class. Probably the average height for mature specimens will be about 34 for males and 32 for bitches. 
The mature male Great Dane should not be less than 30 inches at the shoulder but is preferred to be over 32 inches in height. Adult females should not stand less than 28 inches at the shoulder but are preferred to be over 30 inches in height. There is no upper height limit. Danes vary widely in weight but typically range between 100 and 170 pounds. Their short, glossy coat is very easy to care for.
The Jetsons' dog Astro is also a Great Dane. The Great Dane has a shoulder height of 72-80 cm (28-31 in) and weighs at least 50 kg (110 lbs), as much as a dozen Toy Poodles! Some weigh up to 90 kg [200 lbs]. The Great Dane is a giant, powerful dog, but with great elegance and nobility