1 ($95 title fee, $25 transfer fee). 2  Make sure the correct vehicle information and the correct license plate number being transferred are filled in on the application. 3  Enclose the most recent vehicle registration identification card for the license plate number being transferred. The Electronic Registration and Title (ERT) System allows you to complete and print an Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190) online. You cannot currently complete a transfer only transaction using the online system.
Vehicle titling fees may differ depending on your county. Contact your local county tax office for an estimate of your titling fees. Basic fees generally follow the below list: 1  Title application : $28 or $33 (county dependent). 2  Inspection fee (state portion): $7 to $40. 3  Your inspection station will charge its own additional service fees upon inspection. If you purchase a car from a private seller, you must title your car within 30 days of the date of sale. The DMV recommends that you visit your county tax office with the seller. At minimum, you must bring the following with you to transfer ownership: 1  The current title signed by
Titling and Registering Vehicles. Tax and Title. Within 15 days of buying a vehicle, you must title it in your name at a Secretary of State branch office. Failure to transfer the title within that time will result in a $15 late fee. At the time of titling, a $15 title transfer fee will be collected as well as 6% use tax. In addition to the $15 title fee, there is a $5 instant title fee for this service. The vehicle owner must appear in person for instant title service. The owner cannot appoint an agent for an instant title transaction. If there are two owners of a vehicle, both owners must appear in person for instant title service.
Registration Fee. Title Fee. Motor Vehicle. Registration fees for vehicles up to 11 years old are $0.40 per 100 lbs. plus a percentage of the vehicle's value: vehicles up to 7 years old - 1%. vehicles 8-9 years old - .75%. vehicles up to 10-11 years old - .5%. For vehicles 12 years old and older registration fee is $50. Registration Fee. Title Fee. Motor Vehicle. Based on vehicle weight + $1.50 charge as part of the registration fee every two years. $51.50. Motorcycle. Prorated by date + $1.50 charge as part of the registration fee.
DMV.org has compiled the title information that specifically applies to your home state. Summary: How to Transfer a Vehicle Title in Your State. When you buy or sell a vehicle, gift a car, or require a name change on a car title after a marriage or divorce, you'll usually need to transfer the title. Click your state to find the cost to transfer titles with your Department of Motor Vehicles or vehicle licensing agency. If your car is new, most of the required paperwork will be handled by the dealership. If you buy a used car, you must not only submit a title transfer application, but depending on your state's requirements you might also have to provide an odometer reading, a vehicle identification number(VIN), and a bill of sale. This is a how to guide to transfer a vehicle's title in your state
Title Fee. Motor Vehicle. For model year prior to 1983, fee depends on the weight of the vehicle; after 1983, fee depends on the price of the vehicle; fees can vary from $33 to $148, fees decline by 10% each year until the fifth renewal. Registration Fee. Title Fee. Motor Vehicle. Based on vehicle weight + $1.50 charge as part of the registration fee every two years. $51.50. Motorcycle. Prorated by date + $1.50 charge as part of the registration fee.
Registration Fee. Title Fee. Motor Vehicle. $20 - $82, based on the selling price of the vehicle; current rate is 0.1% with a minimum base of $10,000; License plates sold every two years. ﻿An $8.00 handling fee added to all transactions. A Parish fee not to exceed $3.00 is asked in certain Parishes. Registration Fee. Title Fee. Motor Vehicle. Based on vehicle weight + $1.50 charge as part of the registration fee every two years. $51.50. Motorcycle. Prorated by date + $1.50 charge as part of the registration fee.
1 The fee for Transfer Only is $25, and the fee for Title and Transfer is $120. ( 2 $95 title fee, $25 transfer fee). 3  Make sure the correct vehicle information and the correct license plate number being transferred are filled in on the application. The Electronic Registration and Title (ERT) System allows you to complete and print an Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190) online. You cannot currently complete a transfer only transaction using the online system.