Photosynthesis. The net process of photosynthesis is described by the following equation: 6CO2 + 6H2O + Light Energy = C6H12O6 + 6O2. This equation simply means that carbon dioxide from the air and water combine in the presence of sunlight to form sugars; oxygen is released as a by-product of this reaction. During the process of photosynthesis, light penetrates the cell and passes into the chloroplast. The light energy is intercepted by chlorophyll molecules on the granal stacks. Some of the light energy is converted to chemical energy.
The energy in sunlight is introduced into the biosphere by a process known as photosynthesis, which occurs in plants, algae and some types of bacteria. Photosynthesis can be defined as the physico-chemical process by which photosynthetic organisms use light energy to drive the synthesis of organic compounds. The photosynthetic process depends on a set of complex protein molecules that are located in and around a highly organized membrane. The photosynthetic process in plants and algae occurs in small organelles known as chloroplasts that are located inside cells. The more primitive photosynthetic organisms, for example oxygenic cyanobacteria, prochlorophytes and anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria, lack organelles.
Photosynthetic organisms are also referred to as autotrophs. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. Photosynthesis is the process which plants use to produce their own food because they can't just get up and hunt their food like animals. In a plant cell there are little sacks called chloroplast. Inside is where photosynthesis is made.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. Chlorophyll is a complex molecule. Several modifications of chlorophyll occur among plants and other photosynthetic organisms. All photosynthetic organisms (plants, certain protistans, prochlorobacteria, and cyanobacteria) have chlorophyll a. Accessory pigments absorb energy that chlorophyll a does not absorb.
Photosynthesis (photo = light and synthesis = to make) is the process plants use to change carbon dioxide and water into sugar using sunlight. This sugar, glucose, is their fo … od, and the process gives off oxygen. Photosynthesis is the conversion of light energy into chemical energy by living organisms. Photosynthesis is the process which plants use to produce their own food because they can't just get up and hunt their food like animals. In a plant cell there are little sacks called chloroplast. Inside is where photosynthesis is made.
chlorophyll captures the energy in sunlight. Photosynthesis is the process which plants use to produce their own food because they can't just get up and hunt their food like animals. In a plant cell there are little sacks called chloroplast. Inside is where photosynthesis is made.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. In plants, algae and cyanobacteria, photosynthesis releases oxygen. This is called oxygenic photosynthesis. Although there are some differences between oxygenic photosynthesis in plants, algae, and cyanobacteria, the overall process is quite similar in these organisms.
Plants go through a process known as photosynthesis. Photosynthesis can be thought of as the opposite process of cellular respiration. Through two processes known as the light reactions and the dark reactions, plants have the ability to absorb and utilize the energy in sunlight. Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP.
Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate. In plants, algae and cyanobacteria, photosynthesis releases oxygen. This is called oxygenic photosynthesis. Although there are some differences between oxygenic photosynthesis in plants, algae, and cyanobacteria, the overall process is quite similar in these organisms.
Photosynthesis is the process by which organisms that contain the pigment chlorophyll convert light energy into chemical energy which can be stored in the molecular bonds of organic molecules (e.g., sugars). Photosynthesis powers almost all trophic chains and food webs on the Earth. During the process of photosynthesis, light penetrates the cell and passes into the chloroplast. The light energy is intercepted by chlorophyll molecules on the granal stacks. Some of the light energy is converted to chemical energy.