Posts. 153. My 4th baby would only sleep in his car seat, and the idea that babies should only spend 2 hours in a seat is crazy, most travel systems use the car seat as the main pram bit until baby is over 6 months, so if you stuck to this rule you would never leave the house! 
Report Abuse. my baby is 10 days old and i put her in the bouncer when she was home the first time at 2 days old. it reclines enough so u dont have to worry about her flipping out of it and they dont move very much at this age. If by bouncer you mean Jumperoo (attaches over the door frame and baby uses legs to jump & bounce) then the baby should be able to hold up their head-around 3-4 months. It's never a good idea to leave the baby unattended in the bouncer. Neither should it be put up on a table.
1 On the label of the bouncer seat is a weight and height limit. 2  Most baby bouncers are only to be used for babies that weigh between 18 and 30 pounds. 3  A child that is able to sit on its own is to big for a baby bouncer seat.. 4  The most dangerous thing to do is use a bouncer seat as a car seat. 8 Baby bouncer seat safety tips. 1 
If it is a bouncer seat that they lay in that vibrates and bounces that is fine now, But one that they sit in with their legs and feet touching the floor then not until they have control of their necks like 3 months. at 4 months I put my daughter in her johnny jumper. If by bouncer you mean Jumperoo (attaches over the door frame and baby uses legs to jump & bounce) then the baby should be able to hold up their head-around 3-4 months. It's never a good idea to leave the baby unattended in the bouncer. Neither should it be put up on a table.
Many bouncers can only be used for the first six months or so of your little one's life. They're no longer safe once your baby weighs 25 pounds or can sit up independently, a milestone that usually happens between 4 and 7 months. But some models can be used for older babies and toddlers up to 28 or even 40 pounds. What it's going to cost you. You can get a simple bouncer seat for less than $30. Those with battery-operated motors run $30 to $70, depending on whether you want extras such as a toy bar or sun canopy. Designer models with sleek styling and fancier materials can cost up to $350
Size Safety. According to Consumer Reports, a baby can enjoy the bouncer seat until she reaches the weight or age limit as stated by the manufacturer. Depending on the model, the limit is usually 18 to 30 pounds or 6 months old. Seat Sessions. While no strict guidelines exist for how long an infant should sit in a bouncer seat, parents should limit the amount of time a young baby spends in the semi-upright position. Infants are particularly prone to reduced blood oxygen levels when sleeping in baby seats
You can let your child sit in the Bouncer Balance Soft for as long as he or she is content. Your child can also sleep for short periods of time in the bouncer if he or she is content doing so. We recommend that you use the lowest position or the middle position to give your child maximum sleeping comfort. 
Additional Warnings. Always follow manufacturer instructions for use of the bouncer. Secure your baby in the bouncer carefully, following manufacturer instructions. Place the bouncer on the floor to prevent serious accidents. Never place a baby in the bouncer while it is on a table or elevated surface. A baby bouncer can be a comfortable place for your baby to recline while you aren’t holding him. Baby bouncer seats have a sturdy frame, which is covered with padded fabric designed to bounce or rock the little one. Some bouncers also have batteries that create vibrations and music for comfort and entertainment.