Tall larkspurs have a spurred blue flower, similar to that of garden delphinium. Broad leaves are divided into deep lobes. In contrast, wild geranium, which is often mistaken for larkspur, has shallow leaf lobes. Tall larkspur is a perennial that is found on hillsides and in meadows. It ranges in height from 1 to 2 meters. A hollow stem distinguishes larkspur from poisonous monkshood, which has a similar blue flower but with a hood. Low larkspur has spurred blue flowers that grow on the top third of a single and unbranched stem. 
Ingesting young leaves before the flowers appear is a frequent cause of poisoning. Toxicity decreases as the plants age. Later in the season poisoning comes from eating the small seeds which hold the toxic alkaloids in concentrated amounts. These plants, if eaten in quantity cause upset stomach, abdominal cramps, bloating, twitching muscles, nervous symptoms, paralysis, and death.
Delphinium is a genus of about 300 species of perennial flowering plants in the family Ranunculaceae, native throughout the Northern Hemisphere and also on the high mountains of tropical Africa. All members of the Delphinium genus are toxic to humans and livestock. The common name larkspur is shared between perennial Delphinium species and annual species of the genus Consolida. Larkspur, especially tall larkspur, is a significant cause of cattle poisoning on rangelands in the western United States. Larkspur is more common in high-elevation areas, and many ranchers delay moving cattle onto such ranges until late summer when the toxicity of the plants is reduced.
Tall larkspur (wild delphinium) is a cattle killer. The poisonous plant claims average death losses of 4-5% annually in some allotments in Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho and Montana. Cattle may not eat larkspur during preflower stage (when it's most toxic) unless other forage is sparse. In a typical year, cattle begin eating larkspur during flower stage, says Pfister. Consumption usually peaks during late flower or pod stage.
Larkspur Toxicity. Larkspurs tend to become less toxic as they mature, according to the ASPCA. The alkaloids in these plants cause neuromuscular blocking because they inhibit a neurotransmitter called acetylcholine. You may see drooling, vomiting or constipation after your dog has eaten larkspurs. Larkspurs (Delphinium species) have the potential to be highly toxic to dogs, although pets generally don’t eat them. These flowering plants contain diterpene alkaloids, which can cause health concerns ranging from vomiting to death.
Baker's Larkspur (Delphinium bakeri) and Yellow Larkspur (D. luteum), native to some areas of California, are endangered species. Delphinium is a genus of about 250 species of annual, biennial or perennial flowering plants. The common name, shared with the closely related genus Consolida, is Larkspur. Larkspur flowers come in a variety of colors including spikes of red, pink, violet and white. The colorful Larkspur blooms cover a spectrum from white to blue to violet. Larkspur Flowers are irregularly shaped and bloom in a loose, vertical grouping along the upper end of the plant's main stalk. Larkspur is actually a very complex flower consisting of both petals and sepals.
All parts of these plants are considered toxic to humans, especially the younger parts, causing severe digestive discomfort if ingested, and skin irritation. Larkspur, especially tall larkspur, is a significant cause of cattle poisoning on rangelands in the western United States. Larkspur is more common in high-elevation areas, and many ranchers delay moving cattle onto such ranges until late summer when the toxicity of the plants is reduced.
Delphinium. GENUS: Delphinium Delphinium spp.—Larkspur; delphinium FAMILY: Ranunculaceae—the Buttercup Family (see Actaea) PHENOLOGY: Two species of Delphinium are encountered in Pennsylvania. Delphinium exaltatum Ait. flowers in July and August; D. tricorne Michx., in April and May. POISONOUS PARTS: The seeds are highly toxic; the young foliage is less poisonous. Toxicity decreases with age of the plant. At flower-bud formation, Delphinium is half as toxic as in the juvenile stage, and at fruit maturation it is reduced to one-sixteenth.
Aconitum contains the toxin aconitine, which is highly poisonous. Symptoms include violent diarrhea and vomiting, muscular spasms and weakness, respiratory failure, convulsions, and death. Symptoms appear within a few hours after consumption of flowers, leaves, roots, or seeds. POISONOUS PARTS: The seeds are highly toxic; the young foliage is less poisonous. Toxicity decreases with age of the plant. At flower-bud formation, Delphinium is half as toxic as in the juvenile stage, and at fruit maturation it is reduced to one-sixteenth.
Below is a list of many common flowers and plants that are toxic to dogs. Let your cursor hover over an item to see a picture and find out more information. Flowers and plants that cause rashes (Dermatitis). 1  Agapanthus. 