Your Continuous Provision must be linked to assessment and levelled around the ability of your children in that area. You would then enhance it with open ended resources that will encourage investigation, exploration and thinking as well as resources linked to children’s interests that will encourage engagement. Planning for Continuous Provision can be very time consuming and what gets written on paper often doesn’t translate into actual practice.
1 Follow the link enhanced provision panel dates to find out the years panel dates and cut off deadlines for schools to submit the paperwork evidence to the Local Authority. 1 School/setting makes an application to the Statutory Assessment and Moderating Panel (STAMP) which usually meets twice per term. 2 
1 If Enhanced Provision is declined, reasons are given to school and parents. 2  Sometimes other recommendations are made to the school advising them to access the range of services provided by the LA that schools’ can access at School Action Plus. 1 School/setting makes an application to the Statutory Assessment and Moderating Panel (STAMP) which usually meets twice per term. 2  Follow the link enhanced provision panel dates to find out the years panel dates and cut off deadlines for schools to submit the paperwork evidence to the Local Authority.
Inspecting early years provision made before or after school or during school holidays About this guidance The aim of this guidance is to assist inspectors to carry out inspections of provision where children only attend before or after school or in school holidays. Inspecting early years provision made before or after school or during school holidays 10 Grading provision As with other early years inspections, inspectors should use the four-point scale to grade each of the key and supplementary judgements set out in the early years evaluation schedule.
The pupils of the enhanced provision are all integrated within their mainstream setting to a greater or lesser extent – although due to the severity of individual needs of pupils coming into the enhanced provision in recent years this is becoming increasingly more difficult to work towards. Ballumbie Enhanced Provision has excellent facilities. There is a main active play classroom with enclosed outdoor play area, a soft play room, sensory studio, quiet small group working room,’ book bug’ room, resources room and lifeskills kitchen.
Previous Next. An attempt at continuous provision for display in different areas of EYFS classrooms; role play, sand and water area, writing area and snack table. Resource describes the continuous provision in our setting but most statements are likely to reflect the provision in most settings
‘Continuous Provision’. It is my pleasure to have my colleague Alistair Bryce-Clegg as a guest blogger. Alistair enjoyed a successful 10 year career as the Head teacher of a three-form entry Infant school and Early Years unit in Cheshire. “My definition of Continuous Provision is not ‘the provision that is continually out’. It is far more rich and complex than that. If you just put random resources out within your environment then you are relying on a great deal of luck when it comes to children’s engagement and attainment.
Continuous Provision. As children move from reception to Year 1, or from early years classrooms to primary school, they often miss activities through which they learned in their previous settings. Continuous provision can enable children to explore recent learning, practice new skills, and follow their own interests. Teachers are able to enhance the continuously offered activities to make more overt links to adult-initiated and adult-directed, focused sessions.
Enhanced provision is additional funding the Local Authority (LA) puts into a school/setting to support a pupil whose needs cannot be met solely from within the school’s resources. 1 School/setting makes an application to the Statutory Assessment and Moderating Panel (STAMP) which usually meets twice per term. 2  Follow the link enhanced provision panel dates to find out the years panel dates and cut off deadlines for schools to submit the paperwork evidence to the Local Authority.