DEFINITION OF AN ANODE. “An ingot of sacrificial metal attached to the underwater hull of a narrowboat or canal boat which corrodes due to electrolysis more readily than the hull and propeller. Magnesium anodes are used for boats in fresh water. Aluminium anodes are used for boats in brackish water. Anodes will offer protection based on the Noble Series of metals. The theory is that by attaching a piece of metal to the hull that is more reactive than the hull itself then this piece of metal will corrode first. For our inland waters we use sacrificial magnesium anodes for protection.
Cathodic protection (CP) is a technique used to control the corrosion of a metal surface by making it the cathode of an electrochemical cell. A simple method of protection connects the metal to be protected to a more easily corroded  sacrificial metal  to act as the anode. 
The common anode for fresh water is magnesium. Aluminum is a good catch all anode meaning a boat that frequents both fresh and salt has decent protection in either environment. The quality of the anode and the purity of the aluminum or magnesium is also important. The salt content found in brackish or salt water dramatically increases the rate of corrosion. If a magnesium anode is used in salt/brackish water it will corrode very quickly, possibly lasting only a very short time thus leaving your hull and drive completely unprotected.
BoatZincs.com, Inc. is the Internet's leading retailer of marine corrosion control products in North America. We specialize in the sale of sacrificial zinc, aluminum and magnesium anodes for recreational and commercial boaters. 
The zinc used is a softer metal that will succumb to electrolysis before the aluminum, steel, etc... on your boat and motor. That is why they are called sacrificial anodes. We do not inherit the earth from our fathers, we are borrowing it from our children. See more details! This new area was created specifically to meet the needs of those of you who participate in the iboats Boat Restoration, Building, and Hull Repair forum. To kick off the launch, we are giving away free product in every order over $100 as follows: Spend $100-149: Get a free paint suit (Large only).
Zinc and aluminium are generally used in salt water, where the resistivity is generally lower. Typical uses are for the hulls of ships and boats, offshore pipelines and production platforms, in salt-water-cooled marine engines, on small boat propellers and rudders, and for the internal surface of storage tanks. Since the operation of a galvanic anode relies on the difference in electropotential between the anode and the cathode, practically any metal can be used to protect some other, providing there is a sufficient difference in potential. For example, iron anodes can be used to protect copper.
If any of your boating is also in brackish or salt water, fit aluminum anodes. Don Casey has been one of the most consulted experts on boat care and upgrades for 30 years, and a panelist on our Ask The Experts website for a decade. Where the zinc is mounted directly to the protected metal--bolted to the side of a metal rudder, for example--it is essential to make sure the surface under the zinc is bare and bright before the anode is installed. This is to ensure good electrical contact.
Therefore in this example the manufacturers recommended weight of magnesium anodes would be 14kg to 20kg. Luckily anodes are sold by weight. Common sizes are 1.5kg, 2.5kg and 3.5kg ingots for standard weld-on canal boat anodes. Anodes will offer protection based on the Noble Series of metals. The theory is that by attaching a piece of metal to the hull that is more reactive than the hull itself then this piece of metal will corrode first. For our inland waters we use sacrificial magnesium anodes for protection.
The type of water you'll be boating in -- and the combination of metal found on your boat -- determines the type of sacrificial anode you will need. For freshwater boating, chances are you'll need magnesium or aluminum alloy anodes. See more details! This new area was created specifically to meet the needs of those of you who participate in the iboats Boat Restoration, Building, and Hull Repair forum. To kick off the launch, we are giving away free product in every order over $100 as follows: Spend $100-149: Get a free paint suit (Large only).
Now, most boaters refer to sacrificial anodes as “zincs,” because zinc has been used for a long time. But there are other “zincs” made of aluminum, magnesium and various alloys with various trade names. In a hypothetical situation where zinc would last 150 days, magnesium would last but 50 days, while an aluminum anode would have corrosion lined up at the chow line for 225 days.