According to a family tree prepared in Jerusalem after World War II, Wittgenstein's paternal great-grandfather was Moses Meier, a Jewish land agent who lived with his wife, Brendel Simon, in Bad Laasphe in the Principality of Wittgenstein, Westphalia. While Wittgenstein was at Guy's he met Basil Reeve, a young doctor with an interest in philosophy, who, with Dr R T Grant, was studying the effect of shock on air-raid casualties. When the blitz ended there were fewer casualties to study.
Wittgenstein was born on April 26, 1889 in Vienna, Austria, to a wealthy industrial family, well-situated in intellectual and cultural Viennese circles. In 1908 he began his studies in aeronautical engineering at Manchester University where his interest in the philosophy of pure mathematics led him to Frege. 1 Ludwig Wittgenstein and the Vienna Circle: Conversations Recorded by Friedrich Waismann (VC) , 1979, B. F. McGuinness (ed.), Oxford: Blackwell. 2  Notebooks 1914-1916, 1961, G. H. von Wright and G. E. M. Anscombe (eds.), Oxford: Blackwell. “ 3 Notes Dictated to G. E. Moore”, in Notebooks 1914-1916
Yet their three brothers killed themselves. Credit DAVID HUGHES. The family of Karl Wittgenstein, who was one of Austria’s richest men when he died, in 1913, may deserve some gloomy sort of prize, the Palm of Atreus, perhaps. His youngest child, the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, once asked a pupil if he had ever had any tragedies in his life. 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 's father was Karl Wittgenstein who was Jewish while his mother was a Roman Catholic. Ludwig was baptised into the Catholic Church. During these four years of active service Wittgenstein had written his great work in logic, the Tractatus, and the manuscript was found in his rucksack when he was taken prisoner. He was allowed to send the manuscript to Russell while he was held in a prison camp in Italy.
Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889—1951). Ludwig Wittgenstein is one of the most influential philosophers of the twentieth century, and regarded by some as the most important since Immanuel Kant. His early work was influenced by that of Arthur Schopenhauer and, especially, by his teacher Bertrand Russell and by Gottlob Frege, who became something of a friend. Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein, born on April 26th 1889 in Vienna, Austria, was a charismatic enigma. He has been something of a cult figure but shunned publicity and even built an isolated hut in Norway to live in complete seclusion.
In 1920 Wittgenstein, now divorced from philosophy (having, to his mind, solved all philosophical problems in the Tractatus), gave away his part of his family's fortune and pursued several ‘professions’ (gardener, teacher, architect, etc.) in and around Vienna. 1 Ludwig Wittgenstein and the Vienna Circle: Conversations Recorded by Friedrich Waismann (VC) , 1979, B. F. McGuinness (ed.), Oxford: Blackwell. 2  Notebooks 1914-1916, 1961, G. H. von Wright and G. E. M. Anscombe (eds.), Oxford: Blackwell. “ 3 Notes Dictated to G. E. Moore”, in Notebooks 1914-1916
Wittgenstein, though, said that it was what is not in the Tractatus that matters most. The other group of philosophers most obviously indebted to Wittgenstein is the ordinary language or Oxford school of thought. These thinkers were more interested in Wittgenstein's later work and its attention to grammar. Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein, born on April 26th 1889 in Vienna, Austria, was a charismatic enigma. He has been something of a cult figure but shunned publicity and even built an isolated hut in Norway to live in complete seclusion.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Ludwig Wittgenstein was an Austrian philosopher who lived from 1889 to 1951 and is considered to have been the greatest philosopher of the 20 th century. He was the resident professor of philosophy at Cambridge University in England from 1939 to 1947. 