Adderall is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant that is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. According to the prescribing information, the most common side effects of Adderall are loss of appetite, insomnia, weight loss, abdominal pain, mood changes, and vomiting. Strattera is indicated to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Common side effects of Strattera include decreased appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, dry mouth, trouble sleeping and headache. Talk to your doctor about an alternative option and a cheaper medication for the Adderall.
A: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is currently treated with stimulant drugs and the no stimulant Strattera (atomoxetine). Stimulant medications include Ritalin, Concerta, Daytrana (methylphenidate), Detroamphetamine-amphetamine (Adderall) and Dexedrine (dextroamphetamine). Strattera is indicated to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Common side effects of Strattera include decreased appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, dry mouth, trouble sleeping and headache. Talk to your doctor about an alternative option and a cheaper medication for the Adderall.
Uses. This combination medication is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as part of a total treatment plan, including psychological, social, and other treatments. It may help to increase the ability to pay attention, concentrate, stay focused, and stop fidgeting. 
Adderall is a mixture of four different amphetamine salts-Dextroamphetamine Saccharate, Amphetamine Aspartate, Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, and Amphetamine Sulfate-that is used to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Treating ADHD with Adderall was approved by the FDA in 1996. Tablets are taken orally once or twice a day. Adderall comes tablets of 5mg, 10mg, 20mg and 30mg. Some patients feel that Adderall has less of a drop-off effect than Ritalin, which means fewer side effects as the medication wears off. Also, a dose of Adderall is typically longer lasting than a dose of Ritalin.
Adderall is a drug used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Advertisement. Adderall ® (amphetamine and dextroamphetamine) is a prescription medication that is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is also used to treat narcolepsy. It is a stimulant, but when used at the doses for ADHD, it has a calming effect
DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). 
As with any medication, there are potential side effects, including a loss of appetite, dry mouth, and insomnia. Advertisement. Adderall ® (amphetamine and dextroamphetamine) is a prescription medication that is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is also used to treat narcolepsy. It is a stimulant, but when used at the doses for ADHD, it has a calming effect
A: Adderall (amphetamine/dextroamphetamine) is a medication that is used to treat ADD/ADHD or narcolepsy. It is in the class of medications that are considered stimulants and although it goes against the way you would think a stimulant would work, it calms down the patient with ADD/ADHD. Strattera is indicated to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Common side effects of Strattera include decreased appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, dry mouth, trouble sleeping and headache. Talk to your doctor about an alternative option and a cheaper medication for the Adderall.
Adderall is used to treat narcolepsy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). ADHD is a neurological condition related to the brain's chemistry and anatomy. ADHD manifests itself as a persistent pattern of inattention or hyperactivity/impulsivity. Strattera is indicated to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Common side effects of Strattera include decreased appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, dry mouth, trouble sleeping and headache. Talk to your doctor about an alternative option and a cheaper medication for the Adderall.
Print. Adderall is a brand-name prescription stimulant medication used to treat inattention, hyperactivity, impulsivity, and other symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), including lack of focus, disorganization, forgetfulness, fidgeting, excessive talking, or frequent interrupting. 