Create a new page template. Click Add Page to create a new, blank page. Click View Paper Size. In the Paper Size task pane, set the paper size and print margins. Add any content that you want to appear in the template. Every new page that you create using this template will have this information on it. Customize a page template. Click Insert Page Templates Page Templates. In the Templates task pane, click the small arrows next to the category names to expand them. Click the name of the template you want to customize. The template will be applied to a new, blank page. On the ribbon, click View Paper Size. In the Paper Size task pane, set the paper size and print margins
Create a new template. In addition to the templates that OneNote provides, you can format a page in your notebook the way you want, and then save it as a new template. On the File menu, point to New, and then click Page. Note You can also create a new page by clicking New Page above the page tabs. On the File menu, click Page Setup, and then in the Page Setup task pane, set any options you want. Add any content to the page that you want to appear whenever new pages are created based on your custom template. In the Templates task pane, Under Add a page, click a category, and then click the name of the template you want to modify. On the File menu, click Page Setup, and then in the Page Setup task pane, change any options you want.
You can create a new page from those templates by manually selecting it but this is not a very practical solution in situation where you want to use a particular Template in the complete Section of your OneNote Notebook. Today I will show you how to set a template as default for a section of your Notebook. First open up your OneNote application from your start menu and navigate to your desired section. In my case, I have selected the Section “Extra” of my Notebook. Now click on the arrow pointing downward, near the “New Page” option. You can manually apply various Templates to your new OneNote pages, but if you want to set a particular template as a default template for any section of your Notebook then this article is for you. Templates can convert your Dull Looking OneNote notebook to a very Good Looking personal Journal
Create or customize page templates. In Microsoft Office OneNote 2007, you can use templates to apply a uniform page layout and design for the pages in your notebook. Page templates can enhance the appearance of your notes through consistent use of color, background images, and text formatting. In the Templates task pane, Under Add a page, click a category, and then click the name of the template you want to modify. On the File menu, click Page Setup, and then in the Page Setup task pane, change any options you want.
This article will explain how to set up such a template, either for printing on preprinted letterhead or to print the letterhead along with the letter. Important Note: This article was written for Word 2007 and above versions that use the Ribbon. 
Applying a template is simple and intuitive, just select the template you want from the Templates list and click on it. If you don't like that one, just select another. NOTE: Once you've typed some text on the page if you try to change to a different template OneNote will create a new page with the different template. Not in the traditional way, but the way WE do it is to create a section and set up or template in that section. We even name the section New Client Template. We create all of the pages we need (we have 6, currently) in there and set them up the way we like it.
OneNote is the kind of application that seems ripe for templates and there IS some capability to create templates-standardized notes pages-within OneNote. It's not obvious how to get to the Page Templates feature. You have to click the New Page drop down above the page list and select Page Templates. Not in the traditional way, but the way WE do it is to create a section and set up or template in that section. We even name the section New Client Template. We create all of the pages we need (we have 6, currently) in there and set them up the way we like it.