The resulting bagel is puffy with a moist crust, while the Montreal bagel is smaller (though with a larger hole), crunchier, and sweeter. There is also a belief that New York bagel are the best due to the quality of the local water. Contrary to some beliefs, the bagel was not created in the shape of a stirrup to commemorate the victory of Poland's King John III Sobieski over the Ottoman Turks in the Battle of Vienna in 1683.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There are no equivalent words for bagel and ketchup in French. You could correctly say bagel and ketchup even in French. An alternative could be petit pain (literally means little bread/bun but that is not quite the same thing as a bagel. p.s. · just now. Report Abuse. There's no translation or words in french for Bagel and Ketchup, we say bagel et ketchup Et pour la prononciation, on dis BAGEL the a is prenounced like when you screem aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa...
1 Wholemeal, ciabatta, bagels, pitta bread or tortilla wraps will be a welcome change. 2  They eat a nang, flat bread shaped like a bagel or pancake and made with wheat or corn flour. 3  Bagel Palace is to bagels what Cindarella's castle in Disney is to Buckingham Palace in England. 
Though the origins of bagels are somewhat obscure, it is known that they were widely consumed in East European Jewish communities from the 17th century. The first known mention of the bagel, in 1610, was in Jewish community ordinances in Krakow, Kraków. poland Contrary to some beliefs, the bagel was not created in the shape of a stirrup to commemorate the victory of Poland's King John III Sobieski over the Ottoman Turks in the Battle of Vienna in 1683.
A bagel (Yiddish: בײגל beygl ‎, Polish: bajgiel), also spelled beigel, is a bread product originating in Poland, traditionally shaped by hand into the form of a ring from yeasted wheat dough, roughly hand-sized, which is first boiled for a short time in water and then baked. Contrary to some beliefs, the bagel was not created in the shape of a stirrup to commemorate the victory of Poland's King John III Sobieski over the Ottoman Turks in the Battle of Vienna in 1683.
Bagel in French is petit pain en croissant. Edit. Share to: 1  A Recipe for Low Calorie Bagels Bagels are great for breakfast. 2  They are portable and delicious, and they can be made with both sweet and savory ingredients. 3  Unfortunately, bagels aren't perfect. A bagel is extremely high in them though, and one bagel is similar in portion size to five servings of bread. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Notyouraveragedummy ...
The Montreal bagel, (sometimes beigel; Yiddish בײגל beygl), is a distinctive variety of handmade and wood-fired baked bagel. In contrast to the New York-style bagel, the Montreal bagel is smaller, thinner, sweeter and denser, with a larger hole, and is always baked in a wood-fired oven. It contains malt, egg, and no salt and is boiled in honey-sweetened water before being baked. Montreal-style bagels are, for the most part, manufactured by the same method used to produce a generic bagel. The Montreal-style method of making bagels builds on the basic traditional method in the following ways: 1  The bagel dough includes egg and honey
1 Once bagels have rested, use a slotted spoon to lower a few bagels at a time into simmering water. 2  Allow bagels to float to top. 3  Leave bagels in water 1 to 2 minutes, then flip over and leave in water another 1 to 2 minutes (the longer they stay in the water, the chewier they become). 