If children are not tall enough for proper belt fit, they must ride in a booster or child safety seat.  Everyone in the car must be properly buckled up. For each child under 16 who is not properly secured, parents (if in the car) or drivers can be fined more than $500 and get a point on their driving records. Most kids need to ride in a booster seat until age 10 to 12. Using a booster instead of just a belt prevents 45% of crash injuries. A child in a rear-facing safety seat may not ride in front if there is an active passenger air bag. (V.C. 27360.5) Children age 8 or more may use the vehicle safety belt if it fits properly with the lap belt low on the hips, touching the upper thighs, and the shoulder belt crossing the center of the chest.
1 A study of five states that increased the age requirement to 7 or 8 years for car seat/booster seat use found that the rate of children using car seats and booster seats increased nearly three times and the rate of children who sustained fatal or incapacitating injuries decreased by 17%. 12. Buckling children in age-and size-appropriate car seats, booster seats, and seat belts reduces the risk of serious and fatal injuries: 1  2. 2  Booster seat use reduces the risk for serious injury by 45% for children aged 4–8 years when compared with seat belt use alone.
A — Children must ride in a properly secured child restraint system (safety seat, booster, or other certified product, such as a crash-tested car bed or harness) until they are at least 8 years old. Exceptions: A child under age 8 who is at least 4'9 may be transported in a safety belt if it is used properly. A — Children are required to ride in the back seat until they are at least 8 years old. Exceptions: No forward-facing rear seat in vehicle; child restraint cannot be properly installed in rear seat; all rear seats are occupied by other children age 7 or under; medical reasons.
1 Children less than 4 years old or 40 pounds must use a child safety seat meeting federal motor vehicle safety standards. 2  Children less than 8 years old, unless they are at least 4 feet, 9 inches tall must use a booster seat. 3  Children ages 8-15 must use a child safety seat or safety belt. As of Oct. 7, 2009, Ohio’s children are required to use belt-positioning booster seats once they outgrow their child safety seats until they are 8 years old, unless they are at least 4 feet, 9 inches (57 inches) tall. Ohio’s child passenger safety law requires the following: 1  Children less than 4 years old or 40 pounds must use a child safety seat meeting federal motor vehicle safety standards. 2  Children less than 8 years old, unless they are at least 4 feet, 9 inches tall must use a booster sea
1 If there is not a back seat in the vehicle (e.g., a truck) or if other restrained children are in the back seat, Georgia law permits a child under the age of 8 to sit in front if restrained in the proper car seat or booster and the child weighs at least 40 pounds. 
1 Anyone 14 and over not wearing a seat belt, is responsible for themselves. 2  Children under 12 and also under 135cm tall must use the appropriate child restraint for their weight (not age) when travelling in the front or back seat of any car, van or goods vehicle. 1 Children under 12 and also under 135cm tall must use the appropriate child restraint for their weight (not age) when travelling in the front or back seat of any car, van or goods vehicle.