Although the name implies otherwise, the Oyster bracelet should not be confused with the Oyster case. Day-Date White Gold. PRESIDENT BRACELET: A new watch model, the Day-Date, was introduced by Rolex in 1956, which included the brand new President Bracelet. Available only in 18 karat gold or platinum, the President bracelet replaced the Jubilee bracelet as the tip of Rolex’s uber-class pyramid.
1 Stainless Steel: Physically – the non precious metal material used to make the case and bracelet of Rolex watches. 2  Generally – the term used to indicate that a watch contains no gold in it. 3  Diamond Dial: Generic term referring to any dial that has diamond hour markers instead of index or other type of standard markers.
To check the price and availabilty of a Bracelet for your Rolex watch please use the form below:- Rolex Enquiry Form For more information on Rolex model numbers Serial numbers and the Rolex brand, please follow the link below:- Useful Rolex Information.
A specific metal watch bracelet may be designated as Rolex®- Omega®- or Breitling®-replacement watch band. This is an aftermarket replacement watch band that may be worn on other watches, too.
Genuine Rolex Bracelets. Rolex Watch Bracelets. A full range of genuine Rolex Bracelets are available for Rolex, Rolex Cellini & Rolex Tudor watches on request. There are just too many types, sizes and varitions to display here on this site. On enquiring about Genuine Rolex bracelets it is helpful if you can supply the following information:-.
The most popular Rolex models are the gold and stainless steel Datejust, the Rolex Submariner -- which can withstand diving depths of up to 1000 feet -- and the Rolex Explorer, which was used in 1953 on the Expedition to reach the summit of Mt. Everest.
In 2000 Rolex revamped the model with a significantly heavier gold bracelet and solid milled buckle, the 118238 currently retails at $31,350. Bowing to pressure to release larger watches, Rolex introduced the Day-Date II in 2008 with a massive 41mm case and a retail of $34,850.