European Salary Survey 3rd Edition 3 Foreword The European Salary Survey was conducted for the first time by Deloitte Belgium in the autumn of 2010. The survey featured a comparison of actual salary costs and the associated net pay levels in Belgium and 10 other European countries. European Salary Survey 3rd Edition 35 Italian state residents also have to pay tax on their foreign financial assets at 0.1%, while property located in Italy is subject to tax varying from 0.4% to 0.76%, depending on where the property is located.
Given the high performance of its students and its teacher salaries, which, at $60,174 for a mid-career lower secondary school teacher far outpace the OECD average of $41,701, there is still a teacher shortage in the Netherlands due primarily to the aging teacher workforce and the decline of the student population. For a beginning teacher, this salary is roughly compatible with the Netherlands’ GDP per capita (.95), and at the top of the pay scale a teacher can make 1.65 times the GDP per capita, meaning teacher salaries are quite competitive.
The Netherlands boasts the 3rd highest minimum salary in Europe (behind Belgium and Luxemburg). In 2013 the minimum salary for employees aged between 23 and 65 was €1469.40 (gross). Taxes. Although salaries are relatively high in the Netherlands, income tax levels are correspondingly high. According to the Dutch office for Statistics, a young individual just starting out on his or her professional career can expect to earn an average of around €1900 per month. This salary level will gradually increase until it reaches its peak when the employee is in his or her 50's.
(Source: Statistics Netherlands, % July 2012). Another way to discover information about salaries in your industry is to ask other industry employees about pay scales. You could also visit Payscale.com-the largest database of individual compensation profiles in the world. According to the Dutch office for Statistics, a young individual just starting out on his or her professional career can expect to earn an average of around €1900 per month. This salary level will gradually increase until it reaches its peak when the employee is in his or her 50's.
The average salary for basketball player in Netherlands depends on  how many years they have been in the league. Good players make $10  million to $15 million per year, 2 people found this useful. Salary.com reports a higher median average  salary: $31,921. This salary is just the estimate for Pharmacy  Technician 1 (Level 1) and may increase depending on experience,  jurisdiction and demand for transcriptionists in the area. 1 person
Level of salary in Denmark. Compared to other countries the direct salary in Denmark is high. After the subtraction of social contribution, labour marked contribution, the Danish salary level equals the salary level in other European countries like Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands. Subscribe to our newsletter and/or homeservice.
Dutch people earn USD 47 590 per year on average, more than the OECD average of USD 36 118. Not everyone earns that amount however. In all OECD countries, men still earn more than women, with an average wage gap of 15.5%. In the Netherlands, men earn 20.5% more than women. Money, while it cannot buy happiness, is an important means to achieving higher living standards. In the Netherlands, the average household net-adjusted disposable income per capita is USD 27 888 a year, more than the OECD average of USD 25 908 a year.
A few countries (Austria, The Netherlands, Israel, Switzerland and Luxembourg) offered avarage salaries in line with the U.S. considering the cost of living. Other countries outside the EU (Australia, India, Japan) all have average higher remuneration than the EU-25 area considering the cost of living. Sweden was the country with the highest autonomy (1), and The Netherlands (0.2), Denmark (0.5) and the UK (0.8) are located in between. The total for the ten European was 0.3 (Bruegel, 2007: 5). Another issue is salary dispersion
According to the Dutch bureau of statistics the highest salaries are earned in the mining industry, electrical and gas supply, and financial institutions. The lowest average monthly salaries are paid in the sectors: accommodation and food serving, agriculture, renting and other business support. According to the Dutch office for Statistics, a young individual just starting out on his or her professional career can expect to earn an average of around €1900 per month. This salary level will gradually increase until it reaches its peak when the employee is in his or her 50's.