A data summary of the information (called a message digest) is created through the use of a hash function (called the Secure Hash Standard, or SHS, and specified in FIPS 180). The data summary is used in conjunction with the DSA algorithm to create the digital signature that is sent with the message. A digital signature (not to be confused with a digital certificate) is a mathematical technique used to validate the authenticity... See complete definition. PKI (public key infrastructure). A public key infrastructure (PKI) supports the distribution and identification of public encryption keys, enabling users and ...
To create a digital signature, signing software (such as an email program) creates a one-way hash of the electronic data to be signed. The private key is then used to encrypt the hash. The encrypted hash -- along with other information, such as the hashing algorithm -- is the digital signature. A digital signature (not to be confused with a digital certificate) is a mathematical technique used to validate the authenticity and integrity of a message, software or digital document. Download this guide to become a Web App Security superhero.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) is a Federal Information Processing Standard for digital signatures. It was proposed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in August 1991 for use in their Digital Signature Standard (DSS) and adopted as FIPS 186 in 1993.
Adobe Acrobat supports a range of solutions for electronic and digital signatures. These solutions include certificate signatures that let you sign PDF files with a certificate-based digital ID. Certificate signatures are also known as digital signatures. Acrobat lets you create your own certificate ID. 
A digital signature can be used with any kind of message -- whether it is encrypted or not -- simply so the receiver can be sure of the sender's identity and that the message arrived intact. A digital signature (not to be confused with a digital certificate) is a mathematical technique used to validate the authenticity and integrity of a message, software or digital document. Download this guide to become a Web App Security superhero.
A digital signature is a mathematical scheme for demonstrating the authenticity of a digital message or documents. Digital signatures are often used to implement electronic signatures, a broader term that refers to any electronic data that carries the intent of a signature, but not all electronic signatures use digital signatures.
A digital certificate, an electronic document that contains the digital signature of the certificate-issuing authority, binds together a public key with an identity and can be used to verify a public key belongs to a particular person or entity. A digital signature (not to be confused with a digital certificate) is a mathematical technique used to validate the authenticity and integrity of a message, software or digital document. Download this guide to become a Web App Security superhero.
vs. CRYPTOCARD BlackShield. Digital Signature Standard (DSS) is the digital signature algorithm (DSA) developed by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) to generate a digital signature for the authentication of electronic documents. A digital signature (not to be confused with a digital certificate) is a mathematical technique used to validate the authenticity... See complete definition. PKI (public key infrastructure). A public key infrastructure (PKI) supports the distribution and identification of public encryption keys, enabling users and ...