Koru is the Maori symbol for an unfurling fern frond and a term meaning a renewal or rejuvenation. The Maoris are the indigenous population of New Zealand, a country we feel a strong connection with due to a shared love and appreciation of the outdoors. 
Friedensreich Hundertwasser based his koru flag for New Zealand on the symbol, and it also formed the basis for a notable series of artworks by Gordon Walters. The koru swirls are also reminiscent of the Tomoe symbol in Japan. The New Zealand national korfball team is nicknamed The Korus. Koru can also refer to bone carvings. Those generally take the shape of the uncurling fern frond. When bone is worn on the skin, it changes colour as oil is absorbed. Māori took this to symbolise that the spirit of the person was inhabiting the pendant.
Te Koru. The koru is a symbol used widely and intensively within Maori art. The Koru is represented in the oldest Maori artworks that have been persevered and plays an important part in Maori symbolism and art to this very day. It is a representation of the unfurling fern frond as it begins its journey into the world. It is a symbol of new life and new beginnings and all that surrounds these stages of life. Personal growth, harmony and awareness are also virtues of the Koru. To be in harmony with life is to understand, grow and change.
The koru, which is used in Maori art as a symbol of creation, is based on the shape of an unfurling fern frond. It reaches towards the light, striving for perfection, encouraging new positive beginnings. The koru therefore represents the unfolding of new life, that everything is reborn and continues. 
The koru, which is often used in Māori art as a symbol of creation, is based on the shape of an unfurling fern frond. Its circular shape conveys the idea of perpetual movement, and its inward coil suggests a return to the point of origin. 
The koru is a spiral shape based on the shape of a new unfurling silver fern frond and symbolizing new life, growth, strength and peace. It is an integral symbol in Māori art, carving and tattoos. 
The best known and widely used Maori art motifs are the koru and the spiral. The koru is basically a stalk with a bulb at one end. No one knows how it was first invented or who elaborated this versatile element of pattern. Koru-like motifs are present in the arts of ancient Asia, notably in the areas of Southern China and South-east Asia. They abound in the tribal arts of Melanesia.
They were skilled in wood, bone and jade carving and incorporated the Koru (the unfolding fern leaf) in their art as a symbol of new life, growth, strength and peace. It is recognizable in all Maori art forms, including tattoos on both men and women, and has become a symbol used by artists all over the world. 
The koru (Māori for loop) is a spiral shape based on the shape of a new unfurling silver fern frond and symbolizing new life, growth, strength and peace. It is an integral symbol in Māori art, carving and tattoos. Koru can also refer to bone carvings. Those generally take the shape of the uncurling fern frond. When bone is worn on the skin, it changes colour as oil is absorbed. Māori took this to symbolise that the spirit of the person was inhabiting the pendant.