1 August 2: About 100,000 Iraqi troops invaded Kuwait, initiating the Gulf War. 2  The U.N. Security Council passed Resolution 661 imposing a trade embargo on Iraq in a 13-0 vote, with Cuba and Yemen abstaining. 3  August 7: The United States launched Operation Desert Shield. 1 August 8: Saddam Hussein proclaimed the annexation of Kuwait. 2  August 12: Naval blockade of Iraq begins. 3  August 28: Iraq declared Kuwait as its 19th province and renames Kuwait City as al-Kadhima. 4  September 14: United Kingdom and France announce the deployment of troops to Saudi Arabia.
The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First Gulf War, Gulf War I, Kuwait War, First Iraq War, or Iraq War before the term Iraq War became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War (also referred to in the U.S. as  Operation Iraqi Freedom ). 1 Second Gulf War: to distinguish it from the Iran–Iraq War. 2  Liberation of Kuwait (Arabic:  3 حرير الكوي 4  taḥrīr al-kuwayt) is the term used by Kuwait and most of the Coalition's Arab states including Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates.
The conflict, as know as the Gulf War, was waged by a U.N.-authorized coalition force from 34 nations led by the United States, in response to Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait. On February 28, 1991, President Bush declared suspension of offensive combat and laid out conditions for permanent cease-fire. 
General Article: The Persian Gulf War. Iraq's August 2, 1990 invasion of Kuwait sent shockwaves around the world. Not only were the oil-rich states of the Persian Gulf important to the world economy. President George H.W. Bush also saw the invasion as a direct threat to the international system. 
Tweet. The Gulf War, also known as Operation Desert Storm or the First Gulf War, was a U.N.-authorized coalition campaign led by the United States in reponse to Saddam Hussein's invasion and annexation of neighboring Kuwait. 
The 1991 Persian Gulf War was a conflict between Iraq and a coalition force of 34 nations mandated by the United Nations and led by the United States.The lead up to the war began with the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990 which was met with immediate economic sanctions by the United Nations against Iraq. 
Persian Gulf Wars, two conflicts involving Iraq and U.S.-led coalitions in the late 20th and early 21st cent. The First Persian Gulf War, also known as the. Jan.–Feb., 1991, was an armed conflict between Iraq and a coalition of 39 nations including the United States, Britain, Egypt, France, and Saudi Arabia; 28 nations contributed troops. 
Operation Desert Storm, popularly known as the first Gulf War, was the successful U.S.-Allied response to Iraq's attempt to overwhelm neighboring Kuwait. Kuwait's liberation in 1991 brought to the battlefield a new era of military technology. 
The Gulf War was a conflict between Iraq and a  coalition force led by the United States to liberate Kuwait. It  took place from 2 August 1990 until 28 February 1991. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Some historians consider the Iran-Iraq War of the 1970's thru the 1980's to be the 1st Gulf War. If the 2nd Gulf War is Desert Storm, then it began on Jan 15, 1991 when Iraq failed to leave Kuwait.