The Monocots. The Monocotyledonae comprise one-quarter of all flowering plant species. They include some of the largest and most familiar groups of plants, including lilies, orchids, agaves, palms, and grasses.
Suggested Citation Calflora: Information on California plants for education, research and conservation, with data contributed by public and private institutions and individuals, including the Consortium of California Herbaria. 
Cortaderia selloana, commonly known as pampas grass, is a flowering plant native to southern South America, including the Pampas after which it is named. It is a tall grass, growing in dense tussocks that can reach a height of 3 m (10 ft). The leaves are long and slender, 1–2 m (3 ft 3 in–6 ft 7 in) long, and 1 cm broad, with very sharp edges. The leaves are usually bluish-green, but can be silvery grey. The feathery flower head plumes, when dried, are widely used in flower arrangements and other ornamental displays. Several cultivars are available, including: ' 1 Albolineata' — a small cultivar which grows to only 2 m (6.6 ft) in height: The leaves are variegated, with yellow edges.
Uruguayan pampasgrass. pampas grass. silver pampas grass. This plant can be weedy or invasive according to the authoritative sources noted below.This plant may be known by one or more common names in different places, and some are listed above. Click on an acronym to view each weed list, or click here for a composite list of Weeds of the U.S. 
Economically, monocots are perhaps the most important organisms on earth. Our four most important foods -- corn, rice, wheat, and barley -- all come from monocots. Bamboo and palms are a primary source of building materials and fibers in many tropical countries. Sugar cane, pineapples, dates, bananas, and many of our familiar tropical fruits also come from monocots. The Monocotyledonae comprise one-quarter of all flowering plant species. They include some of the largest and most familiar groups of plants, including lilies, orchids, agaves, palms, and grasses.
Anatomy. Monocot seed: a-Seedcoat, b-Endosperm, c-Cotyledon, d-Embryo. What seperates a monocot and a dicot is the number of cotyledons the plant has when it first breaks the surface. Monocots only have one, while dicots have two. 1  Flowers: Monocots usually have three to six petals. 2  Pollen: Monocot's pollen usually have one pore in the outer layer. 3  Stems: Monocots have vascular systems that are in long strands that are as far away from the center as possible. 
The leaves, or blades, are what gives a lawn its lush look. Grass belongs to the Poaceae plant family, which includes many familiar species such as Pampas grass (Cortaderia Stapf), crabgrass (Digitaria Haller) and lawn grasses such as Zoysia Willd and fescue (Festuca). Other types of stems grow out from the base of the main grass plant and form stolons, or runners, that grow outward across the top of the soil. Rhizomes also originate at the base but grow horizontally beneath the soil.
Grass Anatomy: Roots & Stems. A grass plant is composed of a root, a stem, leaves and a seed head. The root is fibrous, or composed of many small roots that move out in all directions. The stem, or culm, starts out a single section but develops nodes and internodes that segment it along its length. Other types of stems grow out from the base of the main grass plant and form stolons, or runners, that grow outward across the top of the soil. Rhizomes also originate at the base but grow horizontally beneath the soil.
The Plants Database includes the following 5 species of Cortaderia. Click below on a thumbnail map or name for species profiles. 