Granger movement. Granger movement, American agrarian movement taking its name from the National Grange of the Patrons of Husbandry, an organization founded in 1867 by Oliver H. Kelley and six associates. Its local units were called granges and its members grangers. 
Grange Laws. The Granger laws were a series of laws passed in western states of the United States after the American Civil War to regulate grain elevator and railroad freight rates and rebates and to address long-and short-haul discrimination and other railroad abuses against farmers.
Granger Laws. The Granger laws were a series of laws passed in western states of the United States after the American Civil War to regulate grain elevator and railroad freight rates and rebates and to address long-and short-haul discrimination and other railroad abuses against farmers.
The Granger Laws were a series of laws passed in several midwestern states of the United States, namely Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois, in the late 1860s and early 1870s. The Granger Laws were promoted primarily by a group of farmers known as The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry. Despite the highest proportion of its members being in Kansas and Nebraska, the Grange were most effective in Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, where the Granger laws were eventually passed. The two Granger laws that became the best-known were those passed in Illinois and Wisconsin
· just now. Report Abuse. The Granger laws were a series of laws passed in Southern states of the United States after the American Civil War to regulate grain, railroad freight rates and to address long-and short-haul discrimination. Best Answer: The Granger Movement was begun in the late 1860s by farmers who called for government regulation of railroads and other industries whose prices and practices, they claimed, were monopolistic and unfair.
Marquette Law Review Volume 54Issue 2 Spring 1971 Article 10 Railroads and the Granger Laws Robert F. Boden Follow this and additional works at:http://scholarship.law.marquette.edu/mulrPart of theLaw Commons This Article is brought to you for free and open access by the Journals at Marquette Law Scholarly Commons. Repository Citation Robert F. Boden, Railroads and the Granger Laws, 54 Marq. L. Rev. 251 (1971).Available at: http://scholarship.law.marquette.edu/mulr/vol54/iss2/10.
In 1876 and 1877, these legal issues came before the Supreme Court, in the so-called Granger Cases. In 1877 the Court ruled in favor of the states' regulatory power and against the corporations. The Court held that railroads were no ordinary business. The Grangers were established in 1867. Within a few years, there were Grangers in almost every state, with a total membership exceeding three-quarters of a million [74] . Throughout the West and South, Grangers placed representatives in office.
The Granger Laws. From 1869 to 1875, a series of laws was enacted in the Granger states, establishing public regulation of railroad rates and operating practices. The railroads, appalled by this development, immediately started lawsuits against these commission-enforced rates. The Grangers were established in 1867. Within a few years, there were Grangers in almost every state, with a total membership exceeding three-quarters of a million [74] . Throughout the West and South, Grangers placed representatives in office.
From 1869 to 1875, a series of laws was enacted in the Granger states, establishing public regulation of railroad rates and operating practices. In 1860, the first effective public call for railroad regulation came in the Midwestern states of Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin.