The brain is composed of three parts: the brainstem, cerebellum, and cerebrum. The cerebrum is divided into four lobes: frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital. 1  The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is composed of right and left hemispheres. It performs higher functions like interpreting touch, vision and hearing, as well as speech, reasoning, emotions, learning, and fine control of movement. The cerebellum is located under the cerebrum. 
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance.
LONG-TERM MEMORY. Information is transferred from short-term memory (also known as working memory) to long-term memory through the hippocampus, so named because its shape resembles the curved tail of a seahorse (hippokampos in Greek). The reason is that long-term memory is not located in just one specific area of the brain. The hippocampus is the catalyst for long-term memory, but the actual memory traces are encoded at various places in the cortex.
Short-term vs. long-term memory. Short-term memory is the information that a person is currently thinking about or is aware of. It is also called primary or active memory. Recent events and sensory data such as sounds are stored in short-term memory. Short-term memory often encompasses events over a period anywhere from 30 seconds to several days. 
Deep inside the medial temporal lobe is the region of the brain known as the limbic system, which includes the hippocampus, the amygdala, the cingulate gyrus, the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the epithalamus, the mammillary body and other organs, many of which are of particular relevance to the processing of memory. The cerebellum plays an important role in balance, motor control, but is also involved in some cognitive functions such as attention, language, emotional functions (such as regulating fear and pleasure responses) and in the processing of procedural memories.
The brain is arguably the most important organ in the human body. It controls and coordinates actions and reactions, allows us to think and feel, and enables us to have memories and feelings-all the things that make us human. While the brain only weighs about 3 pounds, it is a highly complex organ made up of many parts. Years of scientific study of the brain have made it possible for scientists to identify the various areas of the brain and determine their specific functions.
1 The hippocampus, which is buried in the temporal lobe, is important for learning and short-term memory. 2  This part of the brain is thought to be the site where short-term memories are converted into long-term memories for storage in other brain areas. 1 It is located in the temporal lobe just in front of the hippocampus. 2  The hippocampus, which is buried in the temporal lobe, is important for learning and short-term memory. 3  This part of the brain is thought to be the site where short-term memories are converted into long-term memories for storage in other brain areas.
About 90% of all the brain s neurons are located in the cerebral cortex, mainly in the grey matter , which makes up the surface regions of the cerebral cortex, while the inner white matter consists mainly of myelinated axons, over 170,000 km of them. The cerebellum plays an important role in balance, motor control, but is also involved in some cognitive functions such as attention, language, emotional functions (such as regulating fear and pleasure responses) and in the processing of procedural memories.
Short term memory is found in the frontal lobes and the parietal lobes of the brain. The hippocampus is necessary in forming long term memory but not in the storage of it. 