Wood joinery is simply the method by which two pieces of wood are connected. In many cases, the appearance of a joint becomes at least as important as it's strength. Wood joinery encompasses everything from intricate half-blind dovetails to connections that are simply nailed, glued or screwed. How to Use Biscuit Joints. Share. Doweling as a method of joinery is simple: a few dowels are glued into matching holes in corresponding boards. The joint is clamped until the glue dries, which yields a strong, durable, classic woodworking joint. Learn how to incorporate doweling into your woodworking plans
A dado joint can be cut with a dado head in a table or radial arm saw. Sliding dovetail joints are cut using a router and a straight edge guide board. Sliding Dovetail. Splined miter. The ends, fronts and backs of boxes, as used with cabinetry construction, are joined in a variety of ways. Glued miters are sometimes used; a splined miter joint is stronger. The miters are cut, and then a dado head is used to cut slots in the joints.
http://woodandshop.com/getting-starte... Introduction to step 8 of Joshua Farnsworth's 10 Steps to Getting Started in Traditional Hand Tool Woodworking tutorial: Joinery-Learn how to cut wood joints. Learn traditional handtool woodworking for free at WoodAndShop.com. 
1. HOW TO LAYOUT WOODWORKING JOINTS. Before you can accurately cut joints to fit your wood together, you need to learn to accurately measure and layout your work pieces. My below videos will help you understand the different marking, measuring, & layout tools. HOW TO CUT DOVETAIL JOINTS (TAILS FIRST): This following video playlist shares the dovetailing techniques taught to me by Roy Underhill (Woodwright’s Shop) and Bill Anderson during a 5 day traditional woodworking class. I have tried to teach every amazing detail that Roy and Bill taught me:
8 Woodworking Joints. You can build a project with countless different joinery methods. The most basic involves two boards butted together and connected with a fastener like a screw. Or, as you advance your skills, you can test out the more complex, traditional methods like a dovetail or mortise and tenon. 
Joinery is a part of woodworking that involves joining together pieces of wood, to produce more complex items. Some wood joints employ fasteners, bindings, or adhesives, while others use only wood elements. The characteristics of wooden joints-strength, flexibility, toughness, appearance, etc. 
The eight basic types of joints are: butt, dado, rabbet, lap, dovetail, mortise and tendon, miter, and tongue and groove. The Butt Joint is an easy woodworking joint. It joins two pieces of wood by merely butting them together. The butt joint is the simplest joint to make. The end of the other piece of wood is cut to have a projection (the tenon) that matches the mortise. The tenon is placed into the mortise, projecting out from the other side of the wood. A wedge is hammered into a hole in the tenon. The wedge keeps the tenon from sliding out of
Step 4 – Cut Wood. Finally, you will be able to cut the finger joints in the pieces of wood. Position the wood in the router and clamp it into place. Start at one end of the pencil line and gradually working your way through until you have cut out the pencil lines. Step 3 – Test Cut. Undertake a test cut with some scrap pieces of wood, making use of the prepared measurements. Draw out just one tongue and groove to test that the finger joints fit. Position the wood on the table of the router and manipulate the router blade to cut out the lines.
The tails and pins interlock to form a strong 90-degree joint. Dovetail joints are technically complex and are often used to create drawer boxes for furniture. Through mortise and tenon – To form this joint, a round or square hole (called a mortise) is cut through the side of one piece of wood. The end of the other piece of wood is cut to have a projection (the tenon) that matches the mortise. The tenon is placed into the mortise, projecting out from the other side of the wood. A wedge is hammered into a hole in the tenon. The wedge keeps the tenon from sliding out of the mortise.