In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 47 in baby name popularity for girls with 4761 occurrences. It ranked 173 in popular baby names for boys with 2429 occurrences. View the Riley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Riley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Riley to other names. Variants of the name Riley include Reilley, Reilly, Ryle, Rylee, Ryleigh, Ryley, Rylie, Ryllie, Rylly. Riley falls into the flower name category
[ 2 syll. ri-ley, ril-ey ] The baby boy name Riley is also used as a girl name, with the latter form being more common. Its pronunciation is R IY Liy- †. Riley is used chiefly in the English language and it is derived from Old English origins. Riley is popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1960s. At the modest peak of its usage in 2006, 0.201% of baby boys were given the name Riley.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Riley and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Riley and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Riley is fascinating, learn more about it.
Lately adopted for girls and boys. ALSO: The name Riley is a baby boy name. The name Riley comes from the Gaelic origin. In Gaelic The meaning of the name Riley is: Valiant. OR: Riley Origin: Irish Meaning: Small Stream. Source(s): http://www.thinkbabynames.com/meaning/0/... http://www.babyhold.com/list/Gaelic_Baby...
What does Riley mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Riley is of Irish origin. The meaning of Riley is courageous, valiant. It is also of rye meadow and origin, where its meaning is . View the Riley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Riley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Riley to other names.
Riley /ri-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Riley) is pronounced RY-lee. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Riley is courageous. Variant of O'Reilly. Lately adopted for girls and boys. Riley is an unusual first name for women but a very prominent surname for all people (#210 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Riley for girls. Riley entered the list in 1990 and reached its apex rank of #38 in the U.S. in 2009, and is at #47 currently
Look up Riley in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Riley is a given name for males and females, which first appeared as Raghallach, which was originated on a man who died in the Battle of Clontarf. Its source gives its meaning as valiant. Though originally a given name, it is more popular and well known as a surname. The surname Riley is an over time translated version of Reilly. It currently is #8 in England and Wales, #9 in Northern Ireland, #15 in Scotland, #30 in Australia and New Zealand, #64 in Canada, #156 in the United States, and #198 in the Netherlands.
The name Riley is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Riley is: Irish Meaning: The name Riley is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Riley is: Surname. Gaelic Meaning: The name Riley is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Riley is: Valiant. 