1 Dynamic allocation: a network administrator reserves a range of IP addresses for DHCP, and each DHCP client on the LAN is configured to request an IP address from the DHCP server during network initialization. When a DHCP server receives a DHCPDISCOVER message from a client, which is an IP address lease request, the server reserves an IP address for the client and makes a lease offer by sending a DHCPOFFER message to the client.
SYMPTOMS. When a client and server are on different subnets and the server does not have a scope defined for its local interface, the Windows 2000-based Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server may not release an Internet Protocol (IP) address when the client sends a DCHP release message. Back to the top | Give Feedback. Expand all | Collapse all. When a client and server are on different subnets and the server does not have a scope defined for its local interface, the Windows 2000-based Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server may not release an Internet Protocol (IP) address when the client sends a DCHP release message.
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a client/server protocol that automatically provides an Internet Protocol (IP) host with its IP address and other related configuration information such as the subnet mask and default gateway. The DHCP server maintains a pool of IP addresses and leases an address to any DHCP-enabled client when it starts up on the network. Because the IP addresses are dynamic (leased) rather than static (permanently assigned), addresses no longer in use are automatically returned to the pool for reallocation.
The DHCP Release gives up the lease on the IP address that you currently have assigned. After a DHCP release, your router has no IP address from AT&T. The DHCP Renew sends another request to the AT&T DHCP server for your DHCP lease and it assigns an IP to you again. Because of the way that DHCP works, it will probably assign the same one back to you if you do it right after the DHCP release and you don't let a lot of time pass. Release does just that. It releases your IP address so that your computer doesn't have an IP address. Renew causes your router/computer etc to get an IP address again. You might get a different IP address but most likely, you will get the same address you had before. Same goes for restarting your modem
The release dhcp command starts the process to immediately release a DHCP lease for the specified interface. After the lease is released, the interface address is deconfigured. The release dhcp command does not deconfigure the ip address dhcp command specified in the configuration file for the interface. During a write memory or show running configuration file action, or if the router is rebooted, the ip address dhcp command executes to acquire a DHCP address for the interface. 
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a standardized network protocol used on Internet Protocol (IP) networks for dynamically distributing network configuration parameters, such as IP addresses for interfaces and services. When a DHCP server receives a DHCPDISCOVER message from a client, which is an IP address lease request, the server reserves an IP address for the client and makes a lease offer by sending a DHCPOFFER message to the client.
The ipconfig /release command forces a client to give up its current IP address. The IP Release command releases the hold of any IP address configuration data it has received from the DHCP server and allows that IP Address to be re-assigned to another network adapter. 
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network protocol that enables a server to automatically assign an IP address to a computer from a defined range of numbers (i.e., a scope) configured for a given network. DHCP assigns an IP address when a system is started, for example: 