Conventional Oil. Conventional oil is a mixture of mainly pentanes and heavier hydrocarbons recoverable at a well from an underground reservoir and liquid at atmospheric pressure and temperature. Unlike bitumen, conventional oil flows through a well without stimulation and through a pipeline without processing or dilution. Oil Sands. The oil sands are a thick, viscous mixture of bitumen hydrocarbons combined with water, sand, heavy metals and clay. The bitumen is separated from the oil sands through heating processes and is then upgraded into higher valued products for end-use markets.
These are known as “non conventional” hydrocarbons because, in order to extract them, special techniques are required, such as extraction by mining, appropriate processing of the rocks that contain these hydrocarbons, or procedures to decrease their viscosity, so that it is easier to extract them. However, out of all the estimated reserves, conventional oil is only a small part (approximately 0.5 x 10 12 m 3): the more consistent part (approximately 1.3 x 10 12 m 3) consists of oil with a high viscosity, that is less valuable and more difficult to extract.
In the oil and gas industry today there is a great mixture of both conventional and unconventional drilling. Finding fields that will produce a million barrels of oil per day is hard to find and does not come along very often. For example, in the Eagle Ford Shale, an underlying reservoir to the conventional sands that were being produced is in an area where there is very old production. At first, companies were only pumping small amounts of oil per day.
Global petroleum exploration is currently undergoing a strategic shift from conventional to unconventional hydrocarbon resources. Unconventional hydrocarbons in tight reservoirs show characteristics distinct from those of conventional hydrocarbon sources hosted in structural and stratigraphic traps. If there is only oil (gas) in the trap, it is called an oil (gas) pool, whereas if there are both oil and gas, it is called a petroleum pool. A conventional hydrocarbon accumulation is a three-dimensional (3D) geological entity with clear boundaries. The bulk of a pool can be described through defined parameters, e.g., seep point, altitude and area of entrapment
2. Geological characteristics of conventional hydrocarbon accumulation in a trap. Conventional hydrocarbon accumulation is the key to traditional petroleum geology and usually refers to an individual hydrocarbon accumulation in a single trap with a uniform pressure system and oil–water contact. If there is only oil (gas) in the trap, it is called an oil (gas) pool, whereas if there are both oil and gas, it is called a petroleum pool. A conventional hydrocarbon accumulation is a three-dimensional (3D) geological entity with clear boundaries. The bulk of a pool can be described through defined parameters, e.g., seep point, altitude and area of entrapmen
Other unconventional liquid hydrocarbons include production from oil sands, ultra-heavy oils, gas-to-liquids technologies, coal-to-liquids technologies, biofuel technologies, and shale oil. Unconventional natural gas can be of several types. 
Conventional oil is a category that includes crude oil-and natural gas and its condensates. Crude oil production in 2011 stood at approximately 70 million barrels per day. Unconventional oil consists of a wider variety of liquid sources including oil sands, extra heavy oil, gas to liquids and other liquids. In general conventional oil is easier and cheaper to produce than unconventional oil. However, the categories “conventional” and “unconventional” do not remain fixed, and over time, as economic and technological conditions evolve, resources hitherto considered unconventional can migrate into the conventional categor
Unconventional oil is petroleum produced or extracted using techniques other than the conventional (oil well) method. Oil industries and governments across the globe are investing in unconventional oil sources due to the increasing scarcity of conventional oil reserves. Unconventional oil consists of a wider variety of liquid sources including oil sands, extra heavy oil, gas to liquids and other liquids. In general conventional oil is easier and cheaper to produce than unconventional oil.
1 Estimated Resources of Crude oil & Natural Gas Conventional Hydrocarbon Resources The prognosticated conventional hydrocarbon resources in 15 sedimentary basins and deepwater areas of the country are of the order of 28.1 billion tonnes (oil and oil equivalent of gas). 