If you didn't turn off or deactivate iMessage before switching to a non-Apple phone, other iOS devices will still try to use iMessage to send text messages to your phone number. If you're not getting SMS or text messages from someone with an iPhone, follow these steps. If you can't send SMS or text messages to someone who used to have an iPhone, have them follow these steps. If you can’t get text messages from an iPhone. You might not get SMS or text messages that someone sends you from an iPhone because they're still being sent as iMessage. This can happen if you used iMessage on your iPhone and then transferred your SIM card or phone number to a non-Apple phone (like an Android, Windows, or BlackBerry phone)
You may need to turn off iMessage if you are now using a non-Apple phone and can't get SMS or text messages someone sends you from an iPhone. Follow the steps below to turn off iMessage. 
About iMessage and SMS/MMS. You can use iMessage or SMS/MMS on an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. If you aren’t using iMessage, you can use SMS. SMS/MMS messages are texts and photos that you send to other cell phones or iOS devices. These messages appear in green text bubbles on your device. To use SMS/MMS, you need a text-messaging plan.
Whether you are using iMessage on the iPod Touch, iPad or iPhone, you can set up multiple e-mail addresses where you'd like to receive messages. If you are using an iPhone, your phone number will be the default receive at address, with the option of adding an e-mail address to receive messages at as well. 
You can download iMessage to a Mac computer, iPod Touch, or an iPad as well. (It is similar to Samsung’s “Chaton” except it is an Apple exclusive.). Note: If your original handset was the one of devices of Apple Co. , you must deactivate “iMessage” for messages to go through to new device that is not an iPhone. 
Samsung launches an iMessage competitor. I admire a company with the nerve to go head-to-head with a giant, but Samsung’s ChatON, released on the App Store for iOS, is likely facing an uphill struggle if they think it’ll stand up next to Apple’s iMessage. For the iPhone
How to install iMessage Android. How to install iMessage Android on your device. On this page you will find a step-by-step guide. Installing iMessage Android is an easy task. Yet, some people might not know yet how to do it as it is the first time they install an application manually. For that, we have the guide here. 
The app is a multi-platform messaging service (which iMessage isn’t, so +1 to Samsung) that allows iPhone users to chat for free with Android and other smartphone users (Windows and Blackberry phone support coming soon, they say). For the iPhone. I admire a company with the nerve to go head-to-head with a giant, but Samsung’s ChatON, released on the App Store for iOS, is likely facing an uphill struggle if they think it’ll stand up next to Apple’s iMessage.