(excerpted from the audio cassette Dream Incubation: Asking for the Dreams You Want). Dream incubation is a time-honored technique dating as far back as recorded history. Simply put: it means to ask your dreams to address a certain question in your life. 
Dream Incubation. The theme of your dreams will be related to the challenges you are facing during the day. Of course, the connection between day material and dream content is messy, not matching exactly, and this makes the events in dreams seem to be disconnected from waking life. 
Dream Incubation. Dream incubation is learning to plant a seed for a specific dream topic to occur. For example, you might go to bed repeating to yourself that you'll dream about a presentation you have coming up or a vacation you just took. While somewhat similar to lucid dreaming in that problems can be solved, dream incubation is simply focusing attention on a specific issue when going to sleep. Several studies have shown this method to be successful over a period of time.
Dream incubation is a practiced technique of learning to plant a seed in the mind, in order for a specific dream topic to occur, either for recreation or to attempt to solve a problem. If you're just trying to dream about an issue or you want to dream of a person who's deceased or you haven't seen in a long time, you'd use very similar bedtime incubation suggestions as you would for problem solving: a concise verbal statement of what you want to dream about or a visual image of it to look at.
3 steps for a Successful Dream Incubation. Set your Intention. The most important part of dream incubation is setting an intention. You have to really want it. And the clearer your intention, the more likely a dream will come to answer your question or dilemma. 
Dream Incubation. To incubate a dream means to seek earnestly for a dream that responds to a special need or question. This way of approaching the best in yourself for help has been practised widely in many cultures.
Dream incubation has been used for hundreds if not thousands of years. The dreaming mind is free of all the hang-ups and creativity blockers that are often present in the waking conscious mind. You are free when asleep and dreaming to utilise the full resources of your mind's creative abilities. Resources: Dream Incubation. LUCID DREAMING: For the ultimate in dream incubation, how about doing your creative thinking WHILE DREAMING. Click the banner below to learn how to do Lucid Dreaming, control your dreams and create the most extraordinary adventures in creative thinking that you could ever imagine.
3 steps for a Successful Dream Incubation. Set your Intention. The most important part of dream incubation is setting an intention. You have to really want it. And the more clear your intention is, the more likely that a dream will come in answer to your question or dilemma. 
Dream Incubation. Dream incubation is the ability to direct your dreams by consciously intending to do so. * Incubate dreams simply for the enjoyment of it. If there's an area of your life you would like to explore, incubation can be valuable. For example, if you love traveling, you may want to explore the possibility of astral travel through incubating your dreams. * Incubate dreams to test future probabilities.
Dream incubation is like planting a seed in your unconscious for a specific dream to grow. To use dream incubation for problem-solving, clarify the specific problem or issue at hand by following these three steps: 