When Vegeta and Future Trunks train in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber together, Future Trunks believes he surpasses Vegeta in power (though he fails to see the reason why Vegeta stops increasing his maximum power at the time) by ascending further to the Super Saiyan Third Grade state like Trunks.
This is a version of Trunks from a future timeline. He has large amounts of health and Ki. He can use skills such as the Burning Attack and Heat Dome Attack.
Future Trunks Timeline. Future Trunks was born on March 3rd, 766 A.D. as the son of Vegeta and Bulma. According to Trunks, he was the result of a brief affair between the two and they never married, even though his mother loved his father.
Please try again later. The History of Trunks DBZ Movie Adapted into Live Action. FUTURE GOHAN vs. ANDROID 17 and KID TRUNKS vs. ANDROID 18 in The History of Trunks which is a 1993 Dragon Ball Z Movie based on an extra chapter of the manga series.
Background Edit. Trunks was born to Future Bulma and Future Vegeta shortly before Future Goku's death. He repeated his father's vulgar exclamations of disappointment when the latter learned of Goku's death from high cholesterol.
The future that Trunks comes from is one of the most desolate places in the Dragon World. A glimmer of hope appeared with the completion of Bulma's time machine, which gave Trunks the chance to prevent the death of Son Gokuu.
Future Trunks is the Human-Saiyan hybrid son of Vegeta and Bulma from an alternate future, and a counterpart of Trunks. Trained by the alternate timeline's Gohan, Future Trunks travels through time to seek help from Goku to prevent the Androids from ravaging the world, like they did in his dark future.
Template:Nihongo is the Saiyan and Human hybrid son of Vegeta and Bulma from the future. By the time Present Trunks was born, the timeline had been altered by Future Trunks' and Cell 's trips to the past.
In Age 784, Future Trunks travels back in time 20 years, in order to warn Goku about the android threat in the near future, as well as to deliver medication that will cure Goku of the heart virus that he is supposed to die from.