(February 2015). Alice in Wonderland (sometimes listed as Alice in Wonderland: An X-Rated Musical Comedy) is a 1976 pornographic musical film, loosely based on Lewis Carroll 's book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. It was directed by Bud Townsend and starred Terri Hall, Bree Anthony, and Kristine DeBell.
She was first portrayed in Walt Disney's 1951 animated feature by the voice talent of Katheryne Beaumont. Then portrayed as the animated Alice's real life counterpart by actress Mia Wasikowska as a more mature, grown up Alice in Disney's 2010 semi-sequel, live action/CGI film Alice and Wonderland Directed by Tim Burton.
Alice in Wonderland (sometimes listed as Alice in Wonderland: An X-Rated Musical Comedy) is a 1976 pornographic musical film, loosely based on Lewis Carroll 's book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. It was directed by Bud Townsend and starred Terri Hall, Bree Anthony, and Kristine DeBell.
Dodgson's tale was published in 1865 as Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by  Lewis Carroll  with illustrations by John Tenniel. The first print run of 2,000 was held back because Tenniel objected to the print quality.
Alice is the title character of Lewis Carroll's novel Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and its sequel Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There.
275 pages on this wiki. “Curiouser & Curiouser...!”~ Alice Alice Liddel (Known as Alice Kingsleigh in the 2010 film) is the main character from the original books Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and it's satisfying sequel, Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There by Lewis Carroll.
Alice in Wonderland is a 1951 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Productions and based on the Alice books by Lewis Carroll. The 13th of Disney's animated features, the film premiered in New York City and London on July 26, 1951.
The new edition has Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass and What Alice Found There, pieces written by Lewis Carroll and the history of its publication.