Inside the chloroplasts are stacks of discs called thylakoids. They are compared to stacks of coins within the walls of the chloroplast, and they act to trap the energy from sunlight. The stacks of thylakoids are called grana. They are connected with an extensive sytem of tubules. The thylakoid membranes contain chlorophyll and other pigments arranged in antenna arrays to capture light energy for two photosystems called Photosystem I and Photosystem II. The sketch of the chloroplast above was made from an electron micrograph of a chloroplast from a higher order plant (Levy). Plants use energy from the sun in tiny energy factories called chloroplasts.
Grana, or singular 'granum,' are stacks of thylakoids within chloroplasts. The thylakoids contain numerous integral and peripheral membrane proteins as well as chemicals important to photosynthesis. One of these important molecules is called chlorophyll, a pigment or compound that absorbs a specific wavelength of energy from sunlight to use in photosynthesis. The thylakoids are surrounded by the stroma, or the inner liquid portion of the chloroplast. Both the stroma and the thylakoids contain important molecules for photosynthesis. Thylakoids are often stacked on top of each other-they look like a stack of flapjack
Confidence votes 28. A grana is the plural of granum. A granum is a stack of thylakoids found in chloroplasts--they look like stacks of pancakes (thylakoids). Grana is multiple stacks of thylakoids found in chloroplasts in the cell. The light reaction of photosynthesis takes place in the thylakoids stacked in grana.
(3) (botany) The matrix of the chloroplast which is a thick fluid in between grana where various enzymes, molecules and ions are found, and where the dark reaction (or carbohydrate formation reactions) of photosynthesis occurs. 
In higher plants thylakoids are organized into a granum-stroma membrane assembly. A granum (plural grana) is a stack of thylakoid discs. Chloroplasts can have from 10 to 100 grana. Grana are connected by stroma thylakoids, also called intergrana thylakoids or lamellae. Grana thylakoids and stroma thylakoids can be distinguished by their different protein composition. A thylakoid is a membrane-bound compartment inside chloroplasts and cyanobacteria. They are the site of the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis. Thylakoids consist of a thylakoid membrane surrounding a thylakoid lumen. Chloroplast thylakoids frequently form stacks of disks referred to as grana (singular: granum)
Summary. You have learned that grana serve as the substrate for the light reactions of photosynthesis. You have also examined the structure of grana and the role they play in generating ATP in plant and algae cells, which can differ in their thylakoid organization. Instructor: Meredith Mikell. Grana are a necessary part of the process of photosynthesis. In this article you will learn exactly what grana are: their structure, function, and prevalence, and will test your knowledge with a short quiz.