Disk herniation is a rupture of fibrocartilagenous material (annulus fibrosis) that surrounds the intervertebral disk. This rupture involves the release of the disk's center portion containing a gelatinous substance called the nucleus pulposus. Surgery versus conservative management of sciatica due to a lumbar herniated disc: A systematic review. European Spine Journal, 20 (4), 513–22. 1  The benefits of surgical management to treat symptoms of a lumbar herniated disk have not been substantiated.
Thoracic Herniated Disc Video. A herniated disc is a condition in which the annulus fibrosus (outer portion) of the vertebral disc is torn, enabling the nucleus (inner portion) to herniate or extrude through the fibers. The herniated disc material is similar to crab meat in constitution. During surgery, generally only the disc material compressing the nerve will be removed, and most (95%) of the intervertebral disc material is left in place.
Herniated disk. A herniated disk refers to a problem with one of the rubbery cushions (disks) between the individual bones (vertebrae) that stack up to make your spine. A spinal disk is a little like a jelly donut, with a softer center encased within a tougher exterior. Sometimes called a slipped disk or a ruptured disk, a herniated disk occurs when some of the softer jelly pushes out through a crack in the tougher exterior. A herniated disk can irritate nearby nerves and result in pain, numbness or weakness in an arm or leg. On the other hand, many people experience no symptoms from a herniated disk. Most people who have a herniated disk don't need surgery to correct the problem.
The herniated material can compress the nerves around the disc and create pain that can radiate through the back and sometimes down the arms (if the herniation is in the cervical spine) and legs (if the herniation is in the lumbar spine). The herniated disc material is similar to crab meat in constitution. During surgery, generally only the disc material compressing the nerve will be removed, and most (95%) of the intervertebral disc material is left in place.
Sections. If you have been diagnosed with a disc herniation, it can be extremely helpful to know the definition of the condition. Also known as a herniated or ruptured disc, a disc herniation is a type of degenerative spine condition that can lead to neck or back pain in an otherwise healthy individual. When a disc becomes herniated, the soft, gel-like nucleus material extrudes through a tear in the disc lining and can come into contact with the spinal cord or a nerve in the spinal column.
Pain and other symptoms from a herniated disc can usually be treated successfully with medication and nonsurgical options including physical therapy, chiropractic manipulation, and injections. In some cases, a discectomy or microdiscectomy surgery can be performed on the herniated disc to decompress the nerve root. The herniated disc material is similar to crab meat in constitution. During surgery, generally only the disc material compressing the nerve will be removed, and most (95%) of the intervertebral disc material is left in place.
1 The disk may prolapse where the nucleus pulposus migrates to the outermost fibers of the annulus fibrosis. 2  There may be a disk extrusion, which is the case if the annulus fibrosis perforates and material of the nucleus moves into the epidural space. Surgery versus conservative management of sciatica due to a lumbar herniated disc: A systematic review. European Spine Journal, 20 (4), 513–22. 1  The benefits of surgical management to treat symptoms of a lumbar herniated disk have not been substantiated.
Predisposing factors associated with disk herniation include age, gender, and work environment. The peak age for occurrence of disk herniation is between 20-45 years of age. Studies have shown that males are more commonly affected than females in lumbar disk herniation by a 3:2 ratio. Surgery versus conservative management of sciatica due to a lumbar herniated disc: A systematic review. European Spine Journal, 20 (4), 513–22. 1  The benefits of surgical management to treat symptoms of a lumbar herniated disk have not been substantiated.
Herniated disc: Rupturing of the tissue that separates the vertebral bones of the spinal column. The center of the disc, which is called the nucleus, is soft, springy and receives the shock of standing, walking, running, etc. The outer ring of the disc, which is called the annulus (Latin for ring), provides structure and strength to the disc. The annulus consists of a complex series of interwoven layers of fibrous tissue that hold the nucleus in place. A herniated disc is often referred to as a slipped disc. This term came from the action of the nuclear tissue when it is forced from the center of the disc. The nuclear tissue located in the center of the disc can be placed under so much pressure that it can cause the annulus to rupture