In economics, average cost and or unit cost is equal to total cost divided by the number of goods produced (the output quantity, Q). It is also equal to the sum of average variable costs (total variable costs divided by Q) plus average fixed costs (total fixed costs divided by Q). Average costs may be dependent on the time period considered (increasing production may be expensive or impossible in the short term, for example). 
For instance, if the total fixed cost of a shoes factory is $5,000 and it produces 500 pairs of shoes, then the average fixed cost is equal to $10 per unit. If it produces 1,000 pairs of shoes, the average fixed cost is $5 and if the total output is 5,000 pairs of shoes, then the average fixed cost is $1 pair of shoe.
A fall in average fixed costs leads to a fall in marginal costs.Let's call the decrease in AFC, and therefore a decrease in marginal costs, X Average variable costs (AVC) increase as output increases. It's the one most associated with marginal cost. The average fixed cost is equal to fixed cost divided by level of output, if the output increases; the average fixed cost is less.
The logic behind this relation is relatively simple. Because fixed cost is FIXED and does not change with the quantity of output, a given cost is spread more thinly per unit as quantity increases. A thousand dollars of fixed cost averages out to $10 per unit if only 100 units are produced. The average fixed cost of two Stuffed Amigos might be a little less obvious, but not much. Click the [Two] button to reveal that the average fixed cost is $1.50, which is $3 divided by 2 Stuffed Amigos. A click of the [Three] shows that the average fixed cost of producing 3 Stuffed Amigos is $1, $3 divided by 3. The remaining average fixed cost values can be displayed by clicking the [Remaining] button
Behavior of Average Fixed Cost (AFC): The average fixed cost begins to fall with the increase in the number of units produced, In our example stated above, average fixed cost in the beginning was $10. As the output of the firm increased, it gradually came down to $1. If it produces 1,000 pairs of shoes, the average fixed cost is $5 and if the total output is 5,000 pairs of shoes, then the average fixed cost is $1 pair of shoe.
15. Average fixed cost is the easiest to describe: Average fixed cost falls as output increases. Average variable cost and average total cost are both U-shaped; that is, at first both fall, but then average variable cost rises and then, at a higher level of output, average total cost also rises. 16. 
The profit maximizing quantity of output occurs where marginal cost = marginal revenue (i.e., where the cost of producing another unit = the revenue you can get from having produced it). If fixed costs are increased, the average cost increases, but the marginal cost (cost per additional unit) is unchanged. Since neither marginal cost nor marginal revenue are affected, there will be no change in the profit maximizing quantity of output produced. kuiper · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
0 Answers/Comments. Which of the following costs remain constant as the output increases a.Marginal costb.Average variable costc.Average fixed costd.Total variable cos. Weegy: Average fixed costs remain constant as output increases.academic.udayton.edu/PMIC/.../Chap%2010%20MC.pdf (More). Question. Expert Answered.