Microangiopathy: A disease of the capillaries (very small blood vessels), in which the capillary walls become so thick and weak that they bleed, leak protein, and slow the flow of blood. For example, diabetes predisposes to the development of microangiopathy in many areas, including the eye. 
Microangiopathy (or microvascular disease, or small vessel disease) is an angiopathy (i.e.disease of blood vessels) affecting small blood vessels in the body. It can be contrasted to macroangiopathy. Age-related and hypertension-related small vessel diseases and cerebral amyloid angiopathy are the most common forms. Small vessel coronary disease is a type of coronary heart disease (CHD) that affects the heart's arterioles and capillaries.
thrombotic microangiopathy formation of thrombi in the arterioles and capillaries; proposed name for a syndrome that would include both thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and hemolytic uremic syndrome. microangiopathy. a disorder involving the small blood vessels. cerebrospinal microangiopathy. in pigs is manifested by depression, incoordination, aimless wandering, circling and wasting. The characteristic microangiopathy is not restricted to the nervous system.
Examples are diabetic microangiopathy, in which the basement membrane of capillaries thickens, and thrombotic microangiopathy, in which thrombi form in the arterioles and capillaries. Any defect of very small blood vessels, usually capillaries, which is most common in diabetes, especially if poorly controlled. microangiopathy. a disorder involving the small blood vessels. cerebrospinal microangiopathy. in pigs is manifested by depression, incoordination, aimless wandering, circling and wasting. The characteristic microangiopathy is not restricted to the nervous system.
Disease found within the body's small blood vessels is called microangiopathy. Microangiopathy is commonly found in diabetes patients, and may lead to amputation of the foot. Diabetics should inspect all parts of the legs and feet for sores or wounds on a regular basis. People who have had a stroke may have difficulty walking.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Diabetic microangiopathy? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Diabetic microangiopathy. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Diabetic microangiopathy returned 108 matches.
Thrombotic microangiopathy, abbreviated TMA, is a pathology that results in thrombosis in capillaries and arterioles, due to an endothelial injury. It may be seen in association with thrombocytopenia, anemia, purpura and renal failure. Bacterial toxins are the primary cause of one category of thrombotic microangiopathy known as HUS or hemolytic uremic syndrome. HUS can be divided into two main categories: Shiga-toxin-associated HUS (STx-HUS), which normally presents with diarrhea, and atypical HUS.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Microangiopathy is a disease in the small blood vessels of the body, in contrast with another form of angiopathy, macroangiopathy, which involves the large blood vessels. There are a number of types of this condition and a range of reasons for people to develop it. Microangiopathy is commonly found in diabetes patients, and may lead to amputation of the foot. Diabetics should inspect all parts of the legs and feet for sores or wounds on a regular basis. People who have had a stroke may have difficulty walking.
microangiopathy. a disorder involving the small blood vessels. adj., adj microangiopath´ic. thrombotic microangiopathy formation of thrombi in the arterioles and capillaries; proposed name for a syndrome that would include both thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and hemolytic uremic syndrome.