Added sugars shouldn't make up more than 5% of the energy (calorie intake) you get from food and drink each day. This is about 30g of sugar a day for those aged 11 and over. Fruit juice and honey can also count as added sugars, as they're sometimes added to foods to make them sweeter. 
The World Health Organisation suggests that adults should eat no more than 50 grams of sugar (12 teaspoons) per day to avoid the risks of obesity and tooth decay. The UN body even advises that limiting ourselves to 25 grams – or 5% of our daily energy intake – would provide “additional health benefits.”. Currently, Western European adults consume an average of 101 grams of sugar per day, while in South America the figure rises to 130 grams. Sugar represents around 16-17% of an adult’s daily energy intake in the United Kingdom and Spain.
Increased sugar intake is also linked to increased risk for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. We Eat Four Times As Much Sugar As We Should! According to a 2009 study in Circulation, annual sugar intake has increased 19% from 1970 to 2005. One of the easiest ways to reduce sugar intake is to limit consumption of sweetened beverages. For example, a 12 ounce can of soda contains around 40 grams of sugar! This alone is more than the recommended amount of added sugar for the entire day according to the AHA guidelines! Juice also is a concentrated source of sugar, often containing just as much as soda
How much is 10 percent? Well, in a 2000-calorie-a-day diet, 10 percent would be equal to about 50 grams, or 10 teaspoons of sugar. Unfortunately, most Americans consume 30 to 40 teaspoons or more of refined sugar per day. Most of this sugar comes from food products to which sugar has been added, such as soda, candy and baked goods. A can of soda alone can contain around 10 teaspoons of added sugar! So in general, if you've had a can of soda, you've had as much added sugar as is healthy for the day. Naturally-occurring sugars, such as those in an apple or a glass of milk, are not included in the less-than-10-percent-a-day recommendation.
For example, the World Health Organization recommends keeping added sugar intake to 10% of total calories. For the average 2000 calorie-diet that's a maximum of 50 grams. The American Heart Association recommends 6 teaspoons of sugar for women and 9 for men (1 teaspoon of sugar has about 4g of sugar). The primary source of added sugars are soft drinks and other sugar-sweetened beverages.
Sugar Allowance. Because sugar isn’t an essential nutrient, it doesn’t have an official recommendation. However, the American Heart Association set a recommended limit, so you don’t get too many extra calories in your diet. Men shouldn't have more than 9 teaspoons daily, while women shouldn't have more than 6 teaspoons. This amounts to a max of 37.5 grams of sugar or 150 calories from sugar for men, and 25 grams of sugar or 100 calories from sugar for women. When you’re reading the nutrition facts label, you’ll see the grams of sugar clearly listed under the total carbohydrates.
Therefore, it is best to consume some carbohydrates every day. While it is possible to live on a very low-carbohydrate diet, most researchers agree that the ideal amount for health is around 40-45% of your total daily calories, or about 150 grams for the average female and 190 grams for the average male. One of the easiest ways to reduce sugar intake is to limit consumption of sweetened beverages. For example, a 12 ounce can of soda contains around 40 grams of sugar! This alone is more than the recommended amount of added sugar for the entire day according to the AHA guidelines! Juice also is a concentrated source of sugar, often containing just as much as soda
The average American consumes 3 pounds of sugar a week and 130 pounds a year, reports Forbes.com. This is equal to about 3,550 pounds of sugar in a lifetime. The consumption of added sugar accounts for an intake of 500 calories per day, which can cause a weight gain of 1 pound per week. Women should limit sugar intake to no more than 6 teaspoons per day, which provides about 100 calories. Men should limit sugar intake to no more than 9 teaspoons, or about 150 calories. In contrast, the average adult consumes 22 teaspoons per day.
Men. Limit added sugar to 150 calories (37.5 grams) a day. This is equivalent to 9 teaspoons of sugar. For reference, 1-12 oz. bottle of regular soda contains approximately 10 teaspoons of sugar. Limit your sugar to less than 6-9 teaspoons per day. Limit added sugar to 100 calories (25 grams) per day. This is equivalent to 6