Best Answer: Fish Oil is good for inflammation as it's a natural anti-inflammatory. If your joints feel stiff, then it's possible the issue is with the cartilage, tendons or ligaments. You could also have the beginnings of osteo-or rheumatoid-arthritis, although the latter is accompanied by swelling. 
Joints form the connections between bones. They provide support and help you move. Any damage to the joints from disease or injury can interfere with your movement and cause a lot of pain. Many different conditions can lead to painful joints, including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, bursitis, gout, strains, sprains, and other injuries. Joint pain is extremely common. Whatever the cause of joint pain, you can usually manage it with medication, physical therapy, or alternative treatments. Your doctor will first try to diagnose and treat the condition that is causing your joint pain.
Rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, lupus and bursitis or just fatigue can give rise to sore joints. Sore joints can also be caused by excessive use of joints, wear and tear and degeneration that gradually comes with age. The important connective tissues in this condition become inflamed or stiff causing severe pain. 1 Cod liver oil, rich in omega-3 fats,is known to have anti-inflammatory effect. 2  Ginger can relieve inflammation and pain in the affected areas. 3  Oil and stimulating, warming herbs can be used to cure sore joints. 4  Mix essential oils and massage on sore muscles to mitigate the condition.
Even short-term pain and swelling in the joints can affect your quality of life. Whatever the cause of joint pain, you can usually manage it with medication, physical therapy, or alternative treatments. Your doctor will first try to diagnose and treat the condition that is causing your joint pain.
Some of the most common home remedies for sore joints include the following. Cod liver oil Cod liver oil, rich in omega-3 fats,is known to have anti-inflammatory effect. This oil is also a rich source of both vitamin D and vitamin A. Replenishing your vitamin D levels could reduce chronic joint pain and alleviate swelling in the joints. Ginger Ginger is a natural remedy for sore joints. 1 Cod liver oil, rich in omega-3 fats,is known to have anti-inflammatory effect. 2  Ginger can relieve inflammation and pain in the affected areas. 3  Oil and stimulating, warming herbs can be used to cure sore joints. 4  Mix essential oils and massage on sore muscles to mitigate the condition.
Sore joints can cause enormous problems not just due to the pain they may cause, but also due to the loss of functionality and movement. Hence, when one experiences stiffness, pain or swelling around any particular joint, it is imperative to call upon a doctor immediately. 1 A shoulder pull is also a probable cause for a sore joint. 2  Arthritis. 3  Inflammation of one or more joints is one of the most common symptoms of arthritis. 4  Joints and surrounding bones start deteriorating with age, causing them to inflame.
1 Injury to the joints can cause soreness of joints and muscles. 2  Most joint injuries due to sports result from a ligament tear or dislocation of the knee or elbow cap. 3  Joints can become sore if the fluid-filled sacs get injured, inflamed or ruptured. 4  A shoulder pull is also a probable cause for a sore joint. 1 A shoulder pull is also a probable cause for a sore joint. 2  Arthritis. 3  Inflammation of one or more joints is one of the most common symptoms of arthritis. 4  Joints and surrounding bones start deteriorating with age, causing them to inflame.
Rheumatoid arthritis, bursitis, lupus, osteoarthritis and even just plain fatigue can give rise to sore joints. When these important connective tissues are inflamed or stiff, the pain they can cause can sideline activities and generally make life quite uncomfortable. Treating sore joints may require medical intervention to obtain a diagnosis. Some conditions, such as lupus, have the potential to be quite serious. Certain forms of arthritis are progressive. It is simply a good idea to understand the cause of repetitive motion joint pain before making an attempt to treat it.
The knees, fingers and wrists, however, are among the more common locations for sore joint issues to appear. Treating sore joints may require medical intervention to obtain a diagnosis. Some conditions, such as lupus, have the potential to be quite serious. Certain forms of arthritis are progressive. It is simply a good idea to understand the cause of repetitive motion joint pain before making an attempt to treat it.
Ice And Heat: To get rid of sore joints, ice and heat used in rotation can be useful. Ice can reduce the swelling and lessen some of the soreness. Heat can also alleviate some of the pain and get the blood flowing for easier movement. Treating sore joints may require medical intervention to obtain a diagnosis. Some conditions, such as lupus, have the potential to be quite serious. Certain forms of arthritis are progressive. It is simply a good idea to understand the cause of repetitive motion joint pain before making an attempt to treat it.