A: Lamictal (lamotrigine) is a medication that is used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder. It is used in combination with other medications to treat seizures in adults and children and it is used to delay mood episodes in patients with
Lamictal (Lamotrigine) for Bipolar Disorder. Lamictal is approved by the FDA for the maintenance treatment of adults with bipolar disorder. It has been found to help delay bouts of depression, mania, hypomania (a milder form of mania), and mixed episodes in those being treated with standard therapy.
A: Lamictal (lamotrigine) is a medication used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder. In a study of 339 patients, ranging in age from two to 16 years of age, 10 percent of patients taking the immediate-release medication for epilepsy experienced abdominal pain versus five percent taking a placebo.
A: Lamictal (lamotrigine) is an anti-seizure medicine that is used to treat bipolar disorder. According to the package insert, the most common side effects of Lamictal are headache, rash and itching, dizziness, diarrhea, and abnormal dreams. This is not a complete list of the side effects associated with Lamictal.
Lamotrigine is a medication that works in the brain to treat bipolar disorder (also known as manic depression). It is also approved for the treatment of seizure disorders. Bipolar disorder involves episodes of depression and/or mania.
A: Lamictal (lamotrigine) is used for the long-term treatment of bipolar I disorder to lengthen the time between mood episodes in people 18 years or older who have been treated for mood episodes with other medicine.
Lamotrigine is prescribed to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder. Lamotrigine (Lamictal ®) is a prescription medication used to treat seizures in people with epilepsy. It is also used as a mood stabilizer to treat
LAMICTAL is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in adults (aged 18 years and older) treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy.