In chemistry, a ketone (alkanone) /ˈkiːtoʊn/ is an organic compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of carbon-containing substituents. Ketones and aldehydes are simple compounds that contain a carbonyl group (a carbon-oxygen double bond). Ketones differ from aldehydes in that the carbonyl group (CO) is bonded to two carbons within a carbon skeleton. In aldehydes, the carbonyl is bonded to one carbon and one hydrogen and are located at the ends of carbon chains.
An aldehyde /ˈaeldɨhaɪd/ ˈældɨhaɪd or alkanal is an organic compound containing a formyl. Group the formyl group is a functional, group with the Structure-R, cho consisting of a carbonyl (center a carbon double bonded to) oxygen bonded to hydrogen and An r, group which is any generic alkyl or side. chain The formyl group is a functional group, with the structure R-CHO, consisting of a carbonyl center (a carbon double bonded to oxygen) bonded to hydrogen and an R group, which is any generic alkyl or side chain. The group without R is called the aldehyde group or formyl group. Aldehydes differ from ketones in that the carbonyl is placed at the end of a carbon skeleton rather than between two carbon atoms. Aldehydes are common in organic chemistry. Many fragrances are aldehydes.
- The carbonyl group of aldehyde is bonded to a hydrogen from one end, but in ketone, the carbonyl group is bonded to carbon atoms from both sides. - Therefore, a ketone functional group is always seen in the middle of a molecule, and aldehyde group is always at a termini. Aldehyde. Aldehydes have a carbonyl group. This carbonyl group is bonded to another carbon from one side, and from the other end, it is connected to hydrogen. Therefore, aldehydes can be characterized with the –CHO group, and following is the general formula of an aldehyde. The simplest aldehyde is formaldehyde.
Nomenclature of Aldehydes and Ketones. Aldehydes and ketones are organic compounds which incorporate a carbonyl functional group, C=O. The carbon atom of this group has two remaining bonds that may be occupied by hydrogen or alkyl or aryl substituents. If at least one of these substituents is hydrogen, the compound is an aldehyde. If neither is hydrogen, the compound is a ketone. The IUPAC system of nomenclature assigns a characteristic suffix to these classes, al to aldehydes and one to ketones. For example, H 2 C=O is methan al, more commonly called formaldehyde. Aldehydes and ketones are widespread in nature, often combined with other functional groups. Example are shown in the following diagram. The compounds in the top row are found chiefly in plants or microorganisms; those in the bottom row have animal origins.
Aldol Condensation. The aldol condensation is a reaction in which aldehydes and ketones react to form larger molecules. A new carbon-carbon bond is formed. In this generalized reaction the a-carbon of one aldehyde forms a bond with the carbonyl carbon of the other aldehyde. 
You will remember that the difference between an aldehyde and a ketone is the presence of a hydrogen atom attached to the carbon-oxygen double bond in the aldehyde. Ketones don't have that hydrogen. The presence of that hydrogen atom makes aldehydes very easy to oxidise. 
Aldehyde vs Ketone. Aldehydes and ketones are known as organic molecules with a carbonyl group. In a carbonyl group, carbon atom has a double bond to oxygen. The carbonyl carbon atom is sp 2 hybridized. So, aldehydes and ketones have a trigonal planar arrangement around the carbonyl carbon atom. Aldehyde. Aldehydes have a carbonyl group. This carbonyl group is bonded to another carbon from one side, and from the other end, it is connected to hydrogen. Therefore, aldehydes can be characterized with the –CHO group, and following is the general formula of an aldehyde. The simplest aldehyde is formaldehyde.
Aldehydes () and ketones () are both carbonyl compounds. They are organic compounds in which the carbonyl carbon is connected to C or H atoms on either side. An aldehyde has one or both vacancies of the carbonyl carbon satisfied by a H atom, while a ketone has both its vacancies satisfied by carbon. 