Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually. 1 Convergent boundaries (Destructive) (or active margins) occur where two plates slide toward each other to form either a subduction zone (one plate moving underneath the other) or a continental collision.
Where plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary; convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically varies from zero to 100 mm annually. Plate tectonics is an important theory developed in the 1960s to explain how the continents move across the Earth's surface. Early 20th century geologist Alfred Wegener realised that the puzzle-like fit of many the continents was more than a coincidence, but he couldn't correctly explain what powered their movement.
Plate Tectonics: The Mechanism. The main features of plate tectonics are: 1  The Earth's surface is covered by a series of crustal plates. 2  The ocean floors are continually moving, spreading from the center, sinking at the edges, and being regenerated. 
Effects that are found at a divergent boundary between oceanic plates include: a submarine mountain range such as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge; volcanic activity in the form of fissure eruptions; shallow earthquake activity; creation of new seafloor and a widening ocean basin. Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of divergent boundaries between continental plates. Two locations are marked within the rift valley of East Africa and another location is marked within the Red Sea.
The location where two plates meet is called a plate boundary. Plate boundaries are commonly associated with geological events such as earthquakes and the creation of topographic features such as mountains, volcanoes, mid-ocean ridges, and oceanic trenches. 1 Convergent boundaries (Destructive) (or active margins) occur where two plates slide toward each other to form either a subduction zone (one plate moving underneath the other) or a continental collision.
The friction between the subducting plate and the overriding plate is enormous. This friction prevents a slow and steady rate of subduction and instead the two plates become stuck. As the stuck plate continues to descend into the mantle the motion causes a slow distortion of the overriding plage. 
Volcanoes are associated with three types of tectonic structures: convergent plate boundaries, divergent plate boundaries and hot spots. California has all three. The SAF is a transform plate boundary (strike slip fault) and so is not accompanied by volcanic activity. A volcano is an opening in the earth's crust that allows molten rock from the mantle to flow out onto the surface as lava. Volcanoes also emit vast amounts of gas, primarily carbon dioxide, water vapor and sulfur dioxide.
Earthquakes occur when the plate boundaries get stuck together but the plates themselves keep moving. Volcanoes occur when plates crash into or pull away from each other and hot magma from below rises up to the surface in an eruption. Under the right conditions, when plates are pushed together or pulled apart, volcanoes are created, which is why they tend to occur in the same place as earthquakes. When tectonic plates spread apart from each other, hot magma rises up and fills the space between.
Earthquake occurrence in different plate tectonic settings: There are three main plate tectonic environments: extensional, transform, and compressional. Plate boundaries in different localities are subject to different inter-plate stresses, producing these three types of earthquakes. Each type has its own special hazards. 