Orthopedic surgeons operate on patients who are living with musculoskeletal problems related to trauma, accidents, sports injuries and various types of disorders. In addition to performing surgery, these specialists may perform physical examinations, review charts and conduct follow-up visits.
The physicians who specialize in this area are called orthopaedic surgeons or orthopaedic surgeons. Orthopaedic surgeons are involved in all aspects of heath care pertaining to the musculoskeletal system. They use medical, physical, and rehabilitative methods as well as surgery. Typically, as much as 50 percent of the orthopaedic surgeon's practice is devoted to no surgical or medical management of injuries or disease and 50 percent to surgical management.
Career Requirements. After completing a 4-year bachelor's degree program in biology, pre-medicine or a related field, aspiring orthopedic surgeons must complete four additional years of medical school, followed by a 4- to 5-year orthopedic surgery residency in a hospital.
Other than surgery, orthopedic surgeons may prescribe medications, physical therapy, or steroid injections to treat a variety of injuries or conditions such as arthritis of the joints, pulled muscles, and other orthopedic issues. Some careers available in orthopedics and orthopedic surgery: 1  Orthopedic Surgeon.
Orthopedic surgeons are medical doctors who specialize in treating the musculoskeletal system; they may specialize in areas such as sports medicine or hand surgery. The orthopedic surgery career path requires 8-9 years of post-baccalaureate education, along with continued maintenance of board certification.
Orthopaedics is a medical specialty that focuses on the diagnosis, care, and treatment of patients with disorders of the bones, joints, muscles, ligaments, tendons, nerves, and skin. These elements make up the musculoskeletal system.
An orthopedic surgeon is a physician (surgeon) who specializes in surgery related to the medical specialty of orthopedics. Orthopedic surgeons operate on injuries and conditions of the tendons, ligaments, bones, joints, and muscles.