In many ways, Ausralia is a land of geographical contrasts. Australia has the distinction of being the smallest of the continents and the sixth largest country in the world in area, yet its population density is less than three people per square kilometre. In South Australia are the Flinders Ranges, a fascinating mountain range which features Wilpena Pound, a natural amphitheatre, the origins of which are unknown. Another fascinating feature is the Pinnacles National Park in Western Australia, made up of thousands of sandstone formations.
The Great Dividing Range extends down the entire eastern seaboard of the continent, and features many spectacular geographical features within it, such as the Blue Mountains, west of Sydney, and the Australian Alps in southeast Australia, where the mainland's highest peak of Mt Kosciuszko is located. In South Australia are the Flinders Ranges, a fascinating mountain range which features Wilpena Pound, a natural amphitheatre, the origins of which are unknown. Another fascinating feature is the Pinnacles National Park in Western Australia, made up of thousands of sandstone formations.
Geography of Australia. Australia consists of two land masses: mainland Australia and Tasmania. It lies on and extends south from the Tropic of Capricorn in the Southern Hemisphere between latitudes 10°41' and 43°39'S and longitudes 113°9' and 153°39'E. 
The geography of Australia encompasses a wide variety of biogeographic regions being the world's smallest continent but the sixth-largest country in the world. The population of Australia is concentrated along the eastern and southeastern coasts. Off the eastern coast of Australia is the world's largest coral reef complex, the Great Barrier Reef. The State of Tasmania, a large and mountainous island, resides in the south-eastern corner of Australia.
Australia’s Deserts. Apart from Antarctica, Australia is the driest continent in the world. About 35 per cent of the continent receives so little rain, it can be classified as desert. The largest Australian desert is the Great Victoria desert at 348,750 square kilometres, spanning Western and South Australia. Australia’s highest mountains. The highest peak on the Australian mainland is Mount Kosciuszko which is 2228 metres above sea level. Kosciuszko is located in the Snowy Mountains region in New South Wales. It is a little-known fact that the highest point on Australian territory is in the Australian Antarctic Territory.
Of its geographical features, Uluru-Ayers Rock in the Northern Territory is the most famous. Nearby are the bald mountains of Kata-Tjuta, which are believed to be the other end of Uluru, as most of Uluru lies underground. There's also the Great Barrier Reef-located off the eastern coast. In South Australia are the Flinders Ranges, a fascinating mountain range which features Wilpena Pound, a natural amphitheatre, the origins of which are unknown. Another fascinating feature is the Pinnacles National Park in Western Australia, made up of thousands of sandstone formations.
Its highest point is Mt. Cooke at 1,910 Ft. (580 m). FRASER ISLAND. Located along Australia's Coral Sea coastline, to the north of Brisbane (and not shown on this map), Fraser Island is Australia's fourth largest island (after Tasmania, Melville Island and Kangaroo Island), and the largest sand island in the world. Australia Landforms. Note: Australia is extremely dry, with about 35 percent of the country receiving very little rain (if any).
Australia’s Big Rock – Uluru. Australia is ancient and it has some of the oldest geological features in the world. Our most famous rock of course is Uluru in the Northern Territory. Formerly named Ayers Rock, it covers an area of more than 3 square kilometers and nearly 10km’s around the base. Australia’s highest mountains. The highest peak on the Australian mainland is Mount Kosciuszko which is 2228 metres above sea level. Kosciuszko is located in the Snowy Mountains region in New South Wales. It is a little-known fact that the highest point on Australian territory is in the Australian Antarctic
Australian Flag. Map of Australia. GEOGRAPHY. Australia is the only country in the world that covers an entire continent. It is one of the largest countries on Earth. Although it is rich in natural resources and has a lot of fertile land, more than one-third of Australia is desert.