Compared to prokaryotic organisms such as bacteria, plants and animals have a relatively recent evolutionary origin. DNA evidence suggests that the first eukaryotes evolved from prokaryotes, between 2500 and 1000 million years ago. Like the plants, animals evolved in the sea. And that is where they remained for at least 600 million years. This is because, in the absence of a protective ozone layer, the land was bathed in lethal levels of UV radiation.
Genetic evidence (base sequences in their mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid [mtDNA] and ribosomal ribonucleic acid [rRNA]) now indicates that the following are more natural (evolutionarily related) groups of Protista. Some lack mitochondria and suggest what the first eukaryotes may have been like, while others have primitive mitochondria that closely resemble bacteria. Some basal Protista without mitochondria are Trichomonas, a vaginal parasite of humans; Giardia, an intestinal parasite; and Entamoeba, the cause of amoebic dysentery.
The Protista, or Protoctista, are a kingdom of simple eukaryotic organisms, usually composed of a single cell or a colony of similar cells. Protists live in water, in moist terrestrial habitats, and as parasites and other symbionts in the bodies of multicellular eukaroytes. Some lack mitochondria and suggest what the first eukaryotes may have been like, while others have primitive mitochondria that closely resemble bacteria. Some basal Protista without mitochondria are Trichomonas, a vaginal parasite of humans; Giardia, an intestinal parasite; and Entamoeba, the cause of amoebic dysentery.
DNA, structural, and biochemical evidence has conclusively pinpointed a particular group of freshwater green algae known as the charophyceans as the modern organisms that are most closely related to the earliest plants, and have also revealed important steps in plant evolution. The balance of evidence strongly indicates that all of the modern land plants are derived from a single common ancestor (i.e., they are monophyletic), and that this ancestor resembled modern Coleochaete and Charales.
The idea that, along with other life forms, modern-day humans evolved from an ancient, common ancestor was proposed by Robert Chambers in 1844 and taken up by Charles Darwin in 1871. Modern humans evolved from a lineage of upright-walking apes that has been traced back over 6 Ma to Sahelanthropus. Nevertheless, the great majority of animals, plants, fungi and protists reproduce sexually. There is strong evidence that sexual reproduction arose early in the history of eukaryotes and that the genes controlling it have changed very little since then.
DNA evidence also marks liverworts as the modern land plants that appeared earliest; liverworts have the simplest plant bodies and reproduction of all plant groups. The ancient microfossils thought to represent the remains of the earliest plants are very similar to the components of modern liverworts. The balance of evidence strongly indicates that all of the modern land plants are derived from a single common ancestor (i.e., they are monophyletic), and that this ancestor resembled modern Coleochaete and Charales.
Algae in Plant Evolution. Photosynthetic protists (commonly called algae) are a diverse group of organisms and are divided into several phyla. Many are unicellular, including most euglenoids (phylum Euglenophyta) and dinoflagellates (Dinophyta), and some diatoms (Bacillariophyta) and green algae (Chlorophyta). The balance of evidence strongly indicates that all of the modern land plants are derived from a single common ancestor (i.e., they are monophyletic), and that this ancestor resembled modern Coleochaete and Charales.
The evolutionary history of life on Earth traces the processes by which living and fossil organisms have evolved since life appeared on the planet, until the present day. Earth formed about 4.5 Ga (billion years ago) and life appeared on its surface within 1 billion years. Nevertheless, the great majority of animals, plants, fungi and protists reproduce sexually. There is strong evidence that sexual reproduction arose early in the history of eukaryotes and that the genes controlling it have changed very little since then.
Further evidence comes from the field of biogeography because evolution with common descent provides the best and most thorough explanation for a variety of facts concerning the geographical distribution of plants and animals across the world. This is especially obvious in the field of insular biogeography. Further evidence for common descent comes from genetic detritus such as pseudogenes, regions of DNA that are orthologous to a gene in a related organism, but are no longer active and appear to be undergoing a steady process of degeneration from cumulative mutations.