Ulnar Collateral Ligament (UCL) Injury. The ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) is the most commonly injured ligament in throwers. Injuries of the UCL can range from minor damage and inflammation to a complete tear of the ligament. Athletes will have pain on the inside of the elbow, and frequently notice decreased throwing velocity. The ligament on the inside of the elbow is the ulnar collateral ligament (UCL). It runs from the inner side of the humerus to the inner side of the ulna, and must withstand extreme stresses as it stabilizes the elbow during overhand throwing.
How UCL Injuries Develop. The UCL is located on the inside of the elbow. It connects the bone of the upper arm (humerus) to a bone in the forearm (ulna). Anyone can get a UCL injury from repetitive stress to the elbow or from trauma. But throwers have the highest risk.
The ligaments around a joint usually combine together to form a joint capsule. A joint capsule is a watertight sac that surrounds a joint and contains. fluid called synovial fluid. In the elbow, two of the most important ligaments are the ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) and the lateral collateral ligament. The ulnar collateral ligament is on the medial (the side of the elbow that's next to the body) side of the elbow, and the lateral collateral is on the outside. The ulnar collateral ligament is a thick band of ligamentous tissue that forms a triangular shape along the medial elbow.
1 The UCL may also become torn due to trauma, such as a broken elbow. 2  The most common symptom of a torn ulnar collateral ligament elbow injury is pain on the medial side (inside, or pinky finger side) of the arm, from the elbow to the wrist. 1 The ulnar collateral ligament may become torn due to a single traumatic episode — or more commonly, repetitive injury, such as throwing a baseball. 2 
Ulnar collateral ligament injuries They can be classified into two categories: a slow deterioration or an acute rupture. The ulnar collateral ligament (UCL, also known as medial collateral ligament) is located on the medial side of the elbow. The UCL complex comprises three ligaments: the anterior oblique, posterior oblique and transverse ligaments. Injuries to the ulnar collateral ligament are believed to result from poor throwing mechanics, overuse, high throwing velocities, and throwing certain types of pitches, such as curveballs. Poor mechanics along with high repetition of these overhead movements can cause irritation, micro-tears or ruptures of the UCL.
Pay Now. When an acute sprain or tear on the ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) on the ulnar side of the meta-carpal-phalangeal (MCP) joint of the thumb occurs, it is called a UCL injury. UCL injuries are commonly caused by injury or trauma in which the thumb is bent away from the hand at the MCP joint. This can happen in sports like skiing or hockey, or in any situation in which a fall is landed on an outstretched hand.
Symptoms associated with a UCL injury include: 1  Pain on the inside of the elbow. 2  A sense of looseness or instability in the elbow. 3  Irritation of the funny bone (ulnar nerve): This is felt as tingling or numbness in the small finger and ring finger. 4  Decreased ability to throw a baseball or other object. The UCL is located on the inside of the elbow. It connects the bone of the upper arm (humerus) to a bone in the forearm (ulna). Anyone can get a UCL injury from repetitive stress to the elbow or from trauma. But throwers have the highest risk.
Ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) injury refers to a sprain, partial tear or complete tear of the ligament that traverses the inside (or medial side) of the elbow. The UCL is the primary stabilizer of the elbow and plays an important role in throwing and hitting sports, such as baseball, football and tennis. An injury to the UCL has two main causes. First, repetitive stress, as seen in an overhand pitcher, can cause micro-tears in the ligament that, over time, weaken the ligament. This may be due to poor throwing mechanics, fatigue or lack of conditioning.
1 The most common symptom of a torn ulnar collateral ligament elbow injury is pain on the medial side (inside, or pinky finger side) of the arm, from the elbow to the wrist. 2  Occasionally, a baseball player who tears his UCL may feel a “pop” with intense pain after throwing. 1 The ulnar collateral ligament may become torn due to a single traumatic episode — or more commonly, repetitive injury, such as throwing a baseball. 2  The UCL may also become torn due to trauma, such as a broken elbow.
Tommy John surgery is also called UCL reconstruction. UCL is short for ulnar collateral ligament. During Tommy John surgery, a surgeon replaces the injured UCL with a tendon taken from somewhere else in the patient's body. The UCL is located on the inside of the elbow. It connects the bone of the upper arm (humerus) to a bone in the forearm (ulna). Anyone can get a UCL injury from repetitive stress to the elbow or from trauma. But throwers have the highest risk.