Stones are normally classified into two categories, precious stones and semi-precious stones. The value of a stone is gauged on these types. Many collectors prefer the rare to the beautiful. The precious stones are the emeralds, diamonds, sapphires, and rubies. The most popular of these are zircon, opal, amethyst, turquoise, aquamarine, jade, coral, garnet, and malachite. The different colors and varieties of the semi-precious stones make them very valuable to the jewelry industry.
Answer by Susie Dresh. Confidence votes 20.6K. A gemstone or gem, also called a precious or semi-precious stone, is a piece of attractive mineral, which-when cut and polished-is used to make jewelry or other adornments. Gemstones are classified into different groups, species, and varieties. For example, ruby is the red variety of the species corundum, while any other color of corundum is considered sapphire.
A few gemstones are used as gems in the crystal or other form in which they are found. Most however, are cut and polished for usage as jewelry. The picture to the right is of a rural, commercial cutting operation in Thailand. This small factory cuts thousands of carats of sapphire annually. Even the same gemstone can occur in many different colors: sapphires show different shades of blue and pink and fancy sapphires exhibit a whole range of other colors from yellow to orange-pink, the latter called  padparadscha sapphire .
Gem hunting is a geological lottery and all the way through olden times, we have heard about humans adorning themselves with jewelry. During the primitive times, it was first made from bits of bone, shell and gleaming rocks. Soon after, it was with precious stones and gems set on silver, copper and gold. Knowing about the different types of precious stone and equipping yourself with information related to it means something great, for the reason that, they are rich in knowledge, diverse in their character and yet unique in all means. 
Alexandrite is a variety of chrysoberyl that displays a colour change depending on light conditions and the angle it is view from (pleochroism).The ideal colour change would be fine emerald green to fine purplish red, but this is rare and expensive. Quartz is a crystalline rock or mineral composed of silicon dioxide. Quartz is the second most common mineral in the Earth's continental crust and found in all types of geological environment. There are 49 variety's, a number of which are gemstones, some of which are very beautiful and very rare.
A gemstone or gem (also called a fine gem, jewel, or a precious or semi-precious stone) is a piece of mineral crystal, which, in cut and polished form, is used to make jewelry or other adornments. Even the same gemstone can occur in many different colors: sapphires show different shades of blue and pink and fancy sapphires exhibit a whole range of other colors from yellow to orange-pink, the latter called  padparadscha sapphire .
TYPES OF STONE: The familiar stone types that are used today are identified through four categories: Sedimentary, Metamorphic, Igneous and Man-made stone. I. Sedimentary stone came from organic elements such as glaciers, rivers, wind, oceans, and plants. 
The lesser expensive jewelry are often made with semi-precious stones. The most popular of these are zircon, opal, amethyst, turquoise, aquamarine, jade, coral, garnet, and malachite. The different colors and varieties of the semi-precious stones make them very valuable to the jewelry industry.
Separating precious stones into these types of groups helps to identify their composition, their color, and their origin. They also have a refractive index, dispersion, specific gravity, hardness, cleavage, fracture, and luster. Each of these features is important when assessing the value of the stone. The most popular of these are zircon, opal, amethyst, turquoise, aquamarine, jade, coral, garnet, and malachite. The different colors and varieties of the semi-precious stones make them very valuable to the jewelry industry.
Enstatite is a rare gemstone that belongs to the pyroxene group of minerals. It is typically brown-green with a vitreous luster and is a collector's gem. Sphene. Sphene is a brilliant yellowish-green, green or brown gemstone of high luster, unique color shades and, with brilliant cut, an intense fire. Spodumene is a relatively new mineral to science, with gem varieties discovered only in the last 120 years. Spodumene occurs in white, gray, pink, lilac and green. Fluorite. Fluorite is a mineral with a veritable plethora of brilliant colors that include purple, blue, green, yellow, colorless, brown, pink and orange.