Wire crates are very popular and depending on your dog's needs, may be a better purchase than plastic. You'll need to shop more carefully for a wire crate because quality and style vary greatly. Some of them are flimsy and not meant to be collapsed for storage. 
I would suggest buying a smaller kennel. If a dog does not have room to go to the bathroom in one part of the kennel and lay in the other, they will most likely no go to the b … athroom in the kennel. This is because the dog does not want to lay in its own feces. 
Making a kennel even longer than 15 feet helps to keep large, active dogs happy, and in many cases you can buy panels to add to a kennel kit that will allow you to make the kennel as long as you wish. Kennels are rarely narrower than 5 feet, even for small dogs. Indoor Kennel Basics. Your dog should be able to stand up, lie down and turn around in her indoor kennel or crate. If you are buying a kennel for a puppy, get one that is large enough to suit her adult size.
The wrong size dog kennel, however, can make things uncomfortable for your pooch and a pain for you. As a rule of thumb, kennels and crates should be at least 4 inches taller and longer than your dog and allow him to stand, sit, and turn around easily. You'll also want to make sure there is water and a blanket or towel in there for him. Extra large dog kennels measure 48 inches long and are designed for dogs weighing 91 to 110 pounds. These dog kennels are recommended for Alaskan malamute, collie, German shepherd, giant schnauzer, greyhound, bloodhound, and other dog breeds of similar size.
Manufacturers usually sell dog kennels in lengths. An extra-small crate is about 24 inches long and meant for dogs up to 25 pounds. A small kennel or crate is about 30 inches in length and is designed for dogs that weigh 26 to 40 pounds. Medium crates are approximately 36 inches and are meant for dogs that weigh 41 to 70 pounds. Large crates measure about 42 inches and are for dogs that weigh 71 to 90 pounds. Extra-large kennels measure 48 inches and are designed for dogs that weigh 91 to 110 pounds. A giant kennel may be about 54 inches; it's for use for dogs that weigh over 110 pounds. You'll find a list of recommended sizes for each breed in the Resources section of this article
Small dog kennels measure approximately 30 inches long and are designed for dogs that weigh 26 to 40 pounds, such as pit bull terrier, dachshund, French bulldog, miniature pinscher, miniature schnauzer, Scottish terrier, Welsh springer spaniel, and other dog breeds of similar size. Extra large dog kennels measure 48 inches long and are designed for dogs weighing 91 to 110 pounds. These dog kennels are recommended for Alaskan malamute, collie, German shepherd, giant schnauzer, greyhound, bloodhound
Most dogs recover from canine kennel cough (canine cough) within 3-4 weeks. If a dog has a compromised immune system or is extremely young or old, it may take up to 6 weeks for a complete recovery. However, your pet may still be a carrier of the disease several weeks after he has recovered. When you see your dog suffering from kennel cough, you want to do something to help him feel more relaxed. In addition to providing your pet with treatment, there are a number of other things you can do to keep him comfortable, help speed the healing process and help him recover from kennel cough: 1  Use a humidifier.
Outdoor Kennel Dimensions. Large, active dogs need more space than smaller dogs. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals suggests dog owners use one of two sizes, either 10 feet by 10 feet or 5 feet by 15 feet. Indoor Kennel Basics. Your dog should be able to stand up, lie down and turn around in her indoor kennel or crate. If you are buying a kennel for a puppy, get one that is large enough to suit her adult size.
Kennels that are about 2 1/2 feet long are suitable for dogs up to about 40 pounds, including cocker spaniels, while basset hounds and other dogs up to about 70 pounds do best in a kennel that is around 3 feet long. Indoor Kennel Basics. Your dog should be able to stand up, lie down and turn around in her indoor kennel or crate. If you are buying a kennel for a puppy, get one that is large enough to suit her adult size.