Cubital tunnel syndrome can cause an aching pain on the inside of the elbow. Most of the symptoms, however, occur in your hand. 1  Numbness and tingling in the ring finger and little finger are common symptoms of ulnar nerve entrapment. 2  Often, these symptoms come and go. The ulnar nerve is one of the three main nerves in your arm. It travels from your neck down into your hand, and can be constricted in several places along the way, such as beneath the collarbone or at the wrist.
The symptoms from ulnar nerve irritation are pain and/or numbness in the ring/little fingers. Often rest is all that is needed, along with use of an elbow pad to minimize irritation to the nerve while resting the elbow on a table, desk, etc. If that does not resolve the problem, surgery may be needed. This is unusual. The symptoms from ulnar nerve irritation are pain and/or numbness in the ring/little fingers. The surgery is simple in concept: the nerve is re-routed from its normal position behind the elbow to a new position in front of the epicondyle.
Symptoms associated with a UCL injury include: 1  Pain on the inside of the elbow. 2  A sense of looseness or instability in the elbow. 3  Irritation of the funny bone (ulnar nerve): This is felt as tingling or numbness in the small finger and ring finger. 4  Decreased ability to throw a baseball or other object. How UCL Injuries Develop. The UCL is located on the inside of the elbow. It connects the bone of the upper arm (humerus) to a bone in the forearm (ulna). Anyone can get a UCL injury from repetitive stress to the elbow or from trauma.
Beyond the elbow, the ulnar nerve travels under muscles on the inside of your forearm and into your hand on the side of the palm with the little finger. As the nerve enters the hand, it travels through another tunnel (Guyon's canal). The ulnar nerve is one of the three main nerves in your arm. It travels from your neck down into your hand, and can be constricted in several places along the way, such as beneath the collarbone or at the wrist.
Follow. Ulnar neuritis is an inflammation of the ulnar nerve as it passes on the inside of the elbow down to the forearm and hand. It can also be known as ulnar nerve compression or cubital tunnel syndrome. People with irritation or compression of the ulnar nerve will often notice numbness and tingling in their ring and little fingers with activity or even at rest. Occasionally the athlete will notice soreness or a dull pain on the inside of the elbow and forearm.
The main focus of the UCL is to maintain functional stability on the ulnar side of the MCPJ. In combination with the radial collateral ligament they create lateral and dorsal stability for the proximal phalanx as well as the MCPJ (Patel, Potty, Taylor & Sorene, 2010). 
The most common place for compression of the nerve is behind the inside part of the elbow. Ulnar nerve compression at the elbow is called cubital tunnel syndrome.. Numbness and tingling in the hand and fingers are common symptoms of cubital tunnel syndrome. The ulnar nerve is one of the three main nerves in your arm. It travels from your neck down into your hand, and can be constricted in several places along the way, such as beneath the collarbone or at the wrist.