This BACnet protocol stack library provides a BACnet application layer, network layer and media access (MAC) layer communications services. It is an open source, royalty-free library for an embedded system, Windows, Linux, or other operating system. Example BACnet client and server applications are included. BACnet is an open protocol, which means anyone can contribute to the standard, and anyone may use it. The only caveat is that the BACnet standard document itself is copyrighted by ASHRAE, and they sell the document to help defray costs of developing and maintaining the standard (just like IEEE or ANSI or ISO).
Briefly, What is BACnet? is the first in our Understanding BACnet Series. The series is an overview intended for those who are encountering BACnet for the first time or those who simply wish to review basic BACnet concepts. BACnet is a communications protocol for Building Automation and Control Networks. One of its primary appeals is that it provides interoperability among different vendor's equipment. This frees the building owner from dependence on one vendor when the time comes for system expansion. 
What makes BACnet special is that the rules relate specifically to the needs of building automation and control equipment, i.e., they cover things like how to ask for the value of a temperature, define a fan operating schedule, or send a pump status alarm. Maybe, maybe not. In order for a BACnet device, say an operator workstation, to talk to non-BACnet devices like your existing DDC system from XYZ Controls, you need an intervening gateway. A gateway is like a United Nations translator that can speak two languages.
BACnet is a communications protocol for b uilding a utomation and c ontrol net works. It is an ASHRAE, ANSI, and ISO 16484-5 standard protocol. BACnet was designed to allow communication of building automation and control systems for applications such as heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning control (HVAC), lighting control, access control, and fire detection systems and their associated equipment. The BACnet protocol defines a number of services that are used to communicate between building devices. The protocol services include Who-Is, I-Am, Who-Has, I-Have, which are used for Device and Object discovery. Services such as Read-Property and Write-Property are used for data sharing.
BACnet (Building Automation and Control Network) is a communications protocol that defines the services used to communicate between building automation end-devices and building control systems. BACnet stands for Building Automation and Control network. The BACnet Committee developed the standard with the intention of creating a technically sound and truly non-proprietary standard. They also kept in mind ease of use and did their best to eliminate many of the barriers to implement.
Page 4 BACnet Introduction Introduction BACnet is an building automation and control networking protocol. It was developed by ASHRAE. BACnet was designed specifically to meet the communication needs of building automation and control systems. Typical applications include: heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning control, lighting control, access control, and fire detection systems. History and Background Who cares. It works. Page 6 BACnet Objects and Properties cont’d Data inside a BACnet device is organized as a series of objects. Each ob-ject has a type and a set of properties. There is always at least one object in a device – it is used to represent the device itself. The other objects represent the device’s data.
A protocol for building automation. BACnet is a data communication protocol mainly used in the building automation and HVAC industry (Heating Ventilation and Air-Conditioning). The protocol allows equipment such as air conditioning machines, pumps and ventilation devices to communicate with a PLC
The series is an overview intended for those who are encountering BACnet for the first time or those who simply wish to review basic BACnet concepts. BACnet is a communications protocol for Building Automation and Control Networks. One of its primary appeals is that it provides “interoperability” among different vendor’s equipment. This frees the building owner from dependence on one vendor when the time comes for system expansion. 
BACnet stands for Building Automation and Control Network. It was officially unveiled by ASHRAE in 1996, and has been approved as ISO standard 16454-5 and is also becoming a standard in the European Union. 