1 Does my employer have to keep my job open for me while I am out due to my workplace injury? 2  The Workers' Compensation Law does not require your employer to keep your job open for you. 3  But, most employers do take injured workers back. 4  Keep in contact with your employer about your job status. 1 Employers are not allowed to ask you if you have had a workers' compensation claim. 2  They cannot deny you a job for filing a past claim, either. 3  The Workers' Compensation Board cannot share your workers' compensation case with another employer.
Generally, how you deal with the situation when a worker is incarcerated will probably have a lot to do with how long the employee will be away from work, with what offense the employee has been charged, and with what relationship that offense has to the employee's work. This is probably a more useful way to address the situation, especially if you have few employees and do not expect this type of problem to occur with regularity. Here is an example of a generic personal leave policy (note that this is not the same as sick time, vacation time, or other kinds of time away from work).
Employers have to hold jobs for a maximum of 12 weeks if the person is hurt or up to three years if they are sent away for military duty. Anything beyond that is strictly up to the employer if they want to be nice or not. Many employers will keep the job open but not pay benefits after the required 12 weeks. The state/federal law says that a position must be held for 12 weeks, if there are 50 employees that work on the company. The company can decide to hold the position for as long as they want. I've seen jobs held 2+ years.
Treating Arrests and Incarcerations as Absences. When an employee loses time from work because he or she is incarcerated or arrested, you may choose to handle it as an absence issue. This may be your best bet if you don't have a large number of employees and arrests are not common among your workforce. This is probably a more useful way to address the situation, especially if you have few employees and do not expect this type of problem to occur with regularity. Here is an example of a generic personal leave policy (note that this is not the same as sick time, vacation time, or other kinds of time away from work).
You are entitled to lost wages, unlimited medical treatment, and vocational rehabilitation. You are not guaranteed to keep your job or to have future employment. Your employer does not have to keep your job open and can fire you at will. This is common if your work restrictions prevent you from returning to work for an extended period of time. Many employers will keep your job available but will eventually need to fill your position. Keep your employer informed about your work status and return any documentation that they request from your doctor. This can be difficult when workers compensation benefits have been denied and you are involved in a lawsuit. It is a good idea to have a Michigan workmans comp lawyer help you with these issues.
We will first look at a recent EAT case (UD396/2012) where an employee was sent to prison for 10 months and the company terminated his employment. The employee was released early and felt he had been unfairly dismissed. The Company held that they could not keep his job open and need to have someone in the role. The Tribunal agreed that it was not unfair as the company had no way of knowing when the employee would be let out and that his contract would not be frustrated.
Terminating an incarcerated employee. 1) A plant employee was incarcerated for domestic violence against his wife. His mother called and stated that he, the incarcerated employee, would not be in because he had some important business to take care of. It is not relevant how many days the employee was in jail. What is relevant is how many days of work he missed, without a doctor's excuse. If this employee missed 4 days of work, and you would normally terminate an employee who missed 4 days without a doctor's excuse, then you should terminate him.
Many people want to know if they can lose their job while seeking workers compensation benefits. Read on to learn why your employer does not have to hold your job while you’re on work comp, and what you can to do protect yourself if you’re unlawfully terminated. Keep your employer informed about your work status and return any documentation that they request from your doctor. This can be difficult when workers compensation benefits have been denied and you are involved in a lawsuit. It is a good idea to have a Michigan workmans comp lawyer help you with these issues.
1) You say that the employee was incarcerated (in jail), but not whether he was convicted or merely arrested. It makes a big difference. In many cases you can (and should) terminate an employee who is found guilty of domestic violence or another violent crime. It is not relevant how many days the employee was in jail. What is relevant is how many days of work he missed, without a doctor's excuse. If this employee missed 4 days of work, and you would normally terminate an employee who missed 4 days without a doctor's excuse, then you should terminate him.
In situations where an employee is arrested for (but has not been convicted of) a serious crime that could affect the employee's ability to do the job, there are other issues to consider. If there is a clear and justifiable conflict between job function and the nature of the offense, you may want to adopt this strategy: This is probably a more useful way to address the situation, especially if you have few employees and do not expect this type of problem to occur with regularity. Here is an example of a generic personal leave policy (note that this is not the same as sick time, vacation time, or other kinds of time away from work).