It was at one time considered that the common tomato belonged to the genus Solanum. In fact Linnaeus originally classified the tomato within this genus as Solanum lycopersicon but each are now considered to belong to a seperate genus based on differences in leaf type and pollen dispersal from the anthers. - upright tomato-plants are upright and erect, very compact. There are quite possibly &GT;10,000 varieties in existence today. Searching just one of the USDA holdings will give one the idea of what is available (~5,000).
Cherry tomatoes tend to be just about the same size as a cherry, but they are much sweeter and juicier than the larger varieties, such as Globe tomatoes. This variety is gaining in popularity with gourmet chefs. This is because Heirloom tomatoes come in a large variety of shapes and colors. Tomatoes are a favorite food of many and are great on their own, in a salad, or accompanying any meal. Although technically a fruit, most people-including chefs-categorize tomatoes as a vegetable. Tomatoes grow on a vine that often reaches ten feet in length
Tomato plants produce fruit in a wide range of sizes and colors. Tomatoes (Lycopersicon esculentum) are the heart of most home gardens. With so many varieties, it can be difficult to choose just one or two each year. 
A Word about Varieties. The term cultivar is a botanical term that is a contraction of the two-word term cultivated variety and is analogous to what growers call a variety. In botanical nomenclature, the term variety describes a subgroup that represents variations observed within a species. Cultivars are grouped within botanical varieties. 
Below is an extensive database of tomato variety descriptions and images of fruit grown at Rutgers NJAES research farms. We continue to add details, photos and research reports as they become available. 
The tomato is native to western South America and Central America. Native versions were small, like cherry tomatoes, and most likely yellow rather than red. A member of the deadly nightshade family, tomatoes were erroneously thought to be poisonous by Europeans who were suspicious of their bright, shiny fruit. Leaves, stems, and green unripe fruit of the tomato plant contain small amounts of the toxic alkaloid tomatine. They also contain solanine, a toxic alkaloid found in potato leaves and other plants in the nightshade family. Use of tomato leaves in herbal tea has been responsible for at least one death
The tomato (see pronunciation) is the edible, often red berry-type fruit of the nightshade Solanum lycopersicum, commonly known as a tomato plant. The tomato is consumed in diverse ways, including raw, as an ingredient in many dishes, sauces, salads, and drinks. The tomato belongs to the nightshade family, Solanaceae. Leaves, stems, and green unripe fruit of the tomato plant contain small amounts of the toxic alkaloid tomatine. They also contain solanine, a toxic alkaloid found in potato leaves and other plants in the nightshade family. Use of tomato leaves in herbal tea has been responsible for at least one death
Cordon and bush tomatoes explained. Cordon/Indeterminate tomatoes-these varieties of tomato plant are the most common and are grown as cordons (single stemmed plants with side shoots removed). They will grow very tall-sometimes taller than 2.5m in very warm conditions. 