Business process modeling (BPM) in systems engineering is the activity of representing processes of an enterprise, so that the current process may be analyzed or improved. Business process modeling tools provide business users with the ability to model their business processes, implement and execute those models, and refine the models based on as-executed data.
Process models are processes of the same nature that are classified together into a model. Thus, a process model is a description of a process at the type level. Since the process model is at the type level, a process is an instantiation of it. The same process model is used repeatedly for the development of many applications and thus, has many instantiations. One possible use of a process model is to prescribe how things must/should/could be done in contrast to the process itself which is really what happens. A process model is roughly an anticipation of what the process will look like. What the process shall be will be determined during actual system development.
Three Main Purposes. Process models are used for four main purposes: The rest of this page lists brief explanations of the different uses of process models. More detailed explanations of the uses for process models are given in the subsections of this section listed at the bottom of this page. 
Business models are developed as defining either the current state of the process, in which case the final product is called the as is snapshot model, or a concept of what the process should become, resulting in a to be model. Business process modeling tools provide business users with the ability to model their business processes, implement and execute those models, and refine the models based on as-executed data.
Business Process Modelling techniques are concerned with 'mapping' and 'workflow' to enable understanding, analysis and positive change. Diagrams-essentially 'flow diagrams' - are a central feature of the methodology. The diagrammatical representation of Business Process Modelling is commonly called 'notation'. The term Business Process Model (also abbreviated to BPM) is the noun form of Business Process Modelling, and refers to a structural representation, description or diagram, which defines a specified flow of activities in a particular business or organisational unit. (N.B. US-English spelling is 'organization'.
Part of the Business terms glossary: Business process modeling, often called process modeling, is the analytical representation or illustration of an organization’s business processes. 
The term process model is used in various contexts. For example, in business process modeling the enterprise process model is often referred to as the business process model. One possible use of a process model is to prescribe how things must/should/could be done in contrast to the process itself which is really what happens. A process model is roughly an anticipation of what the process will look like. What the process shall be will be determined during actual system development.
Business process modeling is mainly used to map a workflow so you can understand, analyse and make positive changes to that workflow or process. Usage of diagram helps you to visualize this process and make better decisions. Use the below table to quickly navigate to different techniques. 
(BPM). Processes of the same nature are classified together into a process model. Thus, a process model is a description of a process at the type level. Since the process model is at the type level, a process is an instantiation of it. The same process model is used repeatedly for the development of many applications and thus, has many instantiations. One possible use of a process model is to prescribe ‘how things must/should/could be done’ in contrast to the process itself which is really what happens. A process model is more or less a rough anticipation of what the process will look like