Why it's done. Your doctor may recommend a nuclear stress test to: Diagnose coronary artery disease. Your coronary arteries are the major blood vessels that supply your heart with blood, oxygen and nutrients. If you have symptoms that might indicate coronary artery disease, such as shortness of breath or chest pains, a nuclear stress test can help determine if you have coronary artery disease. 1  See the size and shape of your heart. 2  Guide treatment of heart disorders. 3  Definition. 4  Risks.
Answer: A nuclear stress test, what we call myocardial perfusion imaging is a test that looks at the blood flow to your heart muscle. We do that while you're resting and also with some form of stress, either exercise or sometimes we give a medicine to simulate the effects of exercise. 
The nuclear stress test can be done while the patient is resting or doing exercise. The radioactive substance that is injected into the patient is called a radionuclide. According to the British Heart Foundation, Radionuclide tests are considered safe 4. However, during the test you will be exposed to some radiation.. After the test, the doctor will discuss the results with the patient. The nuclear stress test may show: 1  Normal blood flow during rest and exercise-this means heart function appears to be normal at all times. 2  The patient probably does not have coronary artery disease. 3  In most cases, no further tests are required.
Nuclear stress test with exercise. In this test, the aim is to find out whether any areas of the heart muscle are not receiving enough blood flow during exercise. A radionuclide, such as thallium or technetium, is injected into a vein in the hand or arm. After the test, the doctor will discuss the results with the patient. The nuclear stress test may show: 1  Normal blood flow during rest and exercise-this means heart function appears to be normal at all times. 2  The patient probably does not have coronary artery disease. 3  In most cases, no further tests are required.
A nuclear stress test is similar to the exercise stress test or pharmacological (chemical) stress test, but a small amount of radioactive substance is used to determine the health of the heart and blood flow to the heart. After the test, the doctor will discuss the results with the patient. The nuclear stress test may show: 1  Normal blood flow during rest and exercise-this means heart function appears to be normal at all times. 2  The patient probably does not have coronary artery disease. 3  In most cases, no further tests are required.
1 See the size and shape of your heart. 2  The images from a nuclear stress test can show your doctor if your heart is enlarged and can measure its pumping function (ejection fraction). 3  Guide treatment of heart disorders. If you have symptoms that might indicate coronary artery disease, such as shortness of breath or chest pains, a nuclear stress test can help determine if you have coronary artery disease. 1  See the size and shape of your heart. 2  Guide treatment of heart disorders. 3  Definition. 4  Risks.
Definition. A nuclear stress test measures blood flow to your heart at rest and while your heart is working harder as a result of exertion or medication. The test provides images that can show areas of low blood flow through the heart and damaged heart muscle. The test usually involves taking two sets of images of your heart — one while you're at rest and another after you heart is stressed, either by exercise or medication.
A. A. A stress test can be used to test for heart disease. Stress tests are tests performed by a doctor and/or trained technician to determine the amount of stress that your heart can manage before developing either an abnormal rhythm or evidence of ischemia (not enough blood flow to the heart muscle). The most commonly performed stress test is the exercise stress test. The exercise stress test -- also called a stress test, exercise electrocardiogram, treadmill test, graded exercise test, or stress ECG -- is used to provide information about how the heart responds to exertion.
If a patient has blockage of the blood flow to the heart or if they've had a heart attack in the past, it will show up, says Mieres. Nuclear stress tests are 90% accurate, compared with exercise stress tests, which are about 75% accurate for men and just over 60% accurate for women. 
|. Share. A nuclear stress test lets doctors see pictures of your heart while you are resting and after you have exercised. The test can show the size of the heart's chambers, how well the heart is pumping blood, and whether the heart has any damaged or dead muscle. Nuclear stress tests can also give doctors information about your arteries and whether they might be narrowed or blocked because of coronary artery disease.