Background. Neonatal sepsis may be categorized as early-onset or late-onset. Of newborns with early-onset sepsis, 85% present within 24 hours, 5% present at 24-48 hours, and a smaller percentage present within 48-72 hours. 
Sepsis Overview. Sepsis is a condition in which the body is fighting a severe infection that has spread via the bloodstream. If a patient becomes septic, they will likely have low blood pressure leading to poor circulation and lack of perfusion of vital tissues and organs. 
Download the song I Know by Daniel Emmet, and tell the world that you know the symptoms and signs of sepsis. Medical Disclaimer. The information on or available through this site is intended for educational purposes only. 
Sepsis (/ˈsɛpsɨs/) is a whole-body inflammatory response to an infection. Common signs and symptoms include fever, increased heart rate, increased breathing rate, and confusion. 
Sepsis can quickly progress to septic shock and death if it is left untreated. Doctors use a number of medications to treat sepsis, including: 1  antibiotics via IV to fight infection. 2  vasoactive medications to increase blood pressure. 3  insulin to stabilize blood sugar. Sepsis is a life-threatening illness caused by your body’s response to an infection. Your immune system protects you from many illnesses and infections, but it’s also possible for it to go into overdrive in response to an infection. Sepsis develops when the chemicals the immune system releases into the bloodstream to fight an infection cause inflammation throughout the entire body instead
Early Sepsis. Hello Dr. G, Coding sepsis has always been a challenge but since the recent implementation of a CDI program at our facility, it’s become even more difficult with the introduction of new terminology in documentation. 
Clinical Need for Early Detection of Sepsis. Early detection and specific clinical intervention has been shown to be crucial for the improved outcome of patients with sepsis. 
Sepsis: The Basics. Sepsis is an extreme response to an infection. Your body sends a flood of chemicals into your bloodstream to fight the threat. This causes widespread inflammation which, over time, can slow blood flow and damage your organs. 
See Also – Sepsis Fact Sheets. Sepsis is the body’s overwhelming and life-threatening response to an infection which can lead to tissue damage, organ failure, and death. 