Uranus, which was discovered by Sir William Herschel Prior to the invention of the telescope, the only known planets were Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Ura … nus was the first planet discovered by telescope.46 people found this useful.ercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have been known, or at least seen since man first looked up into the sky. Uranus was also visible with the naked eye, but was probably … not recognised as a planet by our early observers.  With the invention of telescopes, other planets were later discovered.
Uranus was discovered by Sir William Herschel in 1781. Herschel was probably the most famous astronomer of the 18th century. In addition to discovering the planet Uranus, he also observed and cataloged over 800 double stars and 2,500 nebulae. He was the first astronomer to correctly describe the spiral structure of our Milky Way Galaxy. Neptune was discovered by John Couch Adams in 1846. Adams was an English astronomer and mathematician who, at the age of 24, was the first person to predict the position of a planetary mass beyond Uranus.
William Herschel noticed while surveying stars that one object moved apart from the star background. It was the first planet discovered since ancient times. March 13, 1781. The 7th planet – Uranus – was discovered on this date, completely by accident. British astronomer William Herschel was performing a survey of all the stars that were of magnitude 8 – in other words, too faint to see with the eye – or brighter. Bottom line: British astronomer William Herschel discovered the planet Uranus – first planet to be discovered since ancient times – on
Pluto was discovered by astronomer Clyde Tombaugh in 1930. A 9th planet had been looked for for some time. It was believed that such a planet had to exist in order to explain some odd things happening in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune. Tombaugh did a careful sky survey at the Lowell Observatory in Arizona. As a result, he discovered Pluto.e was the first astronomer to correctly describe the spiral structure of our Milky Way Galaxy. Neptune was discovered by John Couch Adams in 1846. Adams was an English astronomer and mathematician who, at the age of 24, was the first person to predict the position of a planetary mass beyond Uranus.
In modern times as we know them, Uranus was the first planet  discovered. All the other planets known to then were visible to the  naked eye from earth, and, thus, were kn … own to ancients.ercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have been known, or at least seen since man first looked up into the sky. Uranus was also visible with the naked eye, but was probably … not recognised as a planet by our early observers.  With the invention of telescopes, other planets were later
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have been known, or at least seen since man first looked up into the sky. Uranus was also visible with the naked eye, but was probably … not recognised as a planet by our early observers.  With the invention of telescopes, other planets were later discovered.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun.beron and Titania are the largest Uranian moons, and were the first to be discovered, by Herschel in 1787. William Lassell, who was the first to see a moon orbiting Neptune, discovered the next two, Ariel and Umbriel. Then nearly a century passed before Miranda was found in 1948.
Though Uranus is visible to the naked eye like the five classical planets, it was never recognized as a planet by ancient observers because of its dimness and slow orbit. Sir William Herschel announced its discovery on March 13, 1781, expanding the known boundaries of the Solar System for the first time in history.ranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. It has the third-largest planetary radius and fourth-largest planetary mass in the Solar System. Uranus is similar in composition to Neptune, and both have different bulk chemical composition from that of the larger gas giants Jupiter and Saturn.