time off in lieu. A term for holiday/annual leave time taken instead of pay for extra hours worked. For GPs, TOIL is typically derived from the difference between average rostered hours and normal basic hours. Usually, the excess of the former over the latter is banked, and taken as time off. A term for holiday/annual leave time taken instead of pay for extra hours worked. For GPs, TOIL is typically derived from the difference between average rostered hours and normal basic hours
time off in lieu noun [U]. › ​time that an ​employee who has ​worked ​extra ​hours may take off from ​work: Where ​eligible ​members of ​staff have ​worked ​agreed ​additional ​hours above ​their ​normal ​working ​week, the University ​offers ​time off in ​lieu. “time off in lieu”: synonyms and related words: 1  absentee. 2  Boxing Day. 3  break. 4  career break. 5  comp time. 6  compassionate leave. 7  holiday. 8  hols. 9  legal holiday. 10  parental leave. 11  paternity leave. 12  public holiday. 13  R and R. 14  recess. 15  sickie. 16  skive. 17  take sth off. 18  tea break. 19  toil. 20  weekend.
Comp Time, or Compensatory Time, is an alternate way of rewarding overtime work. Instead of paying an hourly employee time-and-a-half for work done over the time allotted in the normal work week, employers would allow an hour and a half of time off for each hour of overtime worked. Compensatory time off can also be approved for a prevailing rate employee, as defined in the United States Code, but there is no authority to require that any prevailing rate (wage) employee be compensated for irregular or occasional overtime work by granting compensatory time off.
Overtime is the amount of time someone works beyond normal working hours. Normal hours may be determined in several ways: 1  by custom (what is considered healthy or reasonable by society), 2  by practices of a given trade or profession, 3  by legislation, Out of approximately 120 million American workers, nearly 50 million are exempt from overtime laws (U.S Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, 1998). In 2004, the United States was 7th out of 24 OECD countries in terms of annual working hours per worker. (See Working time for a complete listing.
time off in lieu noun [U]. › ​time that an ​employee who has ​worked ​extra ​hours may take off from ​work: Our ​workers take ​time off in ​lieu rather than ​accumulate high ​earnings on ​overtime. (Definition of time off in lieu from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). Browse. “time off in lieu”: synonyms and related words: 1  absentee. 2  Boxing Day. 3  break. 4  career break. 5  comp time. 6  compassionate leave. 7  holiday. 8  hols. 9  legal holiday. 10  parental leave. 11  paternity leave. 12  public holiday. 13  R and R. 14  recess. 15  sickie. 16  skive. 17  take sth off. 18  tea break. 19  toil. 20  weekend.
However, some employees work in jobs where the overtime threshold is more than 44 hours in a work week or where the right to overtime pay does not apply. For more information visit the Special Rule Tool. Overtime Pay is 1½ times the employee's regular rate of pay. (This is often called time and a half). For example, an employee who has a regular rate of $12.00 an hour will have an overtime rate of $18.00 an hour (12 x 1.5 = 18). The employee must therefore be paid at a rate of at least $18.00 an hour for every hour worked in excess of 44 in a work week.
Compensatory time is paid time off granted to an employee for working extra hours. The federal Wage-Hour Law places severe restrictions on the use of compensatory time to avoid paying overtime, however, there are exemptions for certain public sector employees such as police officers and firefighters. Compensatory time off can also be approved for a prevailing rate employee, as defined in the United States Code, but there is no authority to require that any prevailing rate (wage) employee be compensated for irregular or occasional overtime work by granting compensatory time off.
time off in lieu. A term for holiday/annual leave time taken instead of pay for extra hours worked. For GPs, TOIL is typically derived from the difference between average rostered hours and normal basic hours. Usually, the excess of the former over the latter is banked, and taken as time off.
Thus, an employee might work 48 hours in one week, and 32 hours the next week (assuming over 40 hours is overtime), and be paid an extra amount equivalent to 4 hours work (8 multiplied by 0.5). In Australia, such arrangements both in the private and public sector are common. Out of approximately 120 million American workers, nearly 50 million are exempt from overtime laws (U.S Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, 1998). In 2004, the United States was 7th out of 24 OECD countries in terms of annual working hours per worker. (See Working time for a complete listing.