To understand a medical term, break it down into its component parts-root(s), prefix, suffix and combining vowels. Remember that the basic definition of a word part remains the same when combined with various components. TIP #2 - The definitions of root words, prefixes and suffixes remain the same when they are combined to produce different terms. Here are three examples: A. The root word for skin is derm. Its combining forms are derma-, dermat-, dermot-, ;and dermo- . Look at some medical terms utilizing this root.
eclampsia. in pregnant women, the convulsive stage of preeclampsia-eclampsia syndrome; the convulsions are not attributable to other cerebral conditions such as epilepsy. It is a potentially life-threatening disorder characterized by hypertension, generalized edema, and proteinuria. Preeclampsia is a less severe, nonconvulsive form of the disorder. adj., adj eclamp´tic. puerperal eclampsia that occurring after or during childbirth
The root of a word (known as the word root) contains the basic meaning (definition) of the word often referring to a body part or system e.g. cardi (heart). There may be more than one word root in a medical term and these are often combined with a combining vowel to make them easier to pronounce. Another example: the prefixes ‘a’ or ‘an’ are much used in medical terminology and mean without for example: anaemia: an = without/lack of, aemia = blood. anorexia: an = without, orexia pertains to the appetite (anorexia = without appetite).
Root(s) - the word's essential meaning; a term may have two rootsPrefix-added to the beginning of a root word to make it more specificSuffix-added to the end of the root word for specificityLinking or combining vowels-placed in between word parts to help with pronunciation. For example, TIP #2 - The definitions of root words, prefixes and suffixes remain the same when they are combined to produce different terms. Here are three examples: A. The root word for skin is derm. Its combining forms are derma-, dermat-, dermot-, ;and dermo- . Look at some medical terms utilizing this root.
A suffix is found after the word root(s) and can also change the meaning or function of the word root. It can modify its forms to a different part of speech (a noun, a verb or an adjective) or may refer to a condition, disorder of a part of the body or medical procedure to treat it. Another example: the prefixes ‘a’ or ‘an’ are much used in medical terminology and mean without for example: anaemia: an = without/lack of, aemia = blood. anorexia: an = without, orexia pertains to the appetite (anorexia = without appetite).
Medical Definition of ECLAMPSIA. : a convulsive state: an attack of convulsions: as a: convulsions or coma late in pregnancy in an individual affected with preeclampsia—compare toxemia of pregnancy b: a condition comparable to milk fever of cows occurring in domestic animals (as dogs and cats). 