Thyroid peroxidase (TPO), an enzyme normally found in the thyroid gland, plays an important role in the production of thyroid hormones. A TPO test detects antibodies against TPO in the blood.
Testing for thyroid antibodies, such as thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO), is primarily ordered to help diagnose an autoimmune thyroid disease and to distinguish it from other forms of thyroid dysfunction.
The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissue.
Thyroid peroxidase test is a test that measures the level of an antibody that is directed against thyroid peroxidase (TPO). Autoantibodies to thyroid peroxidase (TPOAb) are produced within the body. The presence of TPOAb in the blood reflects a prior attack on the thyroid tissue by the body's immune system.
One or more thyroid antibody tests may also be ordered to determine if a person with an autoimmune condition is at risk of developing thyroid dysfunction. This may occur with disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, or pernicious anemia.
Antibodies that attack the thyroid gland cause inflammation and impaired function of the thyroid. Your doctor may also order a TPO antibody test if you are pregnant and have an autoimmune disease, especially one that involves the thyroid, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. Some people with TPO antibodies may not have thyroid disease.
This blood test looks for antibodies made by your body in response to thyroglobulin, a protein made by the thyroid gland. The thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland in the lower-front of your neck that makes the hormones T3 and T4.
This test measures the amount of thyroid antibodies in your blood. The test can help find out whether you have a problem with your thyroid. Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland located near the base of your throat above your collarbone. The thyroid makes two hormones, T3 and T4.