Tsunami-Tsunamis are ocean waves produced by earthquakes or underwater landslides. The word is Japanese and means harbor wave, because of the devastating effects these waves have had on low-lying Japanese coastal communities. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a tsunami is a large sea wave caused by an earthquake, landslide or other disturbance under the ocean. A large and destructive wave created by an earthquake is an example of a tsunami. pl. -·mis or -·mi. noun. A very large ocean wave caused by an underwater earthquake or volcanic eruption. Japanese: tsu, harbor + nami, wave (so called because tsunamis generally pass unnoticed on the open sea, causing a slight swell, but rise to cause damage in the shallow waters of harbors).
: a very high, large wave in the ocean that is usually caused by an earthquake under the sea and that can cause great destruction when it reaches land. plural tsunamis also tsunami. Full Definition of TSUNAMI. : a great sea wave produced especially by submarine earth movement or volcanic eruption: tidal wave. — tsu·na·mic \-mik\ adjective. See tsunami defined for English-language learners. See tsunami defined for kids.
Answer: A tsunami is a giant wave (or series of waves) created by an undersea earthquake, volcanic eruption or landslide. Tsunamis are often called tidal waves, but this is not an accurate description because tides have little effect on giant tsunami waves. 
A tsunami is a series of waves caused by earthquakes or undersea volcanic eruptions. On Nov. 18, 1929, a magnitude 7.4 Mw earthquake occurred. south of Newfoundland along the southern edge of the Grand Banks, Canada. This illustration, called a Tsunami Time Travel Map, shows the arrival times of tsunami waves. Tsunamis are giant waves caused by earthquakes or volcanic eruptions under the sea. Out in the depths of the ocean, tsunami waves do not dramatically increase in height.
1. (Physical Geography) a large, often destructive, sea wave produced by a submarine earthquake, subsidence, or volcanic eruption. Sometimes incorrectly called a tidal wave. 2. a sudden increase in or overwhelming number or volume of: the tsunami of Olympic visitors. n. pl. tsu·na·mis or tsunami. A very large ocean wave caused by an underwater earthquake or volcanic eruption. [Japanese : , harbor +. , wave (so called because tsunamis generally pass unnoticed on the open sea, causing a slight swell, but rise to cause damage in the shallow waters of harbors).]. tsu·na′mic (-mĭk) adj.
Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions (including detonations of underwater nuclear devices), landslides, glacier calvings, meteorite impacts and other disturbances above or below water all have the potential to generate a tsunami. The term tsunami, meaning harbor wave in literal translation, comes from the Japanese 津波, composed of the two kanji 津 (tsu) meaning  harbor  and 波 (nami), meaning  wave . (For the plural, one can either follow ordinary English practice and add an s, or use an invariable plural as in the Japanese.
A tsunami (plural: tsunamis or tsunami; from Japanese: 津波, lit. harbor wave; English pronunciation: /tsuːˈnɑːmi/) , also known as a seismic sea wave, is a series of waves in a water body caused by the displacement of a large volume of water, generally in an ocean or a large lake. The term tsunami, meaning harbor wave in literal translation, comes from the Japanese 津波, composed of the two kanji 津 (tsu) meaning  harbor  and 波 (nami), meaning  wave . (For the plural, one can either follow ordinary English practice and add an s, or use an invariable plural as in the Japanese.