The actual cost of a fiberglass roof depends on the exact type of roofing material, the local economy, the complexity of the installation, and other factors. The following figures are only meant to provide a general overview of fiberglass roof pricing. 1  Fiberglass roof panels cost $2 to $4 per square foot installed.
1 Fiberglass roof shingles cost $2.50 to $5 per square foot installed ($3,750 to $7,500). 2  Removing and disposing of your existing roof might cost an additional $1 to $4 per square foot ($1,500 to $6,000).
A properly laid fibreglass roof also known as GRP Roofing, will last for at least 30 years with no measurable deterioration. The roof must be laid onto a dry deck in dry conditions at a temperature not below 5°C.
1 Low-Cost: Fiberglass is, on average, 50% to 60% cheaper than traditional roofing materials such as asphalt shingles, wood, and metal. 2  Much of the savings can be attributed to the fact that fiberglass is lightweight and malleable, making it extremely easily to install.
UK-wide specialists in grp or fibreglass roofing. At Proplas we specialise solely in grp fibreglass roofing and, with 30 years of experience, we’re able to deliver the highest quality flat roof system available. We undertake all types of grp fibreglass projects for domestic and commercial properties.
We think you will be pleasantly surprised by the cost of a new flat roof from Strand GRP. Because a fibreglass roof will last 3 to 4 times longer than a traditional felt covered roof, you would be forgiven for thinking that that it might cost 3 to 4 times as much. Thankfully this isn’t the case.
Fibreglass roof cost per square metre – GRP fibreglass prices. A modern fibreglass GRP flat roof system with specialised roofing grade resins. I charge £90 per m 2 if the boards underneath are in good condition, but the price does include over boarding with new OSB3 which is essential to adhere a new fibreglass roof to.
Many of the first GRP roofs laid. more than 35 years ago are still in service today! At American Flat Roof we are proud to offer both domestic and commercial roofing packages. We offer professional advice based on our 25 year experience in the fiberglass industry.