Ted Annis (February 2, 1980), is a Canadian professional wrestler better known by his ring name Teddy Hart. He wrestled in Wrestling Society X on MTV, and operates a wrestling school in Calgary. He debuted for the Mexican promotion AAA on their Guerra de Titanes show on November 30, 2007. Hart is a third generation member of the Hart wrestling family. He is the grandson of Stu Hart, and the nephew of Bret Hart, Owen Hart, Bruce Hart, Jim Neidhart and Davey Boy Smith. His mother is Georgia Hart and his father is B.J. Annis, a gym proprietor, fitness guru and a former wrestler
The Hart family is one of the most well-known professional wrestling families in history. The patriarch of the family, Stu Hart was a professional wrestler and a trainer as well as the owner of Stampede Wrestling. Many of his children became professional wrestlers. The family connection played a role in two major WWF storylines. Four of the Hart brothers (Bret, Owen, Keith, and Bruce) formed a team at Survivor Series 1993. Animosity began to build between Bret and Owen, and Owen turned on Bret at Royal Rumble 1994.
The Hart wrestling family is a Canadian family with a significant history within professional wrestling. The patriarch of the family was wrestling legend, WWE Hall of Famer and Order of Canada recipient Stu Hart (1915–2003). The family connection played a role in two major WWF storylines. Four of the Hart brothers (Bret, Owen, Keith, and Bruce) formed a team at Survivor Series 1993. Animosity began to build between Bret and Owen, and Owen turned on Bret at Royal Rumble 1994.
Teddy Hart. Ted Annis is the son of Georgia Hart and B.J. Annis. Ted became the first third-generation Hart to be featured on national TV when he was featured on a few Total Nonstop Action shows and when he became a star of the short-lived MTV broadcast wrestling promotion Wrestling Society X.
Teddy Hart’s father, B.J. Annis, is a former wrestler and the owner of East Village’s now-shuttered BJ’s Gym. His uncle, Bret “Hitman” Hart, is a retired professional wrestler who found success with the World Wrestling Federation (now World Wresting Entertainment). His grandfather, the late Stu Hart, founded the legendary Stampede Wrestling, a venture Teddy Hart has tried to relaunch over the last few years.
Hart debuted in July 1995 at Rockyford, Alberta, where he teamed up with his brother, Matthew, and defeated his cousin, Harry Smith, and TJ Wilson. In the Calgary-based Stampede Wrestling promotion, Hart teamed with Smith, Wilson and Jack Evans. On September 13, 2006, Hart and Corino wrestled in a grudge match at Pro Wrestling Xplosion's debut show Lighting the Fuse at the infamous ECW Arena. The match ended in a no contest after the referee, who was associated with Corino, claimed that Hart had submitted when he had not.
Published on: December 4, 2014 | Last Updated: December 4, 2014 6:21 PM MDT. Wrestler Teddy Hart, grandson of Stu Hart, is pictured with his cat Mr. Money at the Tsuu T'ina reserve in Calgary, Alberta on September 8, 2011. Leah Hennel / Calgary Herald. His uncle, Bret “Hitman” Hart, is a retired professional wrestler who found success with the World Wrestling Federation (now World Wresting Entertainment). His grandfather, the late Stu Hart, founded the legendary Stampede Wrestling, a venture Teddy Hart has tried to relaunch over the last few years.
1 Teddy Hart is the son of Hart Family member Georgia Hart, and the nephew of Bret & Owen Hart.. 2  October 5, 1996 – WWF House Show (Calgary): Ted Annis (16) & Harry Smith (10) defeated T.J. Wilson (16) & Andrew Picarnia.. 
Theodore Teddy Annis was born February the 2nd, 1980 in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. He is the eldest child of B. J. Annis and Georgia Hart. His ring name is Teddy Hart. He is the grandson of Stu and Helen Hart of the famous Hart Family. He became the youngest wrestler to sign with the WWE, but then was released because of attitude problems. He ... 
Biography. Ted Hart is in the 3rd generation of wrestlers in the Hart/ Annis family. He stars in Wrestling Society X and has won many championships in other wrestling leagues. He was successful because he was trained by Stu Hart his grandfather and Bruce Hart his brother. 