Definition of ZYGOTE INTRAFALLOPIAN TRANSFER. : a method of assisting reproduction in cases of infertility that is similar to gamete intrafallopian transfer but in which eggs are fertilized in vitro and some of the resulting fertilized eggs are inserted into a fallopian tube —abbreviation ZIFT. ADVERTISEMENT. : a method of assisting reproduction in cases of infertility in which eggs are obtained from an ovary and fertilized with sperm in vitro and the resulting fertilized eggs are inserted into a fallopian tube by a laparoscope—abbreviation ZIFT; compare gamete intrafallopian transfer.
One of the main differences between this procedure and in vitro fertilization (IVF) and zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT) procedures is that with GIFT the fertilization process takes place inside the fallopian tube rather than in a laboratory. However, healthy tubes are necessary for GIFT to work. 
Zygote Intrafallopian Transfer is used where a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg. 
Because the fertilized egg is transferred directly into the tubes, the procedure is also referred to as tubal embryo transfer (TET). This procedure can be more successful than gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) because your physician has a greater chance of insuring that the egg is fertilized. 1 ZIFT transfers the fertilized embryo into the fallopian tube whereas the IVF and embryo transfer procedures result in the fertilized embryo being placed into the uterus. 2  The ZIFT procedure differs from IVF in that the transfer of embryos into the tube requires an extra surgical procedure called laparoscopy.
Zygote Intrafallopian Transfer (ZIFT). ZIFT is an assisted reproductive procedure designed to transfer the fertilized embryo into the fallopian tube instead of the uterus. The eggs are retrieved vaginally, using ultrasound guidance, and then inseminated with the male partner’s sperm in the laboratory for fertilization.
Gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) uses multiple eggs collected from the ovaries. The eggs are placed into a thin flexible tube (catheter) along with the sperm to be used. The gametes (both eggs and sperm) are then injected into the fallopian tubes using a surgical procedure called laparoscopy. The doctor will use general anesthesia. Zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT) combines in vitro fertilization (IVF) and GIFT. The goal is for the zygote to implant in the uterus and develop into a fetus. Pronuclear stage tubal transfer (PROST) , similar to ZIFT, uses in vitro fertilization. But it transfers the fertilized egg to the fallopian tube before cell division occurs.
Reviewed by the BabyCenter Medical Advisory Board. Last updated: December 2014. Zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT) is similar to in vitro fertilization (IVF) and GIFT, but in this procedure eggs are fertilized in a lab before a doctor places them inside your fallopian tubes. These fertilized eggs are called zygotes – one-celled embryos that have not yet begun to divide into multiple cells. 
Zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT) is an infertility treatment used when a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg. Egg cells are removed from a woman's ovaries, and in vitro fertilised. The resulting zygote is placed into the fallopian tube by the use of laparoscopy. The procedure is a spin-off of the gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) procedure. ZIFT has a success rate of 64.8% in all cases.
ZIFT is an assisted reproductive procedure similar to in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer, the difference being that the fertilized embryo is transferred into the fallopian tube instead of the uterus. 1 ZIFT transfers the fertilized embryo into the fallopian tube whereas the IVF and embryo transfer procedures result in the fertilized embryo being placed into the uterus. 2  The ZIFT procedure differs from IVF in that the transfer of embryos into the tube requires an extra surgical procedure called laparoscopy.
Zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT): A technique in which a woman's egg is fertilized outside the body, then implanted in one of her fallopian tubes. This technique is one of the methods used to overcome infertility, the inability of couples to produce offspring on their own. 