Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Nkandla hotels (with best discount rates and up-to-date hotel deals) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed! 3D map of Nkandla in South Africa. You can also dive right into Nkandla on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Nkandla 3D map within your web browser.
President Jacob Zuma is expanding his remote family homestead at Nkandla in rural KwaZulu-Natal for a whopping price of R65-million—and the taxpayer is footing the largest chunk of the bill. President Jacob Zuma is expanding his remote family homestead at Nkandla in rural KwaZulu-Natal for a whopping price of R65-million. Phase one of the project, comprising two houses, one of them a double-storey structure, and a guesthouse, is already under way. (Rogan Ward).
The promotion of nkandla as a tourist mecca is the priority of the municipality. This region is the cradle of zulu history and with beautiful indigenous forests, mountains and rivers, tourists have much to enjoy here. 
Nkandla /ɪnˈkʌntlʌ/ is the private home of South African President Jacob Zuma, situated about 24 km (15 mi) south of the town of Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal (28°50’42.73″ S 31°05’59.47″ E). There has been public controversy about the use of public funds to make improvements to the compound which were said to be for security reasons which cost over R 246 million. A report of the Public Protector has found that Zuma unduly benefited from these improvements.
Mandy Rossouw. President Jacob Zuma is expanding his remote family homestead at Nkandla in rural KwaZulu-Natal for a whopping price of R65-million. Phase one of the project, comprising two houses, one of them a double-storey structure, and a guesthouse, is already under way. (Rogan Ward).
Nkandla is situated in a remote area of breathtaking mountainous beauty, which consists mainly of tribal lands and state-owned land. The area has a wealth of undisturbed forests, which boast many indigenous species. Nkandla has a claim to be the ‘cradle’ of Zulu history. Nkandla Forest: Throughout Zulu history the beautiful indigenous Nkandla forest has been a place of mystery, a stronghold and a place of retreat. It is a high wet rain forest and home to the endangered rare Karkloof Blue butterfly. Metalworkers crafted King Shaka’s dreaded short-shafted stabbing assegais here.
Nkandla is a place with a very small population in the province of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa which is located in the continent/region of Africa. 
detailed map of Nkandla and near places. Welcome to the Nkandla google satellite map! This place is situated in Nkandla (O), KwazuluNatal, South Africa, its geographical coordinates are 28° 37' 0 South, 31° 5' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Nkandla. See Nkandla photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Nkandla in South Africa. 3D map of Nkandla in South Africa. You can also dive right into Nkandla on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Nkandla 3D map within your web browser.