1 An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel or cardiac chamber swells. 2  An aneurysm can occur in any part of the body, though they often occur on the wall of the aorta. 3  The two main types of aneurysms are aortic aneurysms and cerebral aneurysms. 4  Aneurysms are most common in men and people over 65 years of age. Knowledge center. An aneurysm occurs when part of a blood vessel (artery) or cardiac chamber swells, - either the blood vessel is damaged, or there is a weakness in the wall of the blood vessel. As blood pressure builds up it balloons out at its weakest point.
Sudden thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a rare condition with a high mortality rate. We describe a case of acute thrombosis of the abdominal aorta in a patient who experienced a sudden loss of motor function in both legs. Acute thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm has a low incidence rate of 0.7–2.8% of all surgically managed AAAs. Mortality rates are described as up to 59% in the limited available literature. 2 The high mortality of thrombosed AAAs can attribute to under detection and therefore underreporting.
Acute thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm can present with an acute neurological deficit of the lower extremities. Awareness and subsequent prompt diagnosis of an acute AAA thrombosis to prevent prolonged ischemia is essential. Open surgical management can lead to a successful outcome. Acute thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm has a low incidence rate of 0.7–2.8% of all surgically managed AAAs. Mortality rates are described as up to 59% in the limited available literature. 2 The high mortality of thrombosed AAAs can attribute to under detection and therefore underreporting.
Aneurysms can also occur within the heart itself. As an aneurysm increases in size, the risk of rupture increases. A ruptured aneurysm can lead to bleeding and subsequent hypovolemic shock, leading to death. Aneurysms are a result of a weakened blood vessel wall, and can be a result of a hereditary condition or an acquired disease. Aneurysms can also be a nidus for clot formation (thrombosis) and embolization.
Sudden thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is a rare condition, but should be taken into consideration in patients with acute neurological deficits of the lower extremities. Acute thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm has a low incidence rate of 0.7–2.8% of all surgically managed AAAs. Mortality rates are described as up to 59% in the limited available literature. 2 The high mortality of thrombosed AAAs can attribute to under detection and therefore underreporting.
An aneurysm or aneurism (from Greek: ἀνεύρυσμα, aneurysma, dilation, from ἀνευρύνειν, aneurynein, to dilate) is a localized, blood-filled balloon-like bulge in the wall of a blood vessel. A ruptured aneurysm can lead to bleeding and subsequent hypovolemic shock, leading to death. Aneurysms are a result of a weakened blood vessel wall, and can be a result of a hereditary condition or an acquired disease. Aneurysms can also be a nidus for clot formation (thrombosis) and embolization.
Thrombosis (Greek: θρόμβωσις) is the formation of a blood clot (thrombus; Greek: θρόμβος) inside a blood vessel, obstructing the flow of blood through the circulatory system. When a blood vessel is injured, the body uses platelets (thrombocytes) and fibrin to form a blood clot to prevent blood loss. 
Thrombosed aneurysm means there is clot within it. Clot can form within the aneurysm from different factors. Slowing & turbulence of blood flow are common factors. Reconstituted aneurysm means the aneurysm which has been repaired. Hope this information will help you. Wish her a healthy life. Any query, please ask. What exactly is a thrombosed aneurysm? I know what an aneurysm is, but what does thrombosed mean? It is in relation to a reconstituted aorto-bifemoral blockage-which I'm not too sure what that means either.
Discussion. Sudden thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is a rare condition, but should be taken into consideration in patients with acute neurological deficits of the lower extremities. Prompt diagnosis and surgical management can lead to a successful outcome. Acute thrombosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm has a low incidence rate of 0.7–2.8% of all surgically managed AAAs. Mortality rates are described as up to 59% in the limited available literature. 2 The high mortality of thrombosed AAAs can attribute to under detection and therefore underreporting.