With the same cost structure for a 500 square foot driveway repair, the cost per square foot would be $300 + 500*$5 = $2800, or $5.60 per square foot. As you can see, the size of the job has a significant cost on the unit price (price per square foot). The alternative to concrete leveling is concrete replacement. Cost of Concrete Leveling. In general, concrete leveling costs about half the price of concrete replacement. The cost of concrete leveling is broken down into two components: fixed costs and variable costs. This post is about the cost of concrete leveling for exterior jobs such as sidewalk repair and driveway repair.
Concrete leveling, or mudjacking, as it is sometimes called, is a very cost-efficient way to fix concrete problems. It is a fraction of the cost of breaking up, removing and replacing concrete. Therefore, it can offer an economical fix to a potentially large repair cost. The concrete leveling machine is cumbersome and bulky. Therefore, it is difficult to get it close to a confined area. It will cost $5 to $8 per square foot of concrete to level a typical job. It can cost as much as $15 per square foot if you need extra slurry and it takes extra labor to get the machine into position, or you need to resod a part of your lawn after the job is completed
Concrete floors are common in basements and garages. Though concrete floors are durable, your floor may develop problems over time. It may not be quite level or may have dips in the surface, which can make it difficult to walk across the floor or to add a new floor covering, such as tile. 1. Sweep the floor to remove general dust and debris. Use a mop to remove fine dust. Scrub gently using a mild cleaner, like dish soap or a little TSP -- trisodium phosphate -- in water and a soft-bristle scrubbing brush or a push broom. If you have oil stains, remove them by scrubbing with a little bleach.
1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase). 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the
If you just need to level it then this is fairly simple. A contractor can just pour self-leveling concrete slurry on the floor to level it out. What this will cost is dependent on where you are and labor and material rates in your area. In my area this all could be done for $1,500 or less. If you want a finished, polished concrete floor, then you are looking at more like $5-10,000 depending on access and room sizes. You'd need to call some local contractors to get a valid price for your area. The process for leveling can be done in 2-3 days depending on how much prep is involved.
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.
Time: 01:16. Advantages of using self-leveling overlays. Self-leveling overlay systems for concrete floors offer numerous advantages. They can correct uneven floors, repair damaged concrete, and provide a smooth and durable new surface for decorative treatments.
Running a business isn’t cheap. Production concrete leveling trucks can cost more than $100,000. Generally, the cost of concrete leveling is a few dollars a square foot. For very small jobs, the square footage price will be much higher than that, because the fixed costs are allocated to just a few square feet. Cost of Concrete Leveling. In general, concrete leveling costs about half the price of concrete replacement. The cost of concrete leveling is broken down into two components: fixed costs and variable costs. This post is about the cost of concrete leveling for exterior jobs such as sidewalk repair and driveway repair.