Melanoma, also known as malignant melanoma, is a type of cancer that develops from the pigment-containing cells known as melanocytes. Melanomas typically occur in the skin but may rarely occur in the mouth, intestines, or eye. In women they most commonly occur on the legs, while in men they are most common on the back. 
Melanoma. Melanomas can develop anywhere on your body. They most often develop in areas that have had exposure to the sun, such as your back, legs, arms and face. Melanomas can also occur in areas that don't receive much sun exposure, such as the soles of your feet, palms of your hands and fingernail beds. 
Skin cancers are cancers that arise from the skin. They are due to the development of abnormal cells that have the ability to invade or spread to other parts of the body. There are three main types: basal-cell cancer (BCC), squamous-cell cancer (SCC) and melanoma. Of nonmelanoma skin cancers, about 80% are basal-cell cancers and 20% squamous-cell cancers. Basal-cell and squamous-cell cancers rarely result in death. In the United States they were the cause of less than 0.1% of all cancer deaths.
General Discussion. Malignant Melanoma is a common skin cancer that arises from the melanin cells within the upper layer of the skin (epidermis) or from similar cells that may be found in moles (nevi). This type of skin cancer may send down roots into deeper layers of the skin. 
The most dangerous form of skin cancer, these cancerous growths develop when unrepaired DNA damage to skin cells (most often caused by ultraviolet radiation from sunshine or tanning beds) triggers mutations (genetic defects) that lead the skin cells to multiply rapidly and form malignant tumors. 
Causes Of Melanoma. Ultraviolet rays Most skin cancers are caused by too much exposure to the sun’s ultraviolet (UV) rays. The two types of UV rays that cause melanoma are UV-A and UV-B rays. UV-A rays are fairly constant throughout the year, and contribute to aging and wrinkling of the skin. Melanoma is one of the fastest growing cancers worldwide, especially in young women under 30. However, most melanoma is curable in its early stages, with an over 90% survival rate. The sun’s rays that nourish and energize the human body are unfortunately also a main cause of melanoma.
Information about melanoma, a type of skin cancer. It can develop from abnormal moles. There is information about symptoms and causes, tests to diagnose melanoma, treatment for early melanoma (surgery) and advanced melanoma (chemotherapy, biological therapy, radiotherapy, and surgery) and current research. Living with melanoma skin cancer covers coping with your diagnosis and looking after your skin.
About Melanoma of the Skin. Melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in melanocytes (cells that color the skin). The skin is the body's largest organ. It protects against heat, sunlight, injury, and infection. Skin also helps control body temperature and stores water, fat, and vitamin D. Treatments for melanoma (an aggressive type of skin cancer) that has spread to other tissues. There are no randomised trials comparing the effects of systemic therapies for metastatic cutaneous melanoma with best supportive care or placebo. Cutaneous melanoma is the most aggressive form of skin cancer.
Where skin cancer develops. Melanoma occurs when something goes awry in the melanin-producing cells (melanocytes) that give color to your skin. Normally, skin cells develop in a controlled and orderly way — healthy new cells push older cells toward your skin's surface, where they die and eventually fall off. It's likely that a combination of factors, including environmental and genetic factors, causes melanoma. Still, doctors believe exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation from the sun and from tanning lamps and beds is the leading cause of melanoma.