Most municipalities with an approved official plan have specific policies and requirements for land severance. In addition to the division of land, rights-of-way, easements and any change to your existing property boundaries also require land severance approval. 
Easements are legal documents that give access rights to a person who is not the owner of the property. The standard reasons to have an easement is for service companies to gain access to their structures that may cross your property such as electricity pylons, telegraph poles, water and sewage pipes. Easements are also often used to define the shared use of a drive or a drive that crosses a neighbor's property. In addition to trails and roadways these will be shown in your property title deeds and you will need to refer to these to establish if you have a case for legal action.
Many properties are sold every day and the location of an easement or right-of-way has little or no effect on the transaction. In other cases, the location of easements or rights-of-way may have a very significant impact. In all cases, however, it is important that the purchaser know where registered easements are located and what restrictions accompany them. Easements remain on the title until the holder of the easement discharges their rights from the certificate of title. An easement or right-of-way usually describes a particular portion of property, and although not visible on the ground, provides an area of access to the holder of the easement or right-of-way.
An easement is a non-possessory right to use and/or enter onto the real property of another without possessing it. It is best typified in the right of way which one landowner, A, may enjoy over the land of another, B. 1 This is a private easement and the rights granted by the property owner are for the specific use of communications. 2  Ingress/Egress easement. 3  This easement can be used for entering and exiting a property through or over the easement area.
(877) 848-5337. Property easements typically refers to a specific real estate ownership portion. For every parcel of real estate, there are a bundle of rights associated with the ownership. This bundle of rights includes most of the commonly known rights, such as the surface rights, and structures on the property. There may also be easements granted to other parties, to allow access or right to use a portion of the land for a special purpose. It normally does not grant possession or a license. An easement normally benefits another parcel of land. 
An easement in gross is not appurtenant to any estate in land. It arises when a servient piece of land exists without a dominant piece being affected. This type of easement is ordinarily personal to the holder and does not run with the land. easement. n. the right to use the real property of another for a specific purpose. The easement is itself a real property interest, but legal title to the underlying land is retained by the original owner for all other purposes.
The agreement defines all the rights and obligations of the holder of the easement or right-of-way and the restrictions that are placed upon the property subject to the agreement. A blanket easement may cover an entire parcel of land —not only the specific location of a utility structure. Easements remain on the title until the holder of the easement discharges their rights from the certificate of title. An easement or right-of-way usually describes a particular portion of property, and although not visible on the ground, provides an area of access to the holder of the easement or right-of-way.
For existing easements or rights-of-way, the first sources of information are the plans and documents registered at the Land Titles Office. Once the easement or right-of-way is identified, the next source of information is usually the holder. Easements remain on the title until the holder of the easement discharges their rights from the certificate of title. An easement or right-of-way usually describes a particular portion of property, and although not visible on the ground, provides an area of access to the holder of the easement or right-of-way.
There are various ways in which easements are created. An express easement is clearly stated in a contract, deed, or will. An easement by implication occurs when the owner of a piece of land divides such land into smaller pieces and sells a smaller piece to another person, retaining a right to enter such piece of land. easement. n. the right to use the real property of another for a specific purpose. The easement is itself a real property interest, but legal title to the underlying land is retained by the original owner for all other purposes.