Definition. An arteriogram is an imaging test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see inside the arteries. It can be used to view arteries in the heart, brain, kidney, and other parts of the body. The procedure is often called angiography
During an arteriogram, a dye is injected into an artery making the arteries visible on X-ray. Many arteries can be examined by an arteriogram, including the arterial systems of the legs, kidneys, brain, and heart. Fluoroscopy is often used during an arteriogram. Fluoroscopy is the study of moving body structures — similar to an X-ray movie.. A continuous X-ray beam is passed through the body part being examined, and is transmitted to a TV-like monitor so that the body part and its motion can be seen in detail.
An arteriogram has three major steps: the insertion of a small catheter into the artery, the injection of contrast with X-ray pictures and the removal of the catheter. Most often, the femoral artery in your groin is used to do the study. The area is washed with brown soap and a sterile drape is placed over it. About the Arteriogram Procedure. An arteriogram is a special X-ray examination of your arteries. An interventional radiologist performs this X-ray by inserting a catheter, or thin tube, into one of your arteries through a tiny hole the size of a pencil tip.
An arteriogram, also called an angiogram, is an X-ray image of the blood vessels. It is performed to evaluate various vascular conditions, such as an aneurysm (ballooning of a blood vessel), stenosis (narrowing of a blood vessel), or blockages. A cerebral arteriogram is an arteriogram of the blood vessels of the brain. A cerebral arteriogram may be performed to locate clips on blood vessels placed during previous surgical procedures, and/or to evaluate the condition of such clipped vessels after a clipping procedure.
An arteriogram, also called an angiogram, is an X-ray image of the blood vessels. It is performed to evaluate various vascular conditions, such as an aneurysm (ballooning of a blood vessel), stenosis (narrowing of a blood vessel), or blockages. A cerebral arteriogram is an arteriogram of the blood vessels of the brain. An arteriogram involves inserting an arterial catheter (a long thin tube) into a large blood vessel and injecting contrast dye. This contrast dye causes the blood vessels to appear opaque on the X-ray image.
An arteriogram is an X-ray of the blood vessels called arteries. It is performed to evaluate various vascular conditions, such as an aneurysm (a bulging, weakened area in the wall of a blood vessel), stenosis (narrowing of a blood vessel), or blockages. Other names for this procedure are angiogram and arteriography. Fluoroscopy is often used during an arteriogram. Fluoroscopy is the study of moving body structures — similar to an X-ray movie.. A continuous X-ray beam is passed through the body part being examined, and is transmitted to a TV-like monitor so that the body part and its motion can be seen in detail.
Angiogram is commonly used as a synonym of arteriogram, despite the fact that while all arteriograms (images of arteries) are angiograms (images of blood vessels), not all angiograms are arteriograms, given that angiograms also include venograms (images of veins). 
Angiography, angiogram, arteriogram are all terms used to identify a procedure that outlines blood vessels, usually arteries, in various areas in the body. Cardiac arteriograms, also called a Heart Cath or Cardiac Cath, outline the arteries of the heart. 
An arteriogram is a procedure that produces an image of your arteries. Your doctor will use dye (called “contrast material”) and X-rays to observe the flow of blood through your arteries and observe any blockage. This procedure, also known as an angiogram, can be done on many different parts of the body. The terms “arteriogram” and “angiogram” (and the related “arteriography” and “angiography”) are not specific to a particular part of the body. They simply refer to a particular method of observing your arteries.