Metallic-Minerals with a metallic luster are opaque and reflective, like metal. The metal lic elements, most sulfides, and some oxides belong in this category. Submetallic-Describes a mineral that is opaque to nearly opaque and reflects well. Thin splinters or sections of submetallic minerals are translucent. Minerals with a pitchy luster are usually radioactive and have gone through the process of metamiction. Waxy-A waxy luster describes a mineral that appears as if it were coated with a layer wax. Dull-This luster defines minerals with poor reflective qualities, much like unglazed porcelain.
Nonmetallic Luster. There are a number of different nonmetallic lusters. A. Vitreous. Also called glassy. Examples include quartz and tourmaline. B. Resinous. Minerals that look like resin (a little bit like the look of plastic). Examples include sulfur and sphalerite. C. Pearly. Minerals with a pearl-like, iridescent luster. Talc is a good example
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. To determine what type of luster a mineral would have that looked like plastic you would first need to know what type of plastic it replicated. A dull plastic such as that of a milk jug would be considered a resinous luster. If the plastic was very shiny or polished looking it would be a vitreous luster. 
1 Non-metallic-all the other ways that a mineral can shine. 2  Glassy/vitreous-shines like a piece of broken glass (most common non-metallic). 3  Dull/earthy-no shine at all. 4  Resinous/waxy-looks like a piece of plastic or dried glue. 5  Pearly-looks oily it may have a slight rainbow like an oil slick on water. 1 Glassy/vitreous-shines like a piece of broken glass (most common non-metallic). 2  Dull/earthy-no shine at all. 3  Resinous/waxy-looks like a piece of plastic or dried glue. 4
some minerals have a metallic lustre, like galena (PbS) ans look like pieces of metal. Most minerals (maybe all?) with metallic lustre are opaque (do not alow light through). Luster (or Lustre) is a description of the way light interacts with the surface of a crystal,rock or mineral-For example a metallic lustre or silky lustre.
uster is the way light reflects off a mineral. The two major divisions of luster are metallic and nonmetallic. A mineral that has a metallic luster looks like polished metal. Gold, aluminum, lead and copper all have metallic lusters. Minerals with metallic lusters that are not bright and shiny have dull metallic luster. Metallic luster Metallic luster. Mineral specimens often display different lusters as they weather.
1 Metallic-looks like shiney metal. 2  Non-metallic-all the other ways that a mineral can shine. 3  Glassy/vitreous-shines like a piece of broken glass (most common non-metallic). 4  Dull/earthy-no shine at all. 5  Resinous/waxy-looks like a piece of plastic or dried glue. 1 Glassy/vitreous-shines like a piece of broken glass (most common non-metallic). 2  Dull/earthy-no shine at all. 3  Resinous/waxy-looks like a piece of plastic or dried glue. 4  Pearly-looks oily it may have a slight rainbow like an oil slick on water.
Every mineral has a characteristic luster, but some minerals may have a different luster on different specimens. There is no scientific method to determine luster. Often, determining the luster of a particular specimen is personal; to some it may appear as one type of luster, and to others as a different type. Minerals with a pitchy luster are usually radioactive and have gone through the process of metamiction. Waxy-A waxy luster describes a mineral that appears as if it were coated with a layer wax. Dull-This luster defines minerals with poor reflective qualities, much like unglazed porcelain.
Pitchy-Minerals with a tar-like appearence have a pitchy luster. Minerals with a pitchy luster are usually radioactive and have gone through the process of metamiction. Waxy-A waxy luster describes a mineral that appears as if it were coated with a layer wax. Dull-This luster defines minerals with poor reflective qualities, much like unglazed porcelain.
Types of Luster. 1  Metallic-looks like shiney metal. 2  Non-metallic-all the other ways that a mineral can shine. 3  Glassy/vitreous-shines like a piece of broken glass (most common non-metallic). 4  Dull/earthy-no shine at all. 5  Resinous/waxy-looks like a piece of plastic or dried glue. 1 Glassy/vitreous-shines like a piece of broken glass (most common non-metallic). 2  Dull/earthy-no shine at all. 3  Resinous/waxy-looks like a piece of plastic or dried glue. 4  Pearly-looks oily it may have a slight rainbow like an oil slick on water.