Inductive passive sensors Signal processing Wheel speed sensors are installed directly above the pulse wheel, which is connected to the wheel hub or the drive shaft. The pole pin inside a coil is connected to a permanent magnet and the magnetic field extends to the pulse wheel. The changing magnetic field induces an alternating voltage in the coil that can be measured. The frequencies and amplitudes of the alternating voltage are related to the wheel speed (Fig. 1) . Passive inductive sensors do not need a separate power supply from the control unit. As the signal range for signal detection is defined by the control unit, the amplitudes must be within a voltage range
Introduction. There are at least two distinct speed sensors on a vehicle. The first is a magnetic signal generator that, when spun, generates an electrical pulse that is used by the computer. The speed sensor on a conventional rear-wheel-drive transmission is located in the rear tail housing of the transmission. It is driven by a gear located in the tail housing. On a front-wheel-drive vehicle, the speed sensor is located on top of the differential housing on the transmission, close to the drive axle. The second type of speed sensor is incorporated on all vehicles that have ABS brakes. These ABS systems have a computer delegated to the ABS, a set of four speed sensors located near the wheels and an actuator downstream from the master cylinder that controls the circuit.
ABS Speed Sensors. The second type of speed sensor is incorporated on all vehicles that have ABS brakes. These ABS systems have a computer delegated to the ABS, a set of four speed sensors located near the wheels and an actuator downstream from the master cylinder that controls the circuit.
Right Front Wheel Speed Sensor Is Open would mean that the control unit does not see the signal and there would possibly be a bad connection or damaged wire or sensor. Take your car to someone that can check the system properly. If you had given your car type We may have been able to help you more. 
Although rail vehicles occasionally do use drives without sensors, most need a rotary speed sensor for their regulator system. The most common type is a two-channel sensor that scans a toothed wheel on the motor shaft or gearbox and therefore does not require a bearing of its own. Wheel speed sensors are used in anti-lock braking systems in conjunction with the Electronic Stability Control system.
A wheel speed sensor, also called an ABS sensor, is part of the Anti-lock Brake System (ABS). It is located on the tires (near the brake rotors for the front tires and in the rear end housing for the rear tires). The job of the wheel speed sensor is to constantly monitor and report the rotational speed of each tire to the ABS control module.
A wheel speed sensor or vehicle speed sensor (VSS) is a type of tachometer. It is a sender device used for reading the speed of a vehicle's wheel rotation. Wheel speed sensors are used in anti-lock braking systems in conjunction with the Electronic Stability Control system.
Introduction: An ABS (Anti-lock Braking System) is an enhanced braking system which is commonly found in newer automobiles. An anti-lock brake sensor or ABS sensor is a type of tachometer that measures the rotational speed of a wheel and passes it to the car's Engine Control Module (ECM). The ABS sensor is also called the wheel speed sensor or ABS brake sensor. 
Report Abuse. A wheel speed sensor is an electronic device that measures the rate at which the individual wheels turn. Not coincindentally, these are located in the wheel hub area. It is not the same as a vehicle speed sensor which measures how fast the vehicle is traveling by taking readings off the transmission. RE: What is a wheel speed sensor and where is it located? Is the wheel speed sensor the same thing as a speed sensor? Is it easy to replace yourself or have it done by a mechanic?