A nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nitrogenous base. In RNA the sugar is ribose, in DNA it is deoxyribose. DNA contains the bases A, T, C and G. RNA contains … the bases A, U, C and G. A nucleotide consists of a nitrogenous base (adenine, thymine, cytosine, guanine, or uracil) which is connected to a deoxyribose sugar which in turn is bonded to a phosphate. … All bonds are covalent bonds within the nucleotide
DNA (or deoxyribonucleic acid) is the molecule that carries the genetic information in all cellular forms of life and some viruses. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components: 1  a nitrogenous base: cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A) or thymine (T). 2  a five-carbon sugar molecule (deoxyribose in the case of DNA).
Arthropod genes are made of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and are located in chromosomes that consist of proteins, RNA, and DNA. DNA is a polymer of nucleotides (nt). Each nucleotide consists of a pentose sugar, one of four nitrogenous bases, and a phosphoric acid component. 
The two DNA strands are known as polynucleotides since they are composed of simpler units called nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of a nitrogen-containing nucleobase —either cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A), or thymine (T)—as well as a monosaccharide sugar called deoxyribose and a phosphate group. 
Best Answer: DNA or known as Deoxyribonucleic Acid consists of two chains, strands composed of a large number of chemical compounds, called nucleotides, linked together to form a chain. These chains are arranged like a ladder that has been twisted into the shape of a winding staircase, called a double helix. Report Abuse. DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid) consists of a phosphate deoxyribose backbone structure with 1 of 4 nucleotides attached to it. The nucleotides are Adenine and Thymine (always pair together) and Cytosine and Guanine (also always pairing together).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A DNA molecule consists of two long polynucleotide chains composed of four types of nucleotide subunits. Each of these chains is known as a DNA chain, or a DNA strand. Hydrogen bonds between the base portions of the nucleotides hold the two chains together (Figure 4-3). As we saw in Chapter 2 (Panel 2-6, pp
DNA is a long string of these blocks or letters. Each nucleotide consists of a sugar (deoxyribose) bound on one side to a phosphate group and bound on the other side to a nitrogenous base. There are two classes of nitrogen bases called purines (double-ringed structures) and pyrimidines (single-ringed structures). The four bases in DNA's alphabet are: