I believe all Sikhs should be encouraged to do Simran in a systematic manner as a personal effort besides listening to tapes of mool mantar, and reciting it in Sangat. The Sikh method of Meditation/Simran is called Naam Japna - recitation of the name of Waheguru. It is to remember at all times that he is everything to us. Therefore regularly invoking his name and finally becoming one with him. We, as Sikhs, do not subscribe to idol worship. Though some Naam Simran sevaks might recommend that, in the initial stage, one can perhaps put a picture/painting of one of our Gurus, or a candle, as a focus point.
Simran is believed by Sikhs to be the sole object and occupation of the soul on a spiritual path. Fifth Guru Arjun Dev wrote 1  :  Bhalo samo simran kee bareeaa 2  ||. Auspicious is that time, when obtaining the opportunity to remember Him in meditation. Simran means to remember, and is a means of contemplative meditation using repetition which enables one to realize that they are an inseparable part of the divine. Amritdhari initiates are advised that meditation during the quiet early morning hours is the most effective time of day for practicing simran.
The process is to allow one to connect to the Creator and realise His qualities. Sikhs prefer the name  Waheguru  to other names of God. Sometimes, the person doing simran will do this as part of a group or individually. The word simran is derived from the Sanskrit word Smaran meaning Remembrance. Also translates to ‘Meditation’ – The verb Simar, which is derived from Simran means meditating. It says in the SGGS that by carrying out Simran the person is purified and attains Salvation or Mukti.
Simran is a commonly used term as a verb in Gurmukhi, which refers to 'meditating' of the Nām, the ultimate feeling of Ultimate. It says in the Guru Granth Sahib that through Simran one is purified and attains salvation or ' mukti '. This is because 'si-mar' means 'to die over', thus indicating to death of ego, allowing truth ultimate truth or sat to appear.
To do Simran is the physical act of sitting in a cross-legged position and meditating, uttering or chanting  Naam  - the name of God. The process brings calmness to the mind and allows one to concentrate on the image or qualities of God. The word simran is derived from the Sanskrit word Smaran meaning Remembrance. Also translates to ‘Meditation’ – The verb Simar, which is derived from Simran means meditating. It says in the SGGS that by carrying out Simran the person is purified and attains Salvation or Mukti.
Gurmanter is a meditative repetition which is focused on the recitation of Waheguru, or the identity of the divine, is known as naam simran. Simran may be performed by the practitioner in a variety of ways: 1  During worship. 2  Anytime of day or night. 3  When at rest and during every activity. Simran means to remember, and is a means of contemplative meditation using repetition which enables one to realize that they are an inseparable part of the divine. Amritdhari initiates are advised that meditation during the quiet early morning hours is the most effective time of day for practicing simran.
The Sikh scripture Guru Granth teaches that with grace, salvation may be attained by meditating on Naam, or the identity of the divine enlightener. Sikhs are encouraged to remember God always, by a method known as simran. Instruction is given during initiation at the time of baptism to recite Gurmanter, a term which means mantra of Waheguru. Gurmanter is to be recited as a meditation in the Amritvela early morning hours, and also throughout the day. 
Many people think simran means chanting and repeating, but that is jap. Simran is more of a deep inner connection to God. SatNam is known as the 'seed' mantra. Join Sadasat Simran Singh as he shares many things, and leads us through a basic breathing meditation.
The act of Simran (smarana) is on the one hand related to the act of surati (sruti) (concentration, focus) ie: listening to the teachings of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and on the other to the function of smriti, i.e. consciousness which means comprehension and retention of the teachings in one’s consciousness. The word simran is derived from the Sanskrit word Smaran meaning Remembrance. Also translates to ‘Meditation’ – The verb Simar, which is derived from Simran means meditating. It says in the SGGS that by carrying out Simran the person is purified and attains Salvation or Mukti.
Simran (Punjabi: ਸਿਮਰਨ, Hindi: सिमरन) is a Punjabi word derived from the Sanskrit word स्मरण (smaraṇa, the act of remembrance, remembrance, reminiscence, recollection) which leads to the realization of that which is of the highest aspect and purpose in one's life. It says in the Guru Granth Sahib that through Simran one is purified and attains salvation or ' mukti '. This is because 'si-mar' means 'to die over', thus indicating to death of ego, allowing truth ultimate truth or sat to appear.