Full Definition of HYPHEN. : a punctuation mark-used especially to divide or to compound words, word elements, or numbers. — hy·phen·less \-ləs\ adjective. See hyphen defined for English-language learners. See hyphen defined for kids. 
Hyphen. Hyphen is a punctuation mark that is smaller than dashes and is always used to fill the space between words such as co-ordination, air-conditioner, and so on. While a merry-go-round is just a kind of swing, it is written with the help of hyphens, to let the readers know that it is actually a compound word. Dash and hyphen are different punctuation marks that are in the form of small straight lines, which makes it difficult to differentiate between these two different forms of punctuation marks.
Hyphen. Alternatively referred to as a dash, subtract, negative, or minus sign, the hyphen (-) is a punctuation mark found on the underscore key next to the 0 key on US keyboards. English. Hyphens are used in some compound words as a way to make the word easier to read as well as help clarify words that are used together. For examples to-do, merry-go-round, high-risk, T-shirt, and sixty-six are all words with hyphens.
The use of hyphens is called hyphenation. The hyphen should not be confused with dashes (‒, –, —, ―), which are longer and have different uses, or with the minus sign (−) which is also longer. Hyphens are mostly used to break single words into parts, or to join ordinarily separate words into single words. Spaces should not be placed between a hyphen and either of the words it connects except when using a suspended or hanging hyphen (e.g. nineteenth-and twentieth-century writers)
The hyphen (‐) is a punctuation mark used to join words and to separate syllables of a single word. The use of hyphens is called hyphenation. The hyphen should not be confused with dashes (‒ , – , — , ―), which are longer and have different uses, or with the minus sign (−), which is also longer in some contexts. As an orthographic concept, the hyphen is a single entity
Search. A hyphen (-) is a punctuation mark used to join the separate parts of a compound word. A hyphen is a joiner. A hyphen is used to join the words of a compound adjective (e.g., five-page document), to join the words of compound noun (e.g., cooking-oil), and to join a prefix to a word (e.g., re-examine). 
An optional hyphen is a hyphen that is used to control where a word or phrase breaks if it falls at the end of a line. For example, you can specify that the word nonprinting breaks as non-printing instead of nonprint-ing.. When you insert an optional hyphen in a word that is not at the end of a line, the hyphen will be visible only if you turn on Show/Hide. On the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Show/Hide. Click in the word where you want to insert the optional hyphen. Press CTRL+HYPHEN.
Noun. 1. hyphen-a punctuation mark (-) used between parts of a compound word or between the syllables of a word when the word is divided at the end of a line of text. dash. punctuation mark, punctuation-the marks used to clarify meaning by indicating separation of words into sentences and clauses and phrases. hyphen. n. 1. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) the punctuation mark (-), used to separate the parts of some compound words, to link the words of a phrase, and between syllables of a word split between two consecutive lines of writing or printing. vb.
Search. With Internet search engines, the hyphen is used as a boolean operator that tells the search not to include a result. For example, if you used the below search the search engine would return results containing free, computer, and help but would not return any results containing expensive.. English. Hyphens are used in some compound words as a way to make the word easier to read as well as help clarify words that are used together. For examples to-do, merry-go-round, high-risk, T-shirt, and sixty-six are all words with hyphens.