Positive ions from the electrolyte pick up electrons at the cathode and use them to perform reduction of the ion (reduction = addition of electrons). At the same time negative ions migrate to the positive electrode (anode) to drop off electrons and get oxidised (oxidation = loss of electrons). The negative electrode is called the cathode and the positiive electrode is called the anode. The inert electrodes are usually made of graphite or platinium wire. The reactions occur at the surface of the electrodes.
1 In vacuum tubes (including cathode ray tubes) it is the negative terminal where electrons enter the device from the external circuit and proceed into the tube's near vacuum, constituting a positive current flowing out of the device. The flow of electrons is almost always from anode to cathode outside of the cell or device, regardless of the cell or device type and operating mode. An exception is when a diode reverse-conducts, either by accident (breakdown of a normal diode) or by design (breakdown of a Zener diode, photo-current of a photodiode).
1 Positively charged ions move to the negative electrode during electrolysis. 2  They receive electrons and are reduced reduction: Reduction is a reaction in which oxygen is removed from a substance. 3  Reduction also means a gain in electrons. . 4  Negatively charged ions move to the positive electrode during electrolysis. 1 Reduction also means a gain in electrons. . 2  Negatively charged ions move to the positive electrode during electrolysis. 3  They lose electrons and are oxidised oxidation: Oxidation is a reaction in which oxygen combines with a substance. 4  Oxidation also means a loss of electron
As the current flows through the electrolytic cell, chemical changes take place at the surfaces of the electrodes. At the cathode, the electrolysed liquid combines with electrons supplied by the battery. This process is called reduction. At the anode, the liquid gives electrons to the anode. This process is called oxidation. In the electrolysis of water, the water combines with electrons at the cathode and is reduced to hydrogen gas. At the anode, water gives up electrons and is oxidized to oxygen gas. 
1 In a recharging battery, or an electrolytic cell performing electrolysis, the cathode is the negative terminal, from which current exits the device and returns to the external generator. The flow of electrons is almost always from anode to cathode outside of the cell or device, regardless of the cell or device type and operating mode. An exception is when a diode reverse-conducts, either by accident (breakdown of a normal diode) or by design (breakdown of a Zener diode, photo-current of a photodiode).
9.5.2: State that oxidation occurs at the positive electrode (anode) and reduction occurs at the negative electrode (cathode). Negative ions arrive at the anode, attracted by electrostatic forces, where they lose electrons. Loss of electrons is defined as oxidation. The negative electrode is called the cathode and the positiive electrode is called the anode. The inert electrodes are usually made of graphite or platinium wire. The reactions occur at the surface of the electrodes.
Here is what happens during electrolysis: 1  Positively charged ions move to the negative electrode during electrolysis. 2  They receive electrons and are reduced reduction: Reduction is a reaction in which oxygen is removed from a substance. 3  Reduction also means a gain in electrons. 1 Reduction also means a gain in electrons. . 2  Negatively charged ions move to the positive electrode during electrolysis. 3  They lose electrons and are oxidised oxidation: Oxidation is a reaction in which oxygen combines with a substance. 4  Oxidation also means a loss of
Reduction always occurs at the cathode. Electrons flow from the power source in the outside circuit to the cathode, and they reduce one of the species in the solution. steve_geo1 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 
In this process, the positive electrode (the anode anode: The positive electrode during electrolysis. ) is made of the impure copper which is to be purified. The negative electrode (the cathode cathode: A cathode is the electrode (electrical conductor) attached to the negative terminal of a battery. ) is a bar of pure copper. The two electrodes are placed in a solution of copper(II) sulfate