A low hematocrit means the percentage of red blood cells is below the lower limits of normal (see above) for that person's age, sex, or specific condition (for example, pregnancy or high-altitude living). Another term for low hematocrit is anemia. Causes of low hematocrit, or anemia, include:
Best Answer: Your hematocrit is the calculation of your red blood cells including all other blood elements such as platelets, etc. Your red blood cell count is the actual number of red blood cells in your body at one time. If the hematocrit is low, so is the red blood cell count. This can be more frequent in women simply due to monthly blood loss, however if the count is low enough it can suggest some internal bleed or anemia.
A low hemoglobin count is a commonly seen blood test result. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
A hemoglobin count is the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein that carries iron in it, which allows it to carry much more oxygen than your blood could if it didn't have the iron. If your hemoglobin is low, that usually means that your red blood cell count is low.
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood.
Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women. This is usually measured by spinning down a sample of blood in a test tube, which causes the red blood cells to pack at the bottom of the tube.
The hematocrit is the proportion, by volume, of the blood that consists of red blood cells. The hematocrit (hct) is expressed as a percentage. For example, a hematocrit of 25% means that there are 25 milliliters of red blood cells in 100 milliliters of blood.