Inheritance of a specific disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome that is affected (autosomal or sex chromosome). It also depends on whether the trait is dominant or recessive. Sex-linked diseases are inherited through one of the sex chromosomes (the X or Y
Cystic fibrosis is one example of a homozygous recessive disease. The broken gene is involved in transporting chloride, something all cells need to do. Symptoms include mucus in the lungs and difficulty breathing, as well as damage to the pancreas and other organs.
Inheriting a disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome affected (autosomal or sex chromosome). It also depends on whether the trait is dominant or recessive. A single abnormal gene on one of the first 22 nonsex (autosomal) chromosomes from either parent can cause an autosomal disorder.
When a certain gene is known to cause a disease, we refer to it as a single gene disorder or a Mendelian disorder. For example, you may have heard of cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease, Fragile X syndrome, muscular dystrophy, or Huntington disease. These are all examples of single gene disorders.
Recessive diseases often occur in genes that produce an enzyme. In a carrier, who has only one bad copy, there is often no disease, because the second gene can pull up the slack, and maintain health. In some recessive diseases, a carrier gets a mild form of the disease. Autosomal recessive diseases are relatively rare, because to get the disease a person must inherit a bad gene from each parent, not just one. So both parents must have a bad gene.
Most people do not know they carry a recessive gene for a disease until they have a child with the disease. Once parents have had a child with a recessive trait or disease, there is a one out of four, or 25 percent chance, with each subsequent pregnancy, for another child to be born with the same trait or disorder.
Recessive means that disease only occurs when a person has two copies of the bad gene. Usually this means they must inherit the disease from both parents. Some examples of autosomal recessive diseases are Cystic Fibrosis, Phenylketonuria, Sickle Cell Anemia, Tay Sachs, Albinism, and galactosemia. See autosomal recessive diseases for a full list.