You can't see, smell, or taste carbon monoxide. But if you breathe too much of it, it can become deadly within minutes. So be sure you know the signs of carbon monoxide poisoning, what to do if you have the symptoms, and how to keep it from happening. Carbon monoxide poisoning happens when you breathe too much carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide is a gas produced by burning any type of fuel-gas, oil, kerosene, wood, or charcoal.
Myth: You can smell carbon monoxide and sometimes it has a taste. Fact: Carbon monoxide is odorless, colorless and tasteless. Sometimes when people say they can smell it what they really are smelling is the byproducts of the fuel that is burning, not the CO. These fuels also can cause a taste in some people's mouths.
Carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide poisoning occurs after enough inhalation of carbon monoxide (CO). Carbon monoxide is a toxic gas, but, being colorless, odorless, tasteless, and initially non-irritating, it is very difficult for people to detect. Carbon monoxide is a product of incomplete combustion of organic matter due to insufficient oxygen supply to enable complete oxidation to carbon dioxide (CO 2). 
Sometimes people describe that they noticed a carbon monoxide smell .. Although there could have been carbon monoxide in the air they were breathing and smelling, carbon monoxide does not smell in and of itself. Carbon monoxide is odorless, colorless, tasteless, non-irritating and toxic. Carbon monoxide is formed by the incomplete combustion (burning) of materials containing carbon and can be produced by virtually anything that burns. Combustion also produces heat, smoke, and number of other elements. In addition to carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, particulates, and other toxins are also produced during combustion.
Carbon monoxide is an odorless, colorless and toxic gas. Because it is impossible to see, taste or smell the toxic fumes, CO can kill you before you are aware it is in your home. At lower levels of exposure, CO causes mild effects that are often mistaken for the flu. Report Abuse. Well, am sure by now, that after you've read your other replies to your Question, that ONE, MAJOR factor that is absolutely a TRUE FACT, is this: Carbon Monoxide DOES NOT SMELL! Has NO ODOR whatsoever! Is a very, DANGEROUS, SILENT, AND DEADLY KILLER.
Best Answer: Carbon Monoxide is odorless, but you can get detectors that plug into the electrical wall outlet to warn you if the level gets too high for human safety. These are only necessary if you have oil and/or gas heat and appliances (burning fuel). Electric heat and appliances don't generate carbon monoxide. Report Abuse. Well, am sure by now, that after you've read your other replies to your Question, that ONE, MAJOR factor that is absolutely a TRUE FACT, is this: Carbon Monoxide DOES NOT SMELL! Has NO ODOR whatsoever! Is a very, DANGEROUS, SILENT, AND DEADLY KILLER.
Carbon monoxide (CO) is a colorless, odorless deadly gas. Because you can't see, taste, or smell it, carbon monoxide can kill you before you know it's there. Everyone is at risk for carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide is a by-product of combustion, present whenever fuel is burned. It is produced by common home appliances, such as gas or oil furnaces, gas refrigerators, gas clothes dryers, gas ranges, gas water heaters or space heaters, fireplaces, charcoal grills, and wood burning stoves.
Carbon Monoxide is a gas formed from carbon and oxygen. It has the  formula CO. Carbon dioxide another gas formed from carbon and  oxygen, has the formula CO 2.   A gas, … the molecules of which are made up of one carbon atom bonded  with one oxygen atom. 