The emerald ash borer is a metallic green beetle that bores into ash trees feeding on tissues beneath the bark, ultimately killing the tree. It is not native to the United States and was first found in the U.S. near Detroit, Michigan in 2002. Emerald ash borer attacks all species of ash native to the United States as well as native white fringetree. The four species of ash native to North Carolina include white ash, green ash, Carolina ash, and pumpkin ash.
Female beetles deposit them in bark crevices and as larvae hatch from the egg, they immediately chew their way into the tree. Larva (immature EAB). Emerald ash borer larvae are white and slightly flattened, with a pair of brown pincher-like appendages on the last segment. The pupae, like the larvae, cannot be seen unless bark is pulled away from the tree. EAB Look-Alikes. There are many metallic green insects that are common in Wisconsin and often mistaken for EAB. For more information on these look-alikes please visit the University of Wisconsin-Madison's emerald ash borer webpage.
Adult (beetle). Emerald ash borer adults are very small, metallic green beetles. They are about the size of a cooked grain of rice: only 3/8 - 1/2 inch long and 1/16 inch wide. Adult emerald ash borers emerge from beneath the bark of ash trees late May through mid-July. The pupae, like the larvae, cannot be seen unless bark is pulled away from the tree. EAB Look-Alikes. There are many metallic green insects that are common in Wisconsin and often mistaken for EAB. For more information on these look-alikes please visit the University of Wisconsin-Madison's emerald ash borer webpage.
Green Menace-Emerald Ash Borer Scientific name: Agrilus planipennis The adult emerald ash borer Homeland / Origin: This alien invader is from northern China and Korea. It can also be found in eastern Russia, Japan, and Mongolia. It's the second most common tree in urban areas, after the Norway maple. So, you can imagine what these insects could do to Wisconsin's forests and tree-lined streets! Emerald ash borer larva feeding under the bark of an ash tree.
Adult emerald ash borers are bright metallic green in color with very short antennae. They are ½ inch long and one-eighth inch wide. Emerald ash borer larvae are creamy white in color and have flattened, segmented bodies. Older larvae grow up to an inch long. It is an insect that belongs to a group of metallic wood boring beetles. These insects normally serve to kill weakened trees, a part of the natural nutrient recycling scheme. However, emerald ash borers kill vigorously growing or weakened ash trees
Adult beetles are slender and 1/2-inch long. Males are smaller than females. Color varies but adults are usually bronze or golden green overall, with metallic, emerald green wing covers. The top of the abdomen under the wings is metallic purplish red and can be seen when the wings are spread. Larvae reach a length of approximately 1 inch and are white or cream colored. The first United States identification of emerald ash borer was in southeastern Michigan in 2002. The emerald ash borer is currently found in Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin.
Adults: Adult beetles are metallic green and about the size of one grain of cooked rice (3/8 - 1/2 inch long and 1/16 inch wide). Adults are flat on the back and rounded on their underside. Related Documents. Signs and symptoms (what to look for) of an emerald ash borer infestation. For example, crown dieback can occur due to EAB damage, but can also be the result of drought stress, soil compaction or verticillium wilt, just to name a few. Therefore, it is important to look for a combination of at least two symptoms or signs when trying to figure out if emerald ash borer is in your ash tree.