C. difficile infection can range from mild to life-threatening. Symptoms of mild cases include watery diarrhea, three or more times a day for several days, with abdominal pain or tenderness. Symptoms of more severe C. diff infection include: 1  Watery diarrhea, up to 15 times each day. 2  Severe abdominal pain. 3  Loss of appetite. 4  Fever.
1 Pathogens-Intestinal infections are caused when pathogens enter your system and begin irritating the tissue in your digestive tract. 2  The gastrointestinal tract can become inflamed and sore, which typically begins to cause additional symptoms of digestive distress. 1 Sinus distress-Intestinal pathogens will often affect other parts of the body. 2  You may develop a sinus infection, runny nose or coughing as the infection takes hold. 3  Loss of appetite-Your system will begin to shut down as it becomes inflamed.
Abdominal cramps, diarrhea with blood or mucus, loss of appetite, painful bowel movements, and fever, are some symptoms of this infection. Severe diarrhea can even lead to dehydration. Severe cases of shigellosis can lead to headaches, stiff neck, and convulsions. When the intestinal infection is caused by bacteria, it is termed as a bacterial intestinal infection or bacterial gastroenteritis. The pathogenic bacteria invades the intestines and causes inflammation. It enters the human body through the intake of contaminated food, water, and undercooked meat.
1 Abdominal Pain-As the infection becomes more severe it is common to feel pain or swelling in the abdominal area. 2  The severity of this pain will depend on the location and cause of the infection. 3  Cramping-Bacterial infections will commonly cause cramping in the abdomen. 1 Sinus distress-Intestinal pathogens will often affect other parts of the body. 2  You may develop a sinus infection, runny nose or coughing as the infection takes hold. 3  Loss of appetite-Your system will begin to shut down as it becomes inflamed.
Diarrhea, vomiting, muscle aches, fatigue, headaches, and nausea are some of the common symptoms of this infection. Common signs are itching in the anal and vaginal region (in girls), along with pain in the abdomen, disturbed sleep, weight loss, and poor appetite. The scratching can lead to secondary infections. When the intestinal infection is caused by bacteria, it is termed as a bacterial intestinal infection or bacterial gastroenteritis. The pathogenic bacteria invades the intestines and causes inflammation. It enters the human body through the intake of contaminated food, water, and undercooked meat.
Symptoms of Intestinal Infection. If you are undergoing intestinal infection, you may have some of the symptoms given below. 1  Sinus distress-Intestinal pathogens will often affect other parts of the body. 2  You may develop a sinus infection, runny nose or coughing as the infection takes hold. 1 Sinus distress-Intestinal pathogens will often affect other parts of the body. 2  You may develop a sinus infection, runny nose or coughing as the infection takes hold. 3  Loss of appetite-Your system will begin to shut down as it becomes inflamed.
Initial signs and symptoms include diarrhea and abdominal cramping. As the infection progresses over the course of about a week, symptoms may become more severe and include high fever, muscle pain and tenderness, swelling of the eyelids or face, weakness, headache, light sensitivity and pink eye (conjunctivitis).