10. ROASTED CORN IN HUSKS. Soak corn in cold water ... foil and place on a hot charcoal grill for 20-25 minutes, ... butter. Season to taste and serve immediately
If you want a bit of char on your corn, peel off a few of the outer layers of the corn husks first, before grilling. Place the corn in their husks on the hot grill. Cover the grill. Turn the corn occasionally, until the husks are completely blackened and charred on all sides, about 15 to 20 minutes. 3 Remove the corn from the grill. Let them sit for 5 minutes or until cool enough to handle.
Watch how to make this recipe. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place corn husks directly on the oven rack and roast for 30 minutes or until corn is soft. Peel down the husks and use as a handle when eating. Recipe courtesy of Tyler Florence. 
How to do it: Place corn in the husk directly on top of hot coals and cook, turning occasionally, until it is steamed through to the center (you can peek and re-wrap the corn to check if you need to), about 15 minutes. Corn can also be grilled in the husk on a rack above the coals. 
Preparing Corn for Grilling: If the ears of corn have many layers of husk on them, peel off only the first couple of layers, leaving a few layers for protection. Do not remove all the layers. Soak the whole cobs in a pot of cold water for 15 minutes. Be sure the ears are completely covered with water. This will provide extra moisture for cooking and will steam the corn kernels inside the husks. While the corn is soaking, preheat the barbecue grill to a medium temperature (350 degrees F). Grilled corn on the cob is not only tasty, but grilling your corn never fails to impress your guests. Fresh corn on the cob can be cooked on your barbecue either wrapped in aluminum foil or in its own husks. In the husk makes for a more dramatic presentation, but it's slightly more trouble than using aluminum foil.
Wrap the corn back up in its husks-or in aluminum foil-and place it on the grill. Cook the corn on the grill for about 30 minutes, turning the corn occasionally to prevent it from burning. 
Directions. 1  Lay the corn (in the husks) on a hot grill. ( 2 medium if using gas). 3  Cook for twenty minutes, turning every few minutes. 4  Remove from the grill with clean gloves and remove the husks and silk. 5  Serve with lots of butter, salt and fresh ground pepper. 6  Enjoy! Directions. 1  Lay the corn (in the husks) on a hot grill. 2  Cook for twenty minutes, turning every few minutes. 3  Remove from the grill with clean gloves and remove the husks and silk. 4  Serve with lots of butter, salt and fresh ground pepper. 5  Enjoy!
To grill the corn, simply shuck the corn until it is down to 2 or 3 layers of husk. Pull off any excess silk if it is in the way, but once the corn is grilled it will be very easy to remove. Place the corn on a hot grill and cook until the husk is dark, rotating the ear every 2-3 minutes. Over high heat, the corn should be done in about 10-12 minutes. The corn also makes great leftovers, so cook extra! Source(s): http://www.slashfood.com/2006/07/17/how-..
Directions. 1  Shuck corn (remove husks) and remove silk. 2  Spray each ear with veg. spray. 3  Place directly over heat on medium-hot grill. 4  Rotate when dark spots appear and kernels deepen in color (usually about 2 to 3 minutes) until ears are uniformly cooked (usually 10 to 12 minutes). 5  Add salt and serve with favorite butter or flavored butter. 
Heat the grill to medium. Pull the outer husks down the ear to the base. Strip away the silk from each ear of corn by hand. Fold husks back into place, and place the ears of corn in a large bowl of cold water with 1 tablespoon of salt for 10 minutes. Remove corn from water and shake off excess. Place the corn on the grill, close the cover and grill for 15 to 20 minutes, turning every 5 minutes, or until kernels are tender when pierced with a paring knife. Remove the husks and eat on the cob or remove the kernels.