Measure both. The opening in the wall and the size of the oven box that fits in the wall. Buy an oven that will fit into the opening. If you can't get the exact size for a retrofit, get one slightly smaller and trim around it with molding. Ranger-I-75 · 7 years ago. 
Measure Overall Oven. 1  Measure the overall height and width of your wall oven and note the measurements on your reference sheet. 2  Next, open the oven door and locate the screws in the frame that secure the oven to the cabinet. 3  Then remove each one using your screwdriver. 1 Next, open the oven door and locate the screws in the frame that secure the oven to the cabinet. 2  Then remove each one using your screwdriver. 3  Remove any trim pieces to avoid damage to your cabinetry.
1 Measure the overall height and width of your wall oven and note the measurements on your reference sheet. 2  Next, open the oven door and locate the screws in the frame that secure the oven to the cabinet. 3  Then remove each one using your screwdriver. 1 Next, open the oven door and locate the screws in the frame that secure the oven to the cabinet. 2  Then remove each one using your screwdriver. 3  Remove any trim pieces to avoid damage to your cabinetry.
Older wall ovens can be smaller, so you might need to make adjustments to accommodate the new wall oven. Measure width, height and depth of cavity where wall oven will be placed. A typical double wall oven measures from 24 to 30 inches in width, and is 53 inches or more in height, when trim is included. A single wall oven averages around 30 inches in height. The depth needed for a wall oven should be at least 24 inches. Measure non-standard entry doors (outside and inside) and hallways before you measure anything else. The new wall oven has to fit through the entryway first. The largest wall oven models average 30 inches wide, so as long as all entries are at least 3 to 4 inches wider than that, you'll be able to get it in the kitchen.
5. Measure the height of the wall oven cabinet opening from top to bottom alone the right side of the oven. Take the height measurement to the left side of the over. Write down the smaller of the two height measurements. 6. Extend the tape measure into the wall oven cabinet until it reaches the back wall of the cabinet opening. Measure the depth of the oven cabinet from the outside of the cabinet front to the back wall at one corner of the oven. Take additional depth measurements at each corner and note the smallest depth measurement.
Built-in Double Ovens. Measure the distance between the left side of the oven and the right side. It should be 27 or 30 inches. A 27-inch oven will require a cabinet width cutout between 24 7/8 inches and 25 1/4 inches. A 30-inch oven will needs 28 1/2 to 29 inches. Measure the distance from the top to the bottom of the oven. You will need 1/8-inch clearance between cabinets or walls on either side at the oven level (below 36 inches.) You'll need 1 inch above 36 inches from the floor. Measure the oven depth from the wall with the largest door open. It is likely to be 46 inches. Allow some extra space in front of that for you to stand.
4. Measure the width of the wall oven cabinet opening from right to left along the top edge of the oven opening with a metal tape measure. Take the same measure along the bottom of the oven opening. Write down the smaller of the two width measurements on a note pad. 6. Extend the tape measure into the wall oven cabinet until it reaches the back wall of the cabinet opening. Measure the depth of the oven cabinet from the outside of the cabinet front to the back wall at one corner of the oven. Take additional depth measurements at each corner and note the smallest depth measurement.