Continued from page 1. Business memos are written to an entire office. When writing business memos make sure to clearly mark for whom the memo is intended, the reason for writing the memo and who is writing the memo. Memos tend to inform colleagues of office and procedural changes that apply to a large group of people. They often provide instructions using the imperative voice.
A memo—short for “memorandum”—is a document used by people within an organization or business to communicate with one another. Memos are less formal than letters, and, like most business documents, should be brief and direct. 
The business memorandum, or memo, is used primarily as a formal, physical means of efficient communication from a department oto staff members -- it is almost always for internal communication and only rarely sent to clients or the public. 
Business memos are a piece of interoffice correspondence sent between employees in a company or between company subsidiaries to transmit ideas, decisions, requests or announcements. They are more private and more formal than emails but less formal than letters. They can also be compared to reports, but very short ones. The tone you use in the body of the memo depends on who the memo is addressed to. Dixie warns you that the memos should not be too informal as they are usually considered to be internal documents as well as pieces of business correspondence.
Announcements. A business memo is an appropriate type of communication to use when making company announcements such as an employee promotion. Companies also use the business memo to welcome new employees who will fill a vital role in the organization. The business memo documents the important announcement. Email can serve as the delivery method for a memo, but the memo should be written in a formal business format.
A memorandum can have only a certain number of formats; it may have a format specific to an office or institution. In law specifically, a memorandum is a record of the terms of a transaction or contract, such as a policy memo, memorandum of understanding, memorandum of agreement, or memorandum of association. Alternative formats include memos, briefing notes, reports, letters or binders. They could be one page long or many. A memorandum (abbrev.: memo) was from the Latin verbal phrase memorandum est, the gerundive form of the verb memoro, to mention, call to mind, recount, relate, which means It must be remembered (that)....
Business memos are appropriate when management makes a request of all employees. For example, during an open enrollment period for health insurance, the human resource manager can use a business memo to inform and request that workers turn in policy changes by a specific date. Companies also use the business memo to welcome new employees who will fill a vital role in the organization. The business memo documents the important announcement. Email can serve as the delivery method for a memo, but the memo should be written in a formal business format.
A memorandum—usually known as a memo—is a document which is most commonly used for internal communication between coworkers or members of a department. You may need to use a memo as an external method of communication if, for example, you need to communicate with clients or other business associates. 
Writing Memos [edit]. A memo or memorandum is a communication note that records events or observations on a topic. Memos are typically used within a business environment as an interoffice communication tool and can serve many purposes. Today, emails can be considered a common type of memo. 
The business memo is a standard form of written communication in academics, government, and industry. The memo is a formal method of written communication with a well established format and style. An introduction to the standards for format and style is provided below. 