1.1 [count noun] A work of art made by sculpture: a bronze sculpture [mass noun]: a collection of sculpture. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Monuments, public sculptures, commemorative sites and museums are being created at an accelerated pace. 1 The art of making two-or three-dimensional representative or abstract forms, especially by carving stone or wood or by casting metal or plaster: the boundary between painting and sculpture is displaced
As you can see from the above, the world of art is a highly complex entity, not only in terms of its multiplicity of forms and types, but also in terms of its historical and cultural roots. Therefore a simple definition, or even a broad consensus as to what can be labelled art, is likely to prove highly elusive. There is no universally accepted definition of art. Although commonly used to describe something of beauty, or a skill which produces an aesthetic result, there is no clear line in principle between (say) a unique piece of handmade sculpture, and a mass-produced but visually attractive item.
Durable sculptural processes originally used carving (the removal of material) and modelling (the addition of material, as clay), in stone, metal, ceramics, wood and other materials but, since modernism, shifts in sculptural process led to an almost complete freedom of materials and process. The smallest forms of life-size portrait sculpture are the head, showing just that, or the bust, a representation of a person from the chest up. Small forms of sculpture include the figurine, normally a statue that is no more than 18 inches tall, and for reliefs the plaquette, medal or coin.
Sculpture in what is now Latin America developed in two separate and distinct areas, Mesoamerica in the north and Peru in the south. In both areas, sculpture was initially of stone, and later of terracotta and metal as the civilizations in these areas became more technologically proficient. The smallest forms of life-size portrait sculpture are the head, showing just that, or the bust, a representation of a person from the chest up. Small forms of sculpture include the figurine, normally a statue that is no more than 18 inches tall, and for reliefs the plaquette, medal or coin.
The sculpture of the region tends to be characterised by a high degree of ornamentation, as seen in the great monuments of Hindu and Buddhist Khmer sculpture (9th to 13th centuries) at Angkor Wat and elsewhere, the enormous 9th-century Buddhist complex at Borobudur in Java, and the Hindu monuments of Bali. The smallest forms of life-size portrait sculpture are the head, showing just that, or the bust, a representation of a person from the chest up. Small forms of sculpture include the figurine, normally a statue that is no more than 18 inches tall, and for reliefs the plaquette, medal or coin.
sculpted pediment. Architectural sculpture is the term for the use of sculpture by an architect and/or sculptor in the design of a building, bridge, mausoleum or other such project. The sculpture is usually integrated with the structure, but freestanding works that are part of the original design are also considered to be architectural sculpture. It has also been defined as, an integral part of a building or sculpture created especially to decorate or embellish an architectural structure. Architectural sculpture has been employed by builders throughout history, and in virtually every continent on earth save pre-colonial Australia
Please try again later. Sculpture began with abstract expressionism and conceptual art, and currently, sculpture serves as one of many forms of art that mixed media artists participate in. Find out how sculpture compares to other forms of three-dimensional art with help in this free video on sculptures and the art of sculpting. 
1.1 Form or shape as if by sculpture, especially with strong, smooth curves: (as adjective sculptured) he had an aquiline nose and sculptured lips. More example sentences. 1  A high nose, sculptured lips and a chiselled jaw completed the work of art. 1 The art of making two-or three-dimensional representative or abstract forms, especially by carving stone or wood or by casting metal or plaster: the boundary between painting and sculpture is displaced
At the end of your sophomore year, Sculpture faculty members will review your portfolio to monitor your progress. Before graduation, usually during the last senior Sculpture course, you must present your work as part of a senior exit review. As a Sculpture major, you ll be challenged conceptually and technically, and much of your time will be spent creating original works. However, the curriculum also exposes you to all aspects of 3-D art and the different media in which to work, including computer-based design for digital fabrication.