1 Creating a day-of (or weekend-of) timeline that tells everyone involved in the planning process -- vendors, members of the wedding party, you, and your families -- when to do what. 2  Handling the invitations, from the wording and ordering to the addressing and mailing, as well as tracking RSVPs. 1 Showing you the best and most original locations in the area, considering your wedding size, budget, and vision. 2  Finding the top florists, photographers, caterers, bands, DJs and other vendors in your price range.
When a wedding planner first meets with a client, the conversation should consist of simply explaining the packages available and briefly discussing the type of wedding the client wants. And of course, being the business-savvy wedding planner that you are, you’ll offer this service to your lucky brides! So let’s go over exactly what is included as part of your duty as a Day of Coordinator.
A wedding planner will normally have a printed list of what is included in each of their packages; however, the needs of each client will still vary widely depending on the theme, venue, budget, vendors and personality of the client. And of course, being the business-savvy wedding planner that you are, you’ll offer this service to your lucky brides! So let’s go over exactly what is included as part of your duty as a Day of Coordinator.
1 For about $5,000, a full-service planner will plan the wedding and handle most details and the wedding day. 2  That rate sometimes goes much higher -- possibly $10,000 or more for an in-demand planner with ten years or more experience, according to i-do Weddings. 1 On the wedding day, though, the planner will interact with vendors and make sure the day goes smoothly. 2  A typical full-service planners help set the style and colors, help find ceremony and reception venues, recommend vendors, accompany the couple to food and cake tastings and screen vendor contracts.
If you hire your day-of coordinator a month before the wedding and you still do not have major planning details in place, such as a photographer or caterer, you should anticipate an additional planning charge to get these last minute details in place. 
As a Day of Coordinator, your first responsibility will be to look over the contracts for each vendor the client has chosen to hire. You will then will contact the vendors approximately one week prior to the wedding and introduce yourself and ensure you have accurate day of contact information for each of them. And of course, being the business-savvy wedding planner that you are, you’ll offer this service to your lucky brides! So let’s go over exactly what is included as part of your duty as a Day of Coordinator.
Typically, a wedding planner is hired for either Full Service or Day-of Coordination, and it is imperative that the planner fully explains to the client what is included in each of their packages. And of course, being the business-savvy wedding planner that you are, you’ll offer this service to your lucky brides! So let’s go over exactly what is included as part of your duty as a Day of Coordinator.
While many bridal consultants used to charge a percentage of the wedding budget -- usually 10 to 20 percent -- most now prefer to use an hourly, or more commonly, a package rate. Most planners have at least three types of packages: day of service, consulting and full-service planning. 1 On the wedding day, though, the planner will interact with vendors and make sure the day goes smoothly. 2  A typical full-service planners help set the style and colors, help find ceremony and reception venues, recommend vendors, accompany the couple to food and cake tastings and screen vendor contracts.
What does a wedding planner do? Well, that is a tough question to answer. From wedding to wedding, the job of a wedding planner is never the same. But the goal is. Our goal is to help the bride and groom have the best wedding experience possible. Most wedding planners begin the planning process with a consultation.
1 For about $1,500, a day-of planner will help create a wedding timeline, confirm with vendors and handle the wedding day. 2  For about $3,700, a planner will handle the wedding day and offer planning advice and guidance, but will make the couple do the pre-wedding footwork, such as making phone calls. 1 On the wedding day, though, the planner will interact with vendors and make sure the day goes smoothly. 2  A typical full-service planners help set the style and colors, help find ceremony and reception venues, recommend vendors, accompany the couple to food and cake tastings and screen vendor contracts.