Overview. Costochondritis causes chest pain that is related to inflammation of cartilage in your rib cage. More specifically, costochondritis often affects the cartilage where upper ribs attach to the sternum (breastbone). This area is referred to as the “costosternal joint.”. Pain may be mild or more severe depending on your condition. Costochondritis is also known as Tietze’s syndrome.
1 Overall, costochondritis is one of the most common causes of musculoskeletal chest pain. 2  While chest pain can represent heart disease and heart attack, inflammation around the heart (pericarditis) or lungs (pleuritis), costochondritis is also considered as a possible diagnosis in adults with chest pain. 1
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Costochondritis, also known as chest wall pain, costosternal syndrome, or costosternal chondrodynia is an acute and often temporary inflammation of the costal cartilage, the structure which connects each rib to the sternum at the costosternal joint. A factor that may aid in the differentiation of costochondritis from Tietze syndrome is the location of the pain on the sternum. Costochondritis typically affects the third, fourth, and fifth costosternal joints in contrast to Tietze's syndrome, which usually affects the second or third
Overview. Costochondritis is an inflammation of the connective tissue (cartilage) of the costochondral or costosternal joints in the rib cage, producing pain and tenderness in the anterior chest wall. Tietze’s syndrome is a variation of costochondritis in which swelling is present as well as pain. 
Costochondritis, an inflammation of costochondral junctions of ribs or chondrosternal joints of the anterior chest wall, is a common condition seen in patients presenting to the physician's office and emergency department. Palpation of the affected chondrosternal joints of the chest wall elicits tenderness. Costochondritis is a common condition seen in patients presenting to the physician's office and emergency department. 1 - 4 It is also known as costosternal syndrome, parasternal chondrodynia, or anterior chest wall syndrome.
The condition is a common cause of chest pain. Though costochondritis often resolves on its own, it can be a recurring condition that can appear to have little or no signs of onset. Costochondritis symptoms can be similar to the chest pain associated with a heart attack. A factor that may aid in the differentiation of costochondritis from Tietze syndrome is the location of the pain on the sternum. Costochondritis typically affects the third, fourth, and fifth costosternal joints in contrast to Tietze's syndrome, which usually affects the second or third costosternal joint.
Costochondritis is inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone (sternum). Costochondritis causes localized chest wall pain and tenderness that can be reproduced by pushing on the involved cartilage in the front of the rib cage. Costochondritis is a relatively harmless musculoskeletal chest pain and usually resolves without treatment. The cause is usually unknown. Costochondritis affects females more often than males (70% versus 30%). 1 While chest pain can represent heart disease and heart attack, inflammation around the heart (pericarditis) or lungs (pleuritis), costochondritis is also considered as a possible diagnosis in adults with chest pain.