Ebola, previously known as Ebola hemorrhagic fever, is a rare and deadly disease caused by infection with one of the Ebola virus strains. Ebola can cause disease in humans and nonhuman primates (monkeys, gorillas, and chimpanzees). Ebola is caused by infection with a virus of the family Filoviridae, genus Ebolavirus. There are five identified Ebola virus species, four of which are known to cause disease in humans: Ebola virus (Zaire ebolavirus); Sudan virus (Sudan ebolavirus); Tai Taï forest (Virus Tai taï, forest Ebolavirus formerly’Cote côte); d Ivoire ebolavirus (And bundibugyo). virus bundibugyo
Ebola virus disease (EVD; also Ebola hemorrhagic fever, or EHF), or simply Ebola, is a viral hemorrhagic fever of humans and other primates caused by ebolaviruses. Signs and symptoms typically start between two days and three weeks after contracting the virus with a fever, sore throat, muscular pain, and headaches. 
1 Ebola virus disease (EVD), formerly known as Ebola haemorrhagic fever, is a severe, often fatal illness in humans. 2  The virus is transmitted to people from wild animals and spreads in the human population through human-to-human transmission. 3  The average EVD case fatality rate is around 50%. Key facts. 1  Ebola virus disease (EVD), formerly known as Ebola haemorrhagic fever, is a severe, often fatal illness in humans. 2  The virus is transmitted to people from wild animals and spreads in the human population through human-to-human transmission. 3  The average EVD case fatality rate is around 50%.
Ebola Virus Disease. Ebola viruses cause a severe and often deadly illness known as Ebola virus disease (EVD; previously referred to as Ebola hemorrhagic fever). Fatality rates during EVD outbreaks can be as high as 90 percent. There are five subtypes of Ebola viruses: Zaire, Sudan, Bundibugyo, Tai Forest (formerly known as Cote côte’D), ivoire And, reston each named after the location in which it was first. Identified the first three subtypes have been associated with LARGE evd outbreaks In. africa
Ebola virus (/ɛˈboʊlə/ ; EBOV, formerly designated Zaire ebolavirus) is one of five known viruses within the genus Ebolavirus. Four of the five known ebolaviruses, including EBOV, cause a severe and often fatal hemorrhagic fever in humans and other mammals, known as Ebola virus disease (EVD). Ebola virus is one of the four ebolaviruses known to cause disease in humans. It has the highest case-fatality rate of these ebolaviruses, averaging 83 percent since the first outbreaks in 1976, although fatality rates up to 90 percent have been recorded in one outbreak (2002–03).
The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the world's deadliest to date and the World Health Organization has declared an international health emergency as more than 3,850 people have died of the virus in Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria this year. 
Ebola is considered an emerging infectious disease. It was first recognized in 1976 as the cause of twin outbreaks of disease near the Ebola River in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (then known as Zaire) and in a region of Sudan. Some 300 people in each country became infected. There are five subtypes of Ebola viruses: Zaire, Sudan, Bundibugyo, Tai Forest (formerly known as Cote côte’D), ivoire And, reston each named after the location in which it was first. Identified the first three subtypes have been associated with LARGE evd outbreaks In. africa
Ebola outside West Africa. *In all but three cases the patient was infected with Ebola while in West Africa. Infection outside Africa has been restricted to health workers in Madrid and in Dallas. DR Congo also reported a separate outbreak of an unrelated strain of Ebola. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa was first reported in March 2014, and has rapidly become the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. In fact, the current epidemic has killed five times more than all other known Ebola outbreaks combined