Another reason that 2 years is the minimum age for breeding is that you need that time to prove that your dog is worthy of breeding. With the current dog overpopulation problem, just being a cute dog is not enough to consider a dog worthy of making more dogs. We have enough cute dogs. 
The average female dog goes into heat twice a year, but they do not recommend you have the dog bred twice during the year. There is usually 6-7 months between the heat season of dogs. The average young dog goes into her first heat between the ages of 5 months to 12 months of age. If a dog has them after 6 years of age the puppies have a lower survivor rate. Plus those puppies have a better chance of having health issues. It's not good for the mother either if you force her to have more than 1 litter a year.
Puppies can produce puppies as soon as they start their first heat at 6 to 8 months of age. But it's very unhealthy for a dog at that age to have puppies. You'll need to wait … until after her third or fourth heat cycle. She'll be just over 2 years old by then. You should take your female dog to a vet for an exam and any needed vaccinations. The vet will advise when your bitch can be spayed. Large dogs come into heat after 5 or 6 mos … , toy dogs a bit later. Don't wait! Make that vet appt.
Half of male dogs will display mounting behavior by 5½ months of age, and will become able to sire a litter around that age. Note that some male dogs may be able to sire a litter before 5 months of age - 5 months is the average. Female dogs become sexually mature (have their first heat) between 5 and 12 months of age. Small breed dogs tend to have their first heat around 5-6 months, while some giant breed dogs will not start to cycle until they are 18-24 months of age. Although most dogs are sexually mature by one year of age, dogs should not be used for breeding until they are at least 2 years of
We recommend that puppies be neutered at five to six months of age. Ifthe puppy is to be shown or used for breeding, it should still be neutered at five or six years old. Male dogs have been known to wander many miles from their neighborhoods, led instinctively by their attraction to female dogs in heat. 
Answer:   You should wait until the dog is at least 2 years old.   http://www.k9web.com/dog-faqs/breeding.html   -Addendum-Though most dogs are recommended to wait … 2 years from birth, females are fertile at 6 months. Breeding too young can cause defects and other problems. You should take your female dog to a vet for an exam and any needed vaccinations. The vet will advise when your bitch can be spayed. Large dogs come into heat after 5 or 6 mos … , toy dogs a bit later. Don't wait! Make that vet appt.
/ 0. A dog should only have 1 litter a year until the time she is about 6 years of age. If a dog has them after 6 years of age the puppies have a lower survivor rate. Plus those puppies have a better chance of having health issues. It's not good for the mother either if you force her to have more than 1 litter a year.
(Male and Female). A female dog, (bitch) can begin puberty around 6 months of age. If she has not had her first heat, or cycle, by 12 months of age, talk to your vet. The bitch will typically come into heat twice a year after her first heat. Keep track on your calendar so you can plan your trips around her cycle. A male dog, (stud) can go through puberty between 5 and 12 months of age. If your dog has not reached sexual maturity by 12 months, talk to your vet. The age varies by breed with smaller dogs maturing earlier than larger breeds. A male can be sexually viable as early as 5 months