Ventilation (V) is simply pertaining to inspiration and expiration of air (O2/CO2). Perfusion (Q) is the movement of blood (with the oxygen that has been inspired) to the tissues of the body. Remember, the exchange of gases only occurs at the capillaries on the alveoli of the lungs. RE: Can someone explain ventilation-perfusion coupling to me? I need to know what ventilation-perfusion coupling is and how pneumonia effects ventilation-perfusion coupling. Im really having a hard time learning the Respiratory System so the more simplified you can explain this to me the better! Thank you and I promise to pick a best answer! Add your answer. Source
Ventilation perfusion coupling is the amount of gas reaching  alveoli & blood flow in pulmonary capillaries; local  autoregulation. 10 people found this useful. Edit. A coupling is a device used to connect two shafts together at their ends for the purpose of transmitting power. Couplings do not normally allow disconnection of shafts during … operation, however there are torque limiting couplings which can slip or disconnect when some torque limit is exceeded.
Alveoli (round part of flask) that do not receive a good blood flow (i.e., perfusion) do not receive a good supply of carbon dioxide. Respiratory bronchioles connected to such alveoli are narrow. This adaptation of the air passages to the blood flow is called 'ventilation-perfusion coupling.'. Ventilation, breathing, and external respiration all mean the same thing; the movement of air into and out of the lungs.
perfusion is a term to measure the pressure amongst cells in the body. the pressure in the cells has a direct impact on the lungs ability to stay ventilated and there are a bunch of equations a theories coupling the two idea and linking them for a better understanding of lung function. Answers. Best Answer: ventilation in this case refers to lung function and the ability to move a sufficient volume of air to keep the blood oxygen level at or near 100% saturation.
Ventilation perfusion ratio is an indicator of how well the oxygen  we breathe in is being transported through the lungs and into the  blood system. While blood … flow is generally understood as an increase in the total amount of blood flowing into an anatomic structure or region, tissue perfusion is the amount of blood that actually flow through the capillaries of the vascular bed of that structure or region.
The V/Q ratio can be measured with a ventilation/perfusion scan. A V/Q mismatch can cause a type 1 respiratory failure. Therefore, under these conditions, the ideal ventilation perfusion ratio would be about 0.95. If one were to consider humidified air (with less oxygen), then the ideal v/q ratio would be in the vicinity of 1.0, thus leading to concept of ventilation-perfusion equality or ventilation-perfusion matching.
Introduction to the concept of ventilation and perfusion, and discussion of the 3 zones of ventilation / perfusion. Explained the key concept of hypoxic vasoconstriction in regulating ventilation and perfusion, and an example of pulmonary shunt. 
Perfusion model is normally chosen for the production of unstable proteins. This is because perfusion culture has low resident time in bioreactor and the product can be harves … ted and purified promptly. In addition, it can avoid the accumulation of toxic or inhibitory metabolites that might have negative impact on the productivity of fed-batch cultures. While blood … flow is generally understood as an increase in the total amount of blood flowing into an anatomic structure or region, tissue perfusion is the amount of blood that actually flow through the capillaries of the vascular bed of that structure or region.
In respiratory physiology, the ventilation/perfusion ratio (or V/Q ratio) is a measurement used to assess the efficiency and adequacy of the matching of two variables:  1 V – ventilation – the air that reaches the alveoli.  2 Q – perfusion – the blood that reaches the alveoli. Therefore, under these conditions, the ideal ventilation perfusion ratio would be about 0.95. If one were to consider humidified air (with less oxygen), then the ideal v/q ratio would be in the vicinity of 1.0, thus leading to concept of ventilation-perfusion equality or ventilation-perfusion matching.