The Answer: He who commits suicide by throttling shall keep on throttling himself in the Hell Fire (forever) and he who commits suicide by stabbing himself shall keep on stabbing himself in the Hell-Fire. (Bukhari, Janaiz 84). Committing suicide is a grave sin which is forbidden by Islam. A Muslim’s killing himself/herself is a bigger murder and sin than killing another person. Thus, Islamic scholars have disputed whether the funeral prayer of a person who has committed suicide is performed or not. This discussion is not made for a murderer who killed someone. A murderer’s funeral prayer is performed
Praise be to Allaah. Suicide is a major sin. The Prophet (peace and blessings of Allaah be upon him) stated that the one who commits suicide will be punished with something like that with which he killed himself. Suicide is not kufr that puts a person beyond the pale of Islam as some people think, rather it is a major sin that is subject to the will of Allaah on the Day of Resurrection: if He wills, He will forgive it, and if He wills He will punish for it.
5:32. So to commit suicide in of it self is totally, absolutely, haram. And furthermore, not only are suicide bombing haram because it is the killing of your self, but also it is the killing and endangering other innocent lives and people, children and women. Assalamu alaikum ,this question is not about general suicide. My question is is there any specific rule in islam which allows suicide bombing even when suicide bombing is haram.
Bukari. If suicide is forbidden then suicide bombing is strictly haram. suicide bombing kills innocent people, and Allah says that who ever kills someone then it is like the whole of humanity is killed. It is forbidden in Islam to kill other people so suicide bombing is forbidden. Assalamu alaikum ,this question is not about general suicide. My question is is there any specific rule in islam which allows suicide bombing even when suicide bombing is haram.
Allah, praise to Him, strongly prohibited the killing of oneself (suicide), or anybody else, or children for fear of poverty, as stated in verses 6: 151, 17: 33, 2: 195, and 4: 29 because the killing of one innocent soul is for God equal to the crime of killing all people, as stated in 5: 32. ۖ ۖ ۖ ۖ ۖ ۖ ۚ ٰ (6: 151). When Allah, praise to Him, decided to create life on Earth, He made sure that there is enough sustenance to all of His creations, particularly humans. Thus, there is no justification for individual suicide because of poverty or fear of poverty as a result of failure.
Sala Yes committing suicide is strictly forbidden and haram in Islam,because it means the related person does not believe in Allah and taqdir the decision of Allah about his/her life. Is it Haram to commit suicide? https://s.yimg.com/hd/answers/i/004db07aef6d4b659df55b8c08264740_A.png?a=answers&mr=0&x=1442970283&s=7321d6d48c1366ff4a894c4a94ecdb61.
I changed when my brother became Muslim. Q. It is said that suicide is forbidden in Islam and that the person who commits suicide is destined to go to hell. Suppose a person is suffering from a severe case of depression, or some other mental disease. If such a person commits suicide, then may be God will not allow him in heaven. A person who commits suicide as a result of a mental disorder like depression or some other severe form of anxiety is not in full control of his senses.
Praise be to Allaah. Firstly: Suicide is a major sin, and the one who does that is faced with a warning of eternity in the Fire of Hell, where Allaah will punish him with the means that he used to commit suicide. The believer has to be patient and to seek the help of Allaah, may He be exalted, and understand that no matter what hardship befalls him in this world -- no matter how severe it is -- the punishment of the Hereafter is worse than it.