While PTH acts to increase the concentration of ionic calcium (Ca 2+) in the blood, calcitonin, a hormone produced by the parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid gland, acts to decrease ionic calcium concentration. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Calcitonin (also known as thyrocalcitonin) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells (also known as C-cells) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body. It acts to reduce blood calcium (Ca 2+), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH). Calcitonin has been found in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Calcitonin is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells (also known as C-cells) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body. It acts to reduce blood calcium (Ca2+), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH). 
Parathyroid hormone opposes the effect of calcitonin, a hormone  produced by the thyroid gland that regulates calcium levels. It  removes calcium from its storage sites in b … ones and releases it  into the bloodstream. Calcitonin slows the release of calcium from bones into  bloodstream, thereby keeping blood levels of calcium to a minimum.    Parathyroid hormone does the opposite. I … t maintains calcium levels  in the blood, or helps reabsorption of calcium from bones into  bloodstream. 1 person found this useful
Calcitonin is a hormone that is produced in humans by the parafollicular cells (commonly known as C-cells) of the thyroid gland. Calcitonin is involved in helping to regulate levels of calcium and phosphate in the blood, opposing the action of parathyroid hormone. The secretion of calcitonin is also inhibited by the hormone somatostatin which is also released by the C-cells in the thyroid gland. What happens if I have too much calcitonin? There does not seem to be any effect on the body as a result of having too much calcitonin.
Calcitonin. Calcitonin is produced by the C cells of the thyroid gland and is released when levels of calcium in the blood are increased. Its role is to decrease the amount of calcium in the blood. It has the opposite action to parathyroid hormone, which increases the amount of calcium in the blood when levels fall. The thyroid gland produces 3 hormones; calcitonin, thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). T3 and T4 have similar functions and are involved in the control of metabolism, whereas calcitonin is involved in regulating the levels of blood calcium.
3 years ago. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin are antagonistic hormones, which are released in response to blood calcium levels. In other words, PTH acts on the same target organs as calcitonin, but produces the opposite effects. Parathyroid hormone is released from the parathyroid glands, and calcitonin is released from the thyroid gland. If blood calcium concentration is high, calcitonin is released.
Calcitonin slows the release of calcium from bones into  bloodstream, thereby keeping blood levels of calcium to a minimum.    Parathyroid hormone does the opposite. I … t maintains calcium levels  in the blood, or helps reabsorption of calcium from bones into  bloodstream. 1 person found this useful. 
Calcitonin is a hormone that is produced and released by the C-cells of the thyroid gland. Its biological function in humans is unclear. Alternative names for calcitonin CT; thyrocalcitonin. The secretion of calcitonin is also inhibited by the hormone somatostatin which is also released by the C-cells in the thyroid gland. What happens if I have too much calcitonin? There does not seem to be any effect on the body as a result of having too much 