Meaning of Evelyn. English name. In English, the name Evelyn means-hazelnut. Other origins for the name Evelyn include-English, Celtic, French, Hebrew, French.The name Evelyn is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-hazelnut. Origin-England. 
From an English surname which was derived from the given name AVELINE. In the 17th century when it was first used as a given name it was more common for boys, but it is now regarded as mainly feminine due to association with the related name Evelina. 
Look up Evelyn in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Evelyn is a name in the English language, where it can be used as a first name or a surname. As a first name, it can refer to persons of either sex, although it is more commonly borne by females. The name originally was used a surname, which derived from Aveline, a feminine Norman French diminutive of the name Ava. Evelyn is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish or Aibhilin aibhilín Éibhleann. Eibhleann éibhleann aibhilin aibhilín is a Variant, form of eibhlin eibhlín which is Also Derived From. the norman french aveline
The name Evelyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Evelyn is: Life. French Meaning: The name Evelyn is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Evelyn is: From a surname derived from the Old French 'aveline' meaning hazelnut. Famous bearer: Evelyn Waugh
Notes: Evelyn is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Evelyn is beautiful bird. Evelyn is a result of combing the name Eve with Lynn. Alternate spellings of the name Evelyn include Evelin, Evalyn, and Evelynn. Nicknames for the name Evelyn include Eve, Ev, and Evvy, and Lynn
The name Evelyn is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Evelyn is life. It is also of Latin origin, where its meaning is bird and French origin, where its meaning is little bird, hazelnut. 
Evelyn /eve-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Evelyn) is pronounced EV-a-lin, EEV-lin. It is of Norman origin. Modern use derives from a transferred use of an English surname, from the Norman female name Aveline, from Ava. 
Evelyn Name Meaning. English: from the Middle English, Old French female personal name Aveline, a double diminutive of the Germanic personal name Avo, from the element avi, perhaps meaning ‘desired’, ‘wished for’. 