1 Sprinkle the powder at the entry points. 2  Table salt. 3  This is the best and the cheapest way to get rid of ants. 4  Boil water and add salt to it. 5  Pour salty water into a spray bottle and spread in places, where you usually see the ants. 6  Pepper. 7  It is as effective as salt.
1 Table salt. 2  This is the best and the cheapest way to get rid of ants. 3  Boil water and add salt to it. 4  Pour salty water into a spray bottle and spread in places, where you usually see the ants. 5  Pepper. 6  It is as effective as salt. 7  Both cayenne and black pepper work wonders.
There is no easy way to get rid of carpenter ants. Most importantly, the only way to get rid of carpenter ants is to find and destroy their nest. Outside, look for carpenter ants tree damage and activity in rotting wood, stumps or wooden structures. Inside, nests and carpenter ant damage are more difficult to find.
Ants hate the vinegar smell. So they try to get rid of vinegar. Vinegar also removes the fragrance to which the ants got attracted. This is one of the cheapest and easily available solutions to get rid of ant trails.
Get rid of the ants in your garden, on your patio, and along the foundation of your home. In a blender, make a smooth puree of a few orange peels in 1 cup warm water. Slowly pour the solution over and into anthills to send the little pests packing.
Use baby powder on any trail of ants you see. Those ants will die as well. Another home remedy to kill ants is to mix boric acid and sugar together into a paste, about one tablespoon of boric acid to a cup of sugar. How to get rid of ant mounds is simply drop pieces of this paste near the hills or anywhere you see ants.
How to Get Rid of Ant Mounds. The best way to get rid of ants outdoors would be to use pipe tobacco. To get rid of ants in yard, you can soak the tobacco in water overnight and make a tea with it. Discard the wet tobacco, and use gloves when handling the solution. Pour the liquid over the ant hills and soak them.