Description [edit]. A diamante poem is a poem that makes the shape of a diamond. The poem can be used in two ways, either comparing and contrasting two different subjects, or naming synonyms at the beginning of the poem and then antonyms for the second half for a subject. In the poems, the subject is named in one word in the first line. A diamante poem, or diamond poem, is a style of poetry that is made up of seven lines. The text forms the shape of a lozenge or diamond (◊). The form was developed by Iris Tiedt in A New Poetry Form: The Diamante (1969)
A Shape Poem is a type of poetry that describes an object and is shaped the same as the object the poem is describing. You could write your shape poem on anything. An Example of a Shape Poem. If you would like some more help with your shaped poem check out our shape poetry workshop. Why not also enter it into one of our poetry competitions.
Shape Poetry. A shape poem is a good way to teach poetry to students. To write a shape poem, choose any noun with an interesting shape and write a short, one-sentence poem using alliteration in the shape of that object. Alliteration repeats a consonant over and over (e.g. 'Betty bought some butter but the butter was bitter'). Shape poems can be used for a poetry game to kickoff a poetry unit in the classroom. Children may even be willing to share their shape poems with other students in the class! TASK: Have your students write their own Shape Poem using alliteration.
As the name implies, shape poetry has to do with the physical form of the words on the paper. While the words, writing style and literary devices all impact the meaning of the poem, the physical shape that the poem takes is also of significance. Combining content and form helps to create one powerful effect in the field of poetry. Another important aspect of writing a shape poem is to avoid forcing the image. Write down some words and play with them. Remember, it might take awhile before those words can truly come to life in a shape. Don't feel constricted by others' perceptions of reality.
Shape Poems. Below are examples of shape poems. This list of poems in the shape form of poetry is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of shape poems or a list of shape poetry. These examples illustrate what shape poems look like and its form. There is also a link below to the definition of shape and a page where you can discuss it. 
Poetry Definition. Poetry written in the shape or form of an object. Shape poems do not have to take the form of the object it describes. This form is different than a concrete poem, in that a concrete poem takes the shape of the object it describes. Standard Definition. [n] the spatial arrangement of something as distinct from its substance; geometry is the mathematical science of shape. [n] the visual appearance of something or someone; the delicate cast of his features.
Outline Poems. A common way to make the visual structure reflect the subject of the poem is to fill an outline shape that relates to the topic of the poem, in the same way that Carroll’s poem fits the outline of a mouse’s tail. Here is an example about a snowman: 1  Choose an object to be the subject for your poem.
An acrostic poem is a type of poetry where the first, last or other letters in a line spell out a particular word or phrase. 