Mascaras on the market range from synthetic to all-natural.Though mascara does not contain bat excrement, as some rumors have claimed, it is possible that your mascara contains chemicals that are toxic and known to cause irritation and health issues. Hi, I'm Jen D'Amore for About.com, and this video is all about mascara: what it's made of and how to make it at home.
Some mascaras on the market today boast all-natural ingredients, and their recipes vary little from products that might have been made at home 100 years ago. One development that may affect mascara manufacturing in the future, however, is the development of new pigments. Early mascara from the modern era usually took the form of a pressed cake. It was applied to the lashes with a wetted brush. The ingredients typically were 50% soap and 50% black pigment.
To lengthen eyelashes, mascaras contain microfibers of rayon and nylon. Waterproof mascaras contain the volatile solvent, isododecane. To see how safe your favorite mascara is, look it up on the Environmental Working Group's Skin Deep Database at www.ewg.org/skindeep. You'll see exactly how safe, or dangerous, each ingredient is. Hi, I'm Jen D'Amore for About.com, and this video is all about mascara: what it's made of and how to make it at home.
Mascara is a man made product. Chemistry is involved in mascara by the fact that some mascaras are hydrophilic meaning they are soluble in water (non water proof) and have weak hydrogen bonds. The other kind (waterproof) is called hydrophobic. This kind has stronger hydrogen bonds and is non polar. 1  Carbon black is created in a lab
Background. Mascara is a cosmetic applied to the eyelashes to make the lashes thicker, longer, and darker. It is one of the most ancient cosmetics known, having been used in Egypt possibly as early as 4000. Egyptians used a substance called kohl to darken their lashes, eyebrows, and eyelids. Early mascara from the modern era usually took the form of a pressed cake. It was applied to the lashes with a wetted brush. The ingredients typically were 50% soap and 50% black pigment.
Waterproof Mascara. To find out if your mascara will flake or run, check how much water it contains. The lower water is on the ingredients list, the less likely you'll get smeared. Still, experts suggest limiting your use of waterproof, smudge proof formulas made with little to no water. Millions of women use mascara to make their lashes lush. It's been around since the 19th century, and those tubes and wands are still making eyes more alluring. Here's a look at what's inside the tube.
The Collins English Dictionary defines mascara as a cosmetic substance for darkening, lengthening, curling, coloring, and thickening the eyelashes, applied with a brush or rod.. The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) adds that mascara is occasionally used on the eyebrows as well. It may darken, thicken, lengthen, and/or define the eyelashes. Normally in one of three forms—liquid, cake, or cream—the modern mascara product has various formulas; however, most contain the same basic components of pigments, oils, waxes, and preservatives.
There are two main types of mascara currently manufactured. One type is called anhydrous, meaning it contains no water. The second type is made with a lotion base, and it is manufactured by the emulsion method. Early mascara from the modern era usually took the form of a pressed cake. It was applied to the lashes with a wetted brush. The ingredients typically were 50% soap and 50% black pigment.
Mascara is a cosmetic commonly used to enhance the eyes. It may darken, thicken, lengthen, and/or define the eyelashes. Normally in one of three forms—liquid, cake, or cream—the modern mascara product has various formulas; however, most contain the same basic components of pigments, oils, waxes, and preservatives.
In formulas for this type of mascara, beeswax is often used, as is carnauba wax and paraffin. Oils may be mineral oil, lanolin, linseed oil, castor oil, oil of turpentine, eucalyptus oil, and even sesame oil. Some formulas contain alcohol. Early mascara from the modern era usually took the form of a pressed cake. It was applied to the lashes with a wetted brush. The ingredients typically were 50% soap and 50% black pigment.