Hi. Yes, BOA will cash any BOA check, provided the account is valid, there are sufficient funds in the account and you have proper ID.   If you have no account with t … hem, usually 2 forms of ID are requested, and you may be subject to a small fee, around $5. Yes. Banks keep a record of every single transaction (And that includes checks as well) that was performed at their bank. There are regulatory requirements that mandate these record keeping activities.
1. Take your check to the bank the check is being cashed from. If you don't have a bank account of your own, then this is a great method. Just bring a photo ID and the check to the teller at the bank where the check was cashed from, and you will be able to cash the check for yourself. Just remember that many banks will take a processing fee, which can cost $10 or more
Other places are likely to have lower fees. The check-issuing bank. A bank will only cash a check for a non-customer if a check is issued by that specific bank. Even then, the non-customer could face a check-cashing fee, which varies from bank to bank. For instance, TD Bank charges $5 whenever a non-customer wants to cash a TD Bank check. 
If you take a check to the bank that issued it, and you have good ID, they will cash it for you. If y … ou have a bank account of your own and you have an amount of money in your account that is equal to or greater than the amount of the check that you wish to cash, your own bank will cash it. You can cash a check at a different bank if the check was drawn on  that bank. Some banks will cash a check drawn on a different bank  but funds will not be available right … away.
There is no federal law that requires a bank to cash a check, even a government check. Some banks only cash checks if you have an account at the bank. Other banks will cash checks for non-customers, but they may charge a fee. You should shop around for the bank that best meets your needs.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Most likely, the cashed check will not show up on your statement. However, the bank does keep records of the checks that its customers cash. The check will be scanned and kept in the banks' records for at least seven years. If the check comes back, the bank needs to know whose account to charge. That is just one of the reasons why they keep these records. Source(s): My 31 years in the banking and credit union industry. If you cash a check at a bank that you are a customer of do they keep a record that you cashed the check?
Sign the check over to someone you trust. By signing the back of your check over to someone you trust and know well, they can just as easily go into their own bank and cash it themselves. Of course, the stipulation here is that you should only ask someone you truly trust to do this for you. If you don't have a bank account of your own, then this is a great method. Just bring a photo ID and the check to the teller at the bank where the check was cashed from, and you will be able to cash the check for yourself.
If you take a check to the bank that issued it, and you have good ID, they will cash it for you. If y … ou have a bank account of your own and you have an amount of money in your account that is equal to or greater than the amount of the check that you wish to cash, your own bank will cash it. Yes. Banks keep a record of every single transaction (And that includes checks as well) that was performed at their bank. There are regulatory requirements that mandate these record keeping activities.
So yeah… Just wondering if the bank keeps track of who you get your checks from. Tyler 04.05.2013. To answer your question yes banks keep records of everything that is deposited or withdrawn from your account. The down side is that most banks only keep the actual paper work for a certain amount of time. However, your bank should have a program that they can pull the transactions up on