Your education shouldn’t stop when you graduate with a bachelor’s degree. Many forensic science tech educational programs offer master’s degrees in the field, which will take an extra 12 to 24 months of your time if you go to school full time. However, that advanced degree can help you find a job in a tightening job market. According to The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average annual salary for forensic science technicians was $55,660 in 2011. There are a lot of factors that could affect your potential salary: 1  Type of industry.
Masters Degree in Forensic Science. 1  Traditional. 2  1 and 1/2 to 2 and 1/2 years with a maxed-out class load – super-full-time: this may depend on the school, prior permission may be required. 3  2 to 3 and 1/2 years is the norm – usually full time: may depend on the school. 1 MS in Forensic Science) expedites the fast track – not all schools work this way, so it’s always wise to make sure before you start. 2  4 to 6 years is the norm – usually full time: the length of the degree
A: The duration of forensic science degrees will depend upon which program you enroll in. The duration may vary slightly from college to college. Some programs may take four years to complete while other programs may tale two years to complete. One example is that according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics a forensic science technician earned an average of $52,960 in 2008. If you would like to earn more, then seeking a MSFS degree is highly recommended.
A: The length of a forensic science program will depend on which degree program you're enrolled in. An associate degree program will generally take around two years to complete, while a bachelor's degree will take four years. A: To become a forensic scientist, you must have at least a bachelor level degree in the field. Individuals who have completed high school can enroll in an associate degree in forensic science or a bachelor degree in forensic science.
There will be many science and law courses you will have to take to earn your forensic science degree. You will have to take several law courses like Introduction to Law, criminal justice system, law enforcement, criminal law, legal writing, and courts system. One example is that according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics a forensic science technician earned an average of $52,960 in 2008. If you would like to earn more, then seeking a MSFS degree is highly recommended.
Becoming a forensic science tech means continual education for as long as you work in this field. According to The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average annual salary for forensic science technicians was $55,660 in 2011. There are a lot of factors that could affect your potential salary: 1  Type of industry.
Most forensic science jobs require at least a bachelor’s degree. This type of degree typically takes four years to complete, but it depends on your program and the amount of time you spend on your classes. According to The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average annual salary for forensic science technicians was $55,660 in 2011. There are a lot of factors that could affect your potential salary: 1  Type of industry.
2. Be a forensic pathologist, or medical examiner. To become a medical examiner, you will have to attend medical school and receive your MD degree. While this takes a long time, your salary is likely to be higher than in other sub-fields of forensics. 
1 4 to 6 years is the norm – usually full time: the length of the degree may depend on the school. 2  6 to 7 years, or more – usually part time or a class at a time: colleges and universities often cap their PhD program at 5-6 year mark, prior permission may be required. 1 MS in Forensic Science) expedites the fast track – not all schools work this way, so it’s always wise to make sure before you start. 2 
Since forensic science is a science, you will have to take courses in biology and chemistry and complete lab work. Depending on what you plan to focus on will determine what types of chemistry and biology classes you have to take. One example is that according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics a forensic science technician earned an average of $52,960 in 2008. If you would like to earn more, then seeking a MSFS degree is highly recommended.