(October 2012). A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, musicians, models, film producers, professional athletes, writers, screenwriters, broadcast journalists, and other people in various entertainment or broadcast businesses. In many cases, casting directors, or other businesses go to talent agencies to find the artists for whom they are looking. The agent is paid a percentage of the star's earnings (typically 10%). Therefore agents are sometimes referred to as 10 percenters.. Various regulations govern different types of agents.
Generally, the marketing of independent films is characterized by limited release, but can also have major marketing campaigns and a wide release. Independent films are often screened at local, national, or international film festivals before distribution (theatrical and/or retail release). An independent film production can rival a mainstream film production if it has the necessary funding and distribution. Independent films are sometimes distinguishable by their content and style and the way in which the filmmakers' personal artistic vision is realized.
4. Go to New York. Something I learned by casting both Open House and Between Us is to target junior agents at the big agencies — and specifically ones in their New York offices. The L.A. talent agents are all running around like crazy trying to get their actors booked into pilot season. In some cases they also need the credits but they didn’t have to work on my film–both production and post-production crew and my cast (of two). I can’t thank these people enough and hope to be able to pay them back in spades one day.
Note that the agent's job is to get the talent auditions; the talent is the only person who can get the job. For their work, agents take a 10 to 20% commission of the gross, depending on whether the job is union (such as SAG-AFTRA) or not. In many cases, casting directors, or other businesses go to talent agencies to find the artists for whom they are looking. The agent is paid a percentage of the star's earnings (typically 10%). Therefore agents are sometimes referred to as 10 percenters.. Various regulations govern different types of agents.
An agent has two sets of clients: the talent (actors, models, voice-over artists, etc.) and the buyer. The buyer can be a casting director, advertising agency, production company, photographer, or direct client if the client has an in-house production staff. In many cases, casting directors, or other businesses go to talent agencies to find the artists for whom they are looking. The agent is paid a percentage of the star's earnings (typically 10%). Therefore agents are sometimes referred to as 10 percenters.. Various regulations govern different types of agents.
It helps to know that you have backup actors in a pinch. For literally years, I had been meeting actors for coffee (it’s axiomatic that actors don’t eat, so you can take them to reasonably nice places and not go broke). So I knew we could always make the film with talented actors if we wanted. In some cases they also need the credits but they didn’t have to work on my film–both production and post-production crew and my cast (of two). I can’t thank these people enough and hope to be able to pay them back in spades one day.
INDEPENDENT. Independent is Europe's leading talent agency. Our client base encompasses actors, directors, writers, producers and their production companies, below-the-line talent, models, casting directors, presenters, comedians, voiceover artists and others involved in all aspects of the media business.
After I graduated college, I worked... The Do’s and Don’ts of Networking at Indielink 2015. Among the can’t-miss events of the 2015 Film Independent Forum are two sessions of Indielink, where participants get to sit down and meet one-on-one with industry leaders. Tue, Oct. 20, 2015 | Writing the Spec Script That Launches Your Career Film Independent Office 7:30 pm Tue, Oct. 27, 2015 | Deliverables Demystified Film Independent Office 7:30 pm Tue, Nov. 3, 2015 | Member Night – November Film Independent Office 7:00-9:00 pm View All Events.
“In this Business they say “it’s not how good you are, it’s who you know” Well the people from MusicGorilla.com is who “you” should know. Musicgorilla.com can open the doors you need to get your music heard… In the past year, I have played in front of major A&R heads and just got my songs into the MTV music catalog. “For those of you out there who think that 57 is too old to get anything done in the music world. Wow! Music Gorilla is a great place to find opportunities. Just a few weeks ago, I receive an inquiry, sent off my CD and received a contract in only a few days for my music to appear on up to 5 new kids Christian DVDs.
With your foot in the door, all you need to do is make a good impression, and your musical career will take off. Order the music agencies list and music manager mailing labels of legitimate music talent agents and music artist management booking agents, and send your information to these music agents today. 