Tetanus, commonly called lockjaw, is a serious bacterial disease that affects muscles and nerves. It is characterized by muscle stiffness that usually involves the jaw and neck that then progresses to involve other parts of the body. Death can result from severe breathing difficulties or heart abnormalities. 
Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani. Tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust and manure. 
Knowledge center. Tetanus (or lockjaw) is a serious infection caused by Clostridium tetani bacteria which produce a toxin that affects the brain and nervous system. The toxin leads to stiffness in the jaw muscles as well as other muscles. Tetanus is caused by the Clostridium tetani bacterium. Clostridium tetani spores are able to survive for a long time outside of the body. They are most commonly found in animal manure and contaminated soil, but may exist virtually anywhere.
The bacteria that cause tetanus are called Clostridium tetani. They are usually found in dirt and soil, most often in areas with animal waste such as farms and ranches. These bacteria typically enter the body through a wound, cut, or splinter. 
A RealAge answered. Tetanus (lockjaw) is a disease caused by the bacterium Clostridium tetani, which lives in soil and animal feces. When the bacteria enter the body (especially in wounds), a toxin they produce causes infection and a disease characterized by muscle spasms. Tetanus is a severe infection that can result from a puncture or a deep cut. Tetanus is a disease caused by bacteria. These bacteria produce a powerful poison in the body. The poison enters the nervous system and can cause muscle paralysis.
Tetanus (also called lockjaw) is a disease caused by bacteria that attacks the nervous system (that includes the brain, spinal cord and nerves). Stiffness in the neck or stomach muscles may be early symptoms of tetanus. Tetanus is a severe infection that can result from a puncture or a deep cut. Tetanus is a disease caused by bacteria. These bacteria produce a powerful poison in the body. The poison enters the nervous system and can cause muscle paralysis.
Tetanus is a serious bacterial infection that affects the nervous system and causes muscles throughout the body to tighten. Tetanus is also commonly called lockjaw, because the infection primarily causes muscle contractions in the jaw and neck, but can eventually spread to other parts of the body. Tetanus is caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani that can be found in dust, dirt, and animal droppings. A person can become infected when these bacteria enter the bloodstream through a cut or deep wound. Tetanus infection has also been associated with: