Techniques depend upon the materials used. When carving stone or wood, the sculptor chips away with a hammer and chisel. When sculpting clay, artists may use their hands. Clay models may be cast in bronze to create a strong, permanent sculpture. Other techniques include welding metal, molding plastic or concrete, and using fiberglass
Sculpture is three-dimensional art. Traditionally, there are two main methods: carving material such as wood or stone, and modeling forms by adding pieces of material such as clay. Modern artists have explored new materials and techniques. When carving stone or wood, the sculptor chips away with a hammer and chisel. When sculpting clay, artists may use their hands. Clay models may be cast in bronze to create a strong, permanent sculpture. Other techniques include welding metal, molding plastic or concrete, and using fiberglas
Sculpture may be either in the round or in relief. A sculpture in the round is a separate, detached object in its own right, leading the same kind of independent existence in space as a human body or a chair. A relief does not have this kind of independence. Sculpture, an artistic form in which hard or plastic materials are worked into three-dimensional art objects. The designs may be embodied in freestanding objects, in reliefs on surfaces, or in environments ranging from tableaux to contexts that envelop the spectator.
1. sculpture-a three-dimensional work of plastic art. bronze-a sculpture made of bronze. bust-a sculpture of the head and shoulders of a person. carving-a sculpture created by removing material (as wood or ivory or stone) in order to create a desired shape. 1. The art or practice of shaping figures or designs in the round or in relief, as by chiseling marble, modeling clay, or casting in metal. 2. a. A work of art created by sculpture. b. Such works of art considered as a group. 3. Ridges, indentations, or other markings, as on a shell, formed by natural processes.
Definition of SCULPTURE for Kids. 1. : the action or art of making statues by carving or chiseling (as in wood or stone), by modeling (as in clay), or by casting (as in melted metal). 2. : a work of art produced by sculpture. Definition of SCULPTURE. transitive verb. 1. a: to form an image or representation of from solid material (as wood or stone) b: to form into a three-dimensional work of art. 2. : to change (the form of the earth's surface) by natural processes (as erosion and deposition). 3. : to shape by or as if by carving or molding
Durable sculptural processes originally used carving (the removal of material) and modelling (the addition of material, as clay), in stone, metal, ceramics, wood and other materials but, since modernism, shifts in sculptural process led to an almost complete freedom of materials and process. Sculpture in what is now Latin America developed in two separate and distinct areas, Mesoamerica in the north and Peru in the south. In both areas, sculpture was initially of stone, and later of terracotta and metal as the civilizations in these areas became more technologically proficient.
Modern sculpture is generally considered to have begun with the work of Auguste Rodin, who is seen as the progenitor of modern sculpture. While Rodin did not set out to rebel against the past, he created a new way of building his works. Modernist sculpture movements include Art Nouveau, Cubism, Geometric abstraction, De Stijl, Suprematism, Constructivism, Dadaism, Surrealism, Futurism, Formalism Abstract expressionism, Pop-Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, Land art, Conceptual art, and Installation art among others.
Full Definition of SCULPTURE. 1. a: the action or art of processing (as by carving, modeling, or welding) plastic or hard materials into works of art b (1) : work produced by sculpture (2) : a three-dimensional work of art (as a statue). 2. Definition of SCULPTURE. transitive verb. 1. a: to form an image or representation of from solid material (as wood or stone) b: to form into a three-dimensional work of art. 2. : to change (the form of the earth's surface) by natural processes (as erosion and deposition). 3. : to shape by or as if by carving or molding