The prostate gland is a male reproductive organ whose main function is to secrete prostate fluid, one of the components of semen. The muscles of the prostate gland also help propel this seminal fluid into the urethra during ejaculation. The prostate is a muscular gland that weighs about three-fourths of an ounce (20 grams) about the size of a small apricot. It surrounds the urethra just beneath the bladder
Prostate gland: A gland in the male reproductive system that is located just below the bladder. It surrounds part of the urethra, the canal that empties the bladder. The prostate gland helps to control urination, and it forms part of the content of semen. Also known as simply the prostate. 
The prostate (from Greek προστάτης, prostates, literally one who stands before, protector, guardian) is a compound tubuloalveolar exocrine gland of the male reproductive system in most mammals. It differs considerably among species anatomically, chemically, and physiologically. 
Prostate gland enlargement is a common condition as men get older. Also called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostate gland enlargement can cause bothersome urinary symptoms. Untreated, prostate gland enlargement can block the flow of urine out of the bladder and cause bladder, urinary tract or kidney problems. 
Side View of the Prostate. The prostate is a walnut-sized gland located between the bladder and the penis. The prostate is just in front of the rectum. The urethra runs through the center of the prostate, from the bladder to the penis, letting urine flow out of the body
The prostate is a small gland in men that is part of the reproductive system. It's about the shape and size of a walnut. The prostate rests below the bladder and in front of the rectum. It surrounds part of the urethra, the tube that carries urine from the bladder. 
Facts about the prostate gland. The prostate gland is about the size of a walnut. It's located just below the bladder and it surrounds the urethra (a tube that carries urine and semen out of the body). The prostate is partly muscular and partly glandular, with ducts opening into the prostatic portion of the urethra. Function of the prostate gland. As part of the male reproductive system, the prostate gland’s main purpose is to secrete a slightly alkaline fluid that forms part of the seminal fluid, a fluid that carries sperm.
The prostate gland is an essential part of the male reproductive system. The prostate gland, as it is commonly called, is not really a gland at all, but an organ that consists of about 70 percent glandular tissue and 30 percent fibromuscular tissue. If the prostate gland is enlarged it may partially block the flow of urine through the ureters causing a backpressure in the kidneys. Untreated, this condition can lead to chronic kidney disease.
Prostate. The prostate gland is situated at the origin of the urethra, the tube that carries urine out of the body. It is approximately the size of a small kiwifruit or a large walnut. A normal prostate weighs between 20 and 30 grams, while an enlarged prostate can weigh up to 100 grams. 