Australian States. States listed below are in order of greatest area. Western Australia is the biggest state or territory in Australia and the second largest state/province/national region in the world. The state is 2,529,875 km 2, with a land border of 1862 km and a coastline of 20,871 km. Australia has six states, two main territories, and several smaller territories. The states include New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia, and the island state of Tasmania.
Australia Region or Region in Australia is a district or provincelocated in the island continent of Australia with distinct topographical characteristics. Located in the southern hemisphere, this smallest continent of the world is also accompanied by the islands of Tasmania and New Zealand. Australia Region or Region in Australia can be broadly divided according to their Inter Territorial regions, viz. Capital Country-It is one of those sixteen regions whose history longs back to ancient times, located in New South Wales and Australian Capital Territory districts.
Australia is the world's sixth largest country, after Russia, Canada, China, the USA, and Brazil. In addition to the mainland, Australia is surrounded by many thousands of small fringing islands and numerous larger ones, which, overall, amount to an area half the size of Tasmania. 
The Principality of Hutt River was declared an independent province in 1970 by Leonard Casley, in response to a dispute with the government of Western Australia over what the Casley family considered draconian wheat production quotas. The principality is located 517 km (354 mi) north of Perth, near the town of Northampton in the state of Western Australia. If considered independent, it is an enclave of
More than a third of Australians live in New South Wales, and Sydney is the nation’s largest city. Victoria is the smallest of the mainland states in size but the second most populated. Melbourne is the capital and is Australia’s second most populated city. During the gold rush of the 1850s, it became one of the world's largest and wealthiest cities. In the 1890s gold was discovered and mining is still one of the state’s biggest industries. Tasmania is separated from mainland Australia by Bass Strait and is the smallest state in Australia. The capital, Hobart, was founded in 1804 as a penal colony, and is Australia's second oldest capital city after Sydney. One-fifth of Tasmania is covered by national parks and wilderness area
Tasmania. The Australian Capital Territory, or ACT, is located inside the state of New South Wales. It is by far the smallest State or Territory in Australia at 2,400 km 2. It is 0.03% of Australia's total land area and has no coastline. Australia has six states, two main territories, and several smaller territories. The states include New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia, and the island state of Tasmania.
The state of Tasmania, with just on half a million people in 2010, has the smallest population in Australia. However, the Northern Territory, which is a territory rather than … a state, has the smallest population of all of Australia's states and territories. In 2008, the population of the Northern Territory was an estimated 220,000.