There are two common types of lower back strain: 1  A muscle strain happens when the muscle is over-stretched or torn, resulting in damage to the muscle fibers (also called a pulled muscle). 2  A lumbar sprain happens when ligaments are stretched too far or torn. Lower back strain is caused by damage to the muscles and ligaments of the back. Learn about muscle anatomy and the symptoms of lower back strain. Back Strains and Sprains Video. A muscle strain or a muscle sprain in the back is the most common cause of back pain.
(December 2013). Myalgia, or muscle pain, is a symptom of many diseases and disorders. The most common causes are the overuse or over-stretching of a muscle or group of muscles. Myalgia without a traumatic history is often due to viral infections. Longer-term myalgias may be indicative of a metabolic myopathy, some nutritional deficiencies or chronic fatigue syndrome. 
You may feel muscle pain in a specific muscle of the body, such as a back muscle or leg muscle, or you may feel more diffuse muscle pain all over, such as when you have the flu (influenza). A person with chest pain who is having a heart attack or angina is feeling cardiac muscle pain. Although we often think of skeletal muscle pain, problems with other kinds of muscle, such as smooth muscle and cardiac muscle, can also cause pain. Smooth muscles are found in the walls of hollow organs in your body, such as your stomach, bladder, and blood vessels, and play a big role in normal organ function.
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome. 3  Claudication.
Musculoskeletal pain has varying symptoms and causes. Some of the more common types of pain include: 1  Bone pain: This is usually deep, penetrating, or dull. 2  It most commonly results from injury. 3  It is important to be sure that the pain is not related to a fracture or tumor. 4  Muscle pain: This is often less intense than bone pain, but it can still be debilitating
Menstrual cramps are a type of smooth muscle pain in the uterus. Temporary skeletal muscle pain is often caused by minor muscle strain due to an awkward movement or overuse. This type of pain often involves just one or very few muscles and is relatively acute and intense. Although we often think of skeletal muscle pain, problems with other kinds of muscle, such as smooth muscle and cardiac muscle, can also cause pain. Smooth muscles are found in the walls of hollow organs in your body, such as your stomach, bladder, and blood vessels, and play a big role in normal organ function.
Three common classifications of back pain include: 1  Axial pain. 2  Also called mechanical pain, axial pain is the most common cause of back pain and may present in a number of different ways (sharp or dull, constant, comes and goes, etc.). 3  A muscle strain is a common cause of axial pain. 4  Referred pain. Common anatomical causes of back pain include: 1  The large nerve roots that go to the legs and arms may be irritated. 2  The smaller nerves that innervate the spine may be irritated. 3  The large paired back muscles (erector spinae) may be strained. 4  The bones, ligaments, or joints themselves may be injured.
1 Axial pain. 2  Also called mechanical pain, axial pain is the most common cause of back pain and may present in a number of different ways (sharp or dull, constant, comes and goes, etc.). 3  A muscle strain is a common cause of axial pain. Common anatomical causes of back pain include: 1  The large nerve roots that go to the legs and arms may be irritated. 2  The smaller nerves that innervate the spine may be irritated. 3  The large paired back muscles (erector spinae) may be strained. 4  The bones, ligaments, or joints themselves may be injured.
Types of Muscle pain. This medical symptom information shows the various types of Muscle pain, and other related symptoms or conditions, including their causes and diagnosis. 1  Muscle cramps. 2  Myalgia. 3  Back muscle pain. 4  Generalised musculoskeletal pain. 5  Vague muscle aches. 6  Hand cramps
Muscle relaxants, which are also known as skeletal muscle relaxants, are a type of medication that is typically used to reduce or prevent muscle spasms or muscle spasticity that occurs as the result of some upper motor neuron syndromes. This group of medications do not actually act on the muscles themselves. 