Lyme disease is caused by ticks; if your dog is infected with Lyme disease, you can also catch this disease. Lyme disease may be fatal in dogs and can seriously affect children or people with a compromised immune system. 
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. In most cases, the tick must be attached for 36 to 48 hours or more before the Lyme disease bacterium can be transmitted. Most humans are infected through the bites of immature ticks called nymphs.
Lyme disease is a disease caused by a bacteria known as Borrelia burgdorferi. The disease is transmitted through the bite of a tick. Lyme disease is considered a zoonotic disease because it can infect both dogs and people. It does not appear to be a major threat for cats.
Lyme disease is caused by Borrelia burgdorferi bacteria. Infected ticks spread the bacteria by biting people or animals. Two types of ticks carry the Lyme disease bacteria in the U.S. They are: 1  Deer ticks. 2  They spread the disease in the Northeast and Midwest. 3  Western black-legged ticks. Dogs, cats, and horses can become infected with Lyme disease bacteria, but they can't pass the illness to humans. But infected ticks may fall off the animals and then bite and infect humans.
The disease can spread to the joints, heart, and the nervous system. Other mammals can be infected (for example, dogs) by tick bites and, like humans, do not transmit the disease to other animals. However, if a tick bites an infected animal, becomes infected, and then bites a human, the disease may be transferred. Lyme disease is not contagious from person to person and, to date, has not been reported to be transmitted sexually, by kissing, by blood transfusions, or infected animals (for example, pet dogs).
How Lyme Disease is NOT Spread. You can't catch Lyme disease by being around an infected person. And although pets can become infected by a tick, they cannot transmit the disease to humans unless an infected tick falls off the animal and then bites a person. Insects such as mosquitoes, flies, or fleas cannot spread the disease to humans either. Only infected ticks have that honor. Within one to four weeks of being bitten by an infected tick, most people will experience some symptoms of Lyme disease. A circular, expanding rash (called erythema migrans) at the site of the bite develops in about 70%-80% of cases.
DEAR READER: In short, no. Lyme disease is caused by a bacteria that is passed from insect to human by ticks. It can’t be passed directly from human to human. The bacteria is transmitted primarily through deer ticks, either adult female deer ticks or their babies. These little “vampires” need to suck our blood to remain alive. While you can’t catch Lyme disease from another human, you can catch it from your pets. Ticks can jump onto your dogs and cats, make them sick (or not), and then the ticks can jump onto you.
1 Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. Lyme disease facts. 1 
Lyme disease is transmitted to humans by infected ticks, usually through the bites of ticks that are immature and are termed nymphs.. The ticks (nymph stage) are tiny (less than 2 mm diameter) and take about 36-48 hours of attachment to the human before the bacteria that cause Lyme disease are transmitted. Lyme disease is not contagious from person to person and, to date, has not been reported to be transmitted sexually, by kissing, by blood transfusions, or infected animals (for example, pet dogs).