Many people did still celebrate the holiday in their own homes, many more began celebrating New Years in place of Christmas during the Soviet era. This is why it's still such a hugely popular holiday now in the Russian Federation. Christmas was largely celebrated in Imperial Russia although as with most Orthodox religions it was actually observed on January 6th during Epiphany. Karl Marx, the inventor of the socialist ideology stated that religion was the opium of the people (or opiate of the masses, depending on translation).
Christmas in Ukraine is celebrated January 7 according to the Gregorian calendar as in most of other Orthodox Christian countries. During the Soviet time it was not officially celebrated in Ukraine. Instead communist government tried to substitute Christmas with the holiday of New Year. But people did not forget their traditions. After gaining it s independence in 1991 Ukraine started to celebrate Christmas officially as well. 
The first star also signals the start of the Christmas dinner. For many secular Russians, Christmas Day is a family holiday but it is not as important, for many families, as New Year's Day. Many people visit friends and relatives, as well as give and receive presents, on January 7. Background. After the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Bolsheviks banned Christmas celebrations. Many Christmas traditions, such as decorating a fir tree and giving presents, turned into New Year's traditions. Christmas became an official holiday and a non-labor day in Russia in 1991.
In the days of the Soviet Union, Christmas was not celebrated very much. New Year was the important time. Now Christmas is normally celebrated on January 7th (only a few Catholics might celebrate it on the 25th December). The date is different because the Russian Orthodox church uses the old 'Julian' calendar for religious celebration days. The Orthodox Church also celebrates Advent. The official Christmas and New holidays in Russia last from December 31st to January 10th. In Russian Happy/Merry Christmas is 's rah-zh-dee-st-VOHM' (C рождеством!) or 's-schah-st-lee-vah-vah rah-zh dee-st-vah' (счастливого рождества!). Happy/Merry Christmas in lots more languages.
Although banned during the Soviet times, Christmas is now regaining its popularity and religious meaning in Russia. Many people celebrate Christmas Day with a festive meal (example of festive meal only). Many people celebrate Christmas Day with a festive meal (example of festive meal only). Background. After the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Bolsheviks banned Christmas celebrations. Many Christmas traditions, such as decorating a fir tree and giving presents, turned into New Year's traditions. Christmas became an official holiday and a non-labor day in Russia in 1991.
Christmas or Christmas Day (Old English: Crīstesmaesse, crīstesmæsse  Meaning 'christ S ) mass is an annual festival commemorating the birth Of Jesus, christ observed most commonly On december 25 as a religious and cultural celebration among billions of people around the. world Christmas Day is a public holiday in many of the world's nations, is celebrated culturally by a large number of non-Christian people, and is an integral part of the Christmas and holiday season.
The Soviet New Year's, in fact, has become pretty much what Christmas has become in the secular Western world-a day for families to gather and share gifts and goodies under a tree, brightly lit and trimmed with homemade decorations. In some countries Christmas is the centerpiece of the celebration, in others New Year's or Twelfth Night. Following are reports from 15 Times correspondents and bureaus on how the holidays are celebrated in their areas, and tips on how a visitor can join in-or cope with-them.
Many people start celebrating Christmas on December 25 (together with the Western World), then continue to observe New Year Eve with festive parties, enjoy New Year Day with their families and, finally, celebrate Russian Orthodox Christmas on January 7. 