toxin. n. 1. (Pathology) any of various poisonous substances produced by microorganisms that stimulate the production of neutralizing substances (antitoxins) in the body. See also endotoxin, exotoxin. 2. (Biology) any other poisonous substance of plant or animal origin. 1. A poisonous substance, especially a protein, that is produced by living cells or organisms and is capable of causing disease when introduced into the body tissues but is often also capable of inducing neutralizing antibodies or antitoxins. 2. A poisonous or harmful nonbiological substance, such as a pollutant.
antibiotic. 1. destructive of life. 2. a chemical substance produced by a microorganism that has the capacity, in dilute solutions, to kill (biocidal activity) or inhibit the growth (biostatic activity) of other microorganisms. antibiotic (an´tibīot´ik) , n an organic substance produced by one of several microorganisms, especially certain molds, that is capable, in low concentration, of destroying or inhibiting the growth of certain other microorganisms.
1 Some important substances are only produced naturally by microorganisms that are difficult to culture. 2  In this case, the gene used by the microorganism to produce the substance of interest can be given to a different microorganism that is easier to grow. 1 The production of a substance naturally found in a microorganism can be enhanced. 2  The regulatory machinery controlling a gene can be changed for a stronger promoter. 3  The enzyme coded by this gene can thus be produced in much greater quantities.
Dr. Sayeed Ahmad D. I. Hom. (London) Antibiotic is a substance produced by certain bacteria or fungi that kills other cells or interferes with their growth. In nature, these substances help some microbes survive by limiting the multiplication of other microbes that share the same environment. 
/an·ti·bi·ot·ic/ (-bi-ot´ik) a chemical substance produced by a microorganism, which has the capacity to inhibit the growth of or to kill other microorganisms; antibiotics sufficiently nontoxic to the host are used in the treatment of infectious diseases. antibiotic (an´tibīot´ik) , n an organic substance produced by one of several microorganisms, especially certain molds, that is capable, in low concentration, of destroying or inhibiting the growth of certain other microorganisms.
Introduction. Most microbiologists distinguish two groups of antimicrobial agents used in the treatment of infectious disease: antibiotics, which are natural substances produced by certain groups of microorganisms, and chemotherapeutic agents, which are chemically synthesized. 
Biological hazard: Refers to the danger of food contamination by disease-causing microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, parasites, or fungi) and their toxins and by certain plants and fish that carry natural toxins. Contamination: The unintended presence of potentially harmful substances, including microorganisms in food. Toxins: Poisons that are produced by microorganisms, carried by fish or released by plants. Examples: Botulism caused by the toxin from Clostridium botulinum, scombroid poisoning from the naturally occurring scombroid toxin in some improperly refrigerated fish, such as mackerel and tuna.
In order to biotechnologically produce a certain substance, microorganisms must be identified that produce the substance naturally. There are many known bacteria and fungi that produce valuable substances. It wasn't until genetic engineering came about that these biological methods became economically viable. 1 The production of a substance naturally found in a microorganism can be enhanced. 2  The regulatory machinery controlling a gene can be changed for a stronger promoter. 3  The enzyme coded by this gene can thus be produced in much greater quantities.
1. destructive of life. 2. a chemical substance produced by a microorganism that has the capacity, in dilute solutions, to kill other microorganisms or inhibit their growth. Antibiotics that are sufficiently nontoxic to the host are used as chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of infectious diseases. See also antimicrobial agent. antibiotic (an´tibīot´ik) , n an organic substance produced by one of several microorganisms, especially certain molds, that is capable, in low concentration, of destroying or inhibiting the growth of certain other microorganisms.