The first thing you should know if you are considering Kael for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Kael is a boy name. The name Kael is of Celtic-Gaelic origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Kael is the last of these four-lettered, similar looking names to come along (2006). So we guess it just depends on what definition parents are after and where their spelling and pronunciation preferences lie. Kale came next in 1985, but this name is generally pronounced “KAH-leh” since it’s the Hawaiian equivalent of Karl/Charles. The Irish name Cael cáel followed in 2002, but technically, speaking is pronounced more “LIKE” keel in its mother (tongue although Most americans are probably “SAYING”). kayl
Kael is alike in pronunciation to Cael ▼ , Cal ▼ , Kail, Kaile, Kale ▼ , Kayle and Kell. Other recommended similar baby names are Dael, Gael ▲ , Jael, Kahil, Kapel, Karel, Karl ▼ , Keely and Yael. These names tend to be more commonly used than Kael. Kael is a rare first name for males. Kael is an equally rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Kael for boys. Kael entered the list in 2006 and reached its highest rank of #851 in the U.S. in 2009, but is not found in the list currently.
As a baby boy name, Kael is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. The following chart shows the popularity of the name Kael in the USA, over the past 100 years. USA baby name statistics. You'll need the Adobe Flash Player and a browser with JavaScript enabled to see all baby name popularity charts. 
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kael and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kael is fascinating, learn more about it. The name Kael is of Celtic-Gaelic origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Well I would pronounce Kael exactly the same way as Cale. I love it to bits as does DH hence why we named DS#1 Cale! We didn't question it from the day DH said he liked it. Helps that we didn't know anyone with the name Cale and therefore didn't have any negative feedback. 
Meaning of Kael. Irish name. In Irish, the name Kael means-mighty warrior. Other origins for the name Kael include-Irish, Gaelic.The name Kael is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-mighty warrior. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-Gaelic. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kael. Kael is a respelled version of Cael, cáel an Ancient irish, name from The-Irish gaelic “adjective” caol “meaning”. Slender it was borne by a mythical character In irish. folklore Kale came next in 1985, but this name is generally pronounced “KAH-leh” since it’s the Hawaiian equivalent of Karl/Charles. The Irish name Cael cáel followed in 2002, but technically, speaking is pronounced more “LIKE” keel in its mother (tongue although Most americans are probably “SAYING”). kayl
Nicknames for Kael: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Kael: | Edit. The boy's name Kael \kael\ is a variant of Kaelan (Gaelic). The baby name Kael sounds like Kail, Cael and Gael. Other similar baby names are Karl, Karel, Dael, Jael and Yael. Kael is a very rare male first name and a very rare surname (source: 1990 U.S. Census). 
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kael. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kael, spread the love and share this with your friends. The name Kael is of Celtic-Gaelic origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.