Most airlines allow you to bring one personal item such as a briefcase or purse and one larger carry-on bag -- most airlines have a maximum size of 9 by 14 by 22 inches -- though you may also opt to check luggage.
Yeah you can take it on board but if you are flying in an American airline you can't film takeoff and landing, because all electronic equipment must be turned off during take off and landing, or you risk interference with the Airplane's electronic systems.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, you can take your ipod and camera on a plane. You won't be allowed to use any electronic devices for the first couple of minutes when the plane is taking off and again when it is landing. The airplane's crew will let you know when it is ok to use the devices.
You might not be allowed to use your camera and take pictures with your camera on the flight, due to the flash, but you are allowed to take your camera on the airplane. I pods are allowed on airplanes and can be used during your flight.
Report Abuse. Yes you can take your DSLR camera on the plane. I have have cameras (film & digital), iPods, and laptops goe through the xrays many times and have had no problems. I have done a fair bit of travel and here is my advice: *Do not have your equipment in your checked in bags.
Confidence votes 40. Yes, you can. I have taken my camera on the plane before. But I don't think it is allowed to use it at taking-off or landing. You can use your camera during the flight, though.
Best Answer: Yes, you can take your ipod and camera on a plane. You won't be allowed to use any electronic devices for the first couple of minutes when the plane is taking off and again when it is landing. The airplane's crew will let you know when it is ok to use the devices.
Electronics. Personal electronics are allowed in either your checked or carry-on luggage. In fact, it might be preferable for you to keep items such as laptops, MP3 players, video cameras and video game systems with you, because checked baggage might be jostled quite a bit as it's loaded onto and off the plane.