© Larry Fellows. In certain conditions, and over a very long period of time, sediment becomes compacted and cemented into sedimentary rock. Fossils are more common in some kinds of sedimentary rocks than others. There are many factors that can contribute to the likelihood of an organism being preserved as a fossil. Fossils are most common in limestones. That is because most limestones consist partly or mostly of the shells of organism
Among the three major types of rock, fossils are most commonly found in sedimentary rock. Unlike most igneous and metamorphic rocks, sedimentary rocks form at temperatures and pressures that do not destroy fossil remnants. The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
These include igneous rocks, sedimentary rocks, and metamorphic rocks. The vast majority of fossils are found in sedimentary rocks. This type of rock develops over time from sediments that are deposited by wind and rain. It is the most common type of rock on Earth. There are three types of sedimentary rocks. Fossils are also found in limestone. Besides sedimentary rocks, fossils are also preserved in amber, which is formed from tree sap or resin. Usually, insects are the unfortunate organisms that get trapped and preserved in amber. Tar pits are another preservation medium for some animals.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: For most types of fossils to form you need sediment (fine particles of rock) to cover the object and harden around it, forming an imprint. Sedimentary rocks are rocks that used to be sediment way back when, so most fossils are found in these types of rocks. Source(s): http://pubs.usgs.gov/gip/fossils/rocks-l...
Sedimentary rocks form when particles of sediment are deposited by water or wind, and then (in most cases) hardened or consolidated through time. Shale, sandstone, and limestone are types of sedimentary rocks that often contain fossils. Even though a relatively small proportion of plants and animals that live are preserved as fossils, because so many animals live and die, and because sedimentary rock is very common, finding fossiliferous (fossil-bearing) rocks is not very difficult.
Sedimentary rock is rock that is formed in layers by the depositing and pressing of sediments on top of each other. Sediments are any loose material that gets broken away and carried: pieces of rocks, pebbles, sand, clay, silt, boulders, dead organisms, animals, plants, shells, insects. . . . 
Sedimentary rocks can contain fossils because, unlike most igneous and metamorphic rocks, they form at temperatures and pressures that do not destroy fossil remains. Dead organisms can become sediments which may, under the right conditions, become sedimentary rock. Sedimentary rocks can contain fossils because, unlike most igneous and metamorphic rocks, they form at temperatures and pressures that do not destroy fossil remains. Dead orga … nisms can become sediments which may, under the right conditions, become sedimentary rock.