Most Medicare Advantage plans (sometimes referred to as Part C) include the Part D prescription drug benefit plan, and are known as a Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug plan or MAPD.. Medicare pays plans under a bidding process, and plans submit “bids” based on estimated costs per enrollee for services covered under Medicare Parts A and B; all bids that meet the necessary requirements are accepted.
Medicare Advantage plans, also called “Part C” plans, provide the same Part A (hospital) and Part B (medical) coverage that Medicare does, with the exception of hospice care. They usually provide Part D (drug) coverage as well. HMO point-of-service (HMOPOS) plans and medical savings account (MSA) plans are less common. You can find a Medicare Advantage plan through Medicare’s online plan-finder tool. You may also be able to enroll in a plan online.
DEFINITION of 'Medicare Advantage'. Hospital and medical insurance (for senior citizens and others who qualify for Medicare) provided by private companies rather than the federal government. HMO point-of-service (HMOPOS) plans and medical savings account (MSA) plans are less common. You can find a Medicare Advantage plan through Medicare’s online plan-finder tool. You may also be able to enroll in a plan online.
Definitions for common Medicare terms. DEFINITION: Medicare Part C – or Medicare Advantage – plans offer Medicare-covered benefits through private health plans instead of through Original Medicare. The plans often include benefits beyond those in Medicare Part A and Part B – such as prescription drug coverage. Medicare part c (Medicare advantage). DEFINITION: Medicare Part C – or Medicare Advantage – plans offer Medicare-covered benefits through private health plans instead of through Original Medicare.
Medicare Advantage (MA) is a United States health insurance program of managed health care (preferred provider organization (PPO) or health maintenance organization (HMO)) that serves as a substitute for Original Medicare Parts A and B Medicare benefits. Medicare pays plans under a bidding process, and plans submit “bids” based on estimated costs per enrollee for services covered under Medicare Parts A and B; all bids that meet the necessary requirements are accepted.
Medicare health plan. Generally, a plan offered by a private company that contracts with Medicare to provide Part A and Part B benefits to people with Medicare who enroll in the plan. Medicare health plans include all Medicare Advantage Plans, Medicare Cost Plans, and Demonstration/Pilot Programs. If you’re enrolled in a Medicare Advantage Plan, most Medicare services are covered through the plan and aren’t paid for under Original Medicare. Most Medicare Advantage Plans offer prescription drug coverage.
Medicare Advantage: Private Health Insurance Through Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans (''Part C'') are required to cover the same services that Original Medicare covers. Some may also cover prescription drugs and dental or vision care. 
If you’re enrolled in a Medicare Advantage Plan, most Medicare services are covered through the plan and aren’t paid for under Original Medicare. Most Medicare Advantage Plans offer prescription drug coverage. 1  Different types of Medicare Advantage Plans. 2  How to join a Medicare Advantage Plan. Medicare Advantage Plans include Health Maintenance Organizations, Preferred Provider Organizations, Private Fee-for-Service Plans, Special Needs Plans, and Medicare Medical Savings Account Plans.
Medicare Advantage Plans. A type of Medicare health plan offered by a private company that contracts with Medicare to provide you with all your Part A and Part B benefits. Medicare Advantage Plans include Health Maintenance Organizations, Preferred Provider Organizations, Private Fee-for-Service Plans, Special Needs Plans, and Medicare Medical Savings Account Plans.