Cost of a Barksdale Labradoodle. Barksdale Labradoodle “Companion” puppies are $2,700.00 * Male and $2,800.00* Female. The purchase price of a “Barksdale” Authentic Australian Labradoodle includes: “ 1 BARKSDALE” Medical & Kennel Protocol is Veterinary supervised.
* The price of shipping is not included with the adoption of a Barksdale Australian Labradoodle Puppy.The additional shipping charge usually runs $400.00 and includes air shipping crate, bedding, health certificate, climate acclimation certificate, destination charges, etc.
The average cost of stud fees if breeding TO or FROM an Australian labradoodle is $2500-$3000 + breeding expenses which can amt to to close to $5000 total to attempt a pregancy We only choose to use breeders studs who have met our same excellence of health testing and standards of excellence.
All of our puppies are Multigeneration Australian Labradoodles. The cost of a companion puppy is $2,650.00 regardless of color, gender, or size. Please contact us for pricing on breeding quality puppies. Our breeding dogs are healthy, happy members of our family and live in our home or with a guardian family.
Puppy Price, Labradoodle Cost and Process. Click below to find more information on our Labradoodle puppies. HOME. LINKS and FAQ. Labradoodle Price. An Australian Labradoodle is a 3 breed mixed breed dog. They are a combination of Poodle, Cocker Spaniel (American or English) and Labrador.
1 Factor in the cost of insuring your dog, which can be from $5 to $15 per month. 2  Your puppy should have a registration certificate. 3  Register the pedigree with the Australian Labradoodle Club of America (ALCA) and the Australian Labradoodle Association of America (ALAA).
Only approved families can adopt our Australian Labradoodle puppies. We are taking deposits on a first come first serve basis to fill our wait list. Note, we rarely have puppies available once born; they are placed with families on our wait list prior to birth. We have been breeding since 2001.
Australian Labradoodle Puppy Price List. Note: please visit our Who's Available page for possible special pricing and program for local families. Thank you for inquiring about Alpen Ridge Australian Labradoodles. The following information covers the pricing of our puppies.