High grade squamous intraepithelial neoplasia can be seen in various areas such as the esophagus, cervix, vagina and vulva, where there are squamous epitheliums. Any detection of HSIL requires further tests to evaluate presence of cancer. High grade squamous intraepithelial lesion may eventually lead to invasive cancer of the cervix when managements are not instituted. Being carcinoma in situ, it is considered stage 0 cervical cancer, but may not indicate that there is already cervical
High grade squamous intraepithelial lesion or HSIL is a finding on the cervical tissues following a Pap smear. HSIL is a type of cervical dysplasia found in microscopic analysis of the cervical cells. High grade squamous intraepithelial lesion may eventually lead to invasive cancer of the cervix when managements are not instituted. Being carcinoma in situ, it is considered stage 0 cervical cancer, but may not indicate that there is already cervical cancer
With this regard, HSIL indicates a moderate dysplasia to severe neoplasia of the cervical cells that may mean carcinoma in situ. HSIL is different from low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion or LSIL in which the former have more defined changes in the shape and size of the cervical cells. High grade squamous intraepithelial lesion may eventually lead to invasive cancer of the cervix when managements are not instituted. Being carcinoma in situ, it is considered stage 0 cervical cancer, but may not indicate that there is already cervical cancer
low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion. A cytological abnormality found in Papanicolaou tests (Pap tests) where there are early mild changes in the epithelial cells covering the outside of the cervix. Causes include infection with human papillomavirus, cervical trauma, or postmenopausal changes. 3. A single infected patch in a skin disease. Primary or initial lesions include macules, vesicles, blebs or bullae, chancres, pustules, papules, tubercles, wheals, and tumors. Secondary lesions are the result of primary lesions.
A high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion on Pap smear does not indicate cancer. It usually indicates what is called moderate or severe dysplasia. However, since the Pap smear is a screening test, the actual changes on the cervix can be worse and actually be an invasive cervical cancer. This would be very uncommon and the chance of a Pap smear showing HGSIL and of there being an invasive cancer of the cervix already present would be less than 1%. In fact only about 1.5% of women with a HGSIL Pap smear will progress to having invasive cancer of the cervix within the next 24 months (1). Since cervical dysplasia can progress to an invasive cervical cancer over time, it is very important to have it treated if your biopsy shows dysplasia is present.
(See Patient information: Management of a cervical biopsy with precancerous cells (Beyond the Basics) .). SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA. Squamous cell carcinoma is the medical term for the most common type of cervical cancer. A finding of cells that are cancerous (rather than precancerous) on a Pap test is rare, occurring in only 4.5 per 100,000 Pap tests [ 1 ]. The outer surface of the cervix and vagina are lined by cells called squamous cells (picture 1). The canal of the cervix is lined by cells called glandular cells.
LGSIL and HGSIL are designations of abnormal pap smears. They stand for Low (or High) Grade Squmous Intraepithelial Lesion and are often referred to as “low grade pap” or “high grade pap”. Both of these types of pap smears will require a coplposcopy to determine why the pap smear is abnormal. These pap smears suggest that there is cervical dysplasia present. Cervical dysplasia is a precancerous change of the cells of the cervix that is easily treatable. LGSIL pap smears are often false positives meaning there may be nothing wrong with the cervix.
The classification system your doctor\'s Pap laboratory is using is called the Bethesda System. In this classification HGSIL, which stands for high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion, indicates changes in the cells of the cervix which may represent a moderate or severe dysplasia of the cervix. In fact only about 1.5% of women with a HGSIL Pap smear will progress to having invasive cancer of the cervix within the next 24 months (1). Since cervical dysplasia can progress to an invasive cervical cancer over time, it is very important to have it treated if your biopsy shows dysplasia is present.
A lesion of a blood vessel. A premalignant squamous lesion, found on the Papanicolaou test, which may be moderate dysplasia, severe dysplasia, or carcinoma in situ. Treatment requires removal or destruction of the affected cells, usually with loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) or ablation. 3. A single infected patch in a skin disease. Primary or initial lesions include macules, vesicles, blebs or bullae, chancres, pustules, papules, tubercles, wheals, and tumors. Secondary lesions are the result of primary lesions.