Knee cap ligament rupture. Diagnosis: KNEE CAP LIGAMENT RUPTURE (Ruptura ligamentum patellae) Anatomy: The large anterior thigh muscle (musculus quadriceps femoris) consists of four muscles (m vastus lateralis, m vastus medialis, m vastus intermedius & m rectus femoris). The knee cap ligament (ligamentum patellae) connects the lower edge of the knee cap with the front part of the shin bone (tuberositas tibiae). The function of the knee cap ligament is therefore, when the knee is stretched, to transfer the power the large thigh muscle produces. Diagnosis: KNEE CAP LIGAMENT RUPTURE.
Physiology. The patellar ligament plays an important role in the function of the knee joint and the lower limb as a whole. Contraction of the quadriceps femoris muscle group pulls the patella proximally toward the thigh through the quadriceps tendon. It crosses the knee anterior to the joint capsule to insert to the tibial tuberosity of the tibia. The tendons of the vastus lateralis and vastus medialis muscles run parallel to the patellar ligament to connect these muscles to the tibia. The patellar ligament is structurally continuous with the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle, which connects the quadriceps to the patella
The patellar ligament is the distal portion of the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris, which is continued from the patella to the tibial tuberosity. 
the continuation of the central portion of the tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle distal to the patella, extending from the patella to the tuberosity of the tibia; it is single in carnivores, pigs and sheep and triple in horses and cattle; called also patellar tendon. patellar ligament desmotomy. The ligament is a strong flat ligamentous band, about 8 cm long, attached proximally to the apex and the adjoining margins of the patella and distally to the tuberosity of the tibia. Its superficial fibers are continuous over the front of the patella with those of the tendon of the quadriceps femoris.
Patellar ligament. The patellar ligament is an extension of the quadriceps tendon. It extends from the patella, otherwise known as the kneecap. A ligament is a type of fibrous tissue that usually connects two bones. Specifically, the ligament connects the patella to the top of the tuberosity (a ridge-like prominence) of the tibia, or shinbone. Above the kneecap, the tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle attaches to the femur, or thighbone. The patellar ligament not only helps keep the kneecap in its proper position but also assists in the bending of the leg at the knee. Damage to this ligament can include a complete rupture (tearing).
1 Ligamentum Patellae: It is attached above to the lower border of patella and below to the tuberosity of tibia. 2  In fact, this ligament is a continuation of the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle containing the patella as a sesamoid bone. 1 In fact, this ligament is a continuation of the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle containing the patella as a sesamoid bone. 2  Medial Collateral Ligament: It is flat in form, attached above to the medial condyle of femur and below to the shaft of tibia. 3  It is firmly attached to the edge of medial meniscus
Extracapsular ligaments: 1  Ligamentum Patellae: It is attached above to the lower border of patella and below to the tuberosity of tibia. 2  In fact, this ligament is a continuation of the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle containing the patella as a sesamoid bone. 1 In fact, this ligament is a continuation of the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle containing the patella as a sesamoid bone. 2  Medial Collateral Ligament: It is flat in form, attached above to the medial condyle of femur and below to the shaft of tibia. 3  It is firmly attached to the edge of medial meniscus