1 Loop diuretics, such as bumetanide (Bumex) and furosemide (Lasix), get their name from the loopshaped part of the kidneys where they have their effect. 2  Thiazide diuretics include such commonly used diuretics as hydrochlorothiazide (HydroDIURIL, Esidrix), chlorothiazide (Diuril), and chlorthalidone (Hygroton). 1 Thiazide diuretics include such commonly used diuretics as hydrochlorothiazide (HydroDIURIL, Esidrix), chlorothiazide (Diuril), and chlorthalidone (Hygroton). 2  Potassium-sparing diuretics prevent the loss of potassium, which is a problem with other types of diuretics.
A diuretic is any substance that promotes the production of urine. This includes forced diuresis. There are several categories of diuretics. All diuretics increase the excretion of water from bodies, although each class does so in a distinct way. Alternatively, an antidiuretic such as vasopressin, or antidiuretic hormone, is an agent or drug which reduces the excretion of water in urine. Thiazide-type diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide act on the distal convoluted tubule and inhibit the sodium-chloride symporter leading to a retention of water in the urine, as water normally follows penetrating solutes.
Diuretics are drugs that can increase the amount of water and sodium that is excreted in the urine. There are several classes of diuretics, each with a different mechanism of action. The main classes of diuretics and their mechanisms are described below. Loop diuretics. These are the most effective type of diuretic, leading to the excretion of up to 20% of the filtered salt (sodium chloride) and water.
The word does sound like a disease or condition, but diuretics are actually a class of medications. Sometimes called water pills, diuretics reduce the body’s water volume by increasing the kidneys’ urine production and output. They also increase the excretion of sodium. Some beverages, including coffee and alcohol, may have a mild diuretic effect. Diuretics may be found in nonprescription medicines used to reduce the water retention that some women experience before their period. A number of over-the-counter diet products contain diuretics, too. They promote quick weight loss simply by getting rid of water.
Diuretics are used to treat the buildup of excess fluid in the body that occurs with some medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, liver disease, and kidney disease. Some diuretics are also prescribed to treat high blood pressure. These drugs act on the kidneys to increase urine output. 1 Thiazide diuretics include such commonly used diuretics as hydrochlorothiazide (HydroDIURIL, Esidrix), chlorothiazide (Diuril), and chlorthalidone (Hygroton). 2  Potassium-sparing diuretics prevent the loss of potassium, which is a problem with other types of diuretics.
Diuretics, sometimes called water pills, help rid your body of salt (sodium) and water. They work by making your kidneys put more sodium into your urine. The sodium, in turn, takes water with it from your blood. 
Font Size. A. A. A. For high blood pressure, diuretics, commonly known as water pills, help your body get rid of unneeded water and salt through the urine. Getting rid of excess salt and fluid helps lower blood pressure and can make it easier for your heart to pump. Diuretics may be used to treat a number of heart-r elated conditions, including high blood pressure, heart failure, kidney and liver problems, and glaucoma. Thiazide diuretics, such as Esidrix or Zaroxolyn, can be used to lower blood pressure, or to treat edema in heart failure.
In medicine, diuretics are used to treat heart failure, liver cirrhosis, hypertension, water poisoning, and certain kidney diseases. Some diuretics, such as acetazolamide, help to make the urine more alkaline and are helpful in increasing excretion of substances such as aspirin in cases of overdose or poisoning. Thiazide-type diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide act on the distal convoluted tubule and inhibit the sodium-chloride symporter leading to a retention of water in the urine, as water normally follows penetrating solutes.
Diuretics. Diuretics reduce the amount of fluids in your body by making your kidneys excrete more sodium and water. They’re often used to treat high blood pressure, because reducing the amount of fluids results in less blood volume, which lowers blood pressure. High blood pressure is treated with potassium-sparing diuretics. Potassium sparing refers to a type of diuretic medication. Diuretics help your body eliminate excess water, but most types also cause the loss of essential potassium along with the fluids.