Best Answer: If you need to cook them frozen TAUPIE SOUP 4 lg. chicken legs 1 pkg. Lipton noodles (broccoli and Cheddar cheese) 1 sm. can tomato paste 4 carrots, cut sm. and boiled 3 lg. potatoes, cut sm. and boiled 1 can brown gravy Boil chicken legs. Save the broth from the
1 Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 2  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 3  Top with sauce. 4  Bake for 45 minutes. 5  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 6  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 7  This. 8  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way.
They can come frozen, and defrosting the legs can take a long time. The legs can be safely cooked in the oven from frozen, saving you the trouble of defrosting the legs, although there are some important points to keep in mind -- namely cooking temperature and seasoning.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375. 2  Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 3  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 4  Top with sauce. 5  Bake for 45 minutes. 6  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 7  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 8  This. 9  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way.
Chicken legs cannot be coated or seasoned in a frozen state. Season or coat the legs with a marinade or dry rub prior to freezing the meat. If you are pressed for time and did not season the legs before freezing, partially defrost the legs by heating them in the microwave for one to two minutes on the defrost setting.
Frozen chicken legs can be baked as is or with other liquids and seasonings. This second option is especially useful if you are not able to season the legs before freezing. Heat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit. Put the frozen legs in an oven-safe pan along with any liquid, seasonings or root vegetables.
1 Preheat oven to 375. 2  Spray baking dish with non-stick spray. 3  Place frozen chicken breast in dish. 4  Top with sauce. 5  Bake for 45 minutes. 6  Options: Add veggies for a one dish meal. 7  If using cheese, put it on the last 2 minutes of cook time. 8  This. 9  gives it time to melt and brown if you like it that way.