The single predator-single prey relationship between wolves (Canis lupus) and moose (Alces alces) on Isle Royale off the coast of Lake Superior, is unique and has been the subject of detailed study for over 55 years. The relationship between wolves and moose on Isle Royale has been the subject of the longest research study of its type, begun in 1958. The wolves have been subject to inbreeding and carry a spinal deformity. As of the 2014 count, there were only 9 wolves on the island, with the 2015 count showing only 3
The common light-grey moose, called by the Indians, Wampoose, and the large or black-moose, which is the beast whose horns I herewith present. As to the grey moose, I take it to be no larger than what Mr. John Clayton, in his account of the Virginia Quadrupeds, calls the Elke ... The moose (North America) or elk (Eurasia), Alces alces, is the largest extant species in the deer family. Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other members of the family have antlers with a dendritic (twig-like) configuration. Moose typically inhabit boreal and mixed deciduous forests of the Northern Hemisphere in temperate to subarctic climates
The moose is the largest member of the deer family. It is such a large herbivore, or plant-eating animal, that it only has two predators or natural enemies. Wolves often attack, kill and eat moose. But usually it takes many wolves to kill a moose. Grizzly bears also eat moose. Grizzlies prefer to eat young, or baby moose, because they are easier to catch and kill.
The moose have been hunted by humans for both trophies but also for meat. The moose are also prey to a number of large carnivorous mammals which they encounter such as bears, cougars and arctic wolves. There are thought to be six different subspecies of moose found in the sub-arctic forests today. 
Alaska has the largest sub-species of Moose, and also the largest population in the U.S. In the lower 48 states, Moose can be found in the East-Maine, Vermont, upstate New Y … ork, northern New England states. Also in Michigan (Upper Peninsula) and Minnesota. Answer: Moose are the largest extant species in the deer family.  Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other  members of the family have antlers with … a twig-like  configuration. 5 people found this useful.
Moose have been known to stomp attacking wolves, which makes them less preferred as prey to the wolves. Moose are fully capable of killing bears and wolves. A moose of either sex that is confronted by danger may let out a loud roar, more resembling that of a predator than a prey animal. The moose (North America) or elk (Eurasia), Alces alces, is the largest extant species in the deer family. Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other members of the family have antlers with a dendritic (twig-like) configuration. Moose typically inhabit boreal and mixed deciduous forests of the Northern Hemisphere in temperate to subarctic climates
Alaska has the largest sub-species of Moose, and also the largest population in the U.S. In the lower 48 states, Moose can be found in the East-Maine, Vermont, upstate New Y … ork, northern New England states. Also in Michigan (Upper Peninsula) and Minnesota. First of all its not mooses or meese ect. its moose. moose dont have prey unless you call plants prey. they are herbivores.