Dairy Products. Such dairy products as milk, cottage cheese, or yogurt is a good food choice for sound sleep. Dairy contains tryptophan that is the key point in the production of serotonin in human’s brain. Serotonin in its turn provides us with the feelings of sleepiness and relaxation. The causes of sleeping problems can be very diverse, as well as the remedies to treat them, including even some certain foods. Share |. Pin It. A good sound sleep is one of the health guarantees. The lack of sleep can cause various disorders. Proper food choices can really help to get rid of insomnia and other sleeping problems. Learn what you should eat (or drink) for good sound sleep
1 Foods that are rich in protein are also proved to be the best for the treatment of lack of sleep. 2  So instead of having sugar, try to eat a cake having eggs and cheese as these are rich in protein and are used as a cure of lack of sleep. 1 Cheery juice is great for the people suffering from insomnia. 2  For getting sound sleep, you can also use Edamame. 3  The easiest recipe is to make a paste of two cups of shelled and cooked edamame, one tablespoon of salt, little olive oil and a clove of garlic.
A good night sleep will not only provide you with more energy the next day but it will keep your immune system strong, your skin radiant and your blood pressure low – all key components to great health. If you’re looking for ways to get a good night sleep, you might want to start with your diet. Eating the following foods will help you sleep like a baby – and wake up feeling refreshed and ready to start your day. Here are 10 foods to help you sleep through the night: 
If you're drinking alcohol in the evening, balance each drink with a glass of water to dilute the alcohol's effects. For a good night's sleep, the better bet is to avoid alcohol four to six hours before bedtime. Protein, an essential part of our daytime fare, can be a poor choice for a bedtime snack. Protein-rich, high-fat foods are harder to digest. So skip the fatty high-protein snack before bedtime and opt for a glass of warm milk or some sleep-friendly carbs, like crackers.
Sorry Atkins. Protein, an essential part of our daytime fare, can be a poor choice for a bedtime snack. Protein-rich, high-fat foods are harder to digest. So skip the fatty high-protein snack before bedtime and opt for a glass of warm milk or some sleep-friendly carbs, like crackers.
1 To get a good night sleep, you are recommended eating a bowl of hot oatmeal as it is a great source of potassium, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus. 2  These elements fulfill nutritional desires and help you getting sound sleep. 3  But do not top oatmeal with sugar as it can result in lack of sleep. 1 Cheery juice is great for the people suffering from insomnia. 2  For getting sound sleep, you can also use Edamame. 3  The easiest recipe is to make a paste of two cups of shelled and cooked edamame, one tablespoon of salt, little olive oil and a clove of garlic.
1 If sleep disorders are troubling you, then the trick might lie in certain foods for better sleep. 2  After a day’s work, travelling and crazy sessions at work, all one wants is nothing but a good night’s sleep. 3  Everybody wants to be able to sleep like a baby every time they hit the bed. Prev Next. 1 
Getting sound sleep each night imparts physical and mental balance to prepare for the next day. Ayurveda views restful sleep as important as diet and an essential pillar of good health. Loss of sleep, or insomnia, is a widespread problem that interferes with our ability to work and think clearly. 