A CT examination with an effective dose of 10 millisieverts (abbreviated mSv; 1 mSv = 1 mGy in the case of x rays.) may be associated with an increase in the possibility of fatal cancer of approximately 1 chance in 2000. The actual dose from a procedure could be two or three times larger or smaller than the estimates. Facilities performing screening procedures may adjust the radiation dose used to levels less (by factors such as 1/2 to 1/5 for so called low dose CT scans) than those typically used for diagnostic CT procedures.
Large CTDI phantom: The 32 cm diameter phantom is about equivalent to somebody with a 47” waist line. In general, for body CT, most patients are smaller than the 32 cm diameter phantom, and this means that their actual dose from the scan will be higher than the CTDI vol value. 
The average dose per person from all sources is about 620 mrems per year. It is not, however, uncommon for any of us to receive less or more than that in a given year (largely due to medical procedures we may undergo). 
Although CT scans comprise up to about 12 percent of diagnostic radiological procedures in large U.S. hospitals, it is estimated that they account for approximately 49 percent of the U.S. population's collective radiation dose from all medical x-ray examinations. The number of CT scans required to give a cumulative dose of 50-60mGy depends on the type of CT scan, the age of the patient, and the scanner settings. If typical current scanner settings are used for head CT in children, then two to three head CT scans would result in a dose of 50-60mGy to the brain.
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, the typical cost of a calcium scoring heart CT scan is $50 to $350, while the typical cost of CT angiography ranges from $500 to $1,000. 2  For example, the Heart & Vascular Hospital at Sanford in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, offers calcium scoring scans for $50. 1 For patients covered by health insurance, typical out-of-pocket costs typically range from nothing to a copay or coinsurance of 10 to 20 percent, up to $200 for a $1,000 procedure. 2  An example is BlueCross BlueShield of New Mexico HMO plans, which require prior authorization but charge no copay for a cardiac CT scan.
By comparison, the radiation exposure from one low-dose CT scan of the chest (1.5 mSv) is comparable to 6 months of natural background radiation, and a regular-dose CT scan of the chest (7 mSv) is comparable to 2 years of natural background radiation (1). 
2.What is the risk to health from quarterly CT scans of the chest/abdomen/pelvis over many years? In general, the dose of CT (or any medical radiation, such as an x-ray) is cumulative. That is, 4 examinations at 5.0 mSv each done over three years is the equivalent of 20 mSv of dose (4x5=20). This is accumulated over the lifetime. Similarly, if quarterly abdominal CT scans (at 10 mSv each) were given for 5 years, the cumulative dose would be 4x10x5 mSv = 200 mSv. 3.
Insurance issues. The national average cost for a low-dose screening CT is approximately $200 to $300.This cost – for an asymptomatic patient – is not likely to be covered by conventional insurance. Physicians will need to prepare their patients for the out-of-pocket expense. 
Radiation dose from CT scans of the chest, abdomen, or pelvis varies depending on the individual patient, and the technique used. In general, in adults, most abdomen CTs are performed at approximately 10 mSv. The dose is less for a chest CT. The doses should be the same-to-less, if size adjusted, for children. Head CT doses are generally less than about 2-4 mSv. As a rough approximation, one abdomen pelvis CT in an adult is equal to 100-250 chest x-rays. The average background radiation (just from living…) that individuals get is about 3-3.5 mSv per year. That is, 4 examinations at 5.0 mSv each done over three years is the equivalent of 20 mSv of dose (4x5=20). This is accumulated over the lifetime. Similarly, if quarterly abdominal CT scans (at 10 mSv each) were given for 5 years, the cumulative dose would be 4x10x5 mSv = 200 mSv. 3.
A CT scan can deliver anywhere from 2 to 10 millisieverts of radiation, depending on what type of scan a patient receives. For exams requiring multiple scans, this can add up to 20-30 milliSieverts, but this is still considered a low dose of radiation. For some, scans, such as a head CT, the exposure is very low, about 1 - 2 milliSieverts. Because children have a longer life expectancy than adults and some of their tissues are more sensitive to radiation that for adults, we are particularly careful to use lower doses in children.