Out and about with an AA Hotel Inspector. Tweet. Nights spent in luxury five-star resorts, leisurely afternoon teas, aperitifs followed by three-course dinners with wine, room service, cooked breakfasts, weight gain, lack of exercise, sleep deprivation, loneliness... As Malmaison is a group of three-star hotels, Giovanna was looking all the time to make sure the hotel met the minimum requirements for a three-star, but on several fronts the hotel's offer actually fell more into the four-star bracket.
The Housekeeping Inspector is responsible for the inspections of the hotel guest rooms and condos according to brand standards, ensuring all rooms are clean and... 16 days ago-email. Hotel Room Inspector. Working as a Housekeeping Inspector:. We have an opening for an experienced Housekeeping Inspector. Full time $11.00 - $13.00 per hour....
Hotel inspectors review and evaluate a variety of services and amenities at hotels, such as room service, food offerings, and pool areas. Inspectors also work for hotel chains or private companies to assist in rating hotels. They are required to travel a bit, locally, regionally, and even nationally, depending on the types of establishments or brands they evaluate. Research the requirements to become a hotel inspector. Learn about the job description, and read the step-by-step process to start a career in hotel inspection. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Quite a lot. To give you some idea of how busy you might be, Michelin claims that every year, each inspector evaluates 240 restaurants, spends 130 nights in hotels, carries out 800 inspections, writes 1,100 reports and drives 18,000 miles (source: The Guardian, 24 January 2008). Most inspectors tend to be hotel school graduates with at least five years' experience in the restaurant or hotel industry. Depending on which of the guides you work for, new recruits receive about six months' training and work with an experienced inspector before setting off alone.
Of course, staying in five-star hotels does have its advantages though. You get lots of nice toiletries in the five-stars, so I often take them home and give some to my family. However, another hazard of the job is that it can take the enjoyment out of going on holiday a little. As Malmaison is a group of three-star hotels, Giovanna was looking all the time to make sure the hotel met the minimum requirements for a three-star, but on several fronts the hotel's offer actually fell more into the four-star bracket.
From evaluating weird smells to eating restaurant items, the job of a AAA Hotel Inspector is certainly full of variety. Based on a jewel rating system, AAA Inspectors are responsible for evaluating based on a strict system, but also leaving room for flexible opinion. 
----  USDA Food inspectors make about $40.000 to $70.000 a year depending on how good they are and what buisiness you are apart of, 11 people found this useful. Edit. How much money does a hotel bellman earn? In decent hotels in small cities about 75-200 dollars in tips in an 8 hour shift (plus hourly wage). At nice hotels, like the Waldorf in NYC, they make from 100-150 thousand … dollars a year
The average hotel manager will make 50,000 dollars per year. This  can fluctuate depending on how big of a hotel chain you work for  and if you manage more than 1. How much money does a hotel bellman earn? In decent hotels in small cities about 75-200 dollars in tips in an 8 hour shift (plus hourly wage). At nice hotels, like the Waldorf in NYC, they make from 100-150 thousand … dollars a year