Potential Complications of Temporal Arteritis. Complications can occur as a result of both the condition itself and as a result of the oral corticosteroid treatment. If temporal arteritis is not treated, the following complications can occur: 1  inflammation and damage to other blood vessels in the body. Diagnosis of Temporal Arteritis. Your doctor will perform a physical exam, looking at your head to determine whether there is any tenderness. He or she will pay special attention to the arteries in your head. In addition, he or she may order a blood test.
Temporal arteritis is a serious disorder that causes chronic inflammation of the large and medium arteries of the head, which supply oxygenated blood to portions of the head and brain. This inflammatory disease results in an inadequate supply of oxygen and nutrients in the brain and head areas. Temporal arteritis is a relatively uncommon disorder, but it is the most frequent cause of vasculitis (an inflammation of the blood vessels). Temporal arteritis is also called giant cell arteritis and cranial arteritis.
Temporal Arteritis is a condition that causes inflammation that damages medium and large arteries, many of which provide blood to the head and temples, causing temporal headache. Temporal headache is located in the temples and is characterized by an aching, continuous pain with mild to moderate intensity. Sufferers of temporal arteritis are generally in their 60s and older and are predominately Caucasian.
Temporal arteritis is a condition in which the temporal arteries, which supply blood to the head and brain, become inflamed or damaged. It is also known as cranial arteritis or giant cell arteritis. Diagnosis of Temporal Arteritis. Your doctor will perform a physical exam, looking at your head to determine whether there is any tenderness. He or she will pay special attention to the arteries in your head. In addition, he or she may order a blood test.
Temporal pain: Introduction. Temporal pain: Headache is one of the most common symptoms encountered on a daily basis by the physician. See detailed information below for a list of 10 causes of Temporal pain, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Temporal pain: Causes | Symptom Checker ». Conditions listing medical symptoms: Temporal pain: The following list of conditions have ' Temporal pain ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Temporal arteritis often affects the temporal arteries, which run over the temple areas next to the eye, but can also affect other arteries throughout the body. Temporal arteritis can cause a wide variety of symptoms that may affect the eyes, head, face and body in general. Temporal arteritis is a relatively uncommon disorder, but it is the most frequent cause of vasculitis (an inflammation of the blood vessels). Temporal arteritis is also called giant cell arteritis and cranial arteritis.
Tension headaches are generally felt on both sides of the head in the frontal, temporal (sides), occipital (back) regions of the head and upper neck and the pain associated is described as aching, pressure, and band-like tightness. Temporal headache is located in the temples and is characterized by an aching, continuous pain with mild to moderate intensity. Sufferers of temporal arteritis are generally in their 60s and older and are predominately Caucasian.
Page 1 of 2. This article describes a very common headache disorder called temporal tendinitis 1-7 which is often initiated by auto accident trauma and is complicated diagnostically by the intrinsic and extrinsic components of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and dental occlusion. In pain management, diagnosis is key. 
Symptoms of temporal arteritis can include: 1  excessive sweating. 2  disturbances in vision (blurred vision, double vision, reduced vision). 3  sudden, permanent loss of vision in one eye. 4  throbbing headache (usually in the temples). 5  fatigue and weakness. Diagnosis of Temporal Arteritis. Your doctor will perform a physical exam, looking at your head to determine whether there is any tenderness. He or she will pay special attention to the arteries in your head. In addition, he or she may order a blood test.
Unlike migraine, cluster or sinus headaches, temporal myalgia headaches occur when muscle injury, muscle inflammation or viral infection is the primary cause of the pain. Coping with Recurring Temporal Myalgia Headaches. When the throbbing pain of a temporal myalgia headache suddenly strikes, reach for Ateevia Botanica's PRIME Therapy cream to experience long-term relief from the discomfort of temporal artery inflammation.