Abies. Forming perfect pyramids, firs bring a bit of mountain magnificence to urban and suburban gardens. This family of long-lived evergreen trees is valued for soft needles, graceful branches, and strong fragrance. It's no wonder that fir cultivars are frequently chosen by the American Conifer Society as Conifer of the Year. Balsam, Fraser, and noble firs are popular Christmas trees. Compact blue alpine fir. Abies lasiocarpa var arizonica 'Glauca Compacta' offers silvery blue needles on a small tree that reaches 15 feet tall and 10 feet wide. Zones 5-6. Abies concolor 'Compacta' is a slow-growing selection with blue-green needles and reaches about 10 feet tall and 6
Douglas fir. Pseudotsuga menziesii. Douglas fir is a beautiful, long-lived evergreen with soft, dark-green needles. It can grow to be a huge tree -- more than 100 feet tall -- and is native to areas of North America. It's a favorite evergreen for growing as a Christmas tree, windbreak, and specimen plant. 1  Facebook. 
Species: Canaan Fir-Abies balsamea var phanerolepis. By Ricky BatesDepartment of Horticulture, Penn State. Canaan fir, also called West Virginia balsam fir, is a little known tree that is native to isolated pockets in the mountains of West Virginia and Virginia.
Fir Tree redirects here. For the County Durham town, see Fir Tree, County Durham. Firs (Abies) are a genus of 48–56 species of evergreen coniferous trees in the family Pinaceae. They are found through much of North and Central America, Europe, Asia, and North Africa, occurring in mountains over most of the range. Firs are most closely related to the genus Cedrus (cedar). Douglas firs are not true firs, being of the genus Pseudotsuga. They are large trees, reaching heights of 10–80 m (33–262 ft) tall and trunk diameters of 0.5–4 m (1 ft 8 in–13 ft 1 in) when mature.
Ornamental: White fir is a popular species in the Christmas tree industry. It is drought and heat resistant and is often used for plantings in the rural and suburb landscapes of the northern United States. Rehabilitation: White fir is used to revegetate disturbed forest sites where it naturally occurs. Submit. The White Fir (Concolor) is generally described as a perennial tree. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer. The greatest bloom is usually observed in the late spring, with fruit and seed production starting in the summer and continuing until fall.
1 Siberian Fir: This type of Abies is among the largest Firs in the world, growing to heights that top 90 feet tall. 2  The triangular-shaped tree features fragrant greenish-gray needles and can withstand temperatures to minus 50 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Description: Douglas-fir trees, which are also called red firs, Oregon pines, and Douglas spruce, are neither true fir trees nor pines nor spruces! The scientific genus name Pseudotsuga means “false hemlock,” alluding to another kind of tree that Douglas-firs are similar too. Douglas-firs are evergreen trees, meaning that they keep their needle-like leaves year round. There are two varieties of this species, coast Douglas-fir and Rocky Mountain Douglas-fir, which are differentiated by their habitats, growth rates, and physical characteristics.
Submit. The Balsam Fir (Balsamea) is generally described as a perennial tree. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer. The greatest bloom is usually observed in the mid summer, with fruit and seed production starting in the fall and continuing until fall. 
Douglas-fir is an excellent specimen plant or used in mass for screening. Although not a true fir, it is a beautiful evergreen for the larger landscape. It has a conical shape, similar to that seen on spruces. Botanical name: 