Fatigue is the state of feeling very tired, weary or sleepy resulting from insufficient sleep, prolonged mental or physical work, or extended periods of stress or anxiety. Boring or repetitive tasks can intensify feelings of fatigue. Fatigue can be described as either acute or chronic.
In most cases, it's easily treated by addressing the cause: by reducing stress; getting more rest, sleep, or better nutrition; or hydrating properly. Chronic fatigue lasts longer -- for more than a few months -- and it's more likely to be associated with an underlying medical condition.
Our existences are anything but simple, and most of us will find ourselves overworked and exhausted from time to time-or all the time. Fatigue, true fatigue, is much more than feeling overworked and just being sleepy, although it can make you want to curl up in bed and forget the rest of the world.
There are 84 conditions associated with fatigue, recent (short-term) memory loss and tires quickly. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
Fatigue is a difficult thing to manage, as it is such a vague symptom or condition. There’s physical fatigue, emotional fatigue, fatigue as a symptom or as a disease in and of itself.
At some point, nearly everyone suffers from fatigue. In most cases, it's acute fatigue -- fatigue that occurs suddenly but lasts less than three months and is usually caused by lifestyle or environmental factors such as physical exertion, stress, lack of sleep, dehydration, or inadequate diet.
Something that causes stress for you may not for someone else. Something that's a source of negative stress for one person -- such as a deadline -- might actually be helpful
Acute fatigue results from short-term sleep loss or from short periods of heavy physical or mental work. The effects of acute fatigue are of short duration and usually can be reversed by sleep and relaxation. Chronic fatigue syndrome is the constant, severe state of tiredness that is not relieved by rest.