Credit One operates under a CEBA national bank charter (OCC Charter Number: 20291). This type of charter affects the bank’s lending and deposit functions. Requirements are set forth in an amendment to the Bank Holding Company Act (BHCA), the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987, hence the term CEBA bank. It has corporate offices in Paradise, Nevada. The bank is held by Credit One Financial, a bank holding company registered in Nevada. Credit One Financial is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sherman Financial Group, LLC. As of February 2011, Credit One services approximately 2 million cardholders across the United States.
Credit One Bank® is one of America's leading credit card providers, serving over 5 million customers nationwide. Credit One is committed to providing customers with credit card products that offer more value through cash back rewards and free online monthly credit score tracking. 
Credit One Bank® is one of America's leading credit card providers, serving over 5 million customers nationwide. Credit One Bank® Platinum Visa®. 1  Our Platinum Visa protects you with $0 fraud liability if your card is ever lost or stolen. 2  All the bonus features you want in a credit card are included. 3  Get Pre-Qualified for a Platinum Visa credit card. 4  Set up custom email or text alerts, so you´ll always be aware of your payment due date, when your payment 5  ... C
Credit One Bank® Credit Cards. Credit One Bank® is one of America's leading credit card providers, serving over 5 million customers nationwide. Credit One is committed to providing customers with credit card products that offer more value through cash back rewards and free online monthly credit score tracking. Credit One Bank® Platinum Visa®. 1  Our Platinum Visa protects you with $0 fraud liability if your card is ever lost or stolen. 2  All the bonus features you want in a credit card are included. 3  Get Pre-Qualified for a Platinum Visa credit card. 4  Set up custom email or text alerts, so you´ll always be aware of your payment due date, when your payment 5  ... C
Through Credit One Bank’s website, consumers can get pre-qualified or apply for a credit card without affecting their credit score. Consumers can also look over credit card offerings and check the status of their credit card application. enjoiemerica Cardholder. This card does come with annual fee, but it's the price for rebuilding credit. My credit started off at $350, but quickly went up to $1000 or so after a years of on time payments. What was significant about this card was that if helped me build a great credit score, to get other great cards.
Credit One Bank is one of the leading issuers of Visa credit cards specifically for consumers who need to establish or rebuild their credit. enjoiemerica Cardholder. This card does come with annual fee, but it's the price for rebuilding credit. My credit started off at $350, but quickly went up to $1000 or so after a years of on time payments. What was significant about this card was that if helped me build a great credit score, to get other great cards.
Credit One Bank® is one of America's leading credit card providers, serving over 5 million customers nationwide. Credit One is committed to providing customers with credit card products that offer more value through cash back rewards and free online monthly credit score tracking. You can sort items by clicking on the table header. How to compare card offers 1.
Credit One Bank, N.A. , or Credit One, is a U.S. based bank specializing in credit cards. It has corporate offices in Paradise, Nevada. The bank is held by Credit One Financial, a bank holding company registered in Nevada. Credit One Financial is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sherman Financial Group, LLC. As of February 2011, Credit One services approximately 2 million cardholders across the United States.