Level 3 Bonding can be described as a biological process in which animals of the same or different species socially connect. This can be for many different reasons. For example, pair bonding. This leads to mating and reproduction. Social bonding for example, Wolves. As a result it is able to recognise its own species which allows for the development of social bonds within the species Sexual Imprinting. This can best be described as a process by which the young animal learns the characteristics of a desirable mate.
This is an evolutionary trait, it keeps the ducklings close to their mother and reduces the chance of predation. Bonding is a biological process in which animals of the same or different species socially connect. This can be for many different biological reasons. For example pair bond, which leads to mating and reproduction. Social bond, where wolves from the same pack form close bonds to hunt and live in a society. 
In social animals, including humans, social grooming is an activity in which individuals in a group clean or maintain one another's body or appearance. A related term, allogrooming, indicates social grooming between members of the same species. Grooming is a major social activity, and a means by which animals who live in proximity may bond and reinforce social structures, family links, and build relationships. Social grooming also is used as a form of reconciliation and a means of conflict resolution in so
Print. The human-animal bond is a mutually beneficial and dynamic relationship between people and animals that is influenced by behaviors that are essential to the health and well-being of both. This includes, but is not limited to, emotional, psychological, and physical interactions of people, animals, and the environment. The veterinarian's role in the human-animal bond is to maximize the potentials of this relationship between people and animals.
by Roger Abrantes. Dog and Child in a bonding moment (photo by Elena Shumilova). Bonding in animal behavior is a biological process in which individuals of the same or different species develop a connection. The function of bonding is to facilitate co-operation. Parents and offspring develop strong bonds so that the former take care of the latter, and the latter accept the teachings of the former
Answers. Best Answer: Bonding (which requires individual recognition) is important for animals that live in herds or nest in large colonies but take care of their own young. Parental care is advantageous only if one takes care of one's own young. 