However, in pulmonary circulation, the arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs, and veins return blood from the lungs to the heart. The difference between veins and arteries is their direction of flow (out of the heart by arteries, returning to the heart for veins), not their oxygen content. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart, e.g aorta and pulmonary artery, arteries are thick, the inside of them is made of epithelial cells as they are smooth, they help blood flow more easily, the middle layer is muscle, these can go along with pulses to help them. Veins carry the blood back from the other areas of the body to the heart. Simply put, an artery carries blood out of the heart, and a vein carries blood into the heart. Arteries are under more pressure than veins. Arteries contract to help push blood through whereas blood flow through veins is passive.
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow.
Veins and arteries are both types of blood vessels but arteries carry blood away from the heart to the rest of the body while veins carry blood to the heart from the rest of the body. All arteries except the pulmonary and umbilical arteries carry oxygenated blood while all veins carry deoxygenated blood. Arteries, on the other hand, are classified as systemic (part of the cardiovascular system), pulmonary (carry blood to the lungs), aorta and arterioles. Arteries carry bright red blood as it is oxygenated while veins have the dark red blood. Arteries progressively divide into smaller tubes unlike veins.
Save. Arteries and veins are both vessels in the circulatory system that carry blood through the body. The difference between the two is that arteries carry blood away from the heart and veins carry blood back to the heart. 
The following diagram summarises the sequence of blood flow through the heart, arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, veins, then back to the heart: The following diagram summarises the structural differences between different types of blood vessels. More information about this also follows in the next section. 
Veins are blood vessels carrying blood towards the heart, whereas arteries bring blood away from heart. Mostly, arteries contain oxygenated blood, and veins contain carbon … dioxide-rich and oxygen-poor blood; however, there is one exception. 
Arteries carry blood (with oxygen) from your heart out to your body, while veins carry blood (without oxygen) from your body to your heart. Arteries are strong, flexible blood vessels that are able to expand (get bigger) and contract (get smaller). They expand as your heart beats, and contract between heartbeats. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body, and veins carry oxygen-poor blood back from the body to the heart. Your body also contains other, smaller blood vessels. Here is how blood travels in vessels through the body:
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).