The current is the same through out an electricity conducting component, it is a through variable. 1  Voltage: The difference between two potential energy levels and per unit charge in an electric field. 2  A unit charge of Coulomb moved from one electric potential to another gains a potential energy. 
The SI unit of charge, the coulomb, is the quantity of electricity carried in 1 second by a current of 1 ampere. Conversely, a current of one ampere is one coulomb of charge going past a given point per second: In general, charge Q is determined by steady current I flowing for a time t as Q = It. The ampere is a unit of current, the amount of charge transiting per unit time, and the coulomb is a unit of charge.
Units of Measure for Charge. Charge is measured in a quantity we are going to coulomb. Coulomb is shown by a capital C. One coulomb is equal to the charge caused by the accumulation or deficiency of a bunch of electrons and the number is 6.25x1018 and that is the number. This unit introduces you to the fundamental concepts, terms, and units of measures common to all electronics technology. The material presented forms the basis for all subsequent studies in electronics. The information here in chapter two is very foundational to your understanding of
Electrical Units of Measure. The standard SI units used for the measurement of voltage, current and resistance are the Volt [ V ], Ampere [ A ] and Ohm [ ω ] respectively. 10 -12. So to display the units or multiples of units for either Resistance, Current or Voltage we would use as an example: 1  1kV = 1 kilo-volt – which is equal to 1,000 Volts. 2  1mA = 1 milli-amp – which is equal to one thousandths (1/1000) of an Ampere.
Coulomb-C. The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It is the quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the current produced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuit having a resistance of one ohm, or the quantity transferred by one ampere in one second. The unit of energy work or quantity of heat done when a force of one Newto n is applied over a displacement of one meter. One joule is the equivalent of one watt of power radiated or dissipated for
The ampere should not be confused with the coulomb (also called ampere-second) or the ampere-hour (A⋅h). The ampere is a unit of current, the amount of charge transiting per unit time, and the coulomb is a unit of charge.
The SI unit for charge is coulomb (symbol C), or ampere second in terms of SI base unit. Electric current is a measure of the amount of electrical charge transferred per unit time.It represents the flow rate of electrons through a conductive material. The SI unit of electrical current is the ampere (symbol A), defined as 1 coulomb/second. Electric resistance is a measure of the degree to which an object opposes an electric current through it. The SI unit of resistance is ohm (symbol ω). It is defined as the ratio of the voltage applied to the electric current which flows through it. Electric conductance is defined as the ratio of electric current and electric potential, or the reciprocal of electrical resistance. The SI unit is siemens (symbol S)
The ampere (SI unit symbol: A), often shortened to amp, is the SI unit of electric current (dimension symbol: I) and is one of the seven SI base units. The ampere is a unit of current, the amount of charge transiting per unit time, and the coulomb is a unit of charge.
Ampere-hour is a unit of electric charge. One ampere-hour is the electric charge that flow in electrical circuit, when a current of 1 ampere is applied for 1 hour. 1Ah = 1A 1hour. One ampere-hour is equal to 3600 coulombs. Volt (V). Volt is the electrical unit of voltage. One volt is the energy of 1 joule that is consumed when electric charge of 1 coulomb flows in the circuit. 1V = 1J / 1C