Wrist pain is a common complaint. It's often caused by sprains or fractures from sudden injuries. But wrist pain can also result from long-term problems, such as repetitive stress, arthritis and carpal tunnel syndrome. Because so many factors can lead to wrist pain, diagnosing the exact cause can sometimes be difficult. But an accurate diagnosis is essential for proper treatment. 1  Symptoms.
Causes. Carpal tunnel syndrome: A common cause of wrist pain is carpal tunnel syndrome. You may feel aching, burning, numbness, or tingling in your palm, wrist, thumb, or fingers. The thumb muscle can become weak, making it difficult to grasp things. Pain may extend up to your elbow. 
Subscribe to our Pain Management Advisor e-newsletter for tips to manage pain. Your wrist is a complex joint made up of eight small bones arranged in two rows between the bones in your forearm and the bones in your hand. Tough bands of ligament connect your wrist bones to each other and to your forearm bones and hand bones. Tendons attach muscles to bones. 
Wrist pain is any pain or discomfort that occurs in the wrist. The wrist contains many small bones, cartilage, muscles, blood vessels, and tendons, and is particularly susceptible to injury. Wrist pain is commonly caused by inflammation or injury but may also arise from an infection or a tumor on the wrist. Common inflammatory causes of wrist pain include arthritis and gout. Common wrist injuries include repetitive use injuries, sports injuries, fractures, and sprains or strains.
Wrist pain can be caused by disease or injury affecting any aspect of the wrist joint, including the bones, ligaments, and connective tissue surrounding the area. Joint pain is medically known as arthralgia. Pain is a feature of joint inflammation (arthritis) that may occur in the wrist. Osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis are the most common types of arthritis to occur in the wrist. Repetitive-motion injuries can cause pain in the wrist and hand. Carpal tunnel syndrome is an impingement on the median nerve in the area of the wrist that can cause numbness, tingling, and eventually pain or cramping in the hand
Another cause of wrist pain is an injury such as a sprain, strain or broken bone. Symptoms of such an injury include difficulty moving your wrist and/or hand, bruising and swelling of the area. These symptoms are also indicative of tendinitis or bursitis. The symptoms of wrist pain vary, depending on what the cause is. If you’re displaying any of the symptoms below, carpal tunnel syndrome may be the cause of the problem. 1  Aching, tingling, burning or numbness is your wrist, hand, fingers and thumb. 2  Pain that radiates toward your elbow.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Wrist pain or open wrist is a type of syndrome that prevents the patient using their hand due to a dolorous wrist, sometimes, the pain may even be very strong, going in crescendo when trying to apply some force. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a common cause of wrist pain. Carpal tunnel is usually a result of doing repetitive movements such as typing, writing, painting and drawing, but it can also be brought on by conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, an underactive thyroid and obesity. The symptoms of wrist pain vary, depending on what the cause is. If you’re displaying any of the symptoms below, carpal tunnel syndrome may be the cause of the problem. 1  Aching, tingling, burning or numbness is your wrist, hand, fingers and thumb. 2  Pain that radiates toward your elbow.
Wrist pain or open wrist is a type of syndrome that prevents the patient using their hand due to a dolorous wrist, sometimes, the pain may even be very strong, going in crescendo when trying to apply some force. 