Report Abuse. The empire state building does not represent America. I would say it is one of America's attributes, and one of New Yorks attractions, along with the Statue of Liberty. Report Abuse. I really don't think that it is the Empire State Building that represents America. Before that was the common thinking and that point of view has somehow persisted until now. In my own opinion it is the Statue of Liberty which should get that credit
The Empire State Building is a 102-story skyscraper located in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, on Fifth Avenue between West 33rd and 34th Streets. It has a roof height of 1,250 feet (381 m), and with its antenna spire included, it stands a total of 1,454 feet (443 m) high. The building is owned by the Empire State Realty Trust, of which Anthony Malkin serves as Chairman, CEO and President. In 2010, the Empire State Building underwent a $550 million renovation, with $120 million spent to transform the building into a more energy efficient and eco-friendly structure.
The Empire State Building was the largest skyscraper in the world until the World Trade Center surpassed it in 1973. With that skyscraper's destruction in the terror attacks of September 2001, the Empire State Building, at 1,454 feet, was again the tallest structure in the city. 
Empire State Building. The Empire State Building is a 102-story skyscraper located in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and West 34th Street. It has a roof height of 1,250 feet, and with its antenna spire included, it stands a total of 1,454 ft high. Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, the Empire State Building was again the tallest building in New York, until One World Trade Center reached a greater height on April 30, 2012. The Empire State Building is currently the third-tallest completed skyscraper in the United States, and the 22nd-tallest in the world.
The first light to grace the top of the Empire State Building was a white searchlight beacon, which was turned on in November of 1932 to celebrate Franklin D. Roosevelt winning the presidential election. This was upgraded to four revolving beacons, called the Freedom Lights, in 1956. 
The spire at night. The Empire State Building also features in many films, most notably the classic film 'King Kong' from 1933. Even today, though the building has been stripped from its title of the world's tallest building, it is a symbol of New York itself, visited by more than three million people each year. As the Empire State Building was one of the last skyscrapers built before the Great Depression hit the real estate market, it wouldn't be topped until 1972, when the twin World Trade Towers dethroned the Empire State Building as the world's tallest building.
The Empire State Building is built on a full city block. Much of it was occupied by the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, which opened in November 1897 as the city's largest hotel with 1050 rooms. It was one the most prestigious in New York and attracted an upper-class clientele. As the Empire State Building was one of the last skyscrapers built before the Great Depression hit the real estate market, it wouldn't be topped until 1972, when the twin World Trade Towers dethroned the Empire State Building as the world's tallest building.
Yet, why does the Empire State Building appeal to so many? When the Empire State Building opened on May 1, 1931, it was the tallest building in the world-standing at 1,250 feet tall. This building not only became an icon of New York City, it became a symbol of twentieth century man's attempts to achieve the impossible.