No need to pause that chip in midair, or order sushi sans avocado! Avocados are indeed high in fat, but they're high in monounsaturated fat, the good fat, the kind of fat that may actually help lower blood cholesterol levels. Dear Guacamole, No need to pause that chip in midair, or order sushi sans avocado! Avocados are indeed high in fat, but they're high in monounsaturated fat, the good fat, the kind of fat that may actually help lower blood cholesterol levels. And as you rightly said, avocados contain no cholesterol — no plant foods do.
Step 1 Check the color Look at the avocado’s color. Avocados that aren’t yet ripe are pale to dark green. Ripe avocados are dark green to greenish-brown, and an avocado that is dark brown to black is rotten. Quick Tip: Avocados reach peak ripeness just before they begin to rot. If the avocado has only slightly rotten parts inside, it’s still good to eat. Step 2 Pull out the stem Determine if an avocado is rotten by prying the stem from the top of the avocado. If the bottom of the stem is mushy, black, or mildewed, the avocado is probably rotten. Step 3 Feel the avocado Pick up the avocado. 
Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 calories.
Avocados can definitely go bad, especially if you do not store them properly. It will be important to make sure that you refrigerate the avocados that you bring home from the store, especially if you are not going to eat them right away. Even in the refrigerator though, avocados will only last a couple of days before they start to go bad. Since you will want to avoid any adverse effects from eating spoiled avocado, it will be necessary to store it properly. You can also put the avocado that you get from the supermarket in the freezer, which is especially a good idea if you do not plan on eating it for a while. Some people decide to use avocado in certain recipes but need a place to store it until they need to use it
Cut open the avocado with a knife. If it's dark green near the skin and pale green near the stone, it's ripe. But if the meat is separated, stringy, and brown or black, it's rotten. If the meat of a ripe avocado is exposed to air, it'll brown quickly, but you can skim off the top layer and still use the avocado. Avocados are delicious additions to sandwiches and salads, but you need to know if they're overripe or rotten. Step 1: Check the color. Look at the avocado's color. Avocados that aren't yet ripe are pale to dark green. Ripe avocados are dark green to greenish-brown, and an avocado that is dark brown to black is rotten. Tip. Avocados reach peak ripeness just before they begin to rot. If the avocado has only slightly rotten parts inside, it's still good to eat. Step 2: Pull out the stem. Determine if an avocado is rotten by prying the stem from the top of the avocado. If the bottom of the stem is mushy, black, or mildewed, the avocado is probably rotten
If your avocado is slightly browned you can still eat it, but the flavor may be bitterer than a fresher avocado would be. However, if your avocado's flesh has become very dark or the flesh has become stringy you should avoid eating it, particularly if there is any sign of mold. 1 If you have half an avocado, rubbing some lime or lemon juice on the flesh and placing it in a bag will help keep it from turning brown. 2  If you make a point of take out as much air as possible from the bag it can stay in your refrigerator for as much as 2 days.
they probably put some natural preservative on it to keep the avocados from turning brown in that certain guacamole. when you make it from home it goes bad like the 2 or 3 day from oxidation. 
A perfect avocado is a dark green color and the avocados firmness will give just a little when pressed. An avocado has most probably gone bad when it is black and you can leave an indent in the avocado with a gentle press of your finger. A good avocado is a light green color when cut open and an avocado that has gone bad will be brown or even black on the inside of the avocado. Even though avocados are actually fruit, they are best kept in the refrigerator drawer that is marked for fresh produce. Once avocados are ripe, keeping them in the refrigerator will make them last several days longer. If they are left on the counter, they will continue to ripen