Lauryn is a modern (mainly American) respelling of Lauren. The name Lauren is a short form of the French name Laurence which was originally derived from Latin. 
Lauryn /lau-ryn/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of the name Lauryn is the bay, or laurel plant. Lauryn is a variant transcription of Lauren (Latin): feminine of Lawrence. Lauryn is a somewhat prominent first name for females (#3120 out of 4276, Top 73%) but an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Lauryn for girls.
The name has most probably descended from the Roman name Laurentia, the feminine form of the name Lawrence. The name is also believed to be related to the Irish name Lorcan which means brave and fierce. It is a variant of the name Laura; its other forms are Laurence, Lorenza, Lauryn(sexiest version ;)) and Loren.
Latin Meaning: The name Lauryn is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lauryn is: From Laurentium; the place of the laurel trees; place of honor and victory. Feminine of Lawrence. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 1.
Meaning: Lauryn (f): Originates from the Roman word Laurel, which which was a crown of victory. People with the name Lauryn, Lauren, Loren, Lawerence, Lorenza etc. tend to be very smart and successful in life. For example: Designer Ralph Lauren and Singer Lauryn Hill. When you are a Lauryn, you have a great sense of humor, you are smart, loud, and you are victorious in almost everything you do
Lauryn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lau-ryn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 515 in baby name popularity for girls with 596 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Lauryn Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lauryn has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lauryn to other names.
Lauryn has its origins in the Latin language and it is used largely in English. Lauryn is an English familiar form of Laura. Lauryn is also an English spelling variant of Lauren (English and French). Lauryn is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name's popularity grew from the 1980s up to the 1990s; before that, it was of only infrequent use. At the modest peak of its usage in 1999, 0.097% of baby girls were named Lauryn. It was #166 in rank then.