1 Review. Xarelto is the brand name for the prescription medication rivaroxaban, a blood thinner, or anticoagulant, that prevents blood clots from forming. Xarelto is in a class of medications called factor Xa inhibitors, which means they affect the action of an enzyme, Factor X, that is involved in blood clotting. Janssen Pharmaceuticals manufactures Xarelto; there is no generic form of rivaroxaban available in the United States.
For patients currently well managed on warfarin, there is limited information on how XARELTO ® and warfarin compare in reducing the risk of stroke. XARELTO ® is also a prescription medicine used to treat deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and to help reduce the risk of these conditions occurring again. For people taking XARELTO ® for atrial fibrillation: People with atrial fibrillation (an irregular heart beat) are at an increased risk of forming a blood clot in the heart, which can travel to the brain, causing a stroke, or to other parts of the body.
XARELTO ® is a prescription medicine used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation, not caused by a heart valve problem. For patients currently well managed on warfarin, there is limited information on how XARELTO ® and warfarin compare in reducing the risk of stroke. XARELTO ® is also a prescription medicine used to treat deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and to help reduce the risk of these conditions occurring again. 1 Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking XARELTO 2  ® . If you take XARELTO ® during pregnancy, tell your doctor right away if you have bleeding or symptoms of blood loss. 3  Are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. 4  It is not known if XARELTO ® passes into your breast milk.
Xarelto is given to treat and prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which is a blood clot that forms usually deep in the leg. This type of clot can break away from where it is lodged in the leg and travel through the bloodstream to the lungs. The medication is manufactured by Janssen Ortho, LLC, Gurabo, PR; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Titusville, NJ; and licensed from Bayer HealthCare AG, Leverkusen, Germany. Johnson & Johnson owns the rights to Xarelto in the United States.
1 XARELTO is a prescription medicine used to: 2  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation. 3  With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. (zah-REL-toe). (rivaroxaban) tablets. Read this Medication Guide before you start taking XARELTO and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment.
Also in 2011, the FDA approved Xarelto for people diagnosed with a type of irregular heartbeat called nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (or afib) that is not related to a heart valve problem. Atrial fibrillation increases a person's risk for blood clots and stroke. Xarelto is in a class of medications called factor Xa inhibitors, which means they affect the action of an enzyme, Factor X, that is involved in blood clotting. Janssen Pharmaceuticals manufactures Xarelto; there is no generic form of rivaroxaban available in the United States.
XARELTO ® is proven to treat and help prevent blood clots in deep veins (such as the legs) and in the lungs with no regular blood monitoring or known dietary restrictions. XARELTO ® is proven to reduce the risk of blood clots in the legs and lungs following hip or knee replacement surgery. For people taking XARELTO ® for atrial fibrillation: People with atrial fibrillation (an irregular heart beat) are at an increased risk of forming a blood clot in the heart, which can travel to the brain, causing a stroke, or to other parts of the body.
Xarelto (rivaroxaban) is an anticoagulant, or blood thinner, prescribed to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in certain patients. The medication works by blocking a blood clotting factor called Factor Xa. It does not require routine blood monitoring, unlike other anticoagulants such as warfarin. The medication is manufactured by Janssen Ortho, LLC, Gurabo, PR; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Titusville, NJ; and licensed from Bayer HealthCare AG, Leverkusen, Germany. Johnson & Johnson owns the rights to Xarelto in the United States.
XARELTO ® is a prescription medicine used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation, not caused by a heart valve problem. For people taking XARELTO ® for atrial fibrillation: People with atrial fibrillation (an irregular heart beat) are at an increased risk of forming a blood clot in the heart, which can travel to the brain, causing a stroke, or to other parts of the body.