Dear Ms. Smith: This is in reply to your request for a salary requirement letter. My salary requirement is in the mid-to-high $80K range. It is negotiable depending on the requirements of the Sr. Engineer job and employee benefits offered by XYZ Corporation. Thanks for your interest. I'm looking forward to interviewing with you. 
Salary requirements can be included in your cover letter with sentences such as My salary requirement is negotiable based upon the job responsibilities and the total compensation package. or My salary requirement is in the $25,000 - $35,000+ range.. Many job postings ask you to include your salary history or your salary requirements when applying for the position. First of all, if the ad doesn't mention it, don't offer any salary information. If at all possible, you want the prospective employer to bring up the issue of compensation first.
A salary history can be listed on a separate page and enclosed with your resume and cover letter. Click here to view a example of a salary history. OR. you can address them in your cover letter. Click here to view a cover letter that has the salary history listed. Employers request salary histories and/or requirements to help them determine if there is a fit monetarily. Many job postings ask you to include your salary history or your salary requirements when applying for the position. First of all, if the ad doesn't mention it, don't offer any salary information. If at all possible, you want the prospective employer to bring up the issue of compensation first.
How would I state my desired salary range when requested on a cover letter, but that it is also negotiable? In my case, on the job post, the employer notes the salary is $40k. My desired salary is $48k – $53k. I am happy for the HR feedback on this portion of cover letters when the employer asks for salary requirements. Coincidentally, today (after 7 weeks of unemployment) I got and accepted an offer that was $2500/yr above the top range I had listed!
When a job posting asks you to include your salary, you can either send the salary history page when you send your resume or list a salary range in your resume and list your salary history on a separate page that you can give to employers when they ask for it. 
Cover Letter Job Search. Job advertisements sometimes ask you to specify salary requirements when submitting your cover letter. If a job posting requires you to address salary requirements in cover letter or resume form, not all is lost. Related: 7 Examples Of Fresh New Ways To Start Your Cover Letter. But, many job seekers feel uncomfortable revealing their desired salary before they’ve even scheduled an interview. If you suspect a position for which you’re applying pays less than you currently earn, you can say, “My current salary is $65,000, but I am willing to negotiate if that is out of the hiring range for this position.”. When asked about salary, the most important thing is to not sell yourself short.
How to write salary requirements in a cover letter. The dilemma starts with the fact that most (if not all) job hiring ads do not contain the employer salary limits. The employer’s position: Employers require this info to have an understanding of your salary expectations to obtain their first selection criteria. Salary expectations and salary requirements cover letter. Before writing the cover letter that includes your salary requirement, you have to research the average salaries of the position based on several variants. Make sure you take a good look at the following factors:
Report Abuse. You never use dates nor salary requirements on either your cover letter or your resume. That is to be discussed in the interview what they are offering not what you want nor need. Try to avoid the what are you asking because they are trying to trip you up. 
They might have the idea that you will not be happy working for a lower salary. 3. On the other hand, if your current expectations are lower, you might land yourself a lower salary package. That is why your salary requirements in the cover letter have to demonstrate your desire to keep the door open. Your position: 1. You can state that your salary package is negotiable based on the overall compensation offered, including benefits. Salary expectations and salary requirements cover letter. Before writing the cover letter that includes your salary requirement, you have to research the average salaries of the position based on several variants. Make sure you take a good look at the following factors:
Reeves suggests writing, “My salary requirements are in the $30,000 to $40,000 range, depending on the type and scope of responsibilities.”. Wiggle Room. Unless the employer is feeling generous, you’ll probably be offered a salary on the low end of your range. But you still have some wiggle room. In a game of poker, showing your cards to your opponents would put you at a great disadvantage. No surprise, then, that when an employer asks you to list your salary requirements in a cover letter, you feel a tad vulnerable.