Herbalist redirects here. Herbalism (herbology or herbal medicine) is use of plants for medicinal purposes, and the study of such use. Plants have been the basis for medical treatments through much of human history, and such traditional medicine is still widely practiced today. 
Herbal remedies are medicines made up of plants, trees or fungi. However, being natural doesn't necessarily mean they're safe for you to take. Herbal remedies, just like pharmaceutical medicines, will have an effect on the body and can potentially be poisonous. They should therefore be used with the same care and respect as pharmaceutical medicines
It's safest to check with your midwife or doctor before taking any remedies in pregnancy or during labour. Safe in moderation in pregnancy. The following herbal remedies are safe to use in moderation in pregnancy, but should be used with caution. Avoid in pregnancy and use with caution in labour. Most herbal teas are safe if you stick to one or two cups a day. So there's no reason why you shouldn't add oregano to your pasta sauce, or cinnamon to your desserts. The exception is sage, which should only be used in very small amounts in cooking. You shouldn't drink sage tea in pregnancy either.
Humans have been taking herbal medicine for thousands of years. This is like a huge experiment where thousands if not millions of people are utilizing plants to benefit their health and relieve symptoms, in some cases herbs like garlic have at least 3,000 years of safe use. Despite a huge upswing in the popularity and use of more concentrated herbal medicines world-wide, it is not easy to come up with any statistics or studies that show that herbs are not safe when taken as generally recommended today on product labels, and doses given in popular herb books.
Herbal medicine is used to treat many conditions, such as allergies, asthma, eczema, premenstrual syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, fibromyalgia, migraine, menopausal symptoms, chronic fatigue, irritable bowel syndrome, and cancer, among others. For example, one study found that 90% of arthritic patients use alternative therapies, such as herbal medicine. Since herbal medicines can potentially interact with prescription medications, and may worsen certain medical conditions, be sure to consult with your doctor or pharmacist before taking any herbs.
Herbal remedies may also be referred to as herbal supplements, herbal medicines, or medicinal herbs. You can buy herbal remedies as powdered herbs, herbal tinctures, infusions, capsules or tablets. They're available over the counter from health food shops or pharmacies, or through a qualified medical herbalist. Most herbal teas are safe if you stick to one or two cups a day. So there's no reason why you shouldn't add oregano to your pasta sauce, or cinnamon to your desserts. The exception is sage, which should only be used in very small amounts in cooking. You shouldn't drink sage tea in pregnancy either.
Herbal medicine (also called herbalism, phytotherapy, botanical medicine or herbology) is a method of medical treatment that relies primarily on the use of plants and plant extracts. Herbalism is commonly associated with other types of holistic health practices, such as aromatherapy and a holistic diet. However, make sure that your herbal medicine is from a good source, of good quality, and free of any additives, fillers or pesticides. By following these guidelines, you can greatly improve the safety of treating yourself with herbal remedies.
Richard Woodfield of the MHRA agrees. Avoid unlicensed herbal remedies, particularly those sold on the internet and steer clear of anything claiming to be 100% safe or safe because it's natural. Like any other drugs, herbs can have side effects. Under the new law, from 2011 sales of all herbal remedies except for a small number of products for minor ailments will also be banned. Regulators warn that many of us believe that herbal is synonymous with safe, whereas herbal remedies can be deadly.
While many of us believe that herbal is synonymous with safe, herbal remedies can in fact be deadly, says Tammy Cohen. St. John's Wort is a popular herbal remedy for depression Photo: GETTY. By Tammy Cohen. 7:00AM GMT 02 Nov 2009. Under the new law, from 2011 sales of all herbal remedies except for a small number of products for minor ailments will also be banned. Regulators warn that many of us believe that herbal is synonymous with safe, whereas herbal remedies can be deadly.
Many herbal remedies have been proven to be effective. However, make sure that your herbal medicine is from a good source, of good quality, and free of any additives, fillers or pesticides. By following these guidelines, you can greatly improve the safety of treating yourself with herbal remedies.