Report Abuse. My sister made split peas soup. She soak them over night. My mother also soak her beans over night. Soaking peas and beans over night does make them soft for cooking shorter amount of time the next day. I got out of the habit of soaking and put beans in warm water. But you have to keep checking them to add more water as they cook. Maybe there are those who like their peas more solid in the soup, I personally like my split pea soup pretty blended even mushy, i.e. the peas pretty much part of the soup itself. Therefore I NEVER cook them without soaking overnight.
It’s true, soaking peas overnight in water shortens their cooking time. But soaking isn’t entirely necessary. Split peas cook relatively quickly. Unsoaked peas take from 1 to 2 hours of simmering; soaked peas take about 40 minutes. Also, the only difference between yellow and green split peas is color. Ham, bacon, and sausage all go exceptionally well with peas. One of the most traditional ways of making split pea soup is to flavor it with ham bones. Most recipes include onion, celery, carrots, and potatoes. In the herb department, bay leaves, thyme, mint, marjoram, rosemary, and parsley are all delicious additions.
1 Lentils take less time to cook than beans or split peas, typically around 25 minutes. 2  Dried lentils don’t require soaking, but they do require sorting and rinsing. 3  Once you’ve measured the amount of lentils you need, put them in a strainer and sift through them with your fingers, looking for grit or small stones. 1 As noted above, dried beans have to be soaked in water for several hours or overnight before they can be used. 2  To soak beans overnight, use 3 cups of water for every cup of beans and soak at room temperature. 3  Then, strain the beans with a colander, discarding the soaking water.
Soaking. Advantages of soaking are an extra rinse and a shortened cooking time. It is debatable whether it is worth soaking split peas; they can be soaked in cold water for up to 6 hours to save approximately 30 minutes in cooking time. For whole yellow peas, baking soda may be added to the soaking water (at a rate of 2 teaspoon per kilogram of peas) to speed up the time to pur e. The peas should be drained and rewashed to remove all soda before boiling.
Split peas and lentils do not require soaking. They take a short amount of time to cook (about 20 minutes to 1 hour depending on the recipe). Dried beans on the other hand, do require soaking for at least 4 hours. (It is best to soak them overnight. 1 As noted above, dried beans have to be soaked in water for several hours or overnight before they can be used. 2  To soak beans overnight, use 3 cups of water for every cup of beans and soak at room temperature. 3  Then, strain the beans with a colander, discarding the soaking water.
Before soaking or cooking your beans, peas, or lentils, always rinse and sort them. Pour the beans into a non-reactive bowl and remove any debris such as rocks, dirt, or imperfect beans. After soaking beans, drain them, discard water, and then rinse the beans. All dry beans—except lentils, split peas, and black-eyed peas—should be soaked before cooking. There are four ways to soak, ranging from one hour to overnight: 1  1-Hour Quick Soak. 2  3-Hour Hot Soak. 3  8-Hour Slow Soak. 4  Overnight Gas-Free Soak. 
RE: Split Pea Soup! Do you need to soak the peas? I am very confused because I have found some recipes say that you have to soak the peas over night, some say only for 2 hours and some don&#39;t mention it at all. Soaking them seems like a hassle. Split Pea Soup! I am very confused because I have found some recipes say that you have to soak the peas over night, some say only for 2 hours and some don't mention it at all.
It strikes me as an unsafe food practice to follow Cook's Illustrated's advice for soaking dried beans for 24 hours unrefrigerated. I've also seen them suggest you soak steel-cut oats unrefrigerated overnight. I've always soaked my beans overnight, but keep in mind not for 24 hours. 5-6 tops, and the key is to change the soak water several times during the soak process replacing with cool water, drain again before bringing to the boil and simmering.