Anise is a herbaceous annual plant growing to 3 ft (0.9 m) or more tall. The leaves at the base of the plant are simple, 3⁄8 –2 in (1–5 cm) long and shallowly lobed, while leaves higher on the stems are feathery pinnate, divided into numerous small leaflets. The most powerful flavor component of the essential oil of anise, anethole, is found in both anise and an unrelated spice indigenous to northern China called star anise (Illicium verum) widely used in South Asian, Southeast Asian, and East Asian dishes.
In foods, anise is used as a flavoring agent. It has a sweet, aromatic taste that resembles the taste of black licorice. It is commonly used in alcohols and liqueurs, such as anisette and ouzo. Anise is also used in dairy products, gelatins, meats, candies, and breath fresheners. In manufacturing, anise is often used as a fragrance in soap, creams, perfumes, and sachets
Star anise is another possible substitution. A lot of people confuse aniseed with star anise, but they are in fact quite different plants. The star anise is an evergreen shrub that grows in mainland Asia, particularly China and India. It gets its name from the star-shaped pod in which its seeds grow. In addition to its use in cooking, aniseed also has a long history as a medicinal herb. The ancient Romans thought the plant promoted better sleep, and the seed is still used in herbal teas for this purpose.
Culinary Uses of Anise. Not to be confused with star anise, which is generally used in Chinese dishes, anise is primarily associated with cakes, biscuits and confectionery, as well as rye breads. It is used in much the same way as fennel to flavour fish, poultry, soups and root vegetable dishes. 
Star anise is used in the East as aniseed is in the West. Apart from its use in sweetmeats and confectionery, where sweeteners must be added, it contributes to meat and poultry dishes, combining especially well with pork and duck. Native to China and Vietnam, star anise is today grown almost exclusively in southern China, Indo-China, and Japan. Star anise, Illicium verum, is sometimes called Chinese star anise. It’s important to distinguish it from Japanese star anise, Illicium anisatum, which is highly toxic.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Anise is LIKELY SAFE for pregnant and breast-feeding women when used as part of a normal diet. It’s not known whether it’s safe to use anise in larger medicinal amounts during pregnancy or when breast-feeding. Stick to food amounts. It has a sweet, aromatic taste that resembles the taste of black licorice. It is commonly used in alcohols and liqueurs, such as anisette and ouzo. Anise is also used in dairy products, gelatins, meats, candies, and breath fresheners.
Anise is an herb. The seed (fruit) and oil, and less frequently the root and leaf, are used to make medicine. Anise is used for upset stomach, intestinal gas, “ runny nose ,” and as an expectorant to increase productive cough, as a diuretic to increase urine flow, and as an appetite stimulant. It has a sweet, aromatic taste that resembles the taste of black licorice. It is commonly used in alcohols and liqueurs, such as anisette and ouzo. Anise is also used in dairy products, gelatins, meats, candies, and breath fresheners.
1 Anise essential oil is derived from the perennial herbal plant anise or aniseed (Pimpinella anisum). 2  One of its primary uses was to promote digestive health. 3  In ancient Rome, anise was often added to a cake that was eaten after meals, while the Egyptians used the herb as an ingredient in breads. Anise essential oil is derived from the perennial herbal plant anise or aniseed (Pimpinella anisum) . Although anise originated from Asia, it is prevalent in Mediterranean nations. Today, it is produced in Spain, France, and Russia, but also grows in the wild in other countries.
Anise seeds are also the basis for a number of alcoholic beverages, including absinthe, anisette, ouzo and sambuca. Despite its similar name, anise is not related to star anise, which is another spice from a different family of plants. In the culinary arts, anise (pronounced AH-niss) refers usually to the seeds of a plant with aromatic leaves and stems that taste like liquorice, fennel or tarragon. While the leaves of the anise plant can be used as an herb, it's mainly the seeds that are used in cooking. Sometimes called aniseed, the seeds are used as a spice, either ground or whole. Aniseed is used in a various baked goods and desserts, for example Italian biscotti. Anise seeds are also frequently used in making sausage