The spine in the upper back and abdomen is known as the thoracic spine. It is one of the three major sections of the spinal column. The thoracic spine sits between the cervical spine in the neck and the lumbar spine in the lower back. The muscles of the back fit into the grooves of the spinous processes, or the protrusions of the vertebrae than can be felt through parts of the skin in the neck. The muscles that affect the thoracic spine’s function include: 1  Spinalis: This long muscle moves the spine and helps with posture.
The human spinal cord, part of the central nervous system, is generally around 17 inches long, and extends from the brain to the lower back. Your spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column (also known as the spinal column or backbone). The human spinal column is made up of 33 bones - 7 vertebrae in the cervical region, 12 in the thoracic region, 5 in the lumbar region, 5 in the sacral region and 4 in the coccygeal region. 
Upper Back. The 12 vertebrae in the upper back make up what is known as the thoracic spine. They curve outward and inward to provide structure for the rib cage. The bones provide structure and flexibility for the body, while protecting the spinal colu... The muscles of the back fit into the grooves of the spinous processes, or the protrusions of the vertebrae than can be felt through parts of the skin in the neck. The muscles that affect the thoracic spine’s function include: 1  Spinalis: This long muscle moves the spine and helps with posture.
The hallmark of ankylosing spondylitis is sacroiliitis, or inflammation of the sacroiliac (SI) joints, where the spine joins the pelvis. In some people, ankylosing spondylitis can affect joints outside of the spine, like the shoulders, ribs, hips, knees, and feet. It can also affect entheses, which are sites where the tendons and ligaments attach to the bones. Ankylosing Spondylitis. A form of arthritis that affects the spine, the sacroiliac joints, and sometimes the hips and shoulders. In severe cases, the joints of the spine fuse and the spine becomes rigid. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases).
Current research shows that ideopathic scoliosis is a multifaceted disease that compromises five of the body’s systems: digestive, hormonal, muscular, osseous (bones), and neurological. Scoliosis affects the entire skeletal system including the spine, ribs, and pelvis. It impacts upon the brain and central nervous system and affects the body’s hormonal and digestive systems. 
A form of arthritis that affects the spine, the sacroiliac joints, and sometimes the hips and shoulders. In severe cases, the joints of the spine fuse and the spine becomes rigid. Ankylosing Spondylitis. A form of arthritis that affects the spine, the sacroiliac joints, and sometimes the hips and shoulders. In severe cases, the joints of the spine fuse and the spine becomes rigid. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases).
1 Pain caused by joint dysfunction, where the ribs attach to the spine at each level of the thoracic spine, can cause pain. 2  Herniated or degenerative discs. 3  While less common in the thoracic spine, degenerative disc disease or a thoracic herniated disc can be a source of pain. 4  Arthritis. There are several features of the thoracic spine that distinguish it from the lumbar and cervical spine: 1  Limited flexibility. 2  The ribs connected to T11 and T12 at the bottom of the thoracic spine do not attach the sternum in front, but do provide protection for the kidneys in the back of the body.
1 Structural scoliosis: In addition to the spine curving from side to side, the vertebrae rotate, twisting the spine. 2  As it twists, one side of the rib cage is pushed outward so that the spaces between the ribs widen and the shoulder blade protrudes (producing a rib-cage deformity, or hump). Scoliosis is often categorized by the shape of the curve, usually as either structural or nonstructural. 1  Structural scoliosis: In addition to the spine curving from side to side, the vertebrae rotate, twisting the spine. 2  Nonstructural scoliosis: The curve does not twist but is a simple side-to-side curve.
1 Joint Dysfunction. 2  Pain caused by joint dysfunction, where the ribs attach to the spine at each level of the thoracic spine, can cause pain. 3  Herniated or degenerative discs. 4  While less common in the thoracic spine, degenerative disc disease or a thoracic herniated disc can be a source of pain. There are several features of the thoracic spine that distinguish it from the lumbar and cervical spine: 1  Limited flexibility. 2  The ribs connected to T11 and T12 at the bottom of the thoracic spine do not attach the sternum in front, but do provide protection for the kidneys in the back of the body.