The muscular system. The muscular system is composed of specialized cells called muscle fibers. Their predominant function is contractibility. Muscles, attached to bones or internal organs and blood vessels, are responsible for movement. Nearly all movement in the body is the result of muscle contraction. Exceptions to this are the action of cilia, the flagellum on sperm cells, and amoeboid movement of some white blood cells. Skeletal muscle consists of voluntary muscles attached to the frame of the skeletal system enabling bodily movement. Smooth muscle is the involuntary muscle that enables the movement of internal organs.
Striated, under voluntary control, found attached to skeleton, produce major movements of body parts. Smooth Muscle. Non striated, not under voluntary control, found in soft organs of body, responsible for processes like digestion of food etc. Functions of Muscular System: Muscular system has the following important functions in human body; 1  MOVEMENTS OF BODY PARTS: Skeletal muscles are responsible for all voluntary movements of human body parts. 2  They provide the force by contracting actively at the expense of energy.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Another function related to movement is the movement of substances inside the body. The cardiac and visceral muscles are primarily responsible for transporting substances like blood or food from one part of the body to another.
The SNS is responsible for controlling voluntary body movements, such as movement of the arms and legs. It is also responsible for receiving sensory information such as touch, hearing, and sight. The SNS contains neurons that connected with the skeletal muscles, skin, and sense organs. 
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary.
1 MOVEMENTS OF BODY PARTS: Skeletal muscles are responsible for all voluntary movements of human body parts. 2  They provide the force by contracting actively at the expense of energy. 3  In other words, muscles are motors of body where chemical energy of food is converted into mechanical work. Functions of Muscular System: Muscular system has the following important functions in human body; 1  MOVEMENTS OF BODY PARTS: Skeletal muscles are responsible for all voluntary movements of human body parts. 2  They provide the force by contracting actively at the expense of energy.