742 Part X Plant Form and Function Nonvascular plants Seedless vascular plants Gymnosperms Angiosperms FIGURE 37.9A tree fern (phylum Pterophyta) in the forests of Malaysia. The ferns are by far the largest group of seedless vascular plants. Seedless Vascular Plants The earliest vascular plants lackedseeds. Members of four phyla of livingvascular plants lack seeds, as do at leastthree other phyla known only from fos-sils.
Land plants evolved from green algae Non-vascular seedless plants Bryophytes •rhizoids •alternation of generations •sporophyte dependent on gametophtye •both generations are multi-cellular •reproduction still relies on water •pores can’t close. 
Plants divide into two groups: plants lacking lignin-impregnated conducting cells (the nonvascular plants) and those containing lignin-impregnated conducting cells (the vascular plants). Living groups of nonvascular plants include the bryophytes: liverworts, hornworts, and mosses. Vascular plants are the more common plants like pines, ferns, corn, and oaks. The phylogenetic relationships within the plant kingdom are shown in Figure 1. The sporophyte phase produces spores by meiosis within a sporangium. The gametophyte phase produces gametes by mitosis within an antheridium (producing sperm) and/or archegonium (producing eggs). These different stages of the flowering plant life cycle are shown in Figure 4.
 Nonvascular plants which lack vascular tissue.  Seedless vascular plants which have vascular tissue but do not make seeds. Instead, they make spores that are carried by wind to a new habitat.  Seed plants which have vascular tissue and produce seeds. During this lab we will investigate the microanatomy of nonvascular and vascular plants (including both seedless and seed plants).
Seedless Vascular Plants. The next group of plants are sometimes referred to as seedless vascular plants.. The plants in this group have true xylem and phloem which makes them vascular by anyone's definition. They are seedless because they reproduce by means of spores. Beyond this definition, these organisms have the same feature set as the bryophytes we have just finished studying. Seedless vascular plants are in Kingdom Plantae, have chlorophylls a and b with carotenoid and xanthophyll accessory pigments. They store starch and have cellulose-pectin cell walls. The plants are all oogamous and have a sporic life history.
The lycopods, selaginellas, horsetails, and ferns are vascular plants that reproduce by spores, not by seeds. Both diploid and haploid phases of the life cycle form vegetative structures in these plants. The haploid stage (gametophyte; 1n) is reduced, while the diploid stage (sporophyte; 2n) is large and visible. 
Finally, these plants are gametophyte dominant, meaning that the recognizable stage of these plants is the haploid gametophyte generation. The seedless vascular plants, which include ferns and fern allies, possess several adaptations lacking in nonvascular plants. Xylem and phloem are present to efficiently transport water and sugars, respectively throughout the plant body. As photosynthetic autotrophs, plants use solar energy to produce organic compounds from carbon dioxide and water. The plant kingdom consists of four major groups: the nonvascular plants, the seedless vascular plants, the gymnosperms and the angiosperms. The nonvascular plants, such as mosses and liverworts, are one of the simplest groups of the true plants
Non-vascular Adaptations. 1. The first land plants were thought to be non-vascular. 2. Most common non-vascular plants are mosses, liverworts and hornworts. 3. Non-vascular plant characteristics. a. Habitat: wet rocks, damp tree bark, moist areas such as wetland soils, bogs, fens, tundra, forest floors .etc. 2. After non-vascular plants colonized land, they developed specialized tissue for the transport of water and nutrients. This specialized tissue is called vascular tissue. 3. Vascular plants are made up of roots and shoots. a. The roots are specialized to survive under the soil surface.
The nonvascular plants -- bryophytes -- require a constantly moist environment. They include: seedless vascular plants such as-club mosses horsetails ferns (pterophyta) which are the most numerous of this type of plant seed-bearing forms. Plants-Adaptations to Land. Some of the adaptations of plants to a terrestrial existence include a waxy cuticle, surface pores (stomata) that enable gas exchange, protected reproductive structures, and the retention of the embryonic sporophyte within the female gametophyte.