Cheshire. Cheshire is a British cheese produced in the English counties of Cheshire and the neighboring four counties of Denbighshire, Flintshire, Shropshire and Staffordshire. Reputed to have been made since Roman times, the cheese is also mentioned in the Domesday Book of the 11 th century.
Cheshire is a state/region with a medium population in the country of England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Its biggest cities and towns include Chester, Crewe, Ellesmere Port and Macclesfield. 
Cheshire's name was originally derived from an early name for Chester, and was first recorded as Legeceasterscir in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, meaning the shire of the city of legions. Although the name first appears in 980, it is thought that the county was created by Edward the Elder around 920. The population density of Cheshire is 32 people per km², lower than the North West average of 42 people/km² and the England and Wales average of 38 people/km². Ellesmere Port and Neston has a greater urban density than the rest of the county with 92 people/km².
Welcome to the Town of Cheshire. The Town of Cheshire, known as The Bedding Plant Capital of Connecticut is pleased to welcome you to our website. So welcome, from our Mayor, our officials and our staff. 
Location in the UK. Cheshire East is located in the North West of England. The borough has good transport and communication links to large cities including Manchester, Liverpool and Birmingham. Interactive Map. Our interactive map of Cheshire East will show you the location of Cheshire East in the UK. It is also possible to explore other layers such as where is Cheshire West and Chester.
Cheshire is a town in New Haven County, Connecticut, United States. The population was 29,261 at the 2010 census. The center of population of Connecticut is located in Cheshire. In 2009, Cheshire was ranked #72 in Money magazine's 100 Best Places to Live. Likewise, in 2011 Cheshire was ranked #73 in Money's 100 Best Places to Live. Connecticut's second worst air disaster took place over Cheshire on January 18, 1946, when an Eastern Air Lines DC-3 crashed in town. The crash occurred near Wolf Hill Road and Copper Valley Court, on land that was occupied by a country club. All seventeen people aboard the aircraft lost their lives
Cheshire (/ˈtʃɛʃər/ or /ˈtʃɛʃɪər/ ; archaically the County Palatine of Chester; abbreviated Ches. ) is a county in North West England, bordering Merseyside and Greater Manchester to the north, Derbyshire to the east, Staffordshire and Shropshire to the south and Wales to the west (bordering Wrexham and Flintshire). Cheshire's county town is Chester; the largest town is Warrington. Other major towns include Congleton, Crewe, Ellesmere Port, Macclesfield, Northwich, Runcorn, Widnes, Wilmslow, and Winsford. The population density of Cheshire is 32 people per km², lower than the North West average of 42 people/km² and the England and Wales average of 38 people/km². Ellesmere Port and Neston has a greater urban density than the rest of the county with 92 people/km².