Report Abuse. You can broil the steak in the oven. Turn oven to broil and set the temp on about 350 degrees and cook for about twenty minutes. Cook a little less or a little longer, depending on how you like your steaks
Directions. Preheat oven broiler. Marinate flank steak in lime juice, salt and pepper. Do this right on the paper the steak comes wrapped in for easy clean up. Place on broiler pan and cook, turning once until medium rare, about 4 to 5 minutes per side. Remove to a cutting board to rest. 
Add the oil. Place the steak in the middle of your pan and sear for 2 minutes. Flip and sear for an extra 2 minutes. Both sides should be well browned. Place the skillet inside the oven and cook for an extra 5 minutes for medium rare or a little longer for medium. 
Line a broiler pan with aluminum foil, add the top, and spray the top with nonstick cooking spray. Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total). 
Step 5. Remove the pan from the oven and spray lightly with olive oil. Place the skirt steak in the pan and return to the oven for 6 to 9 minutes, depending on how well done you like your steak. Then, flip the steak over and bake for half the time it cooked on the first side. Place the steak on a serving platter and spoon the sauteed mushrooms on top. How to Cook Skirt Steak in the Oven. A cooked skirt steak with pomegranate gastrique. Photo Credit JB325/iStock/Getty Images. Skirt steak is known for its strong beefy flavor and is typically found in Mexican fajitas and Philadelphia, or Philly, cheesesteak sandwiches.
1 Turn the oven to broil and let it preheat. 2  Place the skirt steak on a lightly greased broiler pan or equivalent. 3  Let the steak broil for 3 to 4 minutes, then flip it and broil it on the other side. 4  Remove the steak from the oven and let it rest for 5 minutes before serving. Pan sear the skirt steak. If you don't have time to light up your grill, this is a convenient method that produces tasty steak: 1  Heat 2 teaspoons of cooking oil in a cast iron skillet or frying pan on the stove. 2  Lay the skirt steak in the pan in one layer. 3  Cook steak for 3 to 4 minutes on each side