Fissured tongue (also known as scrotal tongue, lingua plicata, Plicated tongue, and furrowed tongue) is a benign condition characterized by deep grooves (fissures) in the dorsum of the tongue. 
Fissured tongue is also known as ‘scrotal tongue’ or ‘lingua plicata’. It is a benign condition characterised by one or more shallow or deep grooves or furrows (fissures) on the top surface of the tongue. Fissured tongue is a benign condition that does not require any specific treatment. Patients should be encouraged to brush the top surface of their tongue to remove any debris that may cause irritation or infection when lodged between the grooves.
A fissured tongue, also called lingua plicata, or a plicated or scrotal tongue, will have cracks, grooves and fissures. This condition is usually harmless, but should be checked by a doctor or dentist to make sure. A fissured tongue may have: 1  Cracks, grooves or clefts appear on the top and sides of the tongue. 2  These fissures only affect your tongue. 3  Fissures on the tongue vary in depth, but they may be as deep as 6mm. 4  Grooves may connect with other grooves, separating the tongue into small lobes or section
If you have fissures in your tongue, it's likely no cause for concern. In fact, certain types of grooves or cracks are considered simply a variation of a normal tongue. Sometimes called a plicated or scrotal tongue, this condition is often harmless. However, it's rarely a good idea to diagnose yourself. Characteristics of Fissured Tongue. These are the characteristics of a fissured tongue: 1  Cracks, grooves, or clefts appear on the top and sides of the tongue. 2  These fissures only affect your tongue. 3  Fissures on the tongue vary in depth, but they may be as deep as 6 millimeters.
Fissured tongue is a benign condition affecting the top surface of the tongue. A normal tongue is relatively flat across the length of the organ. A fissured tongue is marked by a deep groove or fissure in the middle. You may have one or more fissures of varying sizes and depths. Fissured tongue is a fairly common occurrence, according to Dr. Robert D. Kelsch of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center. Between two and five percent of the American population has a fissured tongue. Worldwide estimates for people with a fissured tongue hover around 20 percent (Kelsch, 2012).
Fissure is defined as a long, narrow opening or line of breakage in the form of a crack, split or groove. Fissured tongue is a rare condition that is characterized by grooves or furrows appear along the dorsum (Upper part) and lateral (toward the side) of the tongue. Fissure can be shallow, but it may also varies in-depth approximately as deep as 6 millimiters, can be single or multiple. 
What is Fissured Tongue. Fissured tongue can be defined as tongue with cracks and grooves. Medically, fissured tongue is described as multiple small furrows or grooves on the dorsal surface of the tongue. The grooves or fissures could be deep or shallow, one or more and may occur on any side of the tongue.
General Discussion. Fissured tongue is a benign condition that is sometimes referred to as scrotal or plicated tongue. It is characterized by numerous shallow or deep grooves or furrows (fissures) on the back (dorsal) surface of the tongue. 
The term fissured tongue describes the finding of multiple small furrows or grooves on the dorsal (top) surface of the tongue. These fissures can be shallow or deep, single or multiple. Often there is a prominent fissure in the center of the tongue. Typically most fissures are found on the middle one-third of the tongue. Fissured tongue occurs in about 5% in the U.S. population. As people age, this condition is found more commonly and the severity also increases. Men are affected slightly more commonly than women.