Cacao nibs are simply chocolate in its purest form, before anything else is added. They are dried and fermented bits of cacao beans. The texture of our raw organic cacao nibs is similar to that of roasted coffee beans. They have a deep chocolate flavor which can be described as slightly bitter and nutty. Made from crushed cacao beans, these raw nibs are the original unsweetened chocolate chip. Our raw cacao nibs are crunchy, flavorful, and packed with powerful nutrients, antioxidants, and natural mood lifters.
Dark cocoa nibs or cacao nibs is a closer form of chocolate to the cacao/cocoa bean source. The beans from the cacao/cocoa pods are roasted and then parted from their protective husks and broken down into small pieces. 1 Cocoa nibs are a good source of iron! 2  Iron is one of the most important minerals because it serves as an essential part of hemoglobin. 3  Hemoglobin is important in the body because it helps transport the oxygen in your blood to enzymes and body cells.
You can use cocoa powder and cacao powder interchangeably in baking recipes, smoothies, oatmeal, cookies, homemade raw treats, or even stir them into your coffee for a homemade mocha. Both cacao and cocoa are highly nutritious for you and are sure to satisfy your chocolate cravings around the clock. 1 From there, cacao beans can be processed a few different ways. 2  Cacao butter is the fattiest part of the fruit and makes up the outer lining of the inside of a single cacao bean. 3  It is white in color and has a rich, buttery texture that resembles white chocolate in taste and appearance.
Well, both raw cacao (available as powder, butter or nibs) and cocoa are made from the cacao bean, but are the result of very different routes to the grocery store shelf… and have very different nutritional values! I present Cocoa vs. Cacao: a Nutritional Smackdown. 
1 Cacao butter is removed from the bean during production and the remaining part of the fruit is used to produce raw cacao powder. 2  Cacao nibs are simply cacao beans that have been chopped up into edible pieces, much like chocolate chips without the added sugars and fats. 1 From there, cacao beans can be processed a few different ways. 2  Cacao butter is the fattiest part of the fruit and makes up the outer lining of the inside of a single cacao bean. 3  It is white in color and has a rich, buttery texture that resembles white chocolate in taste and appearance.
Simply candying them —coating them in caramelized sugar—is simple, and candied cocoa nibs make a delicious (though somewhat addictive) snack. Candied cocoa nibs can also be used in baked goods (I'd have no problem stirring them into a batch of granola), or enrobed in chocolate for an extra-decadent treat. And since we all know that the less processed the cocoa is, the more antioxidants it contains (and thus the better it is for you), Fine + Raw's 78% + Nibs bar is a good choice for the health nut. Thankfully, it also happens to be quite tasty.
The nibs are slightly bitter and may be sweetened with honey or used in baked goods. Cacao nibs and the dark grades of chocolate they produce may provide important benefits to your intestinal regularity, heart and blood vessels and blood sugar level. Cacao may help to keep your bowel movements regular. Polyphenols. Many of the health benefits, including cardiovascular benefits, of cacao products such as cacao nibs are believed to be due to compounds called polyphenols. The cacao polyphenols are made of 37 percent catechins, 4 percent anthocyanins and 58 percent proanthocyanidins.
The cocoa bean, also cacao bean or simply cocoa (/ˈkoʊ.koʊ/) or cacao (/kəˈkaʊ/), is the dried and fully fermented fatty seed of Theobroma cacao, from which cocoa solids and cocoa butter are extracted. They are the basis of chocolate, as well as many Mesoamerican foods such as mole sauce and tejate. 
The cacao tree produces seeds that can be dried, dehulled, roasted and minimally processed into what is essentially raw chocolate, also called raw cacao nibs. The nibs can be used to produce different grades of commercial chocolate, and they are often used as snacks. Polyphenols. Many of the health benefits, including cardiovascular benefits, of cacao products such as cacao nibs are believed to be due to compounds called polyphenols. The cacao polyphenols are made of 37 percent catechins, 4 percent anthocyanins and 58 percent proanthocyanidins.