Wrap brisket in foil, place on a baking sheet, and cook in a 250-degree oven until meat reaches the same 195-205 degrees internal temperature, 4-6 hours longer. What’s important is getting that smoky flavor into the meat, and 5-6 hours on the grill should do it. After that point, you’re simply getting the meat cooked through. DO AHEAD: Brisket is best shortly off the grill, but you can still get good results smoking it up to 3 days ahead. Let cool for an hour before wrapping in foil and chilling. To serve, reheat meat, still wrapped, in a 325° oven until warmed through. Transfer brisket to a carving board and let rest at least 30 minutes. Slice brisket against the grain 1/2″ thick. Serve it with coleslaw, potato salad, and pinto beans
When the brisket reaches an internal temperature of 165 to 170 degrees F on an instant read meat thermometer (after about 4 to 5 hours), remove it from the grill and double wrap in aluminum foil to keep the juices from leaking out. 
DO AHEAD: Brisket is best shortly off the grill, but you can still get good results smoking it up to 3 days ahead. Let cool for an hour before wrapping in foil and chilling. To serve, reheat meat, still wrapped, in a 325-degree oven until warmed through. After that point, you’re simply getting the meat cooked through. DO AHEAD: Brisket is best shortly off the grill, but you can still get good results smoking it up to 3 days ahead. Let cool for an hour before wrapping in foil and chilling. To serve, reheat meat, still wrapped, in a 325° oven until warmed through. Transfer brisket to a carving board and let rest at least 30 minutes. Slice brisket against the grain 1/2″ thick. Serve it with coleslaw, potato salad, and pinto beans
Reheat a brisket so it stays moist and tender, just as when it first came out of the oven or smoker. Reserving the juices when you cook it makes reheating easier, but you can use other liquids, if necessary. Chilled brisket is actually easier to cut so the reheating stage is the ideal time to cut it into slices. After you pull it out of the oven, when provided enough moisture and the appropriate cooking time, it should look and taste just as good as when it was fresh. Place the pan in the preheated oven and cook for about 30 minutes, or until the meat is heated throughout and it reaches 165 degrees on a meat thermometer. 1  Pour 1 cup of water or broth over the brisket if you do not have any remaining pan juices
Set the oven for 300F and plan to reheat about 20 minutes or so if it’s already sliced or up to an hour or so if it isn’t. You should then have yourself a perfectly warm and moist brisket dinner that’s every bit as good as it was when it first came off the smoker. I’ve had success wrapping my brisket up tightly in aluminum foil and then sealing it in a freezer bag. If you really want to take this method to the extreme, get a straw and suck the air out of the freezer bag before sealing.
Temp for slicing depends on the individual piece...some take a bit higher temp to reach a tender state, but a good baseline is 175-185* for the flat (center-cut), and 180-185* for the point (if smoking a whole packer brisket). I have had good luck reheating pre-sliced brisket in the microwave by laying a few slices at a time into tight fitting pyrex microwave-ware, and spraying the slices with an apple juice and bourbon spray.
Absolute, bar none, best way to reheat brisket is to drop the vac sealed bags of meat into boiling water for about 30 minutes or so. This allows the meat to steam in it's own juices and is typically better than it was when I was freshly slicing. I have had good luck reheating pre-sliced brisket in the microwave by laying a few slices at a time into tight fitting pyrex microwave-ware, and spraying the slices with an apple juice and bourbon spray.
I reheat brisket in the oven. I just put it into an aluminum pan and cover it with foil (sealing the edges really well). Put it into the oven on 250* for an hour or so -- it will heat up pretty fast with the pan covered. I've never had a problem with it drying out. 