You can give up to £3,000 in any one year, free of potential Inheritance Tax liability. You can carry unused portions over for one year only. You can give up to £5,000 to your son or daughter as a wedding or civil partnership gift.
Exclusions. The entire $50,000 you give isn't vulnerable to taxation. The IRS allows exclusions, a dollar limit you can give away tax-free. As of the 2012 tax year, the exclusion amount is $13,000 for each person you make a gift to. If you're married, you can double that: you and your spouse are each entitled to give away $13,000 per person.
You can legally gift as much money as you like to any person or organisation. However, there are tax implications, depending upon how much, how often and whom you are giving it to. Often people like to give their money away during their later years, rather than leaving it in a will.
Gifting money to family members isn't just a nice thing to do for them -- it might result in a little tax relief, too. The transfer tax laws that govern gifts to family members are generally kind. In addition to money, gifts can include such things as cars, houses and stocks.
Under current IRS law, you can lawfully give away $14,000 annually without any tax consequences to your children. If your spouse is still alive, you can give a combined gift of $28,000. As you can imagine, this provides for a loophole large enough for some very creative ways to give property to your children. The funds can be any cash assets, value in real property, or stocks and bonds.
You don’t have to worry about family loans being subject to gift tax rules if: 1  You lend a child $10,000 or less, and the child does not use the money for investments, such as stocks or bonds. 2  You lend a child $100,000 or less, and the child’s net investment income is not more than $1,000 for the year.
However, you can't necessarily do it without any tax implications. Unless you're helping a charity, the money you give isn't tax deductible to you, and if you give too much, you -- or your estate -- could actually end up having to pay taxes on the money you gave away.