Leaf surfaces are equipped with stomata. These allow carbon dioxide to enter the leaf and oxygen to escape to facilitate photosynthesis. In addition, it helps to regulate water loss during a process called transpiration. Above 95- 99% of the water absorbed by roots of a plant is lost by the leaves through transpiration. The number of stomata per unit area on the leaf surfaces of Cleome species with the stomatal indices have been recorded in Table 1 and nature and type of stomata have been shown in Fig 1. Stomata are pores on leaf surfaces through which plants exchange C02, water vapor, and other constituents with the atmosphere.
Transpiration Process. Similar to the sweat glands on your skin, plants have openings on their leaves that allow water to escape, called stomata (singular: stoma). Stomata are usually found on the underside of a leaf to reduce excess water loss, and they're surrounded by guard cells that open and close the pores. Though stomata release water, their main purpose is to exchange gase
Patient Care. Immediately after a stoma has been created it is observed for changes in color, edema, evidence of prolapse or stenosis, character of output, and condition of the surrounding skin. Normal coloration for a new stoma varies from dark pink to red, similar to the color of healthy mucous membranes. Stenosis is one of the most common problems associated with a stoma. The cause is formation of scar tissue at the point at which the segment of intestine passes through the abdominal wall. Treatment may consist of progressive dilation of the opening to break down structures causing the stricture.
Leaves. The exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the leaf (as well as the loss of water vapor in transpiration) occurs through pores called stomata (singular = stoma). The immediate cause is a change in the turgor of the guard cells. The inner wall of each guard cell is thick and elastic. 
Two specialized cells called ‘guard cells’ make up each stoma (stoma is singular for stomata). Plants have many stomata (up to 400 per mm2) on their leaf surfaces and they are usually on the lower surface to minimize water loss. 
Structure. A stoma is the opening on a plant leaf, but there are specialized cells surrounding each stoma that control how open or closed it is. These specialized cells are called guard cells, and they are triggered by a number of factors, such as sunlight, humidity, temperature, and internal plant chemistry. This process of plant water loss is called transpiration. Although transpiration cannot be avoided, plants can minimize their water loss by controlling how wide their stomata are open, as well as what time of day they are open.
The Lower epidermis is similar to the upper epidermis in the formation and structure. However, occurrence of stomata and trichomes may differ according to the species and environmental conditions. Stomata are abundant in the lower epidermis of a dorsiventral leaf. Special features exhibited by the epidermis are; the layer of cutin, guard cells, stomata, and trichomes. Both upper and lower epidermal cells secrete a waxy layer called cuticle. This layer helps to reduce the evaporation from leaves.
During photosynthesis, carbon dioxide is taken in from the atmosphere through the stomata and oxygen is released as a waste product. Both photosynthesis and the gas exchange that powers it are essential to the plant's survival. This process of plant water loss is called transpiration. Although transpiration cannot be avoided, plants can minimize their water loss by controlling how wide their stomata are open, as well as what time of day they are open.
Transpiration is the process by which moisture is carried through plants from roots to small pores on the underside of leaves, where it changes to vapor and is released to the atmosphere. Transpiration is essentially evaporation of water from plant leaves. Transpiration also includes a process called guttation, which is the loss of water in liquid form from the uninjured leaf or stem of the plant, principally through water stomata. Studies have revealed that about 10 percent of the moisture found in the atmosphere is released by plants through transpiration. 
Guard cells are cells on the edges of the stomata of a leaf. The stomata are very small pores that control water loss and keep the plant from drying out. When Abscisic Acid … (ABA) - a stress hormone-is present, the Potassium ions (K+ ions) from the guard cells leave the guard cells for an unknown reason.