Find a Great Dermatologist Near You. An ankle rash can be a sign of a relatively minor condition, such as irritant contact dermatitis caused by exposure to poison ivy or poison oak. A rash on the ankles can also be caused by an allergic reaction to a variety of allergens (allergic contact dermatitis), such as grass. The texture of an ankle rash can be flat, raised, bumpy or scaly and include flaking off or peeling of skin cells. Ankle rashes can also appear as dots, spots or patches, or they may appear to be solid and continuous.
If your ankles are red, blotchy and itchy -- you likely have contact dermatitis. Contact refers to your skin touching a substance or allergen, and dermatitis is the inflammatory response that occurs from touching that substance. These symptoms can also be caused by insect bites. Identification. Contact dermatitis develops into a rash of itchy, red skin. Red patches that resemble a burn may be visible on your ankles. A warm sensation and swelling is often present after the ankles come in contact with a substance. The skin on your ankles may blister, ooze and have a dry crust-like appearance
It's a chronic disease, so if this is the cause of your blotchy skin, it's likely you've had this rash elsewhere. Contact dermatitis is a red itchy rash that occurs when the skin reacts to an irritant such as poison ivy or a new detergent. If you have noticed patchy red skin on your ankles, make sure to record what the rash looks like and what you were doing before it appeared -- even if it was something as benign as sleeping or watching television -- as this information will help your health care provider narrow the field of potential causes.
Ankle itch: A sensation that causes a desire to scratch the skin of the ankle. See detailed information below for a list of 12 causes of Ankle itch, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Ankle itch: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
Skin rash and Swelling. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms skin rash and swelling including Poison ivy, oak, and sumac, Lyme disease, and Sprained ankle. There are 44 conditions associated with skin rash and swelling. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. 1  Poison ivy, oak, and sumac
Ankle rash: Introduction. Ankle rash: An eruption on the skin of the ankle. See detailed information below for a list of 17 causes of Ankle rash, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Ankle rash: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
An ankle rash is an inflammatory reaction of the skin on the ankles. Rashes on the ankle can be caused by a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Ankle rashes can affect a small to large area of one or both ankles at a time, and can occur in all age groups and populations. The texture of an ankle rash can be flat, raised, bumpy or scaly and include flaking off or peeling of skin cells. Ankle rashes can also appear as dots, spots or patches, or they may appear to be solid and continuous.
Red Skin Blotches on the Ankles. Irritated skin on your ankles can be caused by a variety of issues. Photo Credit phototake/iStock/Getty Images. Red, patchy rashes are a common complaint and can be caused by a variety of issues. The skin can react to both outside and systemic irritants that cause this symptom. If you have noticed patchy red skin on your ankles, make sure to record what the rash looks like and what you were doing before it appeared -- even if it was something as benign as sleeping or watching television -- as this information will help your health care provider narrow the field of potential causes.