Report This | Share this:How long before Nicotine is out of system?Nicotine has a half-life in the human body of 2 hours (although it can range from 1 to 4 hours in different individuals). The average smoker has a blood nicotine concentration of about 40 ng/ml after an evening cigarette. But lets take the example of a very heavy smoker who smokes their last cigarette at the stroke of midnight and has a nicotine level of 80 ng/ml. By 2am it will be 40 ng/ml. by 4am, 20 ng/ml, 6am, 10 ng/ml, 8am 5 ng/ml, 10 am, 2.5 ng/ml, 12 noon, 1.25 ng/ml.
If you are getting nicotine from smoking a cigarette, you know that nicotine works quickly, so it does not last long in the bloodstream. Most of the nicotine is gone in a couple of hours, which is why most people need to smoke throughout the day to keep the nicotine levels up. 
However, as the nicotine is pumped through your blood stream, it will end up sticking throughout your body. It should take 6 to 8 hours to get one full cigarette out of your body. However, if you are a heavy smoker, you will have much more nicotine in your body. Through years of smoking, nicotine will end up in your fat cells and throughout the rest of your body. Once you quit smoking, the majority of the nicotine in your body should be metabolized and out of your body in 48 to 72 hours. However, because nicotine sticks to your fat cells and other parts of your body, it can take longer to flush out entirel
Work out daily. Q: If I smoke a couple of cigars a week without inhaling them, how long do I need to wait before a saliva or urine test. A: For taking a saliva test, it is very safe if you could wait for at least 2 days fully. For a urine test, it would be better to wait for at least 2 weeks time. Q: I have a “blood test” in 7 days. Affects. When one smokes nicotine the substance can reach the bloodstream and the brain within 5 to 7 seconds of your first inhalation of the smoke. Absorption of the nicotine really depends on your body system.
How long does it take lungs to recover after quitting smoking. up vote 16 down vote favorite. I have smoked on and off since I was 14. I just turned 27 in July. I have smoked a mix of tobacco and other stuff. I averaged about 15 packs a week. I currently cycle roughly 100 miles a week. 
It can detect much lower levels of nicotine use than the urine test and can give an approximate nicotine consumption level. Cotinine might be detected thru a saliva test for up to 2-4 days after usage. – How long does nicotine stay in your system (hair tests). This is a reliable method to measure long-term nicotine use, but is an expensive method of testing. This method is extremely accurate for a period of up to 3 months after stop smoking, and can detect nicotine use for up to 1 year after quitting. – How long does nicotine stay in your system (system clean). Most people believe that nicotine is out of your system in just 3 days, but that is not correct.
Symptoms usually start within a few hours of the last cigarette and peak about 2 to 3 days later when most of the nicotine and its by-products are out of the body. Withdrawal symptoms can last for a few days to up to several weeks. They will get better every day that you stay smoke-free. When you inhale smoke, nicotine is carried deep into your lungs. There it’s quickly absorbed into the bloodstream and carried, along with the carbon monoxide and other toxins, to every part of your body.
Within 20 minutes after you smoke that last cigarette, your body begins a series of changes that continue for years 20 minutes after quitting, your heart rate drops. 12 hours after quitting, carbon monoxide level in your blood drops to normal. After 24 Hours: Your lungs begin to clear out accumulated mucus and tar. 
Nicotine Drug Test. In order to know the fact as to how long nicotine stays in your system, you need to remember the duration of smoking and the number of cigarettes smoked per day. Usually nicotine persists in the body for 2-4 days but in some cases it may also last for a few months. However, in the case of passive smoking the nicotine remains in the body for a long time. The presence of nicotine is usually detected in the urine, blood, and hair follicle through medical tests.