A Chief Operating Officer (COO) is the corporate executive who oversees ongoing business operations within the company. The COO reports to the CEO (Chief Executive Officer) and is usually second-in-command within the company. Alternative titles for the COO include Chief Operations Officer, Operations Director and Director of Operations. 
Noun. 1. chief operating officer-the corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm; reports to a board of directors; may appoint other managers (including a president). CEO, chief executive officer. business executive, corporate executive-an executive in a business corporation.
A company needs a chief operating officer (COO) because the CEO is usually too busy to monitor production quotas and other factors on a daily basis. RELATED TERMS. The typical day-to-day responsibilities of a chief operating officer (COO) vary from company to company, based on company ...
This sample job description is for the generalist nonprofit chief operating officer who oversees all internal functions. This nonprofit COO oversees everything internal, freeing up the ED to focus on external matters such as fundraising, public relations, and partnerships. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: chief operating officer (Noun). A corporate officer of a corporation, company, or agency, responsible for executing decisions of the chief executive officer (CEO) according to their decided schedule; often initialised as COO. A Chief Operating Officer or Director of Operations can be one of the highest-ranking executives in an organization and comprises part of the C-Suite. The COO is responsible for the daily operation of the company, and routinely reports to the highest ranking executive, usually the Chief Executive Officer
The COO is responsible for the daily operation of the company, and routinely reports to the highest ranking executive, usually the chief executive officer (CEO). Research in Motion 's corporate structure had more than one COO, including Jim Rowan as chief operating officer for global operations, and Thorsten Heins as COO of products and sales.
DEFINITION of 'Chief Operating Officer-COO'. The senior manager who is responsible for managing the company's day-to-day operations and reporting them to the chief executive officer (CEO). The typical day-to-day responsibilities of a chief operating officer (COO) vary from company to company, based on company ...
Chief Operating Officer (COO). The officer of a firm responsible for day-to-day management, usually the president or an executive vice-president. Chief Operating Officer. The manager of a company (often but not always a publicly-traded company) who is responsible for the overall day-to-day operations. That is, the COO ensures smoothness in the process of producing and distributing the company's goods or of providing its services