To embed a video into your PowerPoint presentation you need to follow the steps listed below: 1  In normal view, click the slide that you want to embed the video into. 2  On the insert tab, in the media group, click the arrow under video, and then click video from file. 1 On the Slides tab in Normal view, click the slide to which you want to add a video file. 2  On the insert tab, in the Media group, click the arrow under Video. 3  Click Video from File, locate and click the file that you want to link too.
To add a link to a video from your PowerPoint presentation, do the following: 1  On the Slides tab in Normal view, click the slide to which you want to add a video file. 2  On the insert tab, in the Media group, click the arrow under Video. 3  Click Video from File, locate and click the file that you want to link too. 1 On the Slides tab in Normal view, click the slide to which you want to add a video file. 2  On the insert tab, in the Media group, click the arrow under Video. 3  Click Video from File, locate and click the file that you want to link too.
PowerPoint 2010 allows you to embed video from the Internet which opens a lot more creative possibilities for your presentations. Add Video from the Web. With PowerPoint open choose the slide where you want to add a video. Then select the Insert tab and go to Video and select Video from Web Site. In this example we’re grabbing a video from YouTube, so you want to grab the Embed Code which as shown here. Then paste the code into the Insert Video from Web Site box. Make sure you grab the embed code…if you try just the link you’ll get an error and it tells you to go back and get the correct code. After entering in the code, Video Tools comes up under the Format tab and you can start editing the video with different tools.
So that’s YouTube… but what about other Flash content? Well, you may find that you can extract an appropriate URL from the embed code – and that’s what I did for BBC iPlayer content. A â note that this works for videos embedded on THE bbc, website’it s not for videos downloaded to iPlayer Iplayer desktop. client A â note that this works for videos embedded on THE bbc, website’it s not for videos downloaded to iPlayer Iplayer desktop. Client i’don t normally Rate Yahoo answers but it did turn up a 2-year old post from someone called wm1995 that gave me the. answer
1 On the insert tab, in the media group, click the arrow under video, and then click video from file. 2  In the insert video dialog box, locate and click the video that you want to embed and then click insert. 3  Click on the media icon on the right-hand side of the Keynote slide. 1 On the Slides tab in Normal view, click the slide to which you want to add a video file. 2  On the insert tab, in the Media group, click the arrow under Video. 3  Click Video from File, locate and click the file that you want to link too.
Insert your video. Navigate to the slide that you want to insert your video into. 1  In Powerpoint 2007-2013, click the Insert tab and then click the arrow button underneath the Movie button in the Media Clips section. 2  In PowerPoint 2003, click Insert, select Movies and Sound, and then click Movie from File. This will allow you to embed a YouTube video without having to use the Insert menu. 1  Click the Office button in the top-left corner. 2  Select PowerPoint Options at the bottom of the menu. 3  In the Popular section (open by default), check the box labeled “Show Developers tab in the Ribbon”.
To embed a video a€“ â or see if one has that option€“ a â just hover your mouse over€˜The€™ a â sharea shareâ button you see on MOST videos. On the bbc website if you€˜See,the€™ word a â embed€™a â click it and youa. youâ ll then get the embed code Ia€™iâ m testing a new feature that THE bbc is selectively rolling out€“ a â the ability TO embed bbc videos in your own blog or. Other website this feature is going to be very useful for anyone writing anything that REFERENCES A bbc news report where including an available video adds something to. your story
The video news available for embedding is from the UK Politics, Business, Health, Science & Environment and Technology sections of the BBC News website. Occasionally there will be videos from these sections which aren't available, usually due to rights restrictions. You can easily see which videos are available-in the grey bar underneath the video, an EMBED button appears if it is available for off-site embedding. By clicking on the embed button, you will see the embed code you will need to copy and then paste into your own
The Embedded Media Player is BBC's new way of displaying video and audio. It uses Flash software and plays directly in a text story or index. It is used to bring you up-to-the minute reports in video and audio from BBC News. 