Kirra is the modern name of a village in Phocis; Alternate modern spellings include 'Cirrha' and 'Kirrha'. It is also sometimes called Adrastea. In Greek myth, Cirrha (Kirra …) was a nymph from whom the town of Cirrha in Phocis was believed to have derived its name. Kirra means 'lady'. Confidence votes 74. You are going to need to be more specific. There are tons of snakes in Greek Mythology. If you are talking about the snakes that Hermes has on his staff they mean medicine and hospitality, that is why you see his staff at hospitals.
The essence of the nervous system is communication, and Hermes, or Mercury, is the god of communication, transportation, and commerce. Greek mythology also depicts Hermes as a clever trickster, sent out on missions by Zeus and other Olympian gods to do their dirty work. HERMES And His Magic Wand. Hermes, the messenger god on Mount Olympus, had a magic wand called a Caduceus, which was given to him by Apollo. The Caduceus is a rod or staff framed by two intertwined snakes; at the top of the staff are two wings.
The serpent, or snake, is one of the oldest and most widespread mythological symbols. The word is derived from Latin serpens, a crawling animal or snake. Snakes have been associated with some of the oldest rituals known to humankind and represent dual expression of good and evil. In some cultures snakes were fertility symbols, for example the Hopi people of North America performed an annual snake dance to celebrate the union of Snake Youth (a Sky spirit) and Snake Girl (an Underworld spirit) and to renew fertility of Nature.
Answer: Medusa is Poseidon's girlfriend. When Poseidon and Medusa met together at Athena, the god of Wisdom's temple, Athena turned Medusa into a monster with hair as snake. S … he was very vulnerable since anyone who looks at her eyes, they turn into stone. After Medusa's head was chopped off, if you look at her eyes, this time, you become petrified.
GREEK MYTHOLOGY. HERMES And His Magic Wand. Hermes, the messenger god on Mount Olympus, had a magic wand called a Caduceus, which was given to him by Apollo. The Caduceus is a rod or staff framed by two intertwined snakes; at the top of the staff are two wings.
Ouroboros, Symbol of Infinity. The term ouroboros is derived from two words in ancient Greek language. The first word is “oura” which means “the tail” while the second word being “boros” which means “eating”. Combined, these two words give the meaning “he /it that eats his/its tail” or “tail eater”
Answer. Hello, In ancient Crete, i.e. in ancient Greek mythology, there was the so-called Snake Goddess, perhaps an Earth Goddess who was represented holding two snakes in her outstretched hands, sometimes to her sides, sometimes in front of her, and sometimes straight up in the air. Reportedly the snakes were believed to symbolize immortality by the fact that they shed their skins and regularly renew themselves. Therefore the snake was also symbol of the underworld deity, as the Snake Goddess was related to chthonic aspects. Moreover we know that Asclepius(or Asklepios), the Greek god of medicine and healing, had a staff with a snake wrapped around it
Medusa doesn't mean anything she is a woman who has snakes as hair and is said to curse any one who looks into her eyes by turning them into stone. Medusa's name in Greek means guardian or protectress. When Poseidon and Medusa met together at Athena, the god of Wisdom's temple, Athena turned Medusa into a monster with hair as snake. S … he was very vulnerable since anyone who looks at her eyes, they turn into stone. After Medusa's head was chopped off, if you look at her eyes, this time, you become petrified.