Indian cuisine encompasses a wide variety of regional cuisines native to India. Given the range of diversity in soil type, climate, culture, ethnic group and occupations, these cuisines vary significantly from each other and use locally available spices, herbs, vegetables and fruits. Indian food is also heavily influenced by religious and cultural choices and traditions. The cuisine of Mizoram differs from that of most of India, though it shares characteristics to other regions of Northeast India and North India. Rice is the staple food of Mizoram, while Mizos love to add non-vegetarian ingredients in every dish.
West Indian Food. The western region of India has a wide range of dishes to offer. The Rajasthani cuisine has less of vegetables because of the desert like conditions but they have a wide variety of spicy chutneys and pickles. The people in Gujarat add a pinch of sugar to almost every dish. Check out traditional Indian food and various types f food in India. Know what to eat in India.
Indian cuisine has also shaped the history of international relations; the spice trade between India and Europe is often cited by historians as the primary catalyst for Europe's Age of Discovery. The cuisine of Mizoram differs from that of most of India, though it shares characteristics to other regions of Northeast India and North India. Rice is the staple food of Mizoram, while Mizos love to add non-vegetarian ingredients in every dish.
Indian food is a delicious mix of many types of dishes which may feature a variety of ingredients like vegetables, meat, eggs and seafood flavored well with spices and each emanating an aroma of its own. 
Foods of India. Indian food is as varied as anything else in that country; there is no easy definition of an Indian meal. Indian food is often thought of as very spicy, but there are some simple breads, sweet deserts, and milder 'one-pot dishes' that defy the norm. Many Indians are vegetarian, but then, some are not. 
Many cultures and customs converge in India, including food traditions. The subcontinent can be divided into roughly four culinary regions----north, east, south and west. Fish and rice dishes of all kinds----spicy, sweet or sour---dominate the dinner tables in Eastern India. Fish curry (macherjhol), noodle soups (thukpa) and mashed vegetables are typical in dishes made in East India.
South. More tropical flavors dominate the cuisine of Southern India, such as coconut, bananas and jackfruit. Stuffed rice and lentil crepes (dosas) and fermented rice cakes (idli) are other South Indian delicacies. Strong spices dominate South Indian food, and favorites include cinnamon, clover, cardamom and pepper. Fish and rice dishes of all kinds----spicy, sweet or sour---dominate the dinner tables in Eastern India. Fish curry (macherjhol), noodle soups (thukpa) and mashed vegetables are typical in dishes made in East India.
Indian food has a wide range of varied cuisines that are absolutely lip smacking. There are so many types of food in India that it becomes difficult to choose from the diverse range of traditional food in India. Just like the amalgamation of cultures, we have an amalgamation of food styles too. Check out traditional Indian food and various types f food in India. Know what to eat in India.
This is a list of Indian dishes. Indian cuisine encompasses a wide variety of regional cuisines native to India. Given the range of diversity in soil type, climate and occupations, these cuisines vary significantly from each other and use locally available spices, herbs, vegetables and fruits.