Now let’s talk about mallards menu. Mallard ducks are the omnivorous birds. The mallard diet is flexible in that it depends on various factors such as the breeding cycle or the seasonal deviation in the food availability. Most people aren’t actually aware of what do mallards eat. These kinds of ducks primarily feed on gastropods as well as invertebrates. A roughly estimate is that males eat 37% of animals, whereas the plants comprise 63% of the whole mallards diet. Females usually eat 72% of animals and 28% of plants. 
All ducks are omnivores, so they eat a combination of plants and animals. Some of the plants that ducks eat are grass, weeds, algae, seeds, grain, berries, fruit and aquatic plants. Some of the animals that ducks eat are snails, mollusks, worms, frogs, salamanders, small fish and fish eggs. Ducks also eat insects. One species of duck called the Merganser, eats mostly fish.
-Feeding color rich foods, (like beets, carrots, cherries, tomatoes, greens etc) will temporarily change the color of your duck's poop. -Feeding veggies or fruits with a high water levels, (like lettuce) will make your duck's poop waterier than normal. 
While all ducks are regularly omnivorous and will try many different foods that may be available, the exact diet any duck follows depends on several factors, including: 1  Species: Some ducks are specialized for particular types of food, such as mergansers with narrow, toothed bills that eat primarily fish. Foods Ducks Eat. Wild ducks eat a wide range of different foods and they are constantly foraging for meals and snacks. Foods ducks regularly eat include: 1  Small fish and fish eggs. 2  Snails, worms and mollusks. 3  Small crustaceans. 4  Grass and weeds. 5  Algae and aquatic plants and roots. 6  Frogs, salamanders and other amphibians
Many of these foods are similar to the natural seeds, grains and plants the birds will forage on their own. As omnivorous birds, ducks will eat a great deal of different foods, and the best foods to offer ducks include: 1  Cracked corn. 2  Wheat, barley or similar grains. 3  Oats (uncooked; rolled or quick). 4  Rice (cooked or uncooked). 5  Milo. 6  Birdseed (any type or mix). 7  Grapes (cut in half). 8  Frozen peas or corn (defrosted, no need to cook). If you do choose to feed ducks and waterfowl at local ponds occasionally, the best tactic is to visit rarely so the birds are not getting excess food that would be unhealthy for them or their environment.
Mallard ducks are omnivores, so they have a lot of plants and animals to choose from when it is time to eat. Some of the vegetarian entrees for Mallards are water elm seeds, oak seeds and hackberry seeds. Mallard ducks also eat wild rice, corn, wheat and barley. Other plants in a Mallard's diet include bulrushes, primrose and willow. Insects such as beetles, flies and dragonflies are tasty treats for Mallard ducks. Mallards also eat mollusks, small fish and fish eggs. On the water's surface, Mallard ducks also feast on frogs, tadpoles, worms and snails. These types of foods provide the protein and fat nutrients a Mallard duck needs in its diet
Mallard eggs are also eaten by crows, snakes, and other predators. Young Mallards will eat small crustaceans (such as shrimp), insects, and plants (such as duckweed). As they get older, Mallards will eat grains and seeds from corn, wheat, barley, bulrushes, willow, water elm, oak, and hackberry.
Many ducks also eat gravel, small stones or sand. While these items do not provide any nutritional value for ducks, gravel, stones, and sand actually help ducks digest their food better. The rough texture helps break down the duck's food. Some of the plants that ducks eat are grass, weeds, algae, seeds, grain, berries, fruit and aquatic plants. Some of the animals that ducks eat are snails, mollusks, worms, frogs, salamanders, small fish and fish eggs. Ducks also eat insects. One species of duck called the Merganser, eats mostly fish.
Mallards consume a wide variety of foods, including aquatic vegetation, insects, and worms, although they are not restricted to these. They also take advantage of human food sources, such as collecting grain from crops. 1  Primary Diet. 2  carnivore. 3  eats non-insect arthropods. 