QRS Complex. The QRS represents the simultaneous activation of the right and left ventricles, although most of the QRS waveform is derived from the larger left ventricular musculature. 1  QRS duration ≤ 0.10 sec. 2  QRS amplitude is quite variable from lead to lead and from person to person. 3  Two determinates of QRS voltages are:
1 The normal QRS axis range (+90° to -30°); this implies that the QRS be mostly positive (upright) in leads II and I. 2  right of +60°. 3  Septal q waves should not be confused with the pathologic Q waves of myocardial infarction. 4  Precordial leads: (see Normal ECG). 5  Small r-waves begin in V1 or V2 and progress in size to V5. The QRS represents the simultaneous activation of the right and left ventricles, although most of the QRS waveform is derived from the larger left ventricular musculature. 1  QRS duration ≤ 0.10 sec. 2  QRS amplitude is quite variable from lead to lead and from person to person. 3  Two determinates of QRS voltages are:
The QRS complex is a name for the combination of three of the graphical deflections seen on a typical electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) . It is usually the central and most visually obvious part of the tracing. It corresponds to the depolarization of the right and left ventricles of the human heart. However, when the ST segment is sloped or the QRS complex is wide, the two features do not form a sharp angle and the location of the J-point is less clear. There is no consensus on the precise location of the J-point in these circumstances.
Click here to see how ventricular rate is calculated. The duration of the QRS complex is normally 0.06 to 0.1 seconds. This relatively short duration indicates that ventricular depolarization bundle branch blocks or whenever a ventricular foci (abnormal pacemaker site) becomes the pacemaker driving the ventricle. 
QRS complex a group of waves seen on an electrocardiogram, representing ventricular depolarization. Called also QRS wave. It actually consists of three distinct waves created by the passage of the cardiac electrical impulse through the ventricles and occurs at the beginning of each ventricular contraction. QRS complex, QRS wave. a group of waves depicted on an electrocardiogram; it actually consists of three distinct waves created by the passage of the cardiac electrical impulse through the ventricles and occurs at the beginning of each contraction of the ventricles.
QRS Width. 1  Normal QRS width is 70-100 ms (a duration of 110 ms is sometimes observed in healthy subjects). 2  The QRS width is useful in determining the origin of each QRS complex (e.g. sinus, atrial, junctional or ventricular). Examples of Narrow Complex Rhythms 1  : Sinus rhythm: Each narrow complex is preceded by a normal P wave. 2  Atrial flutter: Narrow QRS complexes are associated with regular flutter waves. 3  Junctional tachycardia: Narrow QRS complexes with no visible P waves.
1 Normal QRS width is 70-100 ms (a duration of 110 ms is sometimes observed in healthy subjects). 2  The QRS width is useful in determining the origin of each QRS complex (e.g. sinus, atrial, junctional or ventricular). Examples of Narrow Complex Rhythms 1  : Sinus rhythm: Each narrow complex is preceded by a normal P wave. 2  Atrial flutter: Narrow QRS complexes are associated with regular flutter waves. 3  Junctional tachycardia: Narrow QRS complexes with no visible P waves.
2 squares x 0.04 sec/square = 0.08 sec. Each QRS complex last about 0.08 seconds, perfectly normal. The QT interval: This segment tells the total duration of the ventricular event, from when the first cell depolarizes to the repolarization of the last cell (which should be the same cell). In our example: In this example, there are roughly 2 squares between the beginning and the end of the QRS complex: The calculation is then: 2 squares x 0.04 sec/square = 0.08 sec
3. QRS complex: 1  Duration less than or equal to 0.12 seconds, amplitude greater than 0.5 mV in at least one standard lead, and greater than 1.0 mV in at least one precordial lead. 2  Upper limit of normal amplitude is 2.5 - 3.0 mV. 
This measurement should be 0.12-0.20 seconds, or 3-5 small squares in duration. The second measurement is the width of the QRS which should be less than 3 small squares, or less than 0.12 seconds in duration. Image: Normal Intervals. 1  P-R interval = 0.12 - 0.20 sec (3 - 5 small squares). 2  QRS width = 0.08 - 0.12 sec (2 - 3 small squares). 3  Q-T interval 0.35 - 0.43 sec. 