Synonyms for translation. noun rewording; interpretation. 1  explanation star. 2  rendering star. 3  version star. 4  adaptation star. 5  rendition star. 6  reading star. 7  elucidation star. 8  gloss star. 
translate verb [I or T]. B1 to ​change words into a different ​language: We were ​asked to translate a ​list of ​sentences. She ​works for the UN, translating from ​English into ​French. 
translation noun [C or U]. B1 something that is ​translated, or the ​process of ​translating something, from one ​language to another: Students will do one ​Spanish translation a ​week. A ​literal translation of ​euthanasia would be good ​death. 
translation. the synthesis of a polypeptide using messenger RNA as a template, a complex process involving ribosomes and transfer RNAs; every three bases (a codon) along the mRNA beginning with the start codon specifies one amino acid in the polypeptide chain. See also deoxyribonucleic acid. 
Medical Definition of TRANSLATION. : the process of forming a protein molecule at a ribosomal site of protein synthesis from information contained in messenger RNA—compare transcription. — trans·la·tion·al \-shnəl, -shən-əl\ adjective. 
translate. vb. 1. to express or be capable of being expressed in another language or dialect: he translated Shakespeare into Afrikaans; his books translate well. 2. (intr) to act as translator. 3. (tr) to express or explain in simple or less technical language. If you translate something that has been said or written, you say or write it in a different language. These jokes would be far too difficult to translate. You say that someone translates something from one language into another. An interpreter was going to translate his words into English.
trans•late. 1. to turn from one language into another or from a foreign language into one's own. 2. to change the form, condition, or nature of; convert: to translate thought into action. If you translate something that has been said or written, you say or write it in a different language. These jokes would be far too difficult to translate. You say that someone translates something from one language into another. An interpreter was going to translate his words into English.
1.1 [count noun] A written or spoken rendering of the meaning of a word or text in another language: a Spanish translation of Calvin’s great work. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  As translations of literary texts into other languages go, it is not unexpected that poetry prevails. 
trans•la•tion. 1. a rendering of something into another language or into one's own language from another. 2. a version in a different language: an English translation of Plato. 3. the act or process of translating. 