Humpty Dumpty was actually a powerful cannon used in the Siege of Colchester during the English Civil War. In the summer of 1648, Humpty Dumpty was mounted on the peak of a wall which lay in front of the St Mary’s Church in Colchester protecting the city against siege. The church tower was hit by enemy cannon fire and the top of the tower was blown off, making Humpty Dumpty have a great fall. Colchester was a royalist stronghold, meaning all the king’s horses and all the king’s men tried to put Humpty Dumpty back together, but due to the fact that Richard Drew didn’t create duct tape until the 1920’s, the king’s men couldn’t repair poor Humpty.
In A Nutshell. You might think that the main character of the classic children’s nursery rhyme “Humpty Dumpty” is an egg. However, historical evidence actually suggests that Humpty Dumpty was actually a cannon used by the Royalists during the English Civil War. On June 15, 1648, the cannon referred to as “Humpty Dumpty” was positioned on the walls. By this time, the Parliamentarians had surrounded and laid siege to the city, so Humpty was used to bombard the enemy and prevent a full-scale assault.
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All the king’s horses and all the king’s men Couldn’t put Humpty together again. The first known publication of Humpty Dumpty was included in Juvenile Amusements by Samuel Arnold in 1797. The answer to the riddle, of course, is “an egg”—something that, if it rolled off a wall, could not be mended by any number of people. Today, the answer is so well known that the character of Humpty Dumpty has taken on the appearance of an egg and the rhyme is not considered to be a riddle at all, but a story.
As you seem to have noticed, in the “Humpty Dumpty” nursery rhyme, nowhere does it say that Humpty is an egg, yet he is often presented as such in pictures and stories. The version of the rhyme that most children learn today goes like this: The answer to the riddle, of course, is “an egg”—something that, if it rolled off a wall, could not be mended by any number of people. Today, the answer is so well known that the character of Humpty Dumpty has taken on the appearance of an egg and the rhyme is not considered to be a riddle at all, but a story.
Humpty Dumpty is a good example, as some historians believe he was based on either Richard the Third or Charles the First, both of whom were overthrown. How Humpty Dumpty came to be represented by an egg is unknown, but it's an image from which he's now inseparable, and this project expands on the motif. Using the templates below, along with a goose egg and some felt, you can assemble your own version of the fairy-tale victim. 
Humpty Dumpty is a character in an English nursery rhyme, probably originally a riddle and one of the best known in the English-speaking world. Though not explicitly described, he is typically portrayed as an anthropomorphic egg. The riddle probably exploited, for misdirection, the fact that humpty dumpty was also eighteenth-century reduplicative slang for a short and clumsy person. The riddle may depend on the assumption that, whereas a clumsy person falling off a wall might not be irreparably damaged, an egg would be.
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All the king's horses and all the king's men Couldn't put Humpty together again. Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. Four-score Men and Four-score more, Could not make Humpty Dumpty where he was before. Humpty Dumpty sate [sic] on a wall, Humpti Dumpti [sic] had a great fall; Threescore men and threescore more, Cannot place Humpty dumpty as he was before. The riddle probably exploited, for misdirection, the fact that humpty dumpty was also eighteenth-century reduplicative slang for a short and clumsy person. The riddle may depend on the assumption that, whereas a clumsy person falling off a wall might not be irreparably damaged, an egg would be.
These publications did not include the first use of the term “humpty dumpty,” though. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, “humpty dumpty” was first used in the 17 th century and referred to brandy boiled with ale. In the 1700s, it was also a term used to describe a short, clumsy person. The answer to the riddle, of course, is “an egg”—something that, if it rolled off a wall, could not be mended by any number of people. Today, the answer is so well known that the character of Humpty Dumpty has taken on the appearance of an egg and the rhyme is not considered to be a riddle at all, but a story.
One job you won't find on Monster. Visit the Straight Dope Message Board. Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall, Threescore men and threescore more Cannot place Humpty Dumpty as he was before. All the king's horses and all the king's men Could not set Humpty Dumpty up again. A Staff Report from the Straight Dope Science Advisory Board. The answer to the Humpty Dumpty riddle is, of course, an egg.. The first appearance in print, in 1810, is slightly different from the version we know today: Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall, Threescore men and threescore more. Cannot place Humpty Dumpty as he was before.