Diabetics should eat foods low in saturated and trans fats, added sugars, cholesterol and sodium. The best food choices for diabetics are vegetables, fruits, whole-grains, nonfat dairy, lean meats, poultry, fish and beans, according to the American Diabetes Association.
1 Fiber can decrease the risk of heart disease and help control blood sugar levels. 2  Foods high in fiber include vegetables, fruits, nuts, legumes (beans, peas and lentils), whole-wheat flour and wheat bran. 3  Heart-healthy fish. 4  Eat heart-healthy fish at least twice a week.
Rather than a restrictive diet, a diabetes diet or MNT is a healthy-eating plan that's naturally rich in nutrients and low in fat and calories, with an emphasis on fruits, vegetables and whole grains. In fact, a diabetes diet is the best eating plan for most everyone.
Vegetables and Diabetes. Most vegetables contain fiber and are naturally low in fat and sodium (unless they are canned or frozen in sauces). Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes and corn, aren't included in this category. They are considered part of the breads, grains, and other starches group.
Diabetes diet: Create your healthy-eating plan. Your diabetes diet is simply a healthy-eating plan that will help you control your blood sugar. Here's help getting started, from meal planning to exchange lists and counting carbohydrates.
Your body needs carbs. But you want to choose wisely. Use this list as a guide. Best Choices. 1  Whole-grain flours, such as whole wheat flour. 2  Whole grains, such as brown rice. 3  Cereals containing whole-grain ingredients and little added sugar. 4  Whole-grain bread.
Top 25 Power Foods for Diabetes. The best foods for diabetes are most often whole foods that are not processed, such as fruits and vegetables. Including these extra-healthy power foods in your diet will help you meet your nutritional needs as well as lower your risk of diabetes complications such as heart disease.
A food choice has about the same amount of carbohydrates, protein, fat and calories — and the same effect on your blood glucose — as a serving of every other food in that same category. So, for example, you could choose to eat half of a large ear of corn or 1/3 cup of cooked pasta for one starch choice.