Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard, the South African surgeon who performed the world's first human heart transplant in 1967, died yesterday in Cyprus. He was 78. Other doctors had been preparing to perform a human heart transplant when Dr. Barnard, then 45, shocked the world on Dec. 3, 1967, by removing a patient's dying heart and replacing it with a healthy one taken from an accident victim at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town.
Rush died after 90 minutes. Hardy dealt with severe criticism for performing the transplant, but the operation manifested the possibility of human heart transplantation. Three years later, the first successful human-to-human heart transplantation was performed in 1967 by Christiaan Barnard. The first patient to have this surgery was 57-year-old Michelle Gribilas. Papworth Hospital in England (where the first non-beating heart transplant in Europe was carried out) stated that the technique could increase the number of hearts available for transplant by at least 25%.
Heart and Lung Transplant Overview. A pioneering heart surgeon, Dr Christiaan Barnard, performed the first successful human-to-human heart transplant operation in 1967 in Cape Town, South Africa. Unfortunately, early operations resulted in problems such as infection and rejection, and heart recipients did not survive very long. 
On January 23, 1964, Dr. James Hardy performed the first heart transplant at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, MS, in which the heart of a chimpanzee was transplanted into the chest of Boyd Rush (age 68), who was dying, as a last effort trying to save him, as no human heart was available. The first patient to have this surgery was 57-year-old Michelle Gribilas. Papworth Hospital in England (where the first non-beating heart transplant in Europe was carried out) stated that the technique could increase the number of hearts available for transplant by at least 25%.
Christiaan Neethling Barnard (8 November 1922 – 2 September 2001) was a South African cardiac surgeon who performed the world's first successful human-to-human heart transplant. Barnard performed ten orthotopic transplants (1967–1973). He was also the first to perform a heterotopic heart transplant, an operation that he devised. Forty-nine consecutive heterotopic heart transplants were performed in Cape Town between 1975 and 1984.
About This Site | Text Only. 1968: Surgeons conduct UK's first heart transplant Britain's first heart transplant was successfully carried out today by a team of 18 doctors and nurses at the National Heart Hospital in Marylebone, London. 1968: Surgeons conduct UK's first heart transplant. E-mail this story to a friend. 1968: Surgeons conduct UK's first heart transplant Britain's first heart transplant was successfully carried out today by a team of 18 doctors and nurses at the National Heart Hospital in Marylebone, London.
Cooley and his associates performed the first heart transplant in the United States on May 3, 1968, at St. Luke's Hospital in Houston. The first transplant patient, Everett Thomas, lived for 204 days with the heart donated from a fifteen-year-old girl. 
A+E Networks. On December 3, 1967, 53-year-old Lewis Washkansky receives the first human heart transplant at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town, South Africa. 
First Successful Heart Transplant. Dr. Christiaan Barnard describes his approach to performing the first successful heart transplant. On December 3, 1967, 53-year-old Lewis Washkansky received the first transplant at Groote Schuur Hospital in South Africa. 