The state's most important river-the Mississippi-forms it's entire western border. Other rivers of note include the Illinois, Kaskaskia, Ohio and Wabash. Major lakes, in addition to Lake Michigan, include the Carlyle, Rend, Shelbyville and Upper Peoria. 
Michigan has many different varieties of landforms. It has low rolling hills everywhere and some level swampy areas in the Upper Peninsula's east. Michigan has 18,253,000 acres of forest and it has a lot of beaches. Michigan has a ton of rivers. Michigan is located in the East of the North Central region of the United States. Ohio and Indiana surround it on the south and Lake Michigan on the west. Lake Huron is on Michigan's east; Lake Superior is on Michigan's Upper Peninsula and Lake Huron is on Michigan's Lower Peninsula
Michigan has a lot of major cities. Some of the major ones are Detroit, Flint, Grand Rapids, Ann Arbor, and Lansing, which is Michigan's capital. The climate in Michigan varies. The highest temperature it has ever had is 112 F. The lowest temperature Michigan has ever had is minus 51 F. Michigan has all 4 seasons. Michigan is located in the East of the North Central region of the United States. Ohio and Indiana surround it on the south and Lake Michigan on the west. Lake Huron is on Michigan's east; Lake Superior is on Michigan's Upper Peninsula and Lake Huron is on Michigan's Lower Peninsula
Find an overview of Michigan geography, topography, geographic land regions, land areas, and major rivers. Access Michigan almanac, furnishing more details on the state geography, geographical and land regions, climate and weather, elevation, land areas, bordering states, and other statistical data. Michigan, one of the leading manufacturing states, is a leading tourist state as well. Touching on four of the five Great Lakes, the two land areas of Michigan give the state a shoreline of 3,288 miles, second in length only to Alaska.
Landforms in the state of Michigan include lakes, shoreline, hills,  and mountains. Other landforms include islands, peninsula, rivers,  and swamps. Edit. Share to: On the Wallaby. 2,872,921 Contributions. One of my favourite past-times is driving and exploring with my husband (and my dog). Making the world better, one answer at a time. Michigan landforms include 5 great lakes, several inland rivers, sandstone cliffs, sand dunes, shoreline, swamps, and waterfalls, caves, and forests.
Landforms--the mountains, hills, valleys, plains, and coastlines--are the foundation on which the modern state of Michigan was created. Glacial landforms dominate the surface of the whole state except the western half of the Upper Peninsula, where eroded remnants of some of the oldest mountains on earth are found. 
Divided into two separate land areas, and bordered by four of the five Great Lakes, Michigan has the longest shoreline in the continental U.S. - nearly 3,300 miles. Michigan's Upper Peninsula is hilly and rugged in the west, especially in the heavily-forested Porcupine Mountains. Further east in the Huron Mountains the state's highest point, Mt. Arvon, stands at 1,979 ft. Moving to the east, the Upper Peninsula's land is much flatter, with some inland swamps. Michigan's Lower Peninsula is rather flat, especially along the eastern and southeastern shorelines. Forested Isle Royale, located in the far-northwestern corner of Lake Superior, is the only (island) National Park in the United States. The surrounding Great Lakes are Michigan's most striking landforms. In addition, the state is covered by over 11,000 fresh water lakes (mostly small). Lake St. Clair is a vital commercial waterway, as it connects to Lake Erie through the Detroit River, and to Lake Huron through the St. Clair River
Michigan Landforms include: Rivers. Major rivers on the Upper Peninsula are the Escanala, the Manistique, the Ontogon, and the Tahquamnenon. On the Lower Peninsula the rivers are Au Sable, The Grand River, The Muskegon, The Kalamazoo, and The Signaw rivers. Great Lakes: Water flows through the system from Lake Superior, into Lakes Huron and Michigan, then onto Lake Erie, over Niagara Falls, into Lake Ontario, and out the St. Lawrence Seaway to the Atlantic Ocean. Huron-has over 30,000 islands.