When the IRS processes your tax return and approves your refund, you can see your actual personalized refund date. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days after we receive your tax return, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. What you need to check the status of your refund: If this application remains idle for 15 minutes, it displays a session expiration warning message in a popup or new browser window, allowing you to extend your session. The message gains focus and JAWS reads both the URL and the session expiration message.
If you make a mistake on your tax return, you may receive a correction notice or an unreported income notice. Compare the IRS adjustments with the information on your tax return. If you agree with the adjustments, you can generally reply to the IRS with a check or money order for the additional taxes due. Write the reference number on the check and send it with the voucher the IRS provides with your notice.
Once you are accepted, you are on the IRS payment timetable. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds to taxpayers in less than 21 days last year. The same results are expected for 2014. Once you have e-filed your tax return, there are a few ways to check the status of your refund:
The IRS will make the change and send you the corrected refund. If you disagree with the IRS notice, call the IRS right away at 800-829-1040. It could be as simple as the IRS misapplying one of your estimated tax payments to another taxpayer’s account, in which case the problem can be resolved in minutes. If you receive a notice in the mail alerting you that the IRS has made a correction to your refund, the first thing you should do is compare a copy of your tax return with the information listed on the IRS notice. If you notice a mistake on your return, or in your records, then you don’t have to do anything
If you don't have Internet access, you may call the refund hotline at 800-829-1954. Where’s My Refund? includes information for the most recent tax year filed in the current year and does not include information about amended returns. To check the status of an amended return, use Where’s My Amended Return? on IRS.gov. For example, you can request that we directly deposit into a checking, a savings and a retirement account by completing Form 8888 (PDF), Allocation of Refund (Including Savings Bond Purchases) and attaching it to your income tax return.
The same results are expected for the current tax year. Most refunds will be issued in less than 21 days. You can start checking the status of your refund within 24 hours after you have e-filed you return. Remember, the fastest way to get your refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit. 
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10.
We know how important your tax refund is to you. Good news, the IRS started processing tax returns on January 30th. Returns will be processed in the order they were submitted and as soon as your tax return is accepted, we will notify you by email. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year.