Food enters the mouth, being chewed by teeth, with chemical processing beginning with chemicals in the saliva from the salivary glands. This is called massecation. 
Define the term digestion and explain its significance.2. Distinguish between mechanical digestion and chemical digestion.3. Discuss the five digestive processes that overview the many functions of the digestivesystem.4. Distinguish between the alimentary canal and digestive accessory organs.5.
There are also two premolars in each quadrant of the mouth and they are situated in-between the molars and incisors. How Saliva Starts the Digestive Process When you eat food, it’s first mixed with saliva that is secreted by sets of glands. How Saliva Starts the Digestive Process. When you eat food, it’s first mixed with saliva that is secreted by sets of glands. The three main salivary glands are the parotid, submandibular and sublingual glands. Parotid glands are located at the side of the face on the inside of your cheeks.
At the same time, carbohy-drates and proteins undergo furtherchemical digestion with the help ofenzymes produced and secreted bythe pancreas and liver. Explain which typesof digestion occur in the smallintestine. Chemical action The first 25 cm of the small intes-tine is called the duodenum (doo ah DEE num). Althoughthe large intestine is onlyabout 1.5 m long, it is muchwider than the small intes-tine—about 6.5 cm in dia-meter. The appendix, atubelike extension off thelarge intestine thought to bean evolutionary remnantfrom our herbivorous ances-tors, seems to serve no func-tion in human digestion.
Giant Food Processor pieces in the mouth. Carbohydrates The Digestive System is a Mechanical Digestion Food is chopped and ground into small Chemical Digestion Food is broken down into simple nutrients by the chemical action of enzymes. Nutrients are broken down into simple sugars (glucose) which is used by the cells for energy.  Water is absorbed from the food waste back into the body.  The tongue pushes food to the back of the mouth where it is swallowed.  Food is chopped and ground in the mouth.  Bile (produced by the liver and stored in the gallbladder) enters the small intestine to break down fats.
Transports blood which contains oxygen, hormones, nutrients, immune cells, and wastes (CO2). Includes: heart, blood vessels and blood. Reload the page to try again! Press Cmd-0 to reset your zoom. Press Ctrl-0 to reset your zoom. It looks like your browser might be zoomed in or out. Your browser needs to be zoomed to a normal size to record audio.
The first step of digestion starts in your mouth. Teeth help break down foods and saliva has enzymes by which the digestive process starts. As you swallow food, muscles move it through the digestive tract. Food then is broken down and absorbed of nutrients needed by your body for health and development. How Saliva Starts the Digestive Process. When you eat food, it’s first mixed with saliva that is secreted by sets of glands. The three main salivary glands are the parotid, submandibular and sublingual glands. Parotid glands are located at the side of the face on the inside of your cheeks.
Summary of Digestion  Hydrochloric acid and pepsin digest proteins in the stomach. The stomach squeezes to mix food.  Nutrients are absorbed into the blood by villi in the small intestine.  Water is absorbed from the food waste back into the body.  The tongue pushes food to the back of the mouth where it is swallowed.  Food is chopped and ground in the mouth.  Bile (produced by the liver and stored in the gallbladder) enters the small intestine to break down fats.
Some rodents such as guinea pigs and rabbits have continuously growing molar teeth as well as continuously growing incisors. Teeth (sometimes called dentes) are accessory organs of the human digestive system. They are located in the buccal cavity, which is also known as the oral cavity and as the mouth. There are normally four types of teeth in an adult human mouth. Teeth are the organs of chewing, which is also known as mastication. Teeth cut, tear and grind food in the mouth, enabling it to be mixed with saliva (from the salivary glands) effectively and therefore swallowed more easily. The actions performed by the teeth are all mechanical-as opposed to chemical. The actions of the teeth (incl. cutting, tearing and grinding) increase the surface area of the food in the mouth. This enables the digestive enzymes greater access to the food material and so assists their role in the digestive process. Humans usually develop two sets of teeth over a lifetime-so we are diphyodonts.