Can't take Estrogen. I had my second surgery to have ovaries removed and pelvic lymph nodes removed in Aug.after cancer was found in my uterus after a hysterectomy in June. The cancer was not in my lymph nodes thang G-d. I asked him about natural supplements and he said if they say estrogen I wouldn't take them. I read articles saying soy is a phytoestrogen that does not cause cancer and other articles that say phytoestrogens dont cause cancer, may even help.
These are steps you can take to try to prevent a UTI. But you may follow these steps and still get a UTI. If you have symptoms of a UTI, call your doctor. 1  Urinate when you need to. 2  Don't hold it. 3  Pass urine before and after sex. 4  After you pass urine or have a bowel movement (BM), wipe from front to back. 5  Drink water every day and after sex. 6  Try for 6 to 8 glasses a day. 7  Clean the outer lips of your vagina and anus each day.
To find out if you have a UTI, your doctor will need to test a clean sample of your urine. The doctor or nurse will give you a clean plastic cup and a special wipe. Wash your hands before opening the cup. When you open the cup, don’t touch the inside of the lid or inside of the cup. Put the cup in easy reach. If you have symptoms of a UTI, call your doctor. 1  Urinate when you need to. 2  Don't hold it. 3  Pass urine before and after sex. 4  After you pass urine or have a bowel movement (BM), wipe from front to back. 5  Drink water every day and after sex. 6  Try for 6 to 8 glasses a day. 7  Clean the outer lips of your vagina and anus each day.
1 You can take estrogen in the form of a pill, patch, gel, vaginal cream, or slow-releasing suppository or ring that you place in your vagina. 2  If you experience only vaginal symptoms related to menopause, estrogen in a low-dose vaginal cream, tablet or ring is usually a better choice than an oral pill or a skin patch. 1 Find the best product and delivery method for you. 2  You can take estrogen in the form of a pill, patch, gel, vaginal cream, or slow-releasing suppository or ring that you place in your vagina.
Different types of UTI. You can get an infection in the lower (bladder and urethra) or upper (kidney and ureters) part of the urinary tract, and doctors often describe them as lower or upper UTIs. Upper UTIs are potentially more serious than lower UTIs because there is a risk of kidney damage. 
When I went through chemo, it stopped my period and put me into menopause. Now I'm basically going crazy! If we can't take estrogen, I'd like to know what others are doing to stop the symptoms or are you just suffering through it like me. 
Let the rest of the urine fall into the toilet.If you are prone to UTIs, your doctor may want to take pictures of your uri-nary tract with an x-ray or ultrasound. These pictures can show swelling, stones, or blockage. Your doctor will tell you how long you need to take the medicine. Make sure you take all of your medicine, even if you feel better! Many women feel bet-ter in one or two days.If you don't take medicine for a UTI, the UTI can hurt other parts of your body.
I average 5 UTIs a year. I don't usually get E. Coli, but other bacteria. I've heard that taking fem-dophilus (probiotic) might help replace the bad bacteria in the vagina with good bacteria, therefore reducing the number of UTIs. My problem is that I can't take it orally due to a problem with my immune system.
Some women get three or more UTIs a year. If you are prone to UTIs, ask your doctor about your treatment options. Your doctor may ask you to take a small dose of medicine every day to prevent infection. Or, your doctor might give you a supply of antibiotics to take after sex or at the first sign of infection. “Dipsticks” can help test for UTIs at home. If you have symptoms of a UTI, call your doctor. 1  Urinate when you need to. 2  Don't hold it. 3  Pass urine before and after sex. 4  After you pass urine or have a bowel movement (BM), wipe from front to back. 5  Drink water every day and after sex. 6  Try for 6 to 8 glasses a day. 7  Clean the outer lips of your vagina and anus each day.