Q. A. Fresh and vacuum-packaged cold smoked salmon can be frozen for up to 6 months. Re-freezing smoked fish a second time is not recommended, as it adversely affects the quality of the product including deteriorating color, moisture and texture. Frozen smoked salmon should be thawed in a refrigerator at 40ºF or below. Smoked salmon packs can be stored FROZEN for extended shelf life for up to 6 months and when removed from the freezer should be placed in refrigerator during the thawing process. Smoked fish, because it is a ready-to-eat food, should not be stored with raw food products.
Best Answer: It all depends on the temperature of your freezer and how the salmon is wrapped. 2 months at 20ºF and 1 year at 0ºF! . 
Never freeze cans. They can be refrigerated only if they are unopened. For a long-term option, you can freeze your salmon while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container. If you purchased your salmon frozen, be sure to keep it frozen until the day or day before you are going to use it. Always defrost salmon in the refrigerator or still wrapped and submerged in a large bowl of cold water if you want to use it sooner. 6-9 Months. Of course, salmon lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that salmon, like a lot of other proteins, usually has a sell by date and not a use by date or expiration date.
— Allison Zeglis, Dexter, MI. If you're lucky enough to get a side of salmon as a holiday gift (or you simply have brunch leftovers), store the fish on the bottom shelf of your refrigerator, where it's coldest. Unopened, it will keep for two weeks; after opening, one week
Fatty fish like salmon and tuna should keep at top quality for 2-3 months, while lean fish like cod and catfish will keep well in the freezer for up to 6 months. 
2. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container. 1. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerato
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: you can keep salmon in the freezer for about six months to a year, only if it is vacuum sealed or the fish is in a zip lock bag filled with fresh water (water protects the fish from freezer burn). if you just wrap it up and freeze it then only a month. Salmon will stay in a freezer until the freezer rusts through and the salmon falls out. Depending on the location of the freezer this could take hundreds, if not thousands of years.
How long will frozen wild BC salmon keep? Properly wrapped and stored wild BC salmon will keep well in a home freezer for about two months or three to four months in a deep freeze. If vacuum sealed, product will keep for 3 to 4 months in a home freezer and 6 to 12 months in a deep freeze. After that its flavour and nutritional value will start to deteriorate. When ready to use your frozen salmon, you can thaw it a few ways: 1  To thaw slowly, unwrap the salmon, place it in a pan, cover and leave for 24 hours in the refrigerator. 2  To thaw a whole fish faster, place the fish in a sink with cold running water allowing about ½ hour thawing time per 500 g (1 lb).