Hydraulic fracturing is a process used in nine out of 10 natural gas wells in the United States, where millions of gallons of water, sand and chemicals are pumped underground to break apart the rock and release the gas. 
The process involves the high-pressure injection of 'fracking fluid' (primarily water, containing sand or other proppants suspended with the aid of thickening agents) into a wellbore to create cracks in the deep-rock formations through which natural gas, petroleum, and brine will flow more freely. When the hydraulic pressure is removed from the well, small grains of hydraulic fracturing proppants (either sand or aluminium oxide) hold the fractures open.
Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling are safely unlocking vast U.S. reserves of oil and natural gas found in shale and other tight-rock formations. Developing energy from shale is an advanced process that uses the latest drilling technologies and equipment. Drilling. Developing energy from shale (and other tight-rock formations) using hydraulic fracturing/horizontal drilling takes four to eight weeks – from preparing the site for development to production itself – after which the well can be in production for 20 to 40 years.
“Fracking” – or hydraulic fracturing is the process in which oil and gas companies drill into the ground to extract natural gas from the shale rock that lays thousands of feet under the ground. Below is a step by step process of fracking and the steps it takes to extract natural gas from Marcellus Shale. STEP ONE: Once a drilling location is established, the drilling can begin. A drill bit is then mounted on the end of a drill pipe.
Fracking a natural gas well involves drilling horizontally, not vertically, and injecting large volumes of water, chemicals and sand into a shale formation that contains natural gas. The substances are under very high pressure, which causes the formations to crack or fracture. The fluid is injected further into the formation as the rock fractures. The sand settles in the fractures, keeping them open. These new and open pathways allow the gas to flow freely into the well. Hydraulic fracturing is used mainly to stimulate production from oil and natural gas wells.
Fracking (hydraulic fracturing) is a term used to describe a natural gas drilling technique in which thousands of gallons of water, chemicals and sand are pumped into a shale formation to break apart rock and release the natural gas that is trapped below. The fluid is injected further into the formation as the rock fractures. The sand settles in the fractures, keeping them open. These new and open pathways allow the gas to flow freely into the well. Hydraulic fracturing is used mainly to stimulate production from oil and natural gas wells.
Fracking is the process of drilling down into the earth before a high-pressure water mixture is directed at the rock to release the gas inside. Water, sand and chemicals are injected into the rock at high pressure which allows the gas to flow out to the head of the well. The process is carried out vertically or, more commonly, by drilling horizontally to the rock layer.
Hydraulic fracturing was first used to recover natural gas and oil in 1947. Halliburton was the first company to use it commercially in 1949. Today, fracking is used to stimulate thousands of oil and gas wells each year, worldwide. The fluid is injected further into the formation as the rock fractures. The sand settles in the fractures, keeping them open. These new and open pathways allow the gas to flow freely into the well. Hydraulic fracturing is used mainly to stimulate production from oil and natural gas wells.
Drilling companies suggest trillions of cubic feet of shale gas may be recoverable from underneath parts of northern England, through a process known as fracking. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a technique designed to recover gas and oil from shale rock. Water, sand and chemicals are injected into the rock at high pressure which allows the gas to flow out to the head of the well. The process is carried out vertically or, more commonly, by drilling horizontally to the rock layer.
Hydraulic fracturing (also hydrofracturing, hydrofracking, fracking or fraccing) is a well-stimulation technique in which rock is fractured by a pressurized liquid. When the hydraulic pressure is removed from the well, small grains of hydraulic fracturing proppants (either sand or aluminium oxide) hold the fractures open.