1 As a constituent in a blended cream or lotion, rose geranium essential oil can be used for clearing sluggish and oily skin, as well as wound, burn and ulcer healing and has value to treat eczema, repelling insects, shingles, cellulite, ringworm, bruises and engorgement of the breasts. 1 Rose geranium oil can be used in blended massage oil, or diluted in a bath to assist with PMS, depression, stress, anxiety and tension, fluid retention, edema, eczema, shingles, cellulite, bruises, ringworm, hemorrhoids and menstrual irregularities.
Bourbon Geranium oil (P. roseum) from the island of Reunion réunion is said to be the best Quality geranium oil and is The geranium oil that is sometimes referred to As Rose geranium And geranium rosat due to the-rose like quality of its. aroma The Geranium species is also sometimes referred to as Lemon Plant due to the fragrance of its leaves. There are over 700 varieties of geraniums, however the percentage of them that produce essential oil is small.
Out of the many varieties of the plant, Pelargonium graveolens is the source of the essential oil. The oil is widely used in aromatherapy and contains a number of beneficial compounds. Geranium oil is often compared to the rose essential oil because they share almost the same therapeutic traits. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Geranium essential oil is extracted through steam distillation of the plant's stems and leaves. 2  When made from young, green leaves, geranium oil appears with a lemon scent. 3  However, if extracted from older leaves that have changed their color, the oil will have a strong rose fragrance.
Our rose geranium essential oil is extracted from the plant Pelargonium graveolens of the Geraniaceae family and has a rosier smell than that of its cousin-Pelargonium odorantissimum, which is more the commonly known geranium essential oil and has a more wild lemon-apple smell. 1 Rose geranium oil can be used in blended massage oil, or diluted in a bath to assist with PMS, depression, stress, anxiety and tension, fluid retention, edema, eczema, shingles, cellulite, bruises, ringworm, hemorrhoids and menstrual irregularities.
Rose Geranium. There are over 700 varieties of cultivated geranium; however, most are grown for ornamental purposes only. The oil producing species are P. graveolens, P. radens and P. capitatum. Pelargoniums are native to South Africa, and the Sotho used a paste made from the leaves to treat wounds and abscesses. The well-known geranium oil Bourbon is produced from the cultivars Rose, which is a hybrid of P. radens and P. capitat
Pelargonium distillates and absolutes, commonly known as geranium oil, are sold for aromatherapy and massage therapy applications. They are also sometimes used to supplement or adulterate more expensive rose oils. The essential oil is an ingredient in a natural haemorrhoid treatment. 1 P. 'Lucaeflora' - A rose-scented variety of P. graveolens, much more similar to the species that most other cultivars and varieties of P. graveolens. 2  P. × melissinum-The lemon balm pelargonium (lemon balm-Melissa officinalis). 3  This is a hybrid between P. crispum and
There are in fact two species of Pelargonium distilled to essential oil-this 'odorantissium' produces Rose Geranium oil, high in geraniol with a more ' rose-like' aroma. The 'graveolens' species produces an oil with a higher citronellol content, with a correspondingly more citrus-like aroma. Malte Hozzel on Rose Geranium Essential Oil: Geranium's vital, sensual presence is not subtle, but direct & unavoidable, making it one of the oils of choice for aphrodisiac qualities.
Geranium essential oil information. Our geranium essential oil is extracted from the plant Pelargonium odorantissimum, of the Geraniaceae family and is extracted from a different plant than its cousin rose geranium essential oil-as this more expensive oil is extracted from Pelargonium graveolens. Origin of geranium oil. The plants originated from South Africa, as well as Reunion, Madagascar, Egypt and Morocco and were introduced to European countries such as Italy, Spain and France in the 17th century.
1 Cream or lotion. 2  As a constituent in a blended cream or lotion, rose geranium essential oil can be used for clearing sluggish and oily skin, as well as wound, burn and ulcer healing and has value to treat eczema, repelling insects, shingles, cellulite, ringworm, bruises and engorgement of the breasts. 3  Shampoo. 1 Rose geranium oil can be used in blended massage oil, or diluted in a bath to assist with PMS, depression, stress, anxiety and tension, fluid retention, edema, eczema, shingles, cellulite, bruises, ringworm, hemorrhoids and menstrual irregularities.