Dez said... I have never heard of vinegar fumes as being considered toxic. I have hear that they can be a respitory irritant to a minute amount of people however, very very minute. I will sometimes use a simmering pot and fill it with apple cider vinegar to absorb the musty smell in my basement. I am sensitive to the fumes in white vinegar. Apple cider vinegar doesn't seem to bother me as much. My husband just used Tabasco sauce on his rice tonight and the fumes from the vinegar in the sauce caused my chest to pain. I am very chemically sensitive and fume sensitive anyway but this took me by surprise.
It is a natural cleaner and sanitizer. However, prolonged full strength white vinegar fumes are very acidic and can irritate your nose, throat and lungs. And in an unventilated room can have more serious effects. If you take vinegar orally for its great healing benefits, never use white vinegar. Report Abuse. i dont know much about vinegar fumes, but i used to work as a cook and i do believe inhaling any hot fumes is not a good idea. it would hurt my chest and we used water on the grills it the job but it burned. i think you should just be carefull what you inhal.
Best Answer: I would have to say no, Vinegar fumes are not dangerous. I say this as I work around Vinegar fumes all the time, many hours a day without problems. Source(s): I own my own Cleaning business that only uses natural cleaners. They are not very dangerous unless you have very large amounts or if it is concentrate (like acetic acid). The most common problem with vinegar fumes is dizziness or headache.
Do not breathe in vinegar for a long period of time or in large quantities. Vinegar fumes can irritate your throat and lungs. Avoid getting vinegar in your eyes as it will irritate them. If you get vinegar in your eyes flush immediately with large quantities of water for 15 minutes. Seek medical attention if irritation persists or worsens. 
Alternatives. White vinegar is a highly effective alternative that kills nearly all household germs, bacteria, mold, and mildew without the harmful fumes or residue of bleach or ammonia. Vinegar is just as economical as its toxic counterparts and is completely safe to use around children and pets. White vinegar is a highly effective alternative that kills nearly all household germs, bacteria, mold, and mildew without the harmful fumes or residue of bleach or ammonia
· just now. Report Abuse. No. Vinegar is used a salad dressing. If you can put that into your system, you might as well sniff it up. BTW: Don't use the artificial white vinegar (this one is actually bad for you to eat and smell), use the organic one...no side effects and is healthy. I've switched to vinegar and baking soda to clean my bathtub-hopefully to be less toxic to me and the environment. I dumped a bunch of vinegar onto a washrag. The odor/fumes were very strong.
I decided to do some online investigation to see if the vinegar fumes really are toxic, and I came across this website. Basically, a science teacher got cited for having a sealed bottle of food-grade vinegar not in a special dangerous-acids cabinet. Go figure...your salad will kill you...or something. I am sensitive to the fumes in white vinegar. Apple cider vinegar doesn't seem to bother me as much. My husband just used Tabasco sauce on his rice tonight and the fumes from the vinegar in the sauce caused my chest to pain. I am very chemically sensitive and fume sensitive anyway but this took me by surprise.
Thanks for your question. Mysticdoc: Vinegar fumes can be irritating to your airways causing cough and chest pain. Vinegar fumes can be irritating to your airways causing cough and chest pain. Mysticdoc: Vinegar fume is not toxic but can cause significant symptoms to individuals not tolerant to the fumes. Vinegar fume is not toxic but can cause significant symptoms to individuals not tolerant to the fumes. Mysticdoc: Hence, you need to use properly fitted mask in the workplace
I was looking online to see if vinegar fumes are dangerous and decided to share my reason why. I just finished cleaning my bathtub with straight vinegar, because nothing else would get the build up off. I've used vinegar for cleaning before, usually diluted, and have never had problems, but now my chest is hurting. I am sensitive to the fumes in white vinegar. Apple cider vinegar doesn't seem to bother me as much. My husband just used Tabasco sauce on his rice tonight and the fumes from the vinegar in the sauce caused my chest to pain. I am very chemically sensitive and fume sensitive anyway but this took me by surprise.