Town of Sweetser, Indiana shared Grant County Sheriff's Department (Marion, IN)'s photo. October 2 at 6:36am ·. Grant County Sheriff's Department (Marion, IN). October 1 at 11:36am ·. The Grant County Sheriff's Office supports the Mayor's Commission against Domestic Violence. Town of Sweetser, Indiana shared Grant County Indiana Veteran Affairs Office's photo.
Town of Sweetser, Indiana shared Cancer Services of Grant County's photo. Town of Sweetser, Indiana shared Grant County Indiana Veteran Affairs Office's photo.
The formal boundaries for the Town of Sweetser (see map below) encompass a land area of 1.01 sq. miles and a water area of 0 sq. miles. Grant County is in the Eastern time zone (GMT -5). The elevation is 850 feet. The table below compares Sweetser to the other 681 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in Indiana by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value. A location that ranks higher than 75% of its peers would be in the 75th percentile of the peer group.
Pawadise Park, Grant County's only dog park, is a unique feature along the Sweetser Switch Trail. Completed in July 2012, the park is located one-quarter mile west of Main Street next to the trail. The park was funded totally by donations. First mention of Sweetser in the Methodist Church conference minutes was in 1875. Local preachers mentioned were John Hubert, Allen Meek, Andrew Green and Joseph Leazenby. The first Methodist church was located on the northwest corner of Main Street and State Road 18.
According to the 2010 census, Sweetser has a total area of 1.013 square miles (2.62 km 2), of which 1.01 square miles (2.62 km 2) (or 99.7%) is land and 0.003 square miles (0.01 km 2) (or 0.3%) is water. Running through the edge of Sweetser is a small body of water, or creek, known as Pipe Creek. First mention of Sweetser in the Methodist Church conference minutes was in 1875. Local preachers mentioned were John Hubert, Allen Meek, Andrew Green and Joseph Leazenby. The first Methodist church was located on the northwest corner of Main Street and State Road 18.
The Town of Sweetser had a population of 1,177 as of July 1, 2015. Sweetser ranks in the upper quartile for Diversity Index when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in Indiana. See peer rankings below. The table below compares Sweetser to the other 681 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in Indiana by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value. A location that ranks higher than 75% of its peers would be in the 75th percentile of the peer group.
Sweetser Switch Trail, Grant County, Indiana. In 2003, the small Grant County, Indiana town of Sweetser completed asphalting its three-mile path called the Sweetser Switch Trail. During the first year of construction, the town of Sweetser carried out five unique steps. The town established a parks department. 
Sweetser is a town in Franklin, Pleasant and Richland townships, Grant County, Indiana, United States. The population was 1229 at the 2010 census. First mention of Sweetser in the Methodist Church conference minutes was in 1875. Local preachers mentioned were John Hubert, Allen Meek, Andrew Green and Joseph Leazenby. The first Methodist church was located on the northwest corner of Main Street and State Road 18.
Grant County State Bank is proud to be your locally owned community bank. We have been in business since 1939. We are a service-oriented bank, providing our customers with the best in customer care. We have three full-service branches for your convenience. These offices are located in Swayzee, Sweetser, and Marion. Each office offers the best in experienced professional service. NOTICE: Grant County State Bank is excited to announce we now offer Mobile Banking. We have three full-service branches for your convenience. These offices are located in Swayzee, Sweetser, and Marion. Each office offers the best in experienced professional service.