There are 435 representatives in the House, compared to 100 senators in the Senate. This is the number reached when new seats were added in 1913, and the number was locked b … y the Reapportionment Act of 1929. From 1959 to 1963, there were temporarily 437 seats. There are 6 other non-voting delegates. The 2010 US Census resulted in the reapportionment of seats in the House to the number of representatives shown below for each state, beginning with the 113th Congress (2013-2014). The answer is one.
The term Representative is applied to those elected to the US House of Representatives, so there are none in the US Senate, whose members are Senators. --- There are 2 US … Senators for each of the 50 US states, regardless of population. (total 100) The number of Representatives (also called Congressmen) is determined by population, with each state having at least one, and the remaining apportioned according to the US Census every 10 years.
The upper house is the Iowa Senate. There are 100 seats in the Iowa House of Representatives, representing 100 single-member districts across the state, formed by dividing the 50 Senate districts in half. Each district has a population of approximately 30,464 as of the 2010 United States Census. The House of Representatives meets at the Iowa State Capitol in Des Moines. Unlike the upper house, the Iowa Senate, state House representatives serve two-year terms with the whole chamber up for re-election in even-numbered years. There are no term limits for the House. Iowa House districts for 2012-2022
The total number of seats in the House of Representatives was fixed at 435 by the Reapportionment Act of 1929, creating one congressional district for each 674,000 residents (approximately). Each state is guaranteed at least one Representative, regardless of population. The 2010 US Census resulted in the reapportionment of seats in the House to the number of representatives shown below for each state, beginning with the 113th Congress (2013-2014). The answer is one.
South Dakota has two senators in the US Senate like every state in the United States. … South Dakota has 70 members of the South Dakota State House of Representatives and 35 members of the South Dakota State Senate. (total 100) The number of Representatives (also called Congressmen) is determined by population, with each state having at least one, and the remaining apportioned according to the US Census every 10 years.
Iowa has one U.S. Representative from each Iowa congressional district. The number of Iowa congressional districts is based on the last census. Iowa currently has 4 congressional districts. Therefore, Iowa has 4 U.S. Representatives. U.S. Representatives by state Check to see how many U.S. Representatives other states have. 
US Representatives From New York  New York has 29 total: 2 Republicans and 27 Democrats.    There are 150 members of the State Assembly. (total 100) The number of Representatives (also called Congressmen) is determined by population, with each state having at least one, and the remaining apportioned according to the US Census every 10 years.
There are 100 seats in the Iowa House of Representatives, representing 100 single-member districts across the state, formed by dividing the 50 Senate districts in half. The House of Representatives meets at the Iowa State Capitol in Des Moines. Unlike the upper house, the Iowa Senate, state House representatives serve two-year terms with the whole chamber up for re-election in even-numbered years. There are no term limits for the House.
The following is an alphabetical list of members of the United States House of Representatives from the state of Iowa. For chronological tables of members of both houses of the United States Congress from the state (through the present day), see United States Congressional Delegations from Iowa. The list of names should be complete, but other data may be incomplete
To run for the U.S. Senate in Iowa, you must be at least 30 years old, have been a United States citizen for nine years, and a current resident of Iowa. There are no term limits for U.S. Senators from Iowa and each term is for six years. There are currently 2 U.S. Senators representing Iowa in Washington, D.C. PS. All states in the United States have 2 Senators representing them. U.S. Senators by state Check to see how many U.S. Senators other states have. 