Tensile strength is an important measure of a material’s ability to perform in an application, and the measurement is widely used when describing the properties of metals and alloys. The tensile strength of an alloy is most commonly measured by placing a test piece in the jaws of a tensile machine. The tensile machine applies stretching stress by gradually separating the jaws. The amount of stretching needed to break the test piece is then measured and recorded
Properties that are directly measured via a tensile test are ultimate tensile strength, maximum elongation and reduction in area. From these measurements the following properties can also be determined: Young's modulus, Poisson's ratio, yield strength, and strain-hardening characteristics. Tensile specimens made from an aluminum alloy. The left two specimens have a round cross-section and threaded shoulders. The right two are flat specimens designed to be used with serrated grips. A tensile specimen is a standardized sample cross-section. It has two shoulders and a gauge (section) in between. The shoulders are large so they can be readily gripped, whereas the gauge section has a smaller cross-section so that the deformation and failure can occur in this area
The ultimate tensile strength of a material is calculated by dividing the area of the material tested (the cross section) by the stress placed on the material, generally expressed in terms of pounds or tons per square inch of material. The tensile strength of an alloy is most commonly measured by placing a test piece in the jaws of a tensile machine. The tensile machine applies stretching stress by gradually separating the jaws.
The maximum stress it withstands before failing is its ultimate tensile strength. Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), often shortened to tensile strength (TS) or ultimate strength, is the maximum stress that a material can withstand while being stretched or pulled before failing or breaking. The reversal point is the maximum stress on the engineering stress–strain curve, and the engineering stress coordinate of this point is the ultimate tensile strength, given by point 1. The UTS is not used in the design of ductile static members because design practices dictate the use of the yield stress.
For example, a tensile strength of a steel that can withstand 40,000 pounds of force per square inch may be expressed as 40,000 PSI or 40 KSI (with K being the denominator for thousands of pounds). The tensile strength of steel may also be shown in MPa, or megapascal. The tensile strength of an alloy is most commonly measured by placing a test piece in the jaws of a tensile machine. The tensile machine applies stretching stress by gradually separating the jaws.
Ultimate Tensile Strength The ultimate tensile strength (UTS) or, more simply, the tensile strength, is the maximum engineering stress level reached in a tension test. The strength of a material is its ability to withstand external forces without breaking. Tensile tests are used to determine the modulus of elasticity, elastic limit, elongation, proportional limit, reduction in area, tensile strength, yield point, yield strength and other tensile properties.
Tensile testing, also known as tension testing, is a fundamental materials science test in which a sample is subjected to a controlled tension until failure. Tensile specimens made from an aluminum alloy. The left two specimens have a round cross-section and threaded shoulders. The right two are flat specimens designed to be used with serrated grips. A tensile specimen is a standardized sample cross-section. It has two shoulders and a gauge (section) in between. The shoulders are large so they can be readily gripped, whereas the gauge section has a smaller cross-section so that the deformation and failure can occur in this area
Posted on March 18, 2013 by Britney Payne. In the metal fabrication world, you will hear the words “tensile strength” get thrown around. Many times, customers of ours and those just learning about metal fabrication will always ask about it and how it is pertinent to manufacturing. So this blog post will be intended to close this gap. Many different types of metal have some elasticity. So stretch strength or flex strength gives you a better idea of what it means. Simply put, tensile strength is the the amount of stretching that can be done to metal before it breaks.
They are tabulated for common materials such as alloys, composite materials, ceramics, plastics, and wood. Tensile strength is defined as a stress, which is measured as force per unit area. For some non-homogeneous materials (or for assembled components) it can be reported just as a force or as a force per unit width. The reversal point is the maximum stress on the engineering stress–strain curve, and the engineering stress coordinate of this point is the ultimate tensile strength, given by point 1. The UTS is not used in the design of ductile static members because design practices dictate the use of the yield stress.