Cleopatra looked like this: She had dark brown hair, not black. She had big brown eyes. Her skin was not as dark as some people believe because her father descended from maced … onians. Eventually though, her skin must have darkened some from the Sun in Egypt. Most likely she was tall, and healthy.
Cleopatra looked like this: She had dark brown hair, not black. She had big brown eyes. Her skin was not as dark as some people believe because her father descended from maced … onians. Eventually though, her skin must have darkened some from the Sun in Egypt. Most likely she was tall, and healthy.
Cleopatra is depicted on the silver screen as a great beauty. We hear that Cleopatra seduced the great Roman leaders Julius Caesar and Mark Antony, and we assume that Cleopatr … a used her great beauty as a diplomatic aid in putting Egypt on a more favorable footing with Rome.
I'm not certain why there is a need to portray Cleopatra in a way that is most certainly false. No, she did not look like Elizabeth Taylor, but she didn't look like Nefertiti. Cleopatra was Greek, and if you ask someone what race Greek people are, they would say Caucasian.
Cleopatra was the first female ruler to mint coinage solely in her image. Their design would have been approved by her and distributed during her reign. So it’s surprising that they are not a perfect visual reference for her appearance. The trouble with coins is that they are propaganda tools.
Certainly, she was intelligent, a good diplomat, and queen of an area important for Rome, so it is no wonder that leaders of Rome like Caesar and Mark Antony, would fall in love with Cleopatra, while another Roman leader, Octavian (the future Emperor Augustus), would fear and revile her.
Cleopatra is depicted on the silver screen as a great beauty. We hear that Cleopatra seduced the great Roman leaders Julius Caesar and Mark Antony, and we assume that Cleopatra used her great beauty as a diplomatic aid in putting Egypt on a more favorable footing with Rome. However, we don't know whether Cleopatra was a beauty.
Cleopatra is depicted on the silver screen as a great beauty. We hear that Cleopatra seduced the great Roman leaders Julius Caesar and Mark Antony, and we assume that Cleopatra used her great beauty as a diplomatic aid in putting Egypt on a more favorable footing with Rome.