X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Average Refrigeration Technician Salaries. The average salary for refrigeration technician jobs is $35,000. Average refrigeration technician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term refrigeration technician anywhere in the job listing. The refrigeration technician salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional refrigeration technician salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
HVACR technicians inspect and maintain heating and cooling systems. Heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration mechanics and installers held about 267,600 jobs in 2012, of which 61 percent were employed in the plumbing, heating, and air-conditioning contractors industry. About 9 percent were self-employed. Installation, maintenance, and repair occupations. 10%. Employment of heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration mechanics and installers is projected to grow 21 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all
Read More... HVAC is an industry acronym for “heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning.” An HVAC refrigeration technician works to install, repair, and maintain air conditioning systems for commercial and residential buildings. The HVAC refrigeration technician works with a number of coolant substances and processes, and they need to be familiar with relevant current and legacy technologies.
Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. The HVAC refrigeration technician works with a number of coolant substances and processes, and they need to be familiar with relevant current and legacy technologies.
Other Job specific salaries include refrigeration technician with an annual pay rate of $45,000, HVAC controls technician with annual earnings of $60,000, air conditioning tech who earns on average $47,000 per year as well as a HVAC air balancing technician who can see upwards of $70,000 annually. They can expect to earn anywhere from $30,000 to $55,000 annually, again, depending on their level of expertise. The highest level of the pyramid are HVAC engineers, who can earn up to $75,000 yearly as their tasks are more intensive and advanced.
According to various sources, including the Bureau of Labor Statistics, this is one industry that definitely benefits from education and experience. There are many kinds of HVAC technicians and many levels of expertise as well. HVAC salary is mostly dependent on this. They can expect to earn anywhere from $30,000 to $55,000 annually, again, depending on their level of expertise. The highest level of the pyramid are HVAC engineers, who can earn up to $75,000 yearly as their tasks are more intensive and advanced.
HVAC technicians at entry-level positions, often serve as apprentices to more experienced technicians. Their pay entirely depends on the job requirements, but it can be anywhere from $22,000 to $25,000 a year. Experienced HVAC salary. When these technicians get certified, their prospects brighten considerably. They can expect to earn anywhere from $30,000 to $55,000 annually, again, depending on their level of expertise. The highest level of the pyramid are HVAC engineers, who can earn up to $75,000 yearly as their tasks are more intensive and advanced.