Overview: This lesson plan is used to introduce a unit on transportation and how it has changed from 1899 to 2001. It is based on the Harriman Alaska Expedition of 1899, an expedition that used almost every mode of travel available in that time period. Today most people would use a plane to get to Alaska. Discuss all of the different modes of transportation that would be used and why. Note how the boats/ships have changed. (Have the students look at the picture of the steamer George W Elder and the ship the Clipper Odyssey on the web site.
Programs have been introducedto offset the negative ef fects of new transportation facilities and services and to pay for features that make projects moreamenable to communities. An increasing share of funds goes into programs that improve how we integrate transportationwith society’s other goals. TRANSPORTATION AND SOCIETY 15 The transportation of goods, and all the economic interests associated with having timely delivery of inputs andefficient distribution of products, are also being threatened by congestion.
It is impossible to explore how each new advanced technology has impacted our lives and how it will impact the future. Technology impacts the environment, people and the society as a whole. The way we use technology determines if its impacts are positive to the society or negative. For example, (POSITIVE IMPACT) we can use corn to make ethanol and this ethanol can be used as fuel.
Planning. Technology has revolutionized the way that we plan our vacations or long term travel plans. For vacations we would have to physically go to a travel agency and speak to a person to book flights and hotels. Today, we have cut out all human interaction and we can do all of this ourselves with the swipe of a touchscreen.
We are at a critical time in the history of transportation. We have an unprecedented opportunity to take stock and seriously consider the role of transportation in our society. The transportation policies we are formulating today will have widespread ramifications, both for ourselves and for the next generation.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. However, it is fair to say that transportation did evolve in the Americas and that it did have an impact on most of the culture. Say for instance you look at food. There was a time when food was mostly locally produced. 
What have we learned from the past 35 years? How can we use our experience to improve the decision and policy making process as we embark on the next major era in transportation in the U.S.? First and foremost, we need to re-consider how we envision the role of transportation in our society. While historically transportation has been defined as the safe and efficient movement of people and goods, in our society, it is far more than that. We have an unprecedented opportunity to take stock and seriously consider the role of transportation in our society. The transportation policies we are formulating today will have widespread ramifications, both for ourselves and for the next generation.
Review transportation the different modes discussed, and review the Harriman Alaska Expedition and how the people traveled to Alaska. Tell the students that a group of people are going to retrace their journey using the modes of transportation we have today in 2001. Today most people would use a plane to get to Alaska. Discuss all of the different modes of transportation that would be used and why. Note how the boats/ships have changed. (Have the students look at the picture of the steamer George W Elder and the ship the Clipper Odyssey on the web site.
Notwo authors would necessarily agree on which key developments to select. My only hope is that the topics I have selectedserve to illustrate how thoroughly transportation is embedded in the fabric of society. Social and Economic Consequences Virtually everything we do relies on transportation. TRANSPORTATION AND SOCIETY 15 The transportation of goods, and all the economic interests associated with having timely delivery of inputs andefficient distribution of products, are also being threatened by congestion.
Transportation is what enables individuals to become full-fledged, participating, contributing members of society and what enables communities to work the way they could and should. In this day and age, and in this society, transportation is a necessity. We have an unprecedented opportunity to take stock and seriously consider the role of transportation in our society. The transportation policies we are formulating today will have widespread ramifications, both for ourselves and for the next generation.