Results. A ferritin blood test checks the amount of ferritin in the blood. Ferritin is a protein in the body that binds to iron; most of the iron stored in the body is bound to ferritin. The amount of ferritin found in the blood is the same amount that is in the body. 
A ferritin test is a laboratory blood test that measures the amount of ferritin in a person's blood stream. Ferritin is the major iron storage protein in the body, so the ferritin test is ordered as an indirect way to measure the iron stores in the body. 
The ferritin test is ordered to assess a person's iron stores in the body. The test is sometimes ordered along with an iron test and a TIBC to detect the presence and severity of iron deficiency or iron overload. 
Ferritin is an iron-containing protein and is the primary form of iron stored inside of cells. The small quantity of ferritin that is released into the blood is a reflection of the amount of total iron stored in the body. This test measures the amount of ferritin in the blood. 
Definition. A ferritin test measures the amount of ferritin in your blood. Ferritin is a blood cell protein that contains iron. A ferritin test helps your doctor understand how much iron your body is storing. If a ferritin test reveals that your blood ferritin level is lower than normal, it indicates your body's iron stores are low and you have iron deficiency. If a ferritin test shows higher than normal levels, it could indicate that you have a condition that causes your body to store too much
To diagnose a medical condition. Your doctor may suggest a ferritin test if other blood tests have shown that the level of oxygen-carrying protein in your red blood cells (hemoglobin) is low, or if the proportion of red blood cells to the fluid component in your blood (hematocrit) is low.
Ferritin is the major iron storage protein of the body. Ferritin levels can be used to indirectly measure the iron levels in the body. Ferritin has the shape of a hollow sphere that permits the entry of a variable amount of iron for storage (as ferric hydroxide phosphate complexes). 1 The ferritin test is a simple blood test. 2  High levels of ferritin can indicate an iron storage disorder, such as hemochromatosis, or a chronic disease process. 3  Low levels of ferritin are indicative of iron deficiency, which causes anemia (a reduction in the number of red blood cells).
1 The ferritin test measures the level of ferritin, the major iron storage protein in the body. 2  The ferritin test is a simple blood test. 3  High levels of ferritin can indicate an iron storage disorder, such as hemochromatosis, or a chronic disease process. 1 The ferritin test is a simple blood test. 2  High levels of ferritin can indicate an iron storage disorder, such as hemochromatosis, or a chronic disease process. 3  Low levels of ferritin are indicative of iron deficiency, which causes anemia (a reduction in the number of red blood cells).
Guide. A ferritin blood test checks the amount of ferritin in the blood. Ferritin is a protein in the body that binds to iron; most of the iron stored in the body is bound to ferritin. Ferritin is found in the liver, spleen, skeletal muscles, and bone marrow. Only a small amount of ferritin is found in the blood. 