(The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Book One, Chapter Six). Despotism is a form of government in which a single entity rules with absolute power. That entity may be an individual, as in an autocracy, or it may be a group, as in an oligarchy. Colloquially, despot has been applied pejoratively to a person, particularly a head of state or government, who abuses their power and authority to oppress their people, subjects or subordinates. In this sense, it is similar to the pejorative connotations that have likewise arisen with the term tyrant.
despotism. government by an absolute ruler unchecked by effective constitutional limits to his power. In Greek usage, a despot was ruler of a household and master of its slaves. The title was applied to gods and, by derivation, to the quasi-divine rulers of the Middle East.
Use despotism in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. Despotism is defined as a situation in which a ruler has absolute power. A monarchy where a king has absolute power is an example of despotism. Sentence Examples. » more... 1  If ever there was a beneficent despotism, it was Jowett's rule as master. 2  On the other hand, the execution seemed to Cromwell the only alternative to anarchy, or to a return to despotism and the abandonment of all they had fought for.
The word despotism means to rule in the fashion of a despot and does not necessarily require a singular despot, an individual. Despot comes from the Greek despotes, which roughly means master or one with power, and it has been used to translate a wide variety of titles and positions. Colloquially, despot has been applied pejoratively to a person, particularly a head of state or government, who abuses their power and authority to oppress their people, subjects or subordinates. In this sense, it is similar to the pejorative connotations that have likewise arisen with the term tyrant.
2. despotism-a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.). authoritarianism, Caesarism, dictatorship, monocracy, one-man rule, shogunate, Stalinism, totalitarianism, tyranny, absolutism. despotism. 1. a form of government with a ruler having absolute authority; autocracy. 2. a system ruled by a tyrant or dictator having absolute, usually oppressive power. — despot, n. — despotic, adj
Full Definition of DESPOTISM. 1. a: rule by a despot b: despotic exercise of power. 2. a: a system of government in which the ruler has unlimited power: absolutism b: a despotic state. See despotism defined for English-language learners. 