Each of the turkey subspecies are endemic to a certain region and may have color and size variations, but all are wild turkeys. If you are planning a turkey management initiative on your property, make sure you know which turkey sub-species lives in your area. The sub-species of wild turkey found are: Rio Grande turkeys were also introduced to Hawaii in the late 1950s. Population estimates for this subspecies range from 1,022,700 to 1,025,700. This sub-species is native to the central plain states. They were first described in 1879 and have longer legs when compared to their body size.
Supplied by: NWTF. This 38” by 26” poster includes colorful images and information about each of the 5 wild turkey sub-species as well as the Ocellated turkey while also illustrating the range each inhabits. 
(Meleagris gallopavo mexicana) The fifth recognized, but least known, wild turkey subspecies is the Gould's found in portions of Arizona and New Mexico, as well as northern Mexico. It was first described by J. Gould in 1856 during his travels in Mexico. Like the Merriam's, the Gould's is a bird of the mountains. Merriam’s Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) This subspecies of turkey is primarily located in the pines of the western mountain regions of the U.S. It was named by Dr. E.W. Nelson in 1900 in honor of C. Hart Merriam, the first chief of the U.S. Biological Survey.
Eastern Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris)This subspecies of wild turkey is the most numerous and hunted species and is also the most widely distributed of all the subspecies in North America. It nearly inhabits the entire eastern half of the country. The Eastern turkey is best found in hardwood and thick forests. Merriam’s Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) This subspecies of turkey is primarily located in the pines of the western mountain regions of the U.S. It was named by Dr. E.W. Nelson in 1900 in honor of C. Hart Merriam, the first chief of the U.S. Biological Survey.
The turkey is a large bird in the genus Meleagris, which is native to the Americas. One species, Meleagris gallopavo (commonly known as the wild turkey or domestic turkey), is native to the forests of North America, mainly Mexico and the United States. The other living species is Meleagris ocellata or the ocellated turkey, native to the forests of the Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula
Management. Range & Current Status. Today the range of the wild turkey is larger than in pre-colonial days, and populations (6 million total) exist in every state except Alaska. Five races or subspecies of the wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) exist in the United States. 
The range of this species covers the entire eastern half of the United States, extending into South Eastern Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, and the Maritime Provinces in Canada. Eastern turkey populations number from 5.1 to 5.3 million birds, the most numerous of any turkey subspecies. Rio Grande turkeys were also introduced to Hawaii in the late 1950s. Population estimates for this subspecies range from 1,022,700 to 1,025,700. This sub-species is native to the central plain states. They were first described in 1879 and have longer legs when compared to their body size.
(Information for this species page was gathered by Ms. Sherri Fawcett as part of an assignment in Biology 220W, Spring 2004). The eastern wild turkey (Meteagris gallopava silvestris) is the most abundant and most widely occurring sub-species of the five types of wild turkeys. Its natural range includes almost all of the eastern United States. The wild turkey is the largest game bird in North America
The wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is native to North America and is the heaviest member of the diverse Galliformes. It is the same species as the domestic turkey, which was originally derived from a southern Mexican subspecies of wild turkey (not the related ocellated turkey). Population estimates for this subspecies range from 1,022,700 to 1,025,700. This subspecies, native to the central plain states, was first described in 1879, and has relatively long legs, better adapted to a prairie habitat. Its body feathers often have a green-coppery sheen.
There are 2 species in the genus, the Wild Turkey of forested North America and the Ocellated Turkey (M. ocellata) of the Yucatan region of Central America (Eaton 1992). Hunting the Wild Turkey is a popular sport pursued by hunters nationwide.. 