Arrow poisons are used to poison arrow heads or darts for the purposes of hunting, warfare or murder. Poison arrows redirects here. For other uses, see Poison arrows (disambiguation) . Arrow poisons are used to poison arrow heads or darts for the purposes of hunting, warfare or murder. They have been used by indigenous peoples worldwide and are still in use in areas of South America, Africa and Asia.
Poison Darts were long-range weapons used by the Assassin Ezio Auditore during his stay in Rome and Constantinople. The darts had the same effect as the poison blade, but were fired from distance in the same way as the Hidden Gun, what made them extremely useful for stealth missions. 
Poison Darts are a versatile weapon in Connor's aresenal. They are found under the Tool tab of the Weapon Wheel. Poison Darts are thrown just like a Throwing Knife in previous Assassin's Creed Games. The dart sends a powerful toxin coursing through the victim's blood.
A poison dart was a dart that was either coated in poison or injected poison upon impact. Poison darts were also known as toxic darts. Poison darts were preferable over more direct assassination means for several reasons. First, with an appropriate toxin, the victim's death could be nearly-instantaneous, and essentially guaranteed.
Poison Darts are a type of ammunition that inflict the Poison debuff. They can be used with the Blowgun, Blowpipe, Dart Pistol and Dart Rifle. 
1 In the novelization of Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, the poison darts were thrown by Ezio, and sometimes other Assassins, as opposed to being projectiles fired from his wrist. 2  In Assassin's Creed III, the poison dart used the same model as a dagger featured in Assassin's Creed II. 1 In Assassin's Creed III, the poison dart used the same model as a dagger featured in Assassin's Creed II. 2  In Assassin's Creed: Unity, the effects of berserk darts would not wear off.
For other frogs that are poisonous to humans, see Poisonous frog. Poison dart frog (also known as dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly known as poison arrow frog) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America. These species are diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies. Most species of poison dart frogs are small, sometimes less than 1.5 cm (0.59 in) in adult length, although a few grow up to 6 cm (2.4 in) in length. They weigh 1 oz. on average. Most poison dart frogs are brightly colored, displaying aposematic patterns to warn potential predators.
Poison dart frogs are endemic to humid, tropical environments of Central and South America. These frogs are generally found in tropical rainforests, including in Bolivia, Costa Rica, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Suriname, French Guiana, Peru, Panama, Guyana, Nicaragua, and Hawaii (introduced). Most species of poison dart frogs are small, sometimes less than 1.5 cm (0.59 in) in adult length, although a few grow up to 6 cm (2.4 in) in length. They weigh 1 oz. on average. Most poison dart frogs are brightly colored, displaying aposematic patterns to warn potential predators.