ISO to USB is a free and small software that can burn the ISO image file directly to the USB drives, these USB drives include USB flash drives, memory sticks and other USB storage devices, it also supports to create a bootable USB disk with Windows operating systems. Burn ISO to USB disks with ease. The ISO image file is a popular image of the CD/DVD discs, an ISO file can include all the content on the disc, this software can easily burn these ISO files to a USB flash disk, makes it easy to carry and use.
As you can see, using the Windows 7 USB/DVD Download Tool is probably the quickest way to get bootable media for the Windows 10 Technical Preview. You can create a USB or DVD, based on what your PC can boot from, and then you can get started with trying out the Windows 10 Technical Preview yourself. Download the Windows 7 USB/DVD Download Tool here. The installation process is simple. Double-click what you downloaded, follow the prompts, and once the tool is installed, you can begin creating your bootable USB or DVD media. The first step is to choose your ISO file.
up vote 0 down vote. To make a .iso image out of a DVD you can just insert the DVD in the drive and run the following command: Where is the DVD drive's block device as reported by lsblk, and where is the path to the .iso file that you want to create. Also to make a bootable USB out of the .iso image, you can run: 
Click on the Add button on toolbar to add files and folders. You can also directly drag files and folders from Windows Explorer to the PowerISO window. Save the iso file to Standard ISO Images (*.iso) format. To make bootable CD, please burn the iso file to a blank CD / DVD disc. 
Click the Set into current button, the bootable ISO you will got right now. (We recommand you save the boot information first then set it into the non-bootable file.). Step 3: Burn the bootable ISO file to DVD. Prepare a blank DVD, and make sure you have a DVD Driver to insert it. Then click the “Burn” on the toolbar. Choose the DVD driver you have and the bootable ISO you’ve just got. Everything is OK, Now click “Burn”. A few minutes, you will get a bootable DVD. 
WinISO can create bootable CD/DVD/BD image files, directly edit the boot image file and serve as BIN/ISO converter, ISO extractor, ISO burner and ISO editor. WinISO is the first ISO image file editor software in the world. It has been on the market for 11 years since the first version released in 2001. 
I used WinISO. It's very easy to do it. Just run WInISO, Click bootable on the toolbar. If you don't have the boot information, you need to insert an existing boot information into the file. Press the Set Boot Image Select your existing boot information, then click Open. Click Save to save to complete.
With WinISO, you can process the boot information for CD/DVD/Blu-ray Disc image file, as well as directly add/remove/extract boot image for the CD/DVD/Blu-ray Disc image file. Not all CDs or ISO files have boot information. Running WinISO then you will find out whether your CDs have bootable information or not. Here we will show you how to make bootable CD with the bootable feature of WinISO. 1  1. Open the Non-bootable ISO with WinISO. 2  2. 3  Set proper