The noun GEOSPHERE has 1 sense: 1. the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle. Familiarity information: GEOSPHERE used as a noun is very rare. Meronyms (parts of geosphere): crust; Earth's crust (the outer layer of the Earth). mantle (the layer of the earth between the crust and the core). Earth's surface; surface (the outermost level of the land or sea).
There are several conflicting definitions for geosphere. The geosphere may be taken as the collective name for the lithosphere, the hydrosphere, the cryosphere, and the atmosphere. In Aristotelian physics, the term was applied to four spherical natural places, concentrically nested around the center of the Earth, as described in the lectures Physica and Meteorologica. 
Noun. 1. geosphere-the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle. lithosphere. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. crust, Earth's crust-the outer layer of the Earth
Noun. 1. lithosphere-the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle. geosphere. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. crust, Earth's crust-the outer layer of the Earth.
In modern texts and in Earth system science, geosphere refers to the solid parts of the Earth and is used along with atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere to describe the systems of the Earth. In that context, sometimes the term lithosphere is used instead of geosphere. Geosphere. The geosphere is the densest parts of Earth and consist mostly of rock and regolith. In Aristotelian physics, the term was applied to four spherical natural places, concentrically nested around the center of the Earth, as described in the lectures Physica and Meteorologica.
The Geosphere. Since 'geo' means 'ground,' the geosphere describes all of the rocks, minerals and ground that are found on and in Earth. This includes all of the mountains on the surface, as well as all of the liquid rock in the mantle below us and the minerals and metals of the outer and inner cores. 
: the solid part of a celestial body (as the earth); specifically: the outer part of the solid earth composed of rock essentially like that exposed at the surface, consisting of the crust and outermost layer of the mantle, and usually considered to be about 60 miles (100 kilometers) in thickness. 
1 The nature and magnitude of the exchanges between the geosphere and the Earth's other surficial spheres have changed considerably in historical times. 2  Geochemical interaction between the geosphere, hydrosphere and the biosphere depends partly on sorption processes and partly on chemical speciation. Example sentences. 1 
Definition of GEOSPHERE. 1. : the solid earth —distinguished from atmosphere and hydrosphere. 2. : one of the shells or spherical layers within the earth delimited above and below by discontinuities.
The geosphere is considered that portion of the Earth system that includes the Earth's interior, rocks and minerals, landforms and the processes that shape the Earth's surface. The Earth itself (contrary to Christopher Columbus) is not a perfect sphere. The mantle makes up the largest volume of the Earth's interior. The region beneath the mantle is called the core, and consists of two parts, a liquid outer core that is around 2250 km thick and a solid inner core 1220 km thick.