From Las Vegas: Take I-15 south bound, 55 miles to the Nipton Road, 10 miles to Nipton, CA From Laughlin: Take Highway 95 northbound to Searchlight for 40 miles, go west on Highway 164 for 21 miles to Nipton. 1991 East Mojave Subdivision completed involving the clearing of title and elimination of railroad station grounds parcel on San Bernardino County records. 1990-91 Nipton Trading Post is the largest sales volume location of lottery tickets in California.
For many years, Nipton had the highest sales of tickets for the California State Lottery. Because a store on the California side of Primm, Nevada began selling lottery tickets, Nipton lost top ranking, as Primm was easier and quicker to get to for Las Vegas-area residents and tourists. It has a population of 60 people. Nipton was originally founded on February 9, 1905, with the coming of the first train on the newly constructed San Pedro, Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad.
Behind the scenes Edit. 1  The real Nipton is an unincorporated town in California, and is located just west of the California/Nevada state line (a sign showing the border can be found in-game). Nipton is a small town of the southern Mojave Wasteland ravaged by Caesar's Legion in 2281.
From the outside it looks similar to a normal Nipton residence, but as the door name suggests, it is a hotel. It is speculated that the Nipton Hotel is an office building, as the interior is small with multiple seats, filing cabinets, and a reception desk with a cash register. 
This is a shift from its traditional role in mining, ranching and railroading. TWENTIETH CENTURY CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF NIPTON, CA 1900 Gold is discovered in the Crescent District-New York Mountains near Crescent Peak, Nevada about 5 miles east of a small community at a wagon crossroads in Ivanpah Valley. The apex claim, given the name Nippeno, is staked on Jan 1, 1900.(Nippeno Patent-U.S. 1991 East Mojave Subdivision completed involving the clearing of title and elimination of railroad station grounds parcel on San Bernardino County records. 1990-91 Nipton Trading Post is the largest sales volume location of lottery tickets in California.
1 The real Nipton is an unincorporated town in California, and is located just west of the California/Nevada state line (a sign showing the border can be found in-game). 2  The Legion Lottery may also be a reference to the fact that Nipton has the highest lottery ticket sales in the California state lottery. Background [edit | edit source]. A town in San Bernardino County, California, Nipton was originally founded in 1900, as a place for gold miners to reside. It remained a small town until the Great War
Nipton is an unincorporated community in San Bernardino County, California, on the northern edge of Mojave National Preserve, west of Searchlight, Nevada and accessible via Nevada State Route 164. It has a population of 60 people. Nipton was originally founded on February 9, 1905, with the coming of the first train on the newly constructed San Pedro, Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad.
1 The real Nipton is an unincorporated town in California, and is located just west of the California/Nevada state line (a sign showing the border can be found in-game). Nipton is a small town of the southern Mojave Wasteland ravaged by Caesar's Legion in 2281.
Hotel Nipton and Nippeno Camp & Conference Center now welcomes a worldly set of travelers, individuals and groups, to the open vistas and relaxed atmosphere of the Mojave Desert Experience. 