St Mary's Church & Katherine Parr memorial | Photo gallery | Estate map | Past owners. Sudeley Castle, near Winchcombe, is steeped in tradition and royal connections. The home of Lord and Lady Ashcombe, the manor of Sudeley once belonged to King Ethelred the Unready. But Ethelred was only the first of a long series of monarchs and other royalty to visit Sudeley. Here Queen Katherine Parr lived and died. Richard later traded Sudeley back to the king in exchange for Richmond Castle. The castle was later owned by Jasper Tudor before reverting to the crown. Henry VIII seems to have neglected Sudeley, though he did visit here in 1532 with Anne Boleyn.
Sudeley is also one of the few castles left in England that is still a residence. As a result, the castle is only open to visitors on specific dates, and private family quarters are closed to the public. It is a Grade I listed building (first listed in 1960), and recognised as an internationally important structure. When King Henry died, the castle became the property of his son, Edward VI of England, who gave it to his uncle, Thomas Seymour who he made Baron of Sudeley. In early Spring 1547, Thomas married Edward's stepmother, the Dowager Queen Catherine Parr.
History Timeline. Set against the backdrop of the beautiful Cotswold Hills, Sudeley Castle & Gardens is steeped in history. With royal connections spanning a thousand years, it has played an important role in the turbulent and changing times of England’s past. The castle was once home to Queen Katherine Parr, the last and surviving wife of King Henry VIII. Henry himself, Anne Boleyn, Lady Jane Grey, Queen Elizabeth I and Richard III have all played a part in Sudeley’s 
Contact information. More pictures of Sudeley Castle. The stone castle at Sudeley was mainly built in 1441 by Ralph Boteler, who had the castle confiscated by Edward IV. The King gave it to his brother, who later became Richard III. Henry visited the castle in 1535 with his second queen, Anne Boleyn, but the castle had been unattended for sometime at that point. One contemporary historian said of Sudeley, [it's] going to ruine, more's the pittie. When Henry VIII died in 1547, his son, Edward VI gave it to Thomas Seymour, the boy-king's uncle.
Sudeley Castle & Gardens is a castle located in the Cotswolds near Winchcombe, Gloucestershire, England. The present structure was built in the 15th century and may have been on the site of a 12th-century castle. The castle has a notable garden, which is designed and maintained to a very high standard. When King Henry died, the castle became the property of his son, Edward VI of England, who gave it to his uncle, Thomas Seymour who he made Baron of Sudeley. In early Spring 1547, Thomas married Edward's stepmother, the Dowager Queen Catherine Parr.
Sudeley Castle & Gardens is also the only private castle in England to have a queen buried within its grounds – Katherine Parr, the last of Henry VIII’s six wives. Today our visitors can explore the beautiful 15th Century church where she lies entombed. *IMPORTANT INFORMATION*. Today it is a much loved family home and popular visitor attraction. Inside, the castle contains many fascinating treasures from ancient Roman times to the present day. Outside, the castle is surrounded by award-winning gardens and a breathtaking 1,200 acre estate – all in the heart of the Cotswolds.
Winchcombe, Gloucestershire. In 1441 Ralph Boteler, having been created Baron Sudeley and Lord Chamberlain of the King’s Household, set about building a castle that would reflect his newfound status. Sudeley Castle then passed into the hands of the Marquess of Northumberland and it was he who persuaded the dying Edward V1 to name Lady Jane Grey as his successor, in order that a Protestant throne might be maintained. But the plot failed, Lady Jane Grey was executed, and Northampton’s lands were confiscated.
Sudeley Castle & Gardens. Set against the dramatic backdrop of the Cotswolds, in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, Sudeley Castle & Gardens is just eight miles from Broadway & Cheltenham. It has played an important role in the turbulent and changing times of England’s past, with royal connections that stretch back over 1000 years. Today it is a much loved family home and popular visitor attraction. Inside, the castle contains many fascinating treasures from ancient Roman times to the present day. Outside, the castle is surrounded by award-winning gardens and a breathtaking 1,200 acre estate – all in the heart of the Cotswolds.
Sudeley Castle, Nr. In 1441 Ralph Boteler, having been created Baron Sudeley and Lord Chamberlain of the King’s Household, set about building a castle that would reflect his newfound status. Sudeley Castle then passed into the hands of the Marquess of Northumberland and it was he who persuaded the dying Edward V1 to name Lady Jane Grey as his successor, in order that a Protestant throne might be maintained. But the plot failed, Lady Jane Grey was executed, and Northampton’s lands were confiscated.
The chapel, St. Mary's Sudeley, is the burial place of Queen Catherine Parr (1512–1548), the sixth wife of King Henry VIII, and contains her marble tomb. Unusually for a castle chapel, St Mary's of Sudeley is part of the local parish of the Church of England. When King Henry died, the castle became the property of his son, Edward VI of England, who gave it to his uncle, Thomas Seymour who he made Baron of Sudeley. In early Spring 1547, Thomas married Edward's stepmother, the Dowager Queen Catherine Parr.