Vitamin K2 Protects Your Heart Vitamin K2 helps to prevent hardening of the arteries, which is a common factor in coronary artery disease and heart failure. Research suggests vitamin K2 may help to keep calcium out of your artery linings and other body tissues, where it can causedamage. 
Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. It helps the body make collagen, an important protein used to make skin, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, and blood vessels. Vitamin C is needed for healing wounds, and for repairing and maintaining bones and teeth
If you already have heart disease, vitamin E might reduce your risk of a future heart attack. Vitamin C helps vitamin E work better in your body. It also improves the way your arteries work. Several things can lower your risk of heart disease: Exercise regularly. Don't smoke or chew tobacco. Eat a diet low in fats and salt. Eat lots of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Certain vitamins might lower your risk of
To lower your risk of heart disease, you need to take much more vitamin E and vitamin C than you can get from food. Your doctor may want you to take extra vitamin E and vitamin C if you have had any of the following problems: A heart attack. Angioplasty (balloon surgery). Bypass surgery (repair of blocked arteries around the heart). A stroke caused by a blood clot, carotid artery disease or surgery. Blocked arteries in your legs. Several things can lower your risk of heart disease: Exercise regularly. Don't smoke or chew tobacco. Eat a diet low in fats and salt. Eat lots of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Certain vitamins might lower your risk of
Vitamin C can help maintain the elasticity of arteries and veins. The vascular system consists of arteries, veins and other blood vessels that deliver oxygen and nutrient-rich blood to every cell in your body. The arteries and veins can become damaged over time, hindering blood flow and increasing the risk of chronic disease. Certain nutrients can help to keep the arteries and veins strong and elastic for lasting overall health. Fiber is essential for balanced nutrition and normal digestive function; it also reduces the risk of other disorders such as high cholesterol, which can affect the vascular system.
Vitamin C. Vitamin C is a nutrient that is needed to manufacture the elastic fibers collagen and elastin, which keep the walls of the veins and arteries flexible and strong. This helps the vascular walls resist pressure and contract after dilating due to blood flow. It also keeps the valves of the veins from leaking. Certain nutrients can help to keep the arteries and veins strong and elastic for lasting overall health. Fiber is essential for balanced nutrition and normal digestive function; it also reduces the risk of other disorders such as high cholesterol, which can affect the vascular system.
Multivitamins contain a good balance of vitamins, but they hardly ever have the amount of vitamin E and vitamin C that you may need for a healthy heart. You could take a daily multivitamin along with extra vitamin C and vitamin E. Be sure to ask your doctor about this before you take any multivitamin. Several things can lower your risk of heart disease: Exercise regularly. Don't smoke or chew tobacco. Eat a diet low in fats and salt. Eat lots of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Certain vitamins might lower your risk of heart attack.
Other studies suggest there is an increased risk for both men and women. It's thought that the calcium in supplements could make its way into fatty plaques in your arteries — a condition called atherosclerosis — causing those plaques to harden and increase your risk of heart disease. 
Vitamin E is a good supplement to take. It is more potent when taken with food. Vitamin C helps to neutralize toxic chemicals, called free radical, that cause hardening of the arteries. Folate and other B vitamins provide excellent protection for this. Dark leafy greens, legumes, seeds, and whole grain breads and cereals. Vitamin B12 is in fish, dairy foods, and eggs, and vitamin B6 is in greens, legumes, seafood, whole grains, and various fruits and vegetables. The herbs that are good for combating clogged arteries are garlic, ginseng, ginger and ginkgo. Cutting down on the consumption of meat products will help tremendously in keeping your arteries clean and heart healthy. Take back your power and your health by improving your health naturally. Omega-3 fatty acids help clear clogged arteries, lubricate blood cells, and ease high blood pressure. Fish is the best source of Omega-3 fatty acids. Walnuts are another good source of Omega-3 fatty acids. There are three highly recommended supplements to help combat clogged arteries.