Keep in mind that a reticulated python is the longest snake ever measured alive at 33 feet or 10 meters in length. T he longest measured known extinct snake is the Titanaboa, which was 42 ft or about 13 meters in length. 
Growing up to 30 feet long, the reticulated python (Python reticulatus) of southeastern Asia and the East Indies is the longest snake in the world. These giants have an average weight of 250 pounds, but the largest known specimen in existence weighs in at a whopping 350 pounds. While there are several contenders for the title of world's largest snake, here are three of the biggest and longest snakes known to man: Weighing in at 550 pounds, the aptly named giant anaconda (Eunectes murinus) is the largest snake in the world considering its length-to-weight ratio.
The largest anaconda ever measured was almost 28 feet long with a girth of 44 inches. She wasn't weighed at the time she was caught, but scientists estimate that she must have weighed over 500 lbs. The other snake that competes with the anaconda is the Asiatic Reticulated Python (Python reticulatus). The python holds the world's record for length of a snake, with the longest ever measured at 33 feet. Even though the longest python is longer than the record-holding anaconda, the girth of the anaconda is far bigger. Anacondas in the jungles of South America can grow as big around as a grown man! If you look in the records there is a lot of controversy over which snake holds the world's record for massive size. The dimensions that have earned the anaconda the title of king is its total body mass or its weight (the sheer physical bulk of it).
Published. At 7.67 meters (25 feet 2 inches) long, Medusa, a Reticulated Python owned by Full Moon Productions in Kansas City, Missouri, USA is the longest snake ever in captivity. 
Local government official Rachmat said the reticulated python measured 48 feet 8 inches and weighed in at 983 pounds. The Guinness Book of World Records lists the longest ever captured snake to be 32 feet. The heaviest — a Burmese Python kept in Gurnee, Ill. — weighs 402 pounds, the book said on its Web site. JAKARTA, Indonesia — Indonesian villagers claim to have captured a python that is almost 49 feet long and weighs nearly 990 pounds, a local official said. If confirmed, it would be the largest snake ever kept in captivity.
Professional Bass fisherman, Former Big cat handler at zoos, Musician. The Largest snake ever recorded is a 49-foot, 900 pound reticulated python that is currently in captivity in Java, Indonesia. This, along with most records of outsized snakes, is a complete hoax. Although this specimen is large, it is closer to 24 feet. That depends on how you define largest. The longest snake ever caught was a reticulated python measured at 32 feet. The heaviest snake ever caught was a green anaconda measu … ring 25 fee long and weighting 550 pounds. Anacondas are not quite as long a reticulated pythons, but they are thicker
When. The longest snake-ever (captivity) is Medusa, a reticulated python (python reticulatus), and is owned by Full Moon Productions Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri, USA. When measured on 12 October 2011, she was found to be 7.67 m (25 ft 2 in) long. Medusa also holds the current 'Longest Snake-Living (captivity)' title. It’s the longest snake ever in captivity. Medusa, a reticulated python, clocked in at 7.67 meters (25 feet, 2 inches) long in its official world record measurement, on October 12, 2011.