Ohio University is a major U.S. public research university located primarily on a 1,850-acre (7.5 km 2) campus in Athens, Ohio, United States. As one of America's oldest universities, Ohio University was chartered on February 18, 1804, and opened for students in 1809. Ohio's Division I sports teams are called the Bobcats and compete in the Mid-American Conference in all sports. Ohio football has participated in 6 Division-1 Bowl Games within the past decade. Its men's basketball team has played in 13 NCAA basketball championships.
Columbus 2020 is the economic development organization representing the 11-county Columbus Region, an area ranked as a top location for business. Columbus 2020 works in collaboration with state and local partners to offer comprehensive services to companies evaluating the Columbus area. 
Ohio's population growth lags that of the entire United States, and Caucasians are found in a greater density than the United States average. As of 2000, Ohio's center of population is located in Morrow County, in the county seat of Mount Gilead. The state takes its name from the Ohio River. The name originated from the Iroquois word ohi-yo’ , meaning great river or large creek. The state, originally partitioned from the Northwest Territory, was admitted to the Union as the 17th state (and the first under the Northwest Ordinance) on March 1, 1803.
Where is Ohio. Ohio is a state located in the Midwestern United States, bordered by Pennsylvania, Michigan, Indiana, Kentucky, West Virginia, and the Canadian province of Ontario. The capital of Ohio is Columbus. Print. The State of Ohio is located in between 40.5 N, 82.5 W coordinates. It is surrounded by Ontario and Michigan on its northern border, by West Virginia and Pennsylvania on the east, by Kentucky and West Virginia to the south and by Indiana to the west.
In the Northwest region(Back then, they grouped them into regions, and Ohio was on the west part of the U.S.) It is in the Midwest part now. 1 Most of these species are birds and mammals, and are integral parts of the Ohio ecosystem. 2  To be classified as an endangered spec…. 3  Europe on a Budget: 21 Free Walking Tours in Europe Walking tours can be a great way to get to know a new city.
﻿ About Us. FEMA Region V serves the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin, as well as the 34 federally recognized tribes located in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. 
Ohio /oʊˈhaɪ.oʊ/ is a state in the Midwestern United States. Ohio is the 34th largest (by area) , the 7th most populous, and the 10th most densely populated of the 50 United States. The state's capital and largest city is Columbus. The state takes its name from the Ohio River. The name originated from the Iroquois word ohi-yo’ , meaning great river or large creek. The state, originally partitioned from the Northwest Territory, was admitted to the Union as the 17th state (and the first under the Northwest Ordinance) on March 1, 1803.
Situated in the middle of Ohio, the Columbus Region has a rich and varied climate. Exposed equally to air from Canada and the tropics, Columbus enjoys seasonal variability with cold winters and warm, humid summers. 1 The Columbus Region is located outside major U.S. earthquake, hurricane, volcano and tsunami zones. 2  Any severe weather typically includes occasional tornadoes, hail, high winds and winter storms.