Best Answer: sericulture Sericulture is the rearing of silkworms for the production of raw silk. Although there are several commercial species of silkworms, Bombyx mori is the most widely used and intensively studied. According to Chinese records, the discovery of silk production from B. mori occurred about 2700 BC. Sericulture: The practice of rearing Silkworms Silk is called Sericulture. Pisciculture: The practice of rearing Fishes is called Pisciculture. Apiculture: The practice of rearing Honey-bees is called Apiculture.
Sericulture is an agro-based industry. It involves rearing of silkworms for the production of raw silk, which is the yarn obtained out of cocoons spun by certain species of insects. Sericulture: The practice of rearing Silkworms Silk is called Sericulture. Pisciculture: The practice of rearing Fishes is called Pisciculture. Apiculture: The practice of rearing Honey-bees is called Apiculture.
Sericulture is an agro-based industry. It involves rearing of silkworms for the production of raw silk, which is the yarn obtained out of cocoons spun by certain species of insects. 
Sericulture, or silk farming, is the rearing of silkworms for the production of silk. Although there are several commercial species of silkworms, Bombyx mori is the most widely used and intensively studied silkworm. Silk was first produced in China as early as the Neolithic period. Sericulture has become an important cottage industries in countries such as Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Russia. Today, China and India are the two main producers, with more than 60% of the world's annual production
Traditionally sericulture has been a secondary occupation among farm households in Thailand as their major focus is rice cultivation. For many years farmers produced silk yarn for weaving into silk fabrics for their own use or for sale in the local market. 
2. sericulture-the production of raw silk by raising silkworms. production - (economics) manufacturing or mining or growing something (usually in large quantities) for sale; he introduced more efficient methods of production. Noun. 1. sericulture-raising silkworms in order to obtain raw silk. natural action, natural process, action, activity-a process existing in or produced by nature (rather than by the intent of human beings); the action of natural forces; volcanic activity.
Sericulture is an agro-based industry. It involves rearing of silkworms for the production of raw silk, which is the yarn obtained out of cocoons spun by certain species of insects. The major activities of sericulture comprises of food-plant cultivation to feed the silkworms which spin silk cocoons and reeling the cocoons for unwinding the silk filament for value added benefits such as processing and weaving.
Soc. Am. (35:83-84). Sericulture, or silk production, from the moth, Bombyx mori (L.), has a long and colorful history unknown to most people. Although there are several commercial species of silkworms, B. mori is the most widely used and intensively studied, and techniques for its rearing are the most improved. 
The noun SERICULTURE has 2 senses: 1. raising silkworms in order to obtain raw silk. 2. the production of raw silk by raising silkworms. Familiarity information: SERICULTURE used as a noun is rare. 