Iago is one of Shakespeare's most sinister villains, often considered such because of the unique trust that Othello places in him, which he betrays while maintaining his reputation of honesty and dedication. Shakespeare contrasts Iago with Othello's nobility and integrity. Iago is a Machiavellian schemer and manipulator, as he is often referred to as honest Iago, displaying his skill at deceiving other characters so that not only do they not suspect him, but they count on him as the person most likely to be truthful.
Iago is a fictional character in Shakespeare's Othello. The play's main antagonist, Iago is the 'Ancient' of General Othello as well as being husband of Emilia, who is in turn the attendant of Othello's wife Desdemona. Iago hates Othello and devises a plan to destroy him by making him believe that his wife is having an affair with his lieutenant, Michael Cassio. The role is thought to have been first played by Robert Armin, who typically played intelligent clown roles like Touchstone in As You Like It or Feste in Twelfth Night.
Iago /ia-go/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Spanish, Welsh and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Iago is he who supplants . Variant of James. (2000 U.S. Census). Jacob (#4 a year ago) , James (#9) , Santiago (#115) , Diego (#129) , Jameson (#159) , Jamison (#440) , Jaime (#468) , Jimmy (#523) , Jamie (#786) , Seamus (#900) , Jimmie, Jim, Jamey, Hamish, Jacques, Jame and Jayme are the prominent alternative forms of Iago (unlisted) .
What does Iago's last speech in the scene reveal about his attitude toward Othello? 2.3 How does Iago dishonor Cassio in this scene and what does he advise Cassio to do in order to be reinstated? 3.3 As Cassio pleads his case to Desdemona, Othello and Iago approach: Why does Iago comment: Ha, I like not that? What does Othello mean when he says: My parts, my title, and my perfect soul/ Shall manifest me rightly.. According to Brabantio, how has Othello seduced his daughter? 1.3 In response to Brabantio's accusation that Othello has bewitched his daughter, Othello explains how she originally fell in love with him.
you, as sure as your name’s Roderigo, if I were the Moor I wouldn’t want to be Iago. I may seem to love and obey him, but in fact, I’m just serving him to get what I want. 
Roderigo is frantically in love with Othello's wife Desdemona, a situation Iago skillfully exploits: he takes Roderigo's gifts, insisting that he's delivering them to Desdemona, while keeping them himself. 
Othello Navigator HomeMajor Character Index Iago's Honesty[Annotated list of passages related to Iago's reputation for honesty: loyalty and truthfulness.] When Iago explains to Roderigo that he hates Othello, Roderigo wonders why Iago is still working for Othello. A little later, after Iago gives an account of the fight, Othello comments, I know, Iago, / Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, / Making it light to Cassio (2.3.246-248). He means that Iago is so loyal to his friend Cassio that he has shaded the story to make Cassio appear in a better light.
Othello begins on a street in Venice, in the midst of an argument between Roderigo and Iago. The rich Roderigo has been paying Iago to help him in his suit to Desdemona, but he has seen no progress, and he has just learned that Desdemona has married Othello, a general whom Iago serves as ensign. Iago reassures Roderigo that he hates Othell
Othello appoints Iago to be that officer, because A man he is of honesty and trust (1.3.284). A little later, Othello entrusts Iago with the responsibility of escorting Desdemona to Cyprus, and asks him to have Iago's wife be her companion. A little later, after Iago gives an account of the fight, Othello comments, I know, Iago, / Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, / Making it light to Cassio (2.3.246-248). He means that Iago is so loyal to his friend Cassio that he has shaded the story to make Cassio appear in a better light.
Iago is an English, Spanish, Welsh, and Italian name of Hebrew origin. Iago is a derivative (English, Spanish, and Welsh) of the Dutch, English, German, and Scandinavian name Jacob. Iago is also a derivative (Italian, Spanish, and Welsh) of the English and Hebrew name James. See also the related form, the Spanish and English Santiago. Iago is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. 