This is a list of large cities closest to Plainfield, IN. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Plainfield, IN. 1  14 miles to Indianapolis, IN. 2  106 miles to Louisville, KY. Fishers, IN. Westfield, IN. The center of each city listed is within 28 miles of Plainfield, IN. Scroll down the page to find a list of big cities if you're booking a flight between airports, or a list of smaller surrounding towns if you're doing a road trip.
Distance from Indianapolis International Airport to Plainfield is 9,1 kilometers (5,7 miles). Indianapolis International Airport is located approximately 9,1 kilometers (5,7 miles) east of Plainfield and about 13,0 kilometers (8,1 miles) southwest of Indianapolis. Indianapolis International Airport IATA code is IND. Indianapolis International Airport. Indianapolis International Airport is located approximately 9,1 kilometers (5,7 miles) east of Plainfield and about 13,0 kilometers (8,1 miles) southwest of Indianapolis.
Nearest airports. Travelmath helps you find the closest airport to any city, as well as a list of smaller local airports. You can use these pages to plan your trip and figure out the easiest way to get to your destination. If you're booking an international flight, you probably want the closest major airport, otherwise if you're a pilot you may be looking for a local airport. Use this tool along with the flight distance pages to plan your travel.
Local towns near Plainfield, IN. This is a list of smaller local towns that surround Plainfield, IN. If you're planning a road trip or exploring the local area, make sure you check out some of these places to get a feel for the surrounding community. 1  Cartersburg, IN. 2  Six Points, IN. 3  Magnetic Springs, IN. 4  Avon, IN. 5  Big Four Yard, IN. 6  Bridgeport, IN. Fishers, IN. Westfield, IN. The center of each city listed is within 28 miles of Plainfield, IN. Scroll down the page to find a list of big cities if you're booking a flight between airports, or a list of smaller surrounding towns if you're doing a road trip.
The closest major airport to Plainfield, Indiana is Indianapolis International Airport (IND / KIND). This airport is in Indianapolis, Indiana and is 7 miles from the center of Plainfield, IN. If you're looking for international or domestic flights to IND, check the airlines that fly to IND. If you're booking an international flight, you probably want the closest major airport, otherwise if you're a pilot you may be looking for a local airport. Use this tool along with the flight distance pages to plan your travel.
$129. See All Rates. Cambria hotel & suites Indianapolis Airport hotel in Plainfield, IN near the Indianapolis Airport. The Cambria® hotel & suites Indianapolis Airport hotel in Plainfield is conveniently located off of Interstate 70 and is less than 10 minutes from the Indianapolis International Airport. 
This is a list of airports in Indiana (a U.S. state), grouped by type and sorted by location. It contains all public-use and military airports in the state. 1 It is not meant to be a complete list of cities served, which can be found in or added to each airport's Wikipedia article. 2  FAA – The location identifier assigned by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). 3  These are linked to each airport's page at the Indiana Department of Transportation with aerial photographs.
1 The Crowne Plaza Hotel Indianapolis Airport is an upscale option for all types of travelers. 2  Its excellent location is idealistic as it's close to many of Indiana's attractions. 3  Some of those attractions include the Indianapolis Zoo, The Children's Museum, and The Indiana Convention Center. The Days Inn Plainfield might be the airport hotel for you. For something more upscale, go with the JW Marriott Indianapolis. Anything you want in Indianapolis Airport hotels, you can find with us.