This report describes the typical weather at the Vancouver International Airport (Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada) weather station over the course of an average May. It is based on the historical records from 1977 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. From the start to the end of the month, the length of the day increases by 1:18 hours, implying an average day-over-day increase of 2.5 minutes. The shortest day of the month is May 1 with 14:39 hours of daylight; the longest day is May 31 with 15:56 hours of daylight.
May Weather in Vancouver. 1  Average maximum daytime temp: 17ºC / 64ºF. 2  The BC coast’s climate is the most moderate in Canada, but there is rain -- lots of it. 1 Warmer weather means visitors can enjoy more of Vancouver great outdoor offerings. 2  May in Vancouver is less rainy than average. 3  Springtime means the full throng of summer visitors has not yet arrived. 4  Spring ski season runs to the end of May at Whistler and other BC ski destinations.
Vancouver in the Summer. In June, July and August, Vancouver warms up considerably. The weather during the summer months is usually warm and pleasant, with daytime average temperatures around 20°C. July and August are the driest months of the year, but you'll still see rain on around 6 days each month. Vancouver in the Spring. Spring comes early in Vancouver, and it's not uncommon to see blossom in February. March, April and May are the true spring months, with temperatures of between 11 and 17°C during the daytime, and high single figures at night. It can still be chilly, however, and windy.
Vancouver: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Vancouver with an average temperature of 18°C (64°F) and the coldest is January at 4°C (38°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in July. The wettest month is November with an average of 200mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 14°C (57°F).
Vancouver, British Columbia has a mediterranean climate with dry warm summers and mild winters. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (57%), forests (34%), and built-up areas (8%). From the start to the end of the month, the length of the day increases by 1:18 hours, implying an average day-over-day increase of 2.5 minutes. The shortest day of the month is May 1 with 14:39 hours of daylight; the longest day is May 31 with 15:56 hours of daylight.
The average temperature for May in Vancouver is 12 degrees C. 1  Hottest Temps: The average daytime high is 16 C. 2  Coolest Temps: The average nighttime low for the month of May is 8 C. 62 mm. On average, there are about 12 rain days in Vancouver for the month of May (but for most of those, the amount is only about 3 or 4 mm). Precipitation is usually in the form of rain, although it can still snow in the higher elevations of North & West Vancouver in May.
Weather in Vancouver, WA. Vancouver, Washington, offers a year-round mild climate. The summer temperatures average in the upper 70’s and the winter temperatures rarely dip below freezing. The Vancouver area averages 39.2 inches of rain annually, which is about the national average. 
Days of Hot Weather in Vancouver. Vancouver's hottest days usually have temperatures in the high-twenties Celsius. Just once every three years on average does the thermometer nudge above 30 degrees Celsius (86 °F). Temperatures above 35 °C (95 °F) are not expected here. Vancouver typically has 41 days a year when the minimum temperature is at 0 °C or below. The average date for the last frost in spring is March 18. Frost normally returns here on November 10. The frost-free period extends for 237 days on average between the final spring frost and the first fall frost.
Rain Statistics for May weather in Vancouver. The month of May average rainfall in Vancouver is. 62 mm. On average, there are about 12 rain days in Vancouver for the month of May (but for most of those, the amount is only about 3 or 4 mm). Precipitation is usually in the form of rain, although it can still snow in the higher elevations of North & West Vancouver in May.
May Weather in Vancouver Island Vancouver Island temperatures in May are similar to that of Vancouver and the Lower Mainland. The average high temperature for Victoria, BC is 16 C (61 F) and the low is 8 C (46 F), for an average May temperature of 12 C (54 F). 62 mm. On average, there are about 12 rain days in Vancouver for the month of May (but for most of those, the amount is only about 3 or 4 mm). Precipitation is usually in the form of rain, although it can still snow in the higher elevations of North & West Vancouver in May.