HD DTH Wiki, difference between HD and normal DTH TV. HD DTH TV is the short form for ‘High Definition Direct to Home TV’. Most of the DTH HD service providers in India only have a few HD channels in their package. The bulk of the channels in a DTH connection in India will be in ordinary SD TV(Standard Definition TV). You must have an HD or an HD ready TV to watch HD channels in its true magnificence. HD TV is wide screen TV.
Airtel digital TV customers can now watch all channels in HD like quality. Airtel digital TV has enabled all its High Definition (HD) and HD Recorder Set Top Boxes (STBs) to upscale its complete array of Standard Definition (SD) channels to HD like quality (resolution -1080) with a 16:9 wide aspect ratio.
If you have 40inch TV you need to go for HD DTH to get the best picture clarity. Also keep in mind that most of teh channels are in SD. SD chanels quality is good in TataSky/Airtel.
1. Dish TV Standard-Definition Basic Cost-Rs 1299*. This is the set top box with the bare minimal. It only supports SD (Standard Definition) channels and also 5.1 channel stereo sound to which you can hook your Home theatre system.
1 **HD Channels corresponding to the Standard Definition (‘SD’) channels subscribed to as a part of Base pack and Add on pack can be viewed upon payment of the HD Access Fee.
The best DTH for HD channels in India can be any one of the DTH service providers in India, Airtel DTH or Tata Sky DTH or Videocon DTH, since they all transmit almost the same HD channels like Movies Now HD, or Star HD, Sony HD, etc. Some DTH companies claim to have more HD Channels and show 4:3 TV pictures. Dish TV claims to have 43  Dish truHD  HD DTH Channels. TruHD or Real HD or Asli HD as it is known in India now, should be in the 16:9 format with 1920x1080 pixels resolution.
digital TV [HD] recorder is a new service from airtel which lets you watch and record HD channels. airtel digital TV [HD] recorder has 5 times more picture clarity with the highest possible picture resolution of 1920x1080 and wide Aspect Ratio of 16:9.