As a lightweight and durable metal, it is widely used in aircraft and other vehicles. It is also a component of space vehicles, especially as part of coverings that reflect sunlight. In building construction, aluminum is used for exteriors, siding, and window frames. The ancient Greeks used alumina as a medicine, and alum (potassium aluminum sulfate) still has some use as an astrigent, along with aluminum sulfate. Aluminum hydroxide is an antacid. Aluminum phosphate is used in some cosmetics as an anti-perspirant.
Aluminium (or aluminum; see different endings) is a chemical element in the boron group with symbol Al and atomic number 13. It is a silvery-white, soft, nonmagnetic, ductile metal. Aluminium is the third most abundant element (after oxygen and silicon) in the Earth 's crust, and the most abundant metal there. 1 Aluminium is used to make food containers, because of its resistance to corrosion. 2  Aluminium with magnesium [alloy] is used to make body of aircraft. 3  Aluminium with other metals, used to make railway tracks. 4  Aluminium is used to make cooking utensils, because it is resistant to corrosion, and light-weight.
Aluminium alloys (or aluminum alloys; see spelling differences) are alloys in which aluminium (Al) is the predominant metal. The typical alloying elements are copper, magnesium, manganese, silicon, tin and zinc. 
Aluminum is necessary in construction. The metal is used in practically all elements: skylights, building bridges, shutters, ladders and railings. The element is present in rods, doors, stampings, wiring, bars, tubing, sheets, pipes, casting and scraps. Aluminum is applied in a wide array of industrial applications. Aluminum can be painted and joined with other materials. This can be used to change the looks of edifices. Carpenters and builders prefer aluminum because it is versatile. It can be cut, bonded, welded, tapered and curved in various shapes.
The uses of aluminum are varied and diverse. Today it is used in commerce, transportation and other industries. Some of its applications are well known, while others are not so obvious. Apart from consumer products, the metallic element is also used in glass creation. Aluminum can be painted and joined with other materials. This can be used to change the looks of edifices. Carpenters and builders prefer aluminum because it is versatile. It can be cut, bonded, welded, tapered and curved in various shapes.
It is often used as an alloy because aluminium itself is not particularly strong. Alloys with copper, manganese, magnesium and silicon are lightweight but strong. They are very important in the construction of aeroplanes and other forms of transport. Most commercially produced aluminium is extracted by the Hall–Heroult héroult. Process in this process aluminium oxide is dissolved in molten cryolite and then electrolytically reduced to pure. Aluminium making aluminium is very energy. intensive5 % of the electricity generated in THE usa is used in aluminium. production
Aluminum is pronounced as ah-LOO-men-em. History and Uses: Although aluminum is the most abundant metal in the earth's crust, it is never found free in nature. All of the earth's aluminum has combined with other elements to form compounds. Two of the most common compounds are alum, such as potassium aluminum sulfate (KAl(SO 4) 2 ·12H 2 O), and aluminum oxide (Al 2 O 3). About 8.2% of the earth's crust is composed of aluminum. Scientists suspected than an unknown metal existed in alum as early as 1787, but they did not have a way to extract it until 1825.
Aluminium is usually alloyed – it is used as pure metal only when corrosion resistance and/or workability is more important than strength or hardness. Aluminium-based alloys abruptly increase their strength characteristics with small additions of scandium, as well as zirconium and hafnium. 1 Aluminium is used to make food containers, because of its resistance to corrosion. 2  Aluminium with magnesium [alloy] is used to make body of aircraft. 3  Aluminium with other metals, used to make railway tracks. 4  Aluminium is used to make cooking utensils, because it is resistant to corrosion, and light-weight.
Confidence votes 23.9K. Aluminum is used as a basic metal or as an alloy for utensils, engineering, electrical equipment, cooking foil, and canning; where lightness, cheapness, tensile strength or conductivity are factors in design. Aluminum (aluminium) is used in a variety of industrial, structural, and consumer applications. The ancient Greeks used alumina as a medicine, and alum (potassium aluminum sulfate) still has some use as an astrigent, along with aluminum sulfate. Aluminum hydroxide is an antacid. Aluminum phosphate is used in some cosmetics as an anti-perspirant.
Buildings made with aluminum are virtually maintenance free due to the strength of aluminum's corrosion resistance. Due to this and its light weight it is used in cladding, windows, skylights, gutters, door frames, and roofing. Weight is also important in aluminum's electrical uses, where it's low density 2 makes it the first choice for long distance powerlines despite having just 63% of the electrical conductivity of (much denser) copper. In fact 1 kg of aluminum conducts almost twice as much electricity as 1 Kg of copper.