, rtgs: Wichianmat, meaning moon diamond) is one of the first distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat. One of several breeds native to Thailand (formerly known as Siam), the Siamese cat became one of the most popular breeds in Europe and North America in the 20th century. The pointed cat known in the West as Siamese, recognized for its distinctive markings, is one of several breeds of cats from Siam described and illustrated in manuscripts called Tamra Maew (Cat Poems), estimated to have been written from the 14th to the 18th century.
Si·a·mese. adj. 1. Of or relating to Siam; Thai. 2. siamese Of or being a Y-shaped dual connection between two pipes or hoses and a larger pipe or hose. n. pl. Siamese. 1. A native or inhabitant of Siam; a Thai. 2. Si•a•mese. 1. of or pertaining to Siam or its inhabitants. 2. twin; closely connected; similar. 3. twofold or two-way: a Siamese sprinkler. 4. a native or inhabitant of Siam. 5.
Full Definition of SIAMESE CAT. : any of a breed of slender blue-eyed short-haired domestic cats of Asian origin with pale fawn or gray body and darker ears, paws, tail, and face and a long wedge-shaped head. See Siamese cat defined for English-language learners. See Siamese cat defined for kids. ADVERTISEMEN
Definition of SIAMESE. 1. : of, relating to, or characteristic of Thailand, the Thais, or their language. 2. : exhibiting great resemblance: very like. 3. not capitalized: connecting two or more pipes or hoses so as to permit discharge in a single stream. See Siamese defined for kids
Siamese twins (also irreversible binomials, binomials, binomial pairs, freezes) in the context of the English language is a pair or grouping of words used together as an idiomatic expression or collocation, usually conjoined by the words and or or. The order of elements cannot be reversed. The term Siamese twins originates with Chang and Eng Bunker, the conjoined twins from Siam. In the context of the English language, this word was first used and popularised by H. W. Fowler, a renowned lexicographer.
The Siamese cat (Thai: วิเชียรมาศ, [wi.wí.tɕʰīan]. , maːt: Mâːt, rtgs wichianmat meaning) moon diamond is one of the first distinctly recognized Breeds of. oriental cat The pointed cat known in the West as Siamese, recognized for its distinctive markings, is one of several breeds of cats from Siam described and illustrated in manuscripts called Tamra Maew (Cat Poems), estimated to have been written from the 14th to the 18th century.
The modern Siamese is characterized by blue almond-shaped eyes, a triangular head shape, large ears, an elongated, slender, and muscular body, and point coloration. TICA describes the breed as social, intelligent, and playful into adulthood, often enjoying a game of fetch. The pointed cat known in the West as Siamese, recognized for its distinctive markings, is one of several breeds of cats from Siam described and illustrated in manuscripts called Tamra Maew (Cat Poems), estimated to have been written from the 14th to the 18th century.
Siamese-a native or inhabitant of Thailand. Tai, Thai. Kingdom of Thailand, Siam, Thailand-a country of southeastern Asia that extends southward along the Isthmus of Kra to the Malay Peninsula; Thailand is the official name of the former Siam. Si•a•mese. 1. of or pertaining to Siam or its inhabitants. 2. twin; closely connected; similar. 3. twofold or two-way: a Siamese sprinkler. 4. a native or inhabitant of Siam. 5.