The Galapagos penguin (Spheniscus mendiculus) is the most northerly of all penguins, occurring on the Galapagos Islands, on the equator.
Galapagos Penguin Distribution. The Galapagos Penguin is native to the Galapagos Islands. This is the only species of penguin that live North of the equator that isn’t in a captive setting.
The Galapagos penguin is endemic to the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. Approximately 95 percent of the population occurs on the western islands of Ferdinandina and Isabela, with the remaining 5 percent on Bartolome, Santiago and Floreana.
Galapagos Penguin – Spheniscus mendiculus. Classified as one of the smaller species of penguins, the Galapagos are quite interesting. They aren’t more than 5.5 pounds when fully grown or taller than 20 inches.
Galapagos Penguin Spheniscus mendiculus Breeding Range: Galapagos Islands Length: 49cm. World Population: less than 1,000 breeding pairs Galapagos Penguins have the smallest breeding range and population size of any penguin, with less than a thousand breeding pairs.
The Galapagos penguin is the smallest of its genus, with the other members weighing at least 4kg. The Magellanic penguins live in temperate climates along the coasts of southern South America. They migrate as far north as Brazil and Peru in the winter.
The Galapagos penguin is the third smallest species of penguin in the world and is the most distinctive as it lives further north than any other penguin species. The Galapagos penguin is thought to be most closely to the African penguin and the Humboldt penguin found along the coast of Peru and Chile.
The Galapagos penguin (Spheniscus mendiculus) is a penguin endemic to the Galapagos Islands. It is the only penguin that lives north of the equator in the wild. It can survive due to the cool temperatures resulting from the Humboldt Current and cool waters from great depths brought up by the Cromwell Current.
The Galapagos penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals.