Instructions. Interlocking laminate floating floors can be installed over clean and level ceramic, vinyl, concrete or plywood / OSB subflooring. Typically, laminate flooring cannot be installed in rooms with a floor drain. Make sure you follow all local building codes when installing flooring. When laying the flooring around obstructions, like floor vents, cabinets or columns, cut the flooring to fit with a jigsaw. To install the flooring around pipes, you may need to use a jigsaw and wood glue to make the planks fit properly. 1  Cut a notch in the flooring to fit around the pipe.
Install a Laminate Floor. Laminate floors have the same great look as hardwood floors. The following step-by-step instructions will show you how to install a floating (without adhesive, nails or staples) laminate floor. When laying the flooring around obstructions, like floor vents, cabinets or columns, cut the flooring to fit with a jigsaw. To install the flooring around pipes, you may need to use a jigsaw and wood glue to make the planks fit properly. 1  Cut a notch in the flooring to fit around the pipe.
It took us less than eight hours (not including acclimation time) and about $200 to remove old wall-to-wall carpeting and install new laminate floors. Laminate flooring is economical, very durable and easy to install. Because a floating floor is not attached to the subfloor, it is very important to make sure that the subfloor is perfectly level. Scrape up any remnant glue or paint with a metal putty knife. Then sweep clean the room being particularly diligent to find loose tack strip nails.
Remove Baseboard. You can completely replace the baseboards or leave existing baseboards and just install new shoe mold over the new flooring. Since this room had cheap and short builder's-grade baseboards, we elected to replace them. To remove baseboards, score the caulk joint between the wall and the trim with a utility knife. Because a floating floor is not attached to the subfloor, it is very important to make sure that the subfloor is perfectly level. Scrape up any remnant glue or paint with a metal putty knife. Then sweep clean the room being particularly diligent to find loose tack strip nails.
Some installers will remove doors in order to install the laminate flooring and then re-hang them — if possible. Check with your installer about their policy and cost. You may require a qualified carpenter to shave or cut your doors down after installation. The Clean Up. Depending on your installation method, installing laminate flooring may create a mess inside and possibly outside your home. Typically, waste materials are collected by your installer and disposed of for a fee. Confirm this prior to installation so that you understand the terms of the agreement
Three or four days before you install the flooring, you should bring it into the installation room, spread the unopened boxes around the room at least 3 feet from outside walls and heating and cooling vents. Laminate flooring isn't exactly wood, but it's made of a wood byproduct, and it undergoes expansion and contraction with fluctuating humidity. It therefore needs a period of acclimation in the installation space, or the boards may buckle.
For solid hardwood flooring, both unfinished and prefinished, acclimation is a must. The same thing for laminate flooring. Keep it in the house for at least 48 hours prior to installation. The negative effects of not acclimating your hardwood floors before installation can be either buckling or gaps between the boards. I know the feeling. You are excited, you’ve got your hardwood and want to see how it looks when installed as soon as possible. What the wood needs is acclimation, and it is the process of getting your new floors used to the conditions inside your house (temperature and humidity).
It can be installed in almost every room in your home, because it can be installed over wood or concrete subfloors. When shopping for laminate flooring, measure the room's length and width to calculate the amount of product needed. Remember to add 10 percent to the total to allow for any waste or missed cuts. Some laminate products come with an underlayment already attached. If the product you selected doesn't, roll out a layer of it separately as you go. The flooring doesn't have to be glued down. The floor floats on the underlayment and is held in place by the quarter-round moulding installed on the edges.
1 You can also use a reducer in reverse if you have the laminate as the low side and another type of flooring (ceramic tile, hardwood, etc.) that is the high side. 2  You'd simply reverse the reducer. 1 This is when you may wish to glue your laminate together. 2  To do this, simply put a bead of glue along the tongue, then click the flooring together as you would normally. 3  If you've used an adequate amount of glue, some will squeeze out when you do this. 4  Just wipe up the excess glue with a damp rag.