Some are specific, for example: How much range does a turkey cover? .... there are individual turkeys that have been known to live a long life in the wild. Male wild Turkeys grow to about four feet long, including the tail. If you own wild turkeys and do not wish for them to fly away, their wings need Domestic turkeys bred for food consumption were not bred to live over one year.
0. Turkeys are rather moderately-lived birds compared to long-lived species such as some hawks, gulls, and waterfowl. Overall, the mortality rate of turkeys during the first 2 weeks of life is about 70%, though longevity increases after this critical time period. The average turkey probably lives to about 11/2 years of age. Individuals may live longer, but any turkey over 6 years old is definitely an old-timer. Based on a banded bird, the oldest known eastern turkey (coincidentally from Massachusetts) was at least 15 years old at death. Rio Grande turkeys have lived to 14, Florida turkeys to 13, and Merriam's turkeys to 91/2 years of age.
If turkeys survive the first two weeks of its life, then it is expected to live 1-3 years. There have been trukeys that live 10 years or longer. Most domestic turkeys live 26 weeks (thanksgiving turkeys) :) Hope this helps. 
Turkey live an average of two to three years; however, upon reaching maturity their life expectancy increases substantially. Most mortality occurs in poults (young-of-the-year) and yearlings. A few birds have been known to live as long as 10 years. 
The maximum recorded lifespan for a turkey in captivity is twelve years and four months. For turkeys living in the wild, the maximum is less than ten years, but the average life expectancy of a male turkey is just over 2 years and just over 3 years for females. 
Wild turkeys are polygamous birds, which means they do not have the same mate for life. The male turkey will mate with many females within a season but it is unlikely that a female will mate with more than one male. On rare occasions if the first nest of eggs fails, the female will lay another. After the nest is laid, the male will go out to court other females. Turkeys are usually seen in family units. A mother turkey will sit on these eggs even if the weather is bad. It is the best protection these eggs have from predators such as snakes and birds of prey. After the incubation period, the poults hatch and are up and walking within 12 to 24 hours.
Wild turkeys are found in 49 of the 50 states (all except Alaska). They can be seen from southern Canada to southern Mexico. Many species have also been introduced into Europe and New Zealand. Turkeys are able to live in many different areas, including in the forests on the edge of suburban areas. 
HowStuffWorks  Turkey . The wild turkey has the potential to live as long as thirteen years or so, They can (and do) run fast with their long legs, and will take wing and fly. wild turkey. The maximum recorded lifespan for a turkey in captivity is twelve years and four months. Male wild Turkeys grow to about four feet long, including the tail. If you own wild turkeys and do not wish for them to fly away, their wings need Domestic turkeys bred for food consumption were not bred to live over one year.
The domesticated turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is a large poultry bird, one of the two species in the genus Meleagris and the same as the wild turkey. It was domesticated by the indigenous peoples of Mesoamerica at least 2,000 years ago, with the evidence pointing to what are today the central regions of Mexico. 
Turkey Cindy 2015-04-21T07:23:35+00:00. How long does turkey last? The shelf life of turkey depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how it was stored. Turkeys are by far the largest birds in the open forests in which they live. 