Code-mixing is similar to the use or creation of pidgins; but while a pidgin is created across groups that do not share a common language, code-mixing may occur within a multilingual setting where speakers share more than one language. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Code-mixing refers to the mixing of two or more languages or language varieties in speech. Some scholars use the terms code-mixing and  code-switching  interchangeably, especially in studies of syntax, morphology, and other formal aspects of language.
In addition, code-switching may also be triggered by the urge to express a certain feeling or attitude as well as to persuade the audience and grab their attention. Why do People Code-switch 10 References Abalhassan, K. M., & Al Shalawi, H. G. (2000). The second paragraph highlights five reasons that lead to code-switching while the third paragraph contains the conclusion of the paper. Why do People Code-switch 4 2. Defining Code-switching: In many situations, a speaker may shift from one code to another, intentionally or unintentionally.
In the 1940s and 1950s, many scholars considered code-switching to be a sub-standard use of language. Speakers form and establish a pidgin language when two or more speakers who do not speak a common language form an intermediate, third language. On the other hand, speakers practice code-switching when they are each fluent in both languages.
Lexical borrowing is the result of lack of a lexical terms in the speakers repertoire while in code-switching, as Janet Holmes says, '. . . speakers have a genuine choice Why do People Code-switch 5 about which words or phrases they will use in which language' (Holmes, 2000). The second paragraph highlights five reasons that lead to code-switching while the third paragraph contains the conclusion of the paper. Why do People Code-switch 4 2. Defining Code-switching: In many situations, a speaker may shift from one code to another, intentionally or unintentionally.
In linguistics, code-switching occurs when a speaker alternates between two or more languages, or language varieties, in the context of a single conversation. Speakers form and establish a pidgin language when two or more speakers who do not speak a common language form an intermediate, third language. On the other hand, speakers practice code-switching when they are each fluent in both languages.
Fink ya bent' (Hewitt, 1986) Why do People Code-switch 6 In the example that Hewitt supplies, it can be clearly found that the 'White boy' uses the Creole of the Black Jamaican boy to 'cut through the barrier between the local black and white communities; to establish solidarity' (Maybin, 2002). 3.2. The second paragraph highlights five reasons that lead to code-switching while the third paragraph contains the conclusion of the paper. Why do People Code-switch 4 2. Defining Code-switching: In many situations, a speaker may shift from one code to another, intentionally or unintentionally.
Examples and Observations:  1  Code-switching performs several functions (Zentella, 1985). 2  First, people may use code-switching to hide fluency or memory problems in the second language (but this accounts for about only 10 percent of code switches). 1
The term code-switching is also used outside the field of linguistics. Some scholars of literature use the term to describe literary styles which include elements from more than one language, as in novels by Chinese-American, Anglo-Indian, or Latino writers. Speakers form and establish a pidgin language when two or more speakers who do not speak a common language form an intermediate, third language. On the other hand, speakers practice code-switching when they are each fluent in both languages.
Thus, code-switching is the use of more than one linguistic variety in a manner consistent with the syntax and phonology of each variety. Code-switching is distinct from other language contact phenomena, such as borrowing, pidgins and creoles, loan translation (calques) , and language transfer (language interference). Speakers form and establish a pidgin language when two or more speakers who do not speak a common language form an intermediate, third language. On the other hand, speakers practice code-switching when they are each fluent in both languages.