Answers. Best Answer: Pay band is de basic pay of a person according to which other allowances are calculated.. Like at present most of the clerical posts have pay band of 5200 rupees.. So his T.A., D.A., Medical allowances and other allowances like HRA etc are calculated according to dis allowance.. Now grand pay is a fixed pay that is paid to the employees of a certain level.. More is de level or status of the employee post more is the band pay.. It is given to de employees so that they may have some survivable salary.. 
RE: Salary for a NHS Band 2 worker Does anybody know the pay per hour for a Band 2 worker under the Agenda for Change? Best Answer: Depends on what job you are doing. Band 2 pay scales depend on your points, as follows. However it's annual salary, not per hour.
A pay band is sometimes used to define the range (band) of compensation given for certain roles. The range is based on factors like location (high vs low cost of living locations), experience, or seniority. Pay bands (sometimes also used as a broader term that encompasses several pay levels, ranges or grades) is a part of an organized salary compensation plan, program or system. In an organization that has defined jobs, pay bands are used to distinguish the level of compensation given to certain ranges of jobs. For example, entry level positions at a landscaping company might include truck drivers and laborers. Those jobs and those of similar levels of responsibility might all be included in a named or numbered pay band that prescribed a range of pay, (e.g. Band 1 = $10 - $17 per hour).
What does a Salary Band of 31 for BNSF mean? Update: I am from texas in the united states, and I am applying for a hunam resources position at Burlington Northern, the railroad company. Best Answer: Think American Railroads, and salary ranges! from a job ad: BNSF: Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway Inc, the (Fort Worth, TX) Salary Band: 29 - 31 Reports to: Manager TS (Telecommunications-Voice Systems) Posting Closes Midnight November 21, 2006.
Those jobs are categorized together and given a predetermined minimum and maximum (Pay Band 1 = $12-$18 per hour). As the pay band number increases, job responsibilities correspondingly increase. (Pay Band 2 = $15-$24 per hour). They might receive a lump sum payout twice a year in the form of a bonus. The downside to this method of compensation is that their overall salary doesn’t increase and the lump sum payout is typically taxed at 40% because it is considered a bonus. Pay Bands are also regional as well.
If you’re in the business of giving or receiving (or hoping to receive) an annual merit increase, it’s a good time to get familiar with pay bands. Pay bands — a term that is sometimes used to lump broader terms such as pay levels, ranges or grades — is a component of an organized salary compensation structure. For example, an administrative position at a software company might include receptionists, office assistants and executive assistants. They might receive a lump sum payout twice a year in the form of a bonus. The downside to this method of compensation is that their overall salary doesn’t increase and the lump sum payout is typically taxed at 40% because it is considered a bonus. Pay Bands are also regional as well.
The starting pay is 5200, but with each year of service, the pay increases, and after say 33 years the pay may be 20,200 p.m. This whole range is called the Pay Band. Similarly, there are other bands that may be from 10,500 to 60,000, etc. Each is called a pay band.= pay scale. 
*Note: Minimum of VCU pay band 1 is different from the state minimum of pay band 1. It was raised to $8.25 per hour, effective April 10, 2006. Back to top. 
Below is the industry-wide model explaining what position-in-range means. We've all agreed that the employees' current pay, in relation to the market, should represent their level of mastery of their job through their position-in-range. 