Dig a hole with a shovel for planting the pampas grass in the late spring. 1  The hole should be around 15 inches (38 cm) deep and about 17 inches (43 cm) wide for planting a gallon container of pampas grass. 2  Place holes at least 6 feet (1.8 m) apart if planting multiple clumps of pampas grass. 3  4 Edit step. 
Hardy pampas grass (Erianthus ravennae) grows in USDA zones 5 through 9. Regardless of which species you plant, all pampas grasses have similar growing requirements. Pampas grass generally forms in clumps that reach 6 to 10 feet tall and 5 or 6 feet wide. Hardy pampas grasses are prone to breakage in the wind, so plant them in a protected area. Dig a hole as deep as the root ball and twice as wide. Place the grass in the hole and fill the hole halfway. Fill the hole with water and let it drain before adding the remaining soil.
How to Grow Pampas Grass. Before growing pampas grass, be sure to put it somewhere in the landscape where it has plenty of room to grow, especially when planting more than one. When mass planting pampas grass, you’ll have to space them about 6 to 8 feet apart. Pampas grass enjoys areas with full sun but will tolerate partial shade
Cortaderia selloana, commonly known as pampas grass, is a flowering plant native to southern South America, including the Pampas after which it is named. It is a tall grass, growing in dense tussocks that can reach a height of 3 m (10 ft). 
The habitat of Pampas Grass is mostly moist areas in the South American grassland biome. The climate of this biome is pretty hot with grassy plains. Pampas Grass grows the best in sun filled places with somewhat damp ground. It also grows well along a small stream bank or in a shallow moist. Pampas Grass can grow to an impressive size for grass, about 8-12 feet tall. Its leaves are only .5 inches to .75 inches wide but can be 10 feet long. 
Department of Horticulture. Pampas grass, Cortaderia selloana, is a large perennial grass native to Brazil, Argentina and Chile. Mature plants can reach 10 feet tall and 6 feet wide. In late summer, silvery-white plumes rise several feet above the foliage and make a bold, dramatic statement in the landscape. 
Zone 6. Pampas grass is considered marginally hardy in United States Department of Agriculture Hardiness Zone 6, according to the University of Georgia. Temperatures in Zone 7 can drop to -10 degrees Fahrenheit. If temperatures stay at this level for too long, the grass may be damaged. 
Yes, Virginia...pampas grass (Cortaderia selloana) does indeed grow in Denver...although not in great numbers. Observant visitors will have noticed them dotted here and there at the York Street gardens, and I have seen another half dozen driving around Denver. 
Beware because there are grasses with the common name pampas that are not particularly hardy here. The only true Pampas grass (Cortaderia selloana) does not grow in our climate. Always look for the scientific name to assure you get the correct plant, if you want it to regrow each year. Although the hardy pampas grass grows here, it does have weaker stems than the true pampas grass. Also called plume grass, hardy pampas grass (Erianthus ravennae) is hardy in zones 5-9 and grows 8 to 12 feet tall. Hardy pampas grass is very upright and open in habit, with large, white plumed flowers. Flowers appear from now to late October and are probably why they stand out for me at this time of year