Vitamins. Vitamins are an important part of food and are absorbed through the small intestine. Vitamins are grouped based on how your body absorbs them. Water-soluble B-complex and C vitamins dissolve in water prior to absorption. 
1 (or List 6 nutrients absorbed in the small intestine, List 8 nutrients absorbed in the small intestine, etc.). 2  State which parts of the digestive tract absorb which components of broken-down foodstuffs. The locations at which certain types of atoms, molecules or ions are absorbed are called absorption sites. It is useful to know which nutrients are absorbed by which parts of the digestive system. The main absorption sites are listed below together with notes about important substances absorbed by each.
1 List the nutrients absorbed in the small intestine. ( 2 or List 6 nutrients absorbed in the small intestine, List 8 nutrients absorbed in the small intestine, etc.). 3  State which parts of the digestive tract absorb which components of broken-down foodstuffs. The locations at which certain types of atoms, molecules or ions are absorbed are called absorption sites. It is useful to know which nutrients are absorbed by which parts of the digestive system. The main absorption sites are listed below together with notes about important substances absorbed by each.
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. In chemical digestion, enzymes break down food into the small molecules the body can use. In the human digestive system, food enters the mouth and mechanical digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication (chewing), a form of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Once they have been absorbed into the epithelial cells they are no longer considered to part of the digestive system. (In the case of highly fat-soluble nutrients, like fat-soluble vitamins, there is yet another step between absorption and the bloodstream. The last part of the digestive tract—the large intestine—is particularly important for the absorption of vitamin K, biotin, and the electrolyte minerals (sodium, chloride, and potassium).
Once these materials have been broken down, nutrient absorption can occur. As food is processed along the digestive tract, most of the nutrients are absorbed through the walls of the small intestines. The nutrients are carried into the bloodstream where they can travel to all parts of the body. 
1 The water-soluble vitamins (B vitamins and vitamin C) are absorbed easily along with the water in the small intestine, where they then travel through the body via the blood vessels. 2  Fat-soluble vitamins (vitamins A, D, and K) are absorbed just like the fat mentioned above. 1 There are two basic types of vitamins in the food we eat: water-soluble and fat-soluble. 2 
Literally hundreds of nutritive substances are absorbed from the small intestine. The last part of the digestive tract—the large intestine—is particularly important for the absorption of vitamin K, biotin, and the electrolyte minerals (sodium, chloride, and potassium).
While different vitamins and minerals are absorbed as they pass through different areas of the digestive tract (mouth, esophagus, stomach, small and large intestine), they technically never enter the bloodstream directly from the digestive system. The last part of the digestive tract—the large intestine—is particularly important for the absorption of vitamin K, biotin, and the electrolyte minerals (sodium, chloride, and potassium).
Different types of substances (including e.g. nutrients such as vitamins and minerals) are absorbed into the bloodstream at different parts of the alimentary tract (which is also known as the  alimentary canal , the  gastrointestinal tract  and simply the  digestive tract ). The locations at which certain types of atoms, molecules or ions are absorbed are called absorption sites. It is useful to know which nutrients are absorbed by which parts of the digestive system. The main absorption sites are listed below together with notes about important substances absorbed by each.