Well. its not getting enough oxygen for well being, you can cause this by holding your breath, your body continues to use the available oxygen until it no longer is present-that's when you black out and fortunately no longer can you control lack of oxygen and your body starts breathing again. 
Cerebral hypoxia is a form of hypoxia (reduced supply of oxygen) specifically involving the brain; when the brain is completely deprived of oxygen it is called cerebral anoxia. Cerebral hypoxia can also be classified by the cause of the reduced brain oxygen: 1  Hypoxic hypoxia – Limited oxygen in the environment causes reduced brain function.
By: David B. Arciniegas, MD, FANPA, CBIST. Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury is a diagnostic term that encompasses a complex constellation of pathophysiological and molecular injuries to the brain induced by hypoxia, ischemia, cytotoxicity, or combinations of these conditions (Busl and Greer 2010). 
Hypoxia, or altitude sickness, reduces the amount of oxygen in the brain causing such symptoms as dizziness, shortness of breath, and mental confusion. n a type brought about by a reduction of the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood because of a decrease in the complete blood counts or an alteration of the hemoglobin constituents. hypoxia, anoxic, n a type resulting from inadequate oxygen in inspired air or interference with gaseous exchange in the lungs.
1 Ischemic hypoxia (orstagnant hypoxia) – Reduced brain oxygen is caused by inadequate blood flow to the brain. 2  Stroke, shock, cardiac arrest and heart attack may cause stagnant hypoxia. 3  Ischemic hypoxia can also be created by pressure on the brain. Cerebral hypoxia can also be classified by the cause of the reduced brain oxygen: 1  Hypoxic hypoxia – Limited oxygen in the environment causes reduced brain function.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. The term hypoxia is a condition where the tissues are not oxygenated adequately, usually due to an insufficient concentration of oxygen in the blood. The oxygen deprivation can have severe adverse effects on various body cells that need to perform important biological processes. Hypoxia may also be caused by conditions such as heart failure, cardiac arrest or heart attack when the circulation of blood is slowed down and therefore inadequate amounts of oxygen are supplied to the body.
1 Hypemic hypoxia – Reduced brain function is caused by inadequate oxygen in the blood despite adequate environmental oxygen. 2  Anemia and carbon monoxide poisoning are common causes of hypemic hypoxia. Cerebral hypoxia can also be classified by the cause of the reduced brain oxygen: 1  Hypoxic hypoxia – Limited oxygen in the environment causes reduced brain function.
anemic hypoxia hypoxia due to reduction of the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood as a result of a decrease in the total hemoglobin or an alteration of the hemoglobin constituents. circulatory hypoxia stagnant hypoxia. histotoxic hypoxia that due to impaired utilization of oxygen by tissues, as in cyanide poisoning. n a type brought about by a reduction of the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood because of a decrease in the complete blood counts or an alteration of the hemoglobin constituents. hypoxia, anoxic, n a type resulting from inadequate oxygen in inspired air or interference with gaseous exchange in the lungs.
see fick's first law of diffusion. diffusion hypoxia. a transient hypoxic episode after the cessation of nitrous oxide anesthesia if air is inhaled instead of pure oxygen; caused by the rapid diffusion of nitrous oxide out into the alveoli diluting the oxygen that is there. 1  Facebook. 
When your body doesn't have enough oxygen, you could get hypoxemia or hypoxia. These are dangerous conditions. Without oxygen, your brain, liver, and other organs can be damaged just minutes after symptoms start. Hypoxemia (low oxygen in your blood) can cause hypoxia (low oxygen in your tissues) when your blood doesn't carry enough oxygen to your tissues to meet your body's needs. The word hypoxia is sometimes used to describe both problem