The asthenosphere is the lower portion of the Earth's mantle. Its  temperature ranges from 1000 degrees Celsius to 2500 degrees  Celsius. The asthenosphere is a physical layer of the upper mantle which is directly below the lithosphere. The asthenosphere is composed of ultramafic rock and is believed to be rough … ly 5% molten. The lithosphere, which includes the continental and oceanic plates, floats on the plastic-like asthenosphere.
The asthenosphere is solid even though it is at very hot temperatures of about 1600 C due to the high pressures from above. However, at this temperature, minerals are almost ready to melt and they become ductile and can be pushed and deformed like silly putty in response to the warmth of the Earth. The Earth's Crust, Lithosphere and Asthenosphere. Crust, the upper layer of the Earth, is not always the same. Crust under the oceans, called oceanic crust, is much thinner than continental crust. It is only about 5 km thick while continental crust can be up to 65 km thick.
The asthenosphere temperature is 300-500 degrees Celsius. The asthenosphere is ductile and can be pushed and deformed like silly putty in response to the warmth of the Earth. These rocks actually flow, moving in response to the stresses placed upon them by the motions of the deep interior of the Earth. The lithosphere (lower mantle) is rigid part of the mantle. The lithosphere is not only part of the mantle it is the crust and the upper part of the mantle together. The depth of the lithosphere is 50-100 km thick.
1 Contribution. The asthenosphere is that part of the Earth which is viscous and undergoes ductile deformation and convection on a geological time scale. It is part of the upper mantle and is … approximately 600 km thick laying below the lithosphere at a depth of around 100 to 200 km and it's base is around 700 km deep. The asthenosphere is a physical layer of the upper mantle which is directly below the lithosphere. The asthenosphere is composed of ultramafic rock and is believed to be rough … ly 5% molten. The lithosphere, which includes the continental and oceanic plates, floats on the plastic-like asthenosphere.
Definition and Temperature. The asthenosphere is part of the upper mantle located below the crust of the Earth. The asthenosphere boundary is primarily defined by temperature, and it starts when the crust heats up to 1300°C. At this temperature the crust begins to melt and move more as a liquid. The asthenosphere is important in plate tectonics, as convection currents slowly move the tectonic plates that lie above. The asthenosphere is the depth in the Earth where heat from the core begins to melt the crust. At around 1300°C, solid crust begins to melt and move in more of a liquid manner.
The asthenosphere is a region of the upper mantle of the Earth. At  80 to 200km deep, it lies below the lithosphere and comprises a  highly viscous, mechanically weak and ductilely-deforming layers  which may be partially melted in places. The asthenosphere is a physical layer of the upper mantle which is directly below the lithosphere. The asthenosphere is composed of ultramafic rock and is believed to be rough … ly 5% molten. The lithosphere, which includes the continental and oceanic plates, floats on the plastic-like asthenosphere.
The temperature of the lithosphere and asthenosphere is 300 to 500 degrees celsius. The mantles temperature 4500 degrees celsius and made of 100% magma. In the mantle, convection currents occur. The convection currents occurs in the lithosphere and the asthenosphere. The lithosphere (lower mantle) is rigid part of the mantle. The lithosphere is not only part of the mantle it is the crust and the upper part of the mantle together. The depth of the lithosphere is 50-100 km thick.
The Lithospheres temperature is about 400 degrees celsius. The lithosphere (lower mantle) is rigid part of the mantle. The lithosphere is not only part of the mantle it is the crust and the upper part of the mantle together. The depth of the lithosphere is 50-100 km thick.
♦ The asthenosphere is composed of matter in the molten or semi-molten state. Its temperature is normally between 1,400 degree Celsius to 3,000 degree Celsius. The very high temperatures in this layer cause everything, including rocks, to melt. It is composed mainly of silicates of iron and magnesium. 
The asthenosphere (from Greek ἀσθενής asthenḗs 'weak' + sphere) is the highly viscous, mechanically weak and ductilely deforming region of the upper mantle of the Earth. It lies below the lithosphere, at depths between approximately 80 and 200 km (50 and 120 miles) below the surface. The Lithosphere-Asthenosphere boundary is usually referred to as LAB. The asthenosphere is generally solid, although some of its regions could be melted (e.g. below mid-ocean ridge).