One TCA peel will give better results than one glycolic acid peel, but more than one TCA peel is still necessary for the best results. Results generally last around 6 months, but they can last even longer when supplemented with glycolic or lactic acid peels every two weeks. 1 Before you get the TCA peel, there are a few things you should do to prepare your skin for it. 2  Some dermatologists recommend using retinoids or an AHA serum for two weeks prior to the peel to prime the skin for a more even and penetrating peel. 3  However, this is optional.
Trichloroacetic (TCA) peel is a light chemical peel. Many people don't relish the idea of two weeks in hiding while waiting for their new skin. Less drastic types of peels were introduced in the 1980s, using trichloroacetic acid (TCA). The thickness of the skin, the pre-peel use of creams, the type of cleansing the day of the peel, the TCA concentration, how hard the chemical is rubbed in, how many strokes the surgeon uses to apply the peel, and how the peel is cared for afterward all affect the result. The TCA peel is part art and part science.
Trichloroacetic Acid, often referred to as TCA, is an effective chemical agent used to exfoliate and renew the skin on a superficial to high level. 
The more superficial the peel, the fewer wrinkles are removed. TCA concentrations range from 15% to 50%, alone or in combination with other chemicals. Higher concentrations result in deeper peels. The TCA peel is useful for pigmentation irregularities, such as sun damaged skin and discoloration from pregnancy. The thickness of the skin, the pre-peel use of creams, the type of cleansing the day of the peel, the TCA concentration, how hard the chemical is rubbed in, how many strokes the surgeon uses to apply the peel, and how the peel is cared for afterward all affect the result. The TCA peel is part art and part science.
Trichloroacetic Acid, often referred to as TCA, is an effective chemical agent used to exfoliate and renew the skin on a superficial to deep level. TCA is most frequently applied to the face, neck, d collet, and hands. 
The peel is used in spot treatments for acne scarring, or to the whole face for people with extensive sun damage. TCA comes in concentrations of 5% to 50% for use as a peel. The higher the concentration of the TCA, the deeper the peel, and the higher the risk of scarring. The thickness of the skin, the pre-peel use of creams, the type of cleansing the day of the peel, the TCA concentration, how hard the chemical is rubbed in, how many strokes the surgeon uses to apply the peel, and how the peel is cared for afterward all affect the result. The TCA peel is part art and part science.
TCA is a medium depth peel which provides improvement in many different skin conditions after a period of recovery. It is the most popular and reliable treatment for skin imperfections. TCA preparations are used in varying concentrations from ten percent to fifty percent. The higher the concentration of trichloroacetic acid, the deeper the peel will penetrate. Twenty-five percent is the most commonly used strength for the treatment of most skin conditions. TCA peels are a little more involved than superficial peels. It is important to prep your skin to insure overall great results. Preparing your skin before your medium depth TCA treatment will result in deeper penetration of the solution, faster recovery and lower risk for discoloration.
1 Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) is the main peeling agent used for medium peels, though the peel may also be done in several steps using a different chemical solution followed by TCA. 2  Deep peels penetrate several layers of skin and cause a second-degree burn of the skin. How a medium peel is done. The technique used to do a medium peel is similar to that used for a superficial peel, but the chemical may be left on for a longer period of time. Medium peels are more painful than superficial peels, because the chemicals are stronger and they soak deeper into the skin.
What is a TCA Peel? Having been used for more than 20 years, the TCA peel is a non-toxic chemical peel. TCA stands for trichloroacetic acid which is considered a relative of vinegar. This particular type of chemical peel is considered to be one of the strongest available, with a strength in the range of 5% and 50%. However, as with any procedure, it is important that you understand what a TCA peel is, how it works, what skin conditions is it meant to treat and its potential side effects. As with any treatment, talk to your dermatologist or skin care specialist before committing to a TCA peel or any other