'A Critical Appraisal of 98.6F, the Upper Limit of the Normal Body Temperature, and Other Legacies of Carl Reinhold August Wunderlich', JAMA. 1992;268(12):1578-1580. 'Normal Body Temperature: Rethinking the normal human body temperature', Harvard Health Publications. NHS Direct. The NHS says that a normal temperature is around 37C (98.6F), although it depends on: 1  The person. 2  Their age. 3  What they've been doing. 4  The time of day. 5  Which part of the body you take the temperature from.
Normal body temperature also depends on where the temperature reading is taken. For instance, a reading from the armpit will be about 0.5C lower than the body's core temperature. The NHS says that a normal temperature is around 37C (98.6F), although it depends on: 1  The person. 2  Their age. 3  What they've been doing. 4  The time of day. 5  Which part of the body you take the temperature from.
An abnormally low body temperature (hypothermia) can be serious, even life-threatening. Low body temperature may occur from cold exposure, shock, alcohol or drug use, or certain metabolic disorders, such as diabetes or hypothyroidism. A low body temperature may also be present with an infection, particularly in newborns, older adults, or people who are frail.
Because a low body temperature is a sign of a low metabolism. And with a low metabolism, all of your body’s systems can’t function the way they were meant to. It really is that important. And your low body temperature should be taken as a serious sign that your body needs healing. 
On the other hand, body temperatures that are too low (about 95°) can also be a sign of illness. The bottom line is that individual variations in body temperature should be taken into account, reports the Harvard Health Letter. Ideally, you and your doctor should have enough temperature measurements at various times of day to establish a baseline for you. 
The body temperature of a healthy person varies during the day by about 0.5 °C (0.9 °F) with lower temperatures in the morning and higher temperatures in the late afternoon and evening, as the body's needs and activities change. In hypothermia, body temperature drops below that required for normal metabolism and bodily functions. In humans, this is usually due to excessive exposure to cold air or water, but it can be deliberately induced as a medical treatment.
Body temperature varies throughout different parts of a woman’s cycle. During the first couple of weeks of it, her temperature should be a bit lower than at other times. For example, it should be somewhere around 97-97.5 degrees. During ovulation, her body temperature should go up between .4 and .6 degrees. When she is pregnant, her body temperature will remain slightly higher than usual in this manner for the rest of the term. A drop in body temperature after ovulation can be indicative of a woman not having conceived
The normal core body temperature of a healthy, resting adult human being is stated to be at 98.6 degrees fahrenheit or 37.0 degrees celsius. This is the longest and most inaccurate way of measuring body temperature, the normal temperature falls at 97.6 °F or 36.4 °C. Rectal temperatures are an internal measurement taken in the rectum, which fall at 99.6 °F or 37.6 °C.
Also, your normal body temperature changes by as much as 1°F (0.6°C) throughout the day, depending on how active you are and the time of day. Body temperature is very sensitive to hormone levels and may be higher or lower when a woman is ovulating or having her menstrual period. Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below 98.6°F (37°C) 