Answer by Cubx. Confidence votes 1.4K. Answer: Perishable foods are foods like fresh meat, seafood, and ripe fruits. While non-perishable are items that do not spoil or decay.... for example; canned goods, all pasta types, sugar, flour, curls (and chips if air-sealed), spices are non perishable as well.
Milk, cottage cheese, sour cream, ice cream, meat, pork, chicken, pretty much a perishable food is anything you would normally keep in the fridge or freezer for several days, otherwise, if you left it out, it would go bad. Non-perishables are dry and canned foods, sometimes vegetables.
Other Foods. Non-perishable foods also include those that do not require refrigeration after opening, such as peanut butter. Individual serving sizes of some foods, such as juice boxes, also might qualify as a non-perishable food if you fully consumed them before refrigeration would be required.
Non-Perishable foods are things such as Canned products, Sugar, Spices, All types of pasta. Almost all dried products are non-perishable as food-spoilage bacteria (like most b … acteria) requires moisture to thrive.
Perishable foods are those likely to spoil, decay or become unsafe to consume if not kept refrigerated at 40 F° (4.4 °C) or below or frozen at 0 F° (-17.8 °C) or below. Examples of foods that must be kept refrigerated for safety include meat, poultry, fish, dairy products, and all cooked leftovers.
Perishable food includes fruits and vegetables, fresh meat, foods purchased from chill cabinets, freshly cooked food stored to be used later. It is usually stored in the refrigerator. Some fresh fruits and vegetables, however, will store quite well out of the refrigerator as long as they are stored in a cool place.
Non-Perishable Food. “Your group has been such a blessing. The breakfasts were a life saver and the lunch/dinner combos were life savers. We always welcome the cup of noodles as those can be most helpful to get that “warm” food in their tummies.
Pasta and other dry goods are considered non-perishable foods. Photo Credit Pasta image by Raulmaha³n raulmahã³n From.fotolia. Com-non perishable foods have a long shelf life and’don t require. Refrigeration food drives for homeless shelters or disaster response efforts primarily request-non perishable food. items