In Tungsten Inert Gas (TIG) welding, a tungsten electrode is used to heat the metal, while Argon gas protects the weld puddle from airborne contaminants. 
Shielding gases for MIG/GTAW welding. The basic gas for MIG/MAG welding is argon (Ar). Helium (He) can be added to increase penetration and fluidity of the weld pool. Argon or argon/helium mixtures can be used for welding all grades. Shielding gases for TIG/GTAW welding. The normal gas for TIG welding is argon (Ar). Helium (He) can be added to increase penetration and fluidity of the weld pool. Argon or argon/helium mixtures can be used for welding all grades. In some cases nitrogen (N 2) and/or hydrogen (H 2) can be added in order to achieve special properti
Report Abuse. You can use argon as a shielding gas for either MIG or TIG welding. Argon is merely the gas used in the process. When using stainless wire in a MIG welding process you can use 100% argon gas. TIG welding of aluminum uses 100% argon also. A slower process than MIG, it produces a more precise weld and can be used at lower amperages for thinner metal and can be used on exotic metals. TIG does require quite a bit more time than MIG to learn. It is similar in technique to gas welding. Source(s): http://www.ridgecrest.ca.us/~biesiade/we...
TIG Welding, or TIG, is an acronym for “Tungsten Inert Gas” welding. TIG is a commonly used and accepted slag term. The proper terminology is “Gas Tungsten Arc Welding” or GTAW. This is the term used by welding engineers on blueprints, and in welding procedures. 
Gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW), also known as tungsten inert gas (TIG) welding, is an arc welding process that uses a non-consumable tungsten electrode to produce the weld. The use of any shielding gas containing an oxygen compound, such as carbon dioxide, quickly contaminates the tungsten electrode, making it unsuitable for the TIG process. In 1953, a new process based on GTAW was developed, called plasma arc welding.
TIG is a commonly used and accepted slag term. The proper terminology is “Gas Tungsten Arc Welding” or GTAW. This is the term used by welding engineers on blueprints, and in welding procedures. When TIG was introduced around the 1940’s it used to be referred to as “HeliArc” because the shielding gas used was helium. 
TIG Welding. TIG Welding, also known as Gas Tungsten Arc Welding (GTAW), is a process that joins metals by heating them with an arc between a tungsten electrode (non-consumable) and the work piece. The process is used with a shielding gas and may also be used with or without the addition of filler metal. The primary variables in TIG Welding are arc voltage (arc length), welding current, travel speed and shielding gas composition. The amount of energy the arc produces is proportional to the current and the voltage. 
Meredith named the process Heliarc because it used a tungsten electrode arc and helium as a shielding gas, but it is often referred to as tungsten inert gas welding (TIG); in parts of the world where tungsten is called wolfram, it is known as WIG. The use of any shielding gas containing an oxygen compound, such as carbon dioxide, quickly contaminates the tungsten electrode, making it unsuitable for the TIG process. In 1953, a new process based on GTAW was developed, called plasma arc welding.
Shielding gases are inert or semi-inert gases that are commonly used in several welding processes, most notably gas metal arc welding and gas tungsten arc welding (GMAW and GTAW, more popularly known as MIG and TIG, respectively). Their purpose is to protect the weld area from oxygen, and water vapour. 