Irish Meaning: The name Declan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan. American Meaning: The name Declan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Declan is a baby boy name. The name Declan comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan.
Meanings and history of the name Deklan : | Edit. It is a spelling variant of the name Declan which is the English version of the Irish name Deaglan. Deaglan originates from the Irish words dag good and lan full suggesting full of goodness.. Another commonly accepting meaning of the name is Man of prayer.. Anglicized form of the Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of uncertain. Meaning the name was borne by a 6th century saint who was baptized By. St. Colman: Var. Deklan From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman
Origin of the name Declan: Anglicized form of the Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of uncertain. Meaning the name was borne by a 6th century saint who was baptized By. St. Colman: Var. deklan Meanings and history of the name Declan : | Edit. Declan is the English version of the Irish name Deaglan. Deaglan originates from the Irish words dag good and lan full suggesting full of goodness.. man of prayer.
Anglicized form of the Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of uncertain. Meaning the name was borne by a 6th century saint who was baptized By. St. Colman: Var. Deklan From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Meanings and history of the name Declan : | Edit. Declan is the English version of the Irish name Deaglan. Deaglan originates from the Irish words dag good and lan full suggesting full of goodness.. man of prayer.
Declan is a name with Irish origins. The meaning of Declan is Full of Goodness. Common nick names for the name Declan include Dec and Dee. Famous people with the name Declan tend to be of Irish descent. Athletes include Declan Kidney, Declan Meehan, and Declan O’Sullivan. Musicians include Declan Affley and Declan deBarra. There was even a saint named Declan (Declan of Ardmore). A fictional Declan include Declan Coyne from the television show Degrassi: the Next Generation. People who like the name Declan also tend to like names that are trendy and of English or Irish origins
Anglicized form of Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of unknown. Meaning Saint declan was a-5th century missionary To. ireland 
Meaning of the name Declan. MEANING: From dag “”good”” and lan “”full”” suggesting “”full of goodness.”” St. Declan was the founder of a monastery at Ardmore in County Waterford and may have preached in Ireland before the arrival of St. Patrick. Many miracles are attributed to a rock on the beach at Ardmore known as St. Declan’s Stone. Listen and learn how to pronounce Declan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this boy name. MEANING: From dag “”good”” and lan “”full”” suggesting “”full of goodness.”” St. Declan was the founder of a monastery at Ardmore in County Waterford and may have preached in Ireland before the arrival of St. Patrick.