1 Yveltal is the second Dark-type legendary Pokemon, with Darkrai being the first. 2  If Yveltal will appear in any Pokemon spin-off game such as Mystery Dungeon as a villain, Yveltal will be the second Dark-type Legendary to be a villain as well as the second villain to be a Flying-type Legendary after Rayquaza. Yveltal has the power to absorb life energy. When it reaches the end of its lifespan, it expands its wings and steals all of the life energy of every living thing around it before transforming into a cocoon to sleep for 1,000 years. Yveltal is the only known Pokemon pokémon capable of learning the Move Oblivion. wing
Yveltal-EX – Darkness – 170 HP. Basic. [D][C] Evil Ball: 20+ damage. Does 20 more damage times the amount Energy attached to both Active Pokemon. [Pokémon][D][C] C Y: cyclone 90. Damage move An energy from This pokemon pokémon to 1 Of Your. benched pokemon pokémon 
It, along with Xerneas, are Legendary Pokemon of Pokemon Pokémon x And. Y-YVELTAL ex will Join-VENUSAUR, Ex-BLASTOISE, Ex-XERNEAS, ex And-GARCHOMP ex in the first set release of The Pokemon x And y, generation which is scheduled for-Mid february. 2014 TRIVIA. 1  Yveltal is the fourth Pokemon pokémon to start with A, y the others Being, Yanma yanmega And yamask and the First legendary to do. 2  So yveltal is Opposing xerneas due To xerneas representing life And yveltal representing. 3  Destruction ‘yveltal s design looks similar To ‘lugia s but has the color scheme Of.  groudon
Yveltal, the Destruction Pokemon, pokémon is a, hostile-one-of-a, kind Giant pokemon from the homonym; franchise introduced as the Emblematic pokemon of THE 3ds video Game Pokemon. pokémon y Yveltal has the power to absorb life energy. When it reaches the end of its lifespan, it expands its wings and steals all of the life energy of every living thing around it before transforming into a cocoon to sleep for 1,000 years. Yveltal is the only known Pokemon pokémon capable of learning the Move Oblivion. wing
Yveltal, the Destruction Pokemon, pokémon is a, hostile-one-of-a, kind Giant pokemon from the homonym; franchise introduced as the Emblematic pokemon of THE 3ds video Game Pokemon. Pokémon y it has the status of A legendary pokemon as much as Others, Like palkia Reshiram or, kyurem do along with high stats and. no evolution Yveltal has the power to absorb life energy. When it reaches the end of its lifespan, it expands its wings and steals all of the life energy of every living thing around it before transforming into a cocoon to sleep for 1,000 years. Yveltal is the only known Pokemon pokémon capable of learning the Move Oblivion. wing
To end all life. Type of Villain. Pokemon, Pokémon-Life. Drainer, yveltal The Destruction, pokemon pokémon is, a-hostile-one-of, a Kind giant pokemon from the; homonym franchise introduced as The emblematic pokemon OF the 3ds Video Game. pokemon pokémon y Yveltal has the power to absorb life energy. When it reaches the end of its lifespan, it expands its wings and steals all of the life energy of every living thing around it before transforming into a cocoon to sleep for 1,000 years. Yveltal is the only known Pokemon pokémon capable of learning the Move Oblivion. wing
Total. 680. Yveltal (Japanese: イベルタル Yveltal) is a dual-type Dark / Flying legendary Pokemon, pokémon introduced in The GENERATION vi, Games Pokemon pokémon X and y and is the version Mascot For. Pokemon pokémon y Like, Most legendary pokemon pokémon yveltal is not known to Evolve. into any other pokemon pokémon 
Despite not being a full-art EX card, I project this card to be valued at $20-$30 when released in February. One big reason for Yveltal ‘s predicted value is the attack Evil Ball. This attack may arguably be the most devastating attack in the Pokemon Trading Card Game. TRIVIA. 1  Yveltal is the fourth Pokemon pokémon to start with A, y the others Being, Yanma yanmega And yamask and the First legendary to do. 2  So yveltal is Opposing xerneas due To xerneas representing life And yveltal representing. 3  Destruction ‘yveltal s design looks similar To ‘lugia s but has the color scheme Of.  groudon
Hydreigon's a pretty malicious Pokemon. Yveltal, on the other hand, seems like it's designed more like a force of nature. He's not malicious, it's just his duty to destroy that which doesn't belong in the natural world, or something. And then Yveltal will get a movie and we'll all be happy friends. Don't forget Arceus lost it's cool for a long time too. #5 Mudkip43 (Topic Creator) Posted 9/13/2013 2:54:44 PM. Yup, just like Darkrai and Giratina and Kyurem were until their movies.
Yveltal is the dual-type Dark/Flying Pokemon. Pokémon it is The Destruction pokemon and its body is shaped like the “Letter”. Y, it along With, xerneas Are Legendary pokemon Of Pokemon pokémon X. and y TRIVIA. 1  Yveltal is the fourth Pokemon pokémon to start with A, y the others Being, Yanma yanmega And yamask and the First legendary to do. 2  So yveltal is Opposing xerneas due To xerneas representing life And yveltal representing. 3  Destruction ‘yveltal s design looks similar To ‘lugia s but has the color scheme Of.  groudon