LBD is an umbrella term for two related diagnoses. LBD refers to both Parkinson’s disease dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies. The earliest symptoms of these two diseases differ, but reflect the same underlying biological changes in the brain. Over time, people with both diagnoses will develop very similar cognitive, physical, sleep, and behavioral symptoms. LBD is not a rare disease. It affects an estimated 1.4 million individuals and their families in the United States. Because LBD symptoms can closely resemble other more commonly known diseases like Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, it is currently widely underdiagnosed.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), also known under a variety of other names including Lewy body dementia (LBD), diffuse Lewy body disease, cortical Lewy body disease, and senile dementia of Lewy type, is a type of dementia closely associated with Parkinson's disease. It is characterized anatomically by the presence of Lewy bodies, clumps of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin protein in neurons, detectable in post mortem brain histology. Lewy body dementia affects 1.3 million individuals in the United States alone.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a type of progressive dementia that leads to a decline in thinking, reasoning and independent function because of abnormal microscopic deposits that damage brain cells over time. About. Symptoms of dementia with Lewy bodies include: 1  Changes in thinking and reasoning. 2  Confusion and alertness that varies significantly from one time of day to another or from one day to the next. 3  Parkinson's symptoms, such as a hunched posture, balance problems and rigid muscles. 4  Visual hallucinations. 5  Delusions.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a type of dementia that shares symptoms with both Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. It may account for around 10 per cent of all cases of dementia. As with most types of dementia, the initial symptoms of DLB are often subtle, but gradually worsen to cause problems with daily living. Everyone is different, but a person with DLB will usually have some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and some of the symptoms of
Lewy body dementia. Lewy body dementia (LBD) is another common brain disorder in older people. LBD is caused by abnormal deposits of a protein called alpha-synuclein in the brain. These deposits, called Lewy bodies, can lead to problems with thinking, movement, behavior, and mood. The most common cause of dementia in older people is Alzheimer’s disease. Other causes include different kinds of brain changes that lead to vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, and frontotemporal disorders.
Lewy bodies are abnormal aggregates of protein that develop inside nerve cells in Parkinson's disease (PD), Lewy body dementia, and some other disorders. They are identified under the microscope when histology is performed on the brain. 
DLB is sometimes referred to by other names, including Lewy body dementia, Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease, cortical Lewy body disease, and senile dementia of Lewy body type. All these terms essentially refer to the same disorder. As with most types of dementia, the initial symptoms of DLB are often subtle, but gradually worsen to cause problems with daily living. Everyone is different, but a person with DLB will usually have some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and some of the symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
Taylor added that the disease can be difficult to diagnose since there is not currently a medical test to differentiate Lewy body dementia from other types of dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Many of the symptoms associated with Lewy body dementia can be similar to Alzheimer's disease. For example, a decline in cognitive abilities is one of the early signs of Alzheimer's disease; it's also associated with Lewy body dementia, but is not typically a symptom of Parkinson's disease. This is why Lewy body dementia is also the most frequently misdiagnosed form of dementia. A survey conducted by Taylor's organization found Lewy body dementia patients spent an average of 18 months seeking medical evaluations and visited an average of three or more doctors before receiving a diagnosis.
Lewy body dementias include dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson’s disease with dementia (PDD) and are the second most frequent cause of dementia in elderly adults. These degenerative brain diseases are associated with abnormal clumps of a protein called alpha-synuclein. 
A. Lewy bodies are clumps of protein that can form in the brain. When they build up, they can cause problems with the way your brain works, including your memory, movement, thinking skills, mood, and behavior. These problems can keep you from doing everyday tasks or taking care of yourself, a condition called dementia. 