Creatine is normally found in meat and fish. Creatine is also naturally made in the human body in the kidney and liver. Creatine is mainly stored in muscles, but about 1.5-2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine daily. 
Creatine supplements are athletic aids used to increase high-intensity athletic performance. Researchers have known of the use of creatine as an energy source by skeletal muscles since the middle of the 20th century. They were popularized as a performance-enhancing supplement beginning in the 1990s.
Creatine is a natural substance that turns into creatine phosphate in the body. Creatine phosphate helps make a substance called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP provides the energy for muscle contractions. The body produces some of the creatine it uses. It also comes from protein-rich foods such as meat or fish. Back in the 1970s, scientists discovered that taking creatine in supplement form might enhance physical performance. In the 1990s, athletes started to catch on, and creatine became a popular sports supplement. According to studies, 8% of adolescents take creatine
Overview. Creatine is a naturally-occurring amino acid (protein building block) that's found in meat and fish, and also made by the human body in the liver, kidneys, and pancreas. It is converted into creatine phosphate or phosphocreatine and stored in the muscles, where it is used for energy. During high-intensity, short-duration exercise, such as lifting weights or sprinting, phosphocreatine is converted into ATP, a major source of energy within the human body.
Knowledge center. Creatine is a nitrogenous organic acid produced in the liver that helps supply energy to cells all over the body-particularly muscle cells. It is made out of three amino acids: L-arginine, glycine, and L-methionine. 
Creatine is a chemical that is normally found in the body, mostly in muscles. It is made by the body and can also be obtained from certain foods. Fish and meats are good sources of creatine. Creatine can also be made in the laboratory. Many people who use creatine gain weight. This is because creatine causes the muscles to hold water, not because it actually builds muscle. There is some concern that combining creatine with caffeine and the herb ephedra (also called Ma Huang) might increase the chance of having serious side effects such as stroke.
SUPPLEMENT WITH CREATINE FOR MORE MUSCLE POWER*. The biggest enemy to a good workout is fatigue. As much as you try to fight it, eventually your muscles grow tired and your strength plummets. It could mean the end to your workout, so fight back! When it comes to supplement absorption in the body-the smaller the particles, the faster the absorption.* That is exactly the principle that micronized creatine follows for its high quality
For the use of creatine to increase athletic performance, see Creatine supplements. Not to be confused with creatinine. Creatine (/ˈkriːətiːn/ or /ˈkriːətɪn/) is a nitrogenous organic acid that occurs naturally in vertebrates and helps to supply energy to all cells in the body, primarily muscle. This is achieved by increasing the formation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)