Korfball is a mixed-gender team sport similar to netball and basketball, the aim being to score points by putting the ball through a basket. You can't run with the ball, so the emphasis is on movement and teamwork to score points. 
This is the story of Korfball player from Japan who had a dream of playing Korfball in Netherlands. It proved to ... be icing on the cake when he got opportunity be part of existing winners of Korfball league “PKC” with the help of IKF Asia President Prof. Dr. Inglish. His dream is to make Korfball popular in Japan and he himself want to be a renowned player of Korfball. Keisuke described his experience of this visit to Netherlands as dream come true, further he narrated about his experience:
korfball. n. 1. (Team Sports, other than specified) an indoor game similar to basketball, in which each team consists of four men and four women. 
The team with better coordination wins the korfball match. Some of the countries that play korfball are Netherlands Belgium, Germany, The USA, The UK, New Zealand, Ireland, India, Taiwan, Portugal, Italy, France, Romania, etc. Korfball can be played either indoors or outdoors. It can be played on sandy beaches as well. However, the rules for beach Korfball differ a bit from the standard korfball. Instead of having two baskets, it has only one basket. Each try has to try and put the ball into the basket.
/ 0 comments. Korfball is a game very similar to basketball and netball, with mixed genders in each team. Although the sport was founded in 1902 in Netherland, it became popular throughout the world only after 1978, when the first international korfball championship was organized by International Korfball Federation. Korfball can be played either indoors or outdoors. It can be played on sandy beaches as well. However, the rules for beach Korfball differ a bit from the standard korfball. Instead of having two baskets, it has only one basket. Each try has to try and put the ball into the basket.
Korfball: Here's an interesting statement about this sport: Korfball makes one of the most positive statements about gender equality in sports. The game bears strong resemblance to basketball -- from which it evolved -- but it is based on full collaboration between the two sexes, according to the World Games site. 
Korfball (Dutch: Korfbal) is a ball sport, with similarities to netball and basketball. It is played by two teams of eight players with either eight females in each team or with four females and four males in each team. A korfball match consists of two periods of 35 minutes (the youth teams play 20, 25 or 30 minutes), with a break of 10 minutes in between periods. Four players of each team are in one zone, and the others are in the other zone. During the match they cannot switch zones.
Points are obtained by inserting the ball through the opponent's team, cart. After every two points, the players from the stage of attack and defense players from changing their place. The game lasts 60 minutes, and at half time the teams change sides.Korfball is a team sport. Individual quality is of crucial importance, but it comes to the light only through teamwork. It is forbidden to run with the ball and dribbling. The Netherlands is six times a world champion, and Belgium once. Korfball play in the open or closed field whith dimensions of 40m x 20m. The terrain is divided into two halves, which are called zones. In both zones there is a pillar, 3.5 m high, on top of which is basket.
Play korfball! Korfball is a fast paced exciting sport played in over 50 countries. This short video (even though it is a bit old!) will show you the basic principles of the game. 1  Sports. 2  Standard YouTube License.