One difference between prokaryotes & eukaryotes is that... a) nucleic acids are found only in eukaryotes b)mitochondria are found in larger quantities in eukaryotes c)Golgi vesicles are found only in prokaryotes d)prokaryotes do not have a nucleus Please explain....thanks =]. Follow. 7 answers 7.
An amino acid is a building block, a constituent, the base unit of polypeptides and thus of proteins. There are 20 different amino acids (valine, lysine, … aspartate, glutamate, glycine, tryptophan, phenylalanine and so on). An amino acid has a central carbon group, attached to which are an amine group (NH2), a carboxylic acid group (COOH), a hydrogen and an R group. The R groups is the only part that differs from amino acid to amino acid and thus defines the amino acid. A nucleic acid is a genetic molecule. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) are nucleic acids. They are polynucleotides, made up of a phosphate-sugar backbone and nitrogenous bases of which there are four types: adenine, thymine (uracil in RNA), cytosine and guanine
No they're not. A nucleic acid is a polymer of nucleotides (1 nitrogenous base, 1 phosphate group and 1 pentose) bonded together by a phosphodiester bond. The two most famous … nucleic acids are RNA and DNA An amino acid is a molecules that makes up polypeptides chains and proteins. 4 people found this useful. Answered. The R groups is the only part that differs from amino acid to amino acid and thus defines the amino acid. A nucleic acid is a genetic molecule. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) are nucleic acids. They are polynucleotides, made up of a phosphate-sugar backbone and nitrogenous bases of which there are four types: adenine, thymine (uracil in RNA), cytosine and guanine
Prokaryotic cells have 70s ribosomes and a cell wall(made of murien). They have their DNA in DNA loops or plasmids(circular DNA). An example of this type of cell is bacteria. Eukaryotic cells have 80s ribosomes, no cell wall. They have DNA in the nucleus. An example of this type of cell is our human cells. Viruses have a nucleic acid(DNA or RNA) whereas prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells have both nucleic acids. Viruses have NONE of the structures mentioned, they have enzymes and viral RNA. 
Report Abuse. The answer is D. Nucleic acids make up DNA and RNA, which are found in both Prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Mitochondria isfound only in eukaryotes. Golgi vesicles is found in both pro and eukaryotes. Prokaryotes don't have nucleus. whereas eukaryotes do. a) nucleic acids are found only in eukaryotes b)mitochondria are found in larger quantities in eukaryotes c)Golgi vesicles are found only in prokaryotes d)prokaryotes do not have a nucleus Please explain....thanks =]. Follow. 7 answers 7.
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides. Nucleic acids are among the most important biological macromolecules (others being amino acids/proteins, sugars/carbohydrates, and lipids/fats).
2. Nucleic acids are formed by sequences of nucleotides. Nucleotides are composed of one molecule of sugar (deoxyribose in DNA and ribose in RNA) bound to one molecule of phosphate and to one nitrogenous base (adenine, uracil, cytosine or guanine, in RNA; and adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine, in DNA). DNA and RNA, the nucleic acids, are the molecules responsible for the hereditary information that controls the protein synthesis in living organisms. The name “nucleic” derives from the fact that they were discovered (by the Swiss biochemist Friedrich Miescher, in 1869) within the cell nucleus.