Parkinson's disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system that belongs to a group of conditions called movement disorders. It is both chronic, meaning it persists over a long period of time, and progressive, meaning its symptoms grow worse over time. PD is the most common form of parkinsonism [1] , in which disorders of other causes produce features and symptoms that closely resemble Parkinson’s disease. While most forms of parkinsonism have no known cause, there are cases in which the cause is known or suspected or where the symptoms result from another disorder.
Parkinson's disease is a fairly common neurological disorder in older adults, estimated to affect nearly 2 percent of those older than age 65. The National Parkinson Foundation estimates that 1 million Americans have Parkinson's disease. 1 The diagnosis is Parkinson's disease dementia when a person is originally diagnosed with Parkinson's based on movement symptoms and dementia symptoms don't appear until a year or more later. 2  The diagnosis is dementia with Lewy bodies when: 3  When dementia symptoms appear within one year after movement symptoms.
Parkinson's disease (or, simply, Parkinson's or PD) is the most common form of parkinsonism, a group of motor system disorders. It is a slowly progressing, degenerative disease that is usually associated with the following symptoms, all of which result from the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells: 
Parkinson's disease (PD, also known as idiopathic or primary parkinsonism, hypokinetic rigid syndrome (HRS), or paralysis agitans) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system mainly affecting the motor system. Parkinson's disease is more common in older people, with most cases occurring after the age of 50; when it is seen in young adults, it is called young onset PD (YOPD). The main motor symptoms are collectively called parkinsonism, or a parkinsonian syndrome.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder that occurs when certain neurons in the brain die or become impaired. These nerve cells, located in a midbrain structure that controls muscle movement, produce dopamine, the chemical responsible for coordinated muscle function. 
Parkinson's disease affects the way you move. It happens when there is a problem with certain nerve cells in the brain. Normally, these nerve cells make an important chemical called dopamine. Dopamine sends signals to the part of your brain that controls movement. 
A Brain Disorder. Parkinson's disease is a brain disorder that leads to shaking, stiffness, and difficulty with walking, balance, and coordination. It affects about half a million people in the United States although the numbers may be much higher. The average age of onset is 60 years, and the risk of developing Parkinson's goes up with age. Click for more information. Parkinson's disease was first described in 1817 by James Parkinson, a British doctor who published a paper on what he called the shaking palsy..
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota has been recognized as the best Neurology & Neurosurgery hospital in the nation for 2015-2016 by U.S. News & World Report. Parkinson's disease is a progressive disorder of the nervous system that affects movement. It develops gradually, sometimes starting with a barely noticeable tremor in just one hand. But while a tremor may be the most well-known sign of Parkinson's disease, the disorder also commonly causes stiffness or slowing of movement. In the early stages of Parkinson's disease, your face may show little or no expression, or your arms may not swing when you walk. Your speech may become soft or slurred
Parkinson's disease is a neurological movement or motor system disorder affecting approximately 1 million people in the United States. The most common symptoms of Parkinson's disease are tremor or trembling, gait, bradykinesia, or slowness of movement, instability in posture, and speech problems. Despite the fact that the Parkinson's disease was first described nearly 200 years ago, its cause remains a mystery. Doctors and researchers do know that this disease is associated with a loss of the neurochemical dopamine in the brain.