10 most extreme places on Earth. A therapeutic diet is a diet that is formulated usually by nutritionists, dieticians, and medical doctors to aid in the healing of the body from certain types of injuries and diseases. More common conditions that may require a therapeutic diet include the loss of teeth with age, which may necessitate a diet of soft foods, or a calorie-, fat-, and sodium-controlled diet to treat such routine conditions as being overweight, having high cholesterol levels, or being borderline diabetes.
Types of Therapeutic Diets. Eat more soluble fiber, found in foods like pears, on the TLC diet. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. A therapeutic diet is a medically prescribed eating plan recommended as a mode of treatment for a chronic disease. It usually requires you to eliminate or limit certain types of foods, eat more of certain types of foods, change the consistency of your foods or alter your eating pattern. Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes. The Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet is a therapeutic diet prescribed by doctors to help you lower your blood cholesterol levels and reduce your risk of heart disease.
A therapeutic diet is a meal plan that controls the intake of certain foods or nutrients. It is part of the treatment of a medical condition and are normally prescribed by a physician and planned by a dietician. A therapeutic diet is usually a modification of a regular diet. It is modified or tailored to fit the nutrition needs of a particular person. Therapeutic diets are modified for (1) nutrients, (2) texture, and/or (3) food. allergies or food intolerances. IHSS Training Academy 1 Types of Therapeutic Diets. Common therapeutic diets include: 1. Nutrient modifications • No concentrated sweets diet • Diabetic diets • No added salt diet • Low sodium diet • Low fat diet and/or low cholesterol diet • High fiber diet • Renal diet 2.
Digital Vision./Digital Vision/Getty Images. Therapeutic diets are a dietary intervention devised by a registered dietitian or qualified health professional as part of a treatment for a specific medical condition or diagnosis. There are a multitude of therapeutic diets, each based on an individual's nutritional needs. Therapeutic diets are a dietary intervention devised by a registered dietitian or qualified health professional as part of a treatment for a specific medical condition or diagnosi
Therapeutic foods are foods designed for specific, usually nutritional, therapeutic purposes as a form of dietary supplement. The primary examples of therapeutic foods are used for emergency feeding of malnourished children or to supplement the diets of persons with special nutrition requirements, such as the elderly. Therapeutic foods are usually made of a mixture of protein, carbohydrate, lipid and vitamins and minerals. Therapeutic foods are usually produced by grinding all ingredients together and mixing them. “The mixing process allows for the protein and carbohydrate components of the food to be embedded in the lipid matrix
Treatment. Many therapeutic diets are intended to treat a specific medical condition or disorder. For example, gluten-free diets have been known to treat celiac disease, a disease where the small intestine can't absorb nutrients. The Feingold diet has been used to combat hyperactivity in children. Some diets are used to prevent adverse reactions in sufferers of disorders such as seizures or hypoglycemia. Even diets that include increasing the intake of cancer-fighting vegetables are considered therapeutic, as the intention is to prevent cancer or alleviate the effects of the disease.
Many therapeutic diets require patients to avoid fibrous foods like fruits and vegetables. Hypertension could result from a diet that is high in sodium yet low in potassium and other nutrients. People on a renal diet must avoid consuming too many liquids. Squash, zucchini, and broccoli may be consumed on a renal diet. More common conditions that may require a therapeutic diet include the loss of teeth with age, which may necessitate a diet of soft foods, or a calorie-, fat-, and sodium-controlled diet to treat such routine conditions as being overweight, having high cholesterol levels, or being borderline diabetes.