Harvard College is one of two schools within Harvard University granting undergraduate degrees. It is the only one currently accepting a small amount of transfer students. The pursuit of excellence has long been a hallmark of Harvard. SAT Scores: All transfer applicants are required to have the results of either the SAT I or ACT (with Writing) reported directly from the College Board or the American College Testing Program, respectively, even if you have applied previously as a freshman.
Many students with perfect GPAs and test scores in the top 1% still get rejected from Harvard. Even the most qualified students should consider Harvard a reach school. At the same time, don't give up hope of getting into Harvard if you don't have a 4.0 and a 2400 on the SAT. This member of the Ivy League sends out a remarkable number of rejection letters. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students, and you can see that most students who got into Harvard had 4.0 GPAs, SAT scores (CR+M+W) above 2100, and ACT composite scores above 30.
The acceptance rate at Harvard is 6% . For every 100 applicants, only 6 are admitted. This means the school is extremely selective. Meeting their GPA requirements and SAT/ACT requirements is very important to getting past their first round of filters and proving your academic preparation. SAT and ACT Requirements. Each school has different requirements for standardized testing. Most schools require the SAT or ACT, and many also require SAT subject tests. You must take either the SAT or ACT to submit an application to Harvard.
The average GPA at Harvard is 4.04. This makes Harvard Extremely Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 4.04, Harvard requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. You should also have taken plenty of AP or IB classes to show your ability to excel in academic challenge
Minimum Grade: Harvard has a minimum grade requirement of C for transfer credit. Credits (Min/Max): The maximum amount of credit allowed any transfer student is 8.0 full (year-long) courses, i.e., half of the 16.0 full courses required for the A.B. or S.B. degrees, or the equivalent of two full years of academic work. SAT Scores: All transfer applicants are required to have the results of either the SAT I or ACT (with Writing) reported directly from the College Board or the American College Testing Program, respectively, even if you have applied previously as a freshman.
Applicants for transfer admission must have completed one year of full-time study in a JD program (or one third of total credits required in a part-time program) at a United States law school that is accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA). The competition for transfer admission is high. Many successful transfer candidates typically place very near the top of their first-year law class and would have also been admitted or wait-listed as first-year students on the basis of their pre-law-school credentials.
The average GPA at Harvard is 4.04. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 4.04, Harvard requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. Furthermore, you should be taking hard classes-AP or IB courses-to show that college-level academics is a breeze. SAT and ACT Requirements. Each school has different requirements for standardized testing. Most schools require the SAT or ACT, and many also require SAT subject tests. You must take either the SAT or ACT to submit an application to Harvard.
Trixee15 Posts: 665Registered User Member. August 2005 edited August 2005 in Harvard University. Just curious, what's the average GPA for a TRANSFER student at Harvard, Stanford, Yale, and the like. Also what is the lowest GPA anyone has gottin into an IVY with? Transfer of course. Presently I have a 3.87 GPA. I will more then likely apply to H this year for the fall's freshmen class. That's right, freshmen class. H will not consider me as a transfer and will not give me credit for work already done.
Harvard University does not state a specific GPA that you need in order to enter into their Masters of Public Health program, however it certainly will play a role in the admissions decision. Many students worry about their GPA and how it will affect their chances of admission, and rightfully so because it is important, however it is not the only aspect that affects your admission. It is my understanding that Harvard prizes well-rounded students more than anything else.