Salary results for Staff Nurse. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Staff Nurse-RN in the United States is $70,076, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN in the United States are expected to make less than $70,076. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 4  Purchase Full Report. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN are expected to make less than the median.
Average Staff Nurse salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average Staff Nurse salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The median expected salary for a typical Staff Nurse-RN in the United States is $62,527. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. 
(South Africa). A Staff Nurse earns an average salary of R119,268 per year. A skill in Phlebotomy is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. 
(United States). Average Staff Nurses in the United States make around $28.97 per hour. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $20.75 per hour and $41.05. While years of experience and the individual firm impact pay for this group, geographic location is the most influential factor. Job satisfaction is high and work is enjoyable for most Staff Nurses. Pay by Experience Level for Staff Nurse. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Staff Nurses do not generally earn higher incomes from more experience in the field.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Staff Nurse-RN may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN are expected to make less than the median.
Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit Salaries. Provides professional nursing care for assigned patients in the intensive care unit. Evaluates, assesses, and documents the total intensive care nursing process as needed. Requires an associate's degree and is certified as a registered nurse. Staff Nurse-RN Salaries. Evaluates assigned patients and plans, implements and documents nursing care. Assists physicians during examinations and procedures. Performs various patient tests and administers medications within the scope of practice of the