Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sarcomeres The sarcomeres are what give skeletal and cardiac muscles their striated appearance. A sarcomere is defined as the segment between two neighbouring Z-lines (or Z-discs, or Z bodies). 
Cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle tissue, like skeletal muscle tissue, looks striated or striped. The bundles are branched, like a tree, but connected at both ends. Unlike skeletal muscle tissue, the contraction of cardiac muscle tissue is usually not under conscious control, so it is called involuntary. Skeletal muscle looks striped or  striated  – the fibres contain alternating light and dark bands (striations) like horizontal stripes on a rugby shirt. In skeletal muscle, the fibres are packed into regular parallel bundles
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated
The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers.
A striated muscle is a muscle composed of thousands of units known as sarcomeres. Each sarcomere is composed of distinct bands of different material which give the muscle a striped or striated appearance when it is viewed at a high level of magnification. Skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle are types of striated muscle. Skeletal muscles, a type of striated muscle, are voluntary muscles that allow for the movement of bones and joints. Thousands of sarcomeres form striated muscles. View slideshow of images above.
These paired striations on skeletal muscles are actually bands of sarcomeres that contract and/or relax during movement. In its simplest explanation, the striations on skeletal muscle are necessary for the muscle’s essential functioning in movement and locomotion. So the striations on skeletal muscles actually perform a vital function for limb and/or joint movements. The bands of stripes have specific tasks to ensure that movement occurs smoothly and as directed by the person involved. But striations are not exclusive to skeletal muscles. The muscles of the heart also have similar striations or bands of sarcomeres. The major difference is that cardiac muscles work automatically or involuntarily without the person wanting to do so, while skeletal muscles are voluntarily activated
The A and I bands repeat along the length of the muscle fibers to create the striations visible under the light microscope. 1  Sarcomeres repeat along skeletal and cardiac fibers. 2  Components between adjacent Z-lines comprise the sarcomere. 3  Sarcomeres are considered the functional units of striated muscles. 1 Sarcomeres repeat along skeletal and cardiac fibers. 2  Components between adjacent Z-lines comprise the sarcomere. 3  Sarcomeres are considered the functional units of striated muscles. 4  I Bands are lighter areas of non-overlap between actin and myosin that contain the Z-lines.
Answers. Best Answer: Seen from the side under the microscope, skeletal muscle fibers show a pattern of cross banding, which gives rise to the other name: striated muscle. Stria simply means-Any of a number of tiny parallel grooves such as: the scratches left by a glacier on rocks or the streaks or ridges in muscle tissue. 