Where Is Spain Located. Spain is a country located in South Western Europe. It borders two different seas, the Mediterranean Sea and the Balearic Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean. It shares land-based borders with France and Andorra to the North, and Portugal to the west. It is a member of the European Union.
The given Spain location map shows that Spain is located in the south-western part of Europe continent. Besides, Bay of Biscay lies in the north, Atlantic Ocean in the north-west and south-west, Mediterranean Sea in the east, and in the south, Gibraltar Strait separates Spain from Africa
Located in the continent of Europe, Spain covers 498,980 square kilometers of land and 6,390 square kilometers of water, making it the 52nd largest nation in the world with a total area of 505,370 square kilometers. Spain was founded as a distinct and original nation in 1479. Location of Madrid on a map. Madrid is the capital city of Spain. It has a population of 3,255,944, and is located on a latitue of 40.42 and longitude of -3.7. Madrid is also the political center of Spain, which is considered a Constitutional Monarchy, and home to its Ceremonial head of state.
Countries do not belong to continents. They are located on them.    The mainland part of Spain is located on the continent of Europe.  Spain also controls the cities … of Ceuta and Melilla as well as the  Canary Islands which are part of Africa. Spain is primarily located in the southwest corner of Europe on the Iberian Peninsula. However, Spain also contains two cities on the mainland of Africa: Ceuta and Melilla and … the African Canary Islands. Therefore Spain is primarily a part of Europe, but extends to Africa as well. 7 people found this useful.
The Map showing where is Spain located on the world map. The given Spain location map shows that Spain is located in the south-western part of Europe continent. Spain map also shows that Spain is located on the Iberian Peninsula. The country Spain shares its international boundaries with France and Andorra in the north and Portugal in the west. Besides, Bay of Biscay lies in the north, Atlantic Ocean in the north-west and south-west, Mediterranean Sea in the east, and in the south, Gibraltar Strait separates Spain from Africa continent.
We generally consider that Spain is in Europe. The Canary Islands, off Africa are a Spanish Province but are in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. The Autonomous Cities of … Ceuta and Melilla located on the African continent and surrounded by Morocco were part of the Spanish province of Cadiz until 1995. Spain is primarily located in the southwest corner of Europe on the Iberian Peninsula. However, Spain also contains two cities on the mainland of Africa: Ceuta and Melilla and … the African Canary Islands. Therefore Spain is primarily a part of Europe, but extends to Africa as well. 7 people found this useful
They are located on them.    The mainland part of Spain is located on the continent of Europe.  Spain also controls the cities … of Ceuta and Melilla as well as the  Canary Islands which are part of Africa. Spain is primarily located in the southwest corner of Europe on the Iberian Peninsula. However, Spain also contains two cities on the mainland of Africa: Ceuta and Melilla and … the African Canary Islands. Therefore Spain is primarily a part of Europe, but extends to Africa as well. 7 people found this useful