The remote sites of the Philippines' Sulu Sea can only be reached by Liveaboard and only between March & June each year. The usual start point for Liveaboard trips is Puerta Princessa to the west. It may also be possible to arrange a trip here from Sipalay on Negros Island to the east. Palawan Island separates the Sulu Sea from the South China Sea in remote western Philippines. It is an area famous for its wildlife and nature. At its northern tip, it has some excellent dive spots, including some the world's best wreck diving around Coron Bay...
The Star Trek character Hikaru Sulu is named after the Sulu Sea. According to Sulu actor George Takei,  [Gene] Roddenberry's vision for Sulu was to represent all of Asia, being named for the Sulu Sea instead of using a specific country-specific name. The International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) defines the Sulu Sea as being one of the waters of the East Indian Archipelago.
Su·lu Sea. An arm of the western Pacific Ocean between the Philippines and Borneo. The Sulu Archipelago, a chain of small islands belonging to the Philippines, separates the Sulu Sea from the Celebes Sea southwest of Mindanao. 
The Sulu Sea is a small sea bordered by Palawan & Sabah to the east and the Visayas & Mindanao to the east. The depth of the sea brings cold, nutrient rich waters to the surface-meaning not only huge numbers of fish, but a huge diversity too. Palawan Island separates the Sulu Sea from the South China Sea in remote western Philippines. It is an area famous for its wildlife and nature. At its northern tip, it has some excellent dive spots, including some the world's best wreck diving around Coron Bay...
In the centre of the Sulu Sea, a few atolls rise from unimaginable depths to within a few metres of the surface. These remote atolls, which can only be reached by Liveaboard, are home to some truly world class diving. Palawan Island separates the Sulu Sea from the South China Sea in remote western Philippines. It is an area famous for its wildlife and nature. At its northern tip, it has some excellent dive spots, including some the world's best wreck diving around Coron Bay...
Sulu Sea has a number of islands. The Cuyo Islands and Cagayan Sulu are part of the province of Palawan while Mapun and the Turtle Islands are part of the province of Tawi-Tawi. The Tubbataha Reef National Marine Park, one of the World Heritage Sites, is in Sulu.
The Sulu Sea is a body of water in the southwestern area of the Philippines, separated from the South China Sea in the northwest by Palawan and from the Celebes Sea in the southeast by the Sulu Archipelago. Borneo is found to the southwest and Visayas to the northeast. Sulu Sea contains a number of islands. The Cuyo Islands and Cagayan Sulu are part of the province of Palawan whereas Mapun and the Turtle Islands are part of the province of Tawi-Tawi. Sulu Sea is also where the Tubbataha Reef National Marine Park, one of the World Heritage Sites is located. The International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) defines the Sulu Sea as being one of the waters of the East Indian Archipelago.
&nbsp Hotel Description. Conveniently located in Boracay Island, Sulu Sea Boutique Hotel is a great base from which to explore this vibrant city. With its location just 2.2 km from the city center and 7.9 km from the airport, this 2.5-star hotel attracts numerous travelers each year. We enjoyed staying in Sulu Sea Boutique Hotel because the staff were so nice and the room has a higher worth than we paid. We will definitely come back and this time I will bring my family with me.