Air Conditioner Fan Motor Replacement Cost. It appears that the motor that spins the fan in the air conditioner died last night. I cannot spin the fan blades and the motor makes a loud buzzing sound when turned on and the blades do not move at all and the motor is very hot and smells like it burnt out. I am 95% sure that this is the only problem with the unit. If I can get the motor for under $150 i'll just replace it myself. Otherwise I may just wait until I replace my furnace (it is even older than the air conditioner) and replace the AC unit at the same time, but I do not anticipate doing that until late this year or next year.
The number one reason why a fan motor will fail is because the air cooling the windings of the motor is superheated. All the air cooling a typical outdoor air conditioner fan motor is hot. The air first passes through the outdoor condensing coils where it picks up heat and this heated air cools the fan motor. This leads to the fan motor heating up and this leads to failure. Often when replacing an outdoor air conditioner fan motor the unit must be cycled and tested for proper air movement. If the fan blade is positioned backwards (I have seen this many times) the fan blade will move air, just not a lot of air.
Your condenser fan motor is located usually on the top of the condenser or on the side of it. The condenser is located outside. If the fan is not blowing any air when the a/c is on, most likely your condenser fan motor is burnt out. 2) The Condenser fan relay is bad. New condensers have a relay they turn the motor on and off when the system starts and turns off. The cost to replace a condenser fan relay can range from $175 to $275 the cost depends more on the make and model of the unit and the contractor installing the part.
Well, I had the unit looked at and the fan motor is bad and needs to be replaced, but the guy said he thinks that the motor is going to cost about $500 before labor. He is going to look up the price when he gets back to the shop but I cannot believe that it costs that much. If I can get the motor for under $150 i'll just replace it myself. Otherwise I may just wait until I replace my furnace (it is even older than the air conditioner) and replace the AC unit at the same time, but I do not anticipate doing that until late this year or next year.
Air conditioner fan motor replacement cost. (Commenting to an older post about home repair do-it-yourself) Older post mentioned paying a repairman $548 to replace fan motor in home a/c unit. I replaced my fan motor last night in my home a/c unit myself. Took about 30 min. Motor cost $78 at Grainger, part # 4M205. 208VAC/1Ph 1/4 HP 1.8A 1075 RPM with 1/2 shaft.
Motor Replacement... To begin your air conditioner fan replacement, ensure that the power to the unit is off. Then, you should write down the colors of the fan motor wires and where they are connected. Next, you can remove the motor and fan assembly. Air Conditioner Fan Replacement, A Homeowner's Guide... With our air conditioner fan replacement guide, you can do it yourself and save. The typical cost for an hvac service company to perform this task would be over $200. Our guide will walk you through the process of diagnosis, motor selection, and replacement
The price of the condenser unit will be more or less depending on the Ton, Seer, Branch. Condenser motor cost with and without fan. The condenser motor repair cost range in $290 to $500 without the fan (price including labor + part + service call). If it is with the motor fan, it is around $ 400 to $600. 
The cost to replace a run capacitor for a condenser fan motor from an HVAC contractor can range from $150 to $275 depending on the size and the labor need to install the part. 2) The Condenser fan relay is bad. New condensers have a relay they turn the motor on and off when the system starts and turns off. The cost to replace a condenser fan relay can range from $175 to $275 the cost depends more on the make and model of the unit and the contractor installing the part.
Replacing the motor without the same specs can cause higher utility cost and a shorter life span of the air conditioning system. Also replace the run capacitor when you replace the condenser fan motor. The average cost to replace the condenser fan more can range from $350 to $575. 2) The Condenser fan relay is bad. New condensers have a relay they turn the motor on and off when the system starts and turns off. The cost to replace a condenser fan relay can range from $175 to $275 the cost depends more on the make and model of the unit and the contractor installing the part.