These forms can be very poisonous, even in small doses. Don’t take arsenic supplements. Taking 10 mcg/kg/day over a period of time can produce symptoms of arsenic poisoning. Taking 5 mg of arsenic, or sometimes less, can cause digestive tract symptoms. Higher doses can cause severe poisoning and death.
Exposure to arsenic through drinking water is a great threat to human health. Arsenic is a carcinogen and its consumption can negatively affect the gastrointestinal tract and cardiac, vascular and central nervous systems.
1 Cranial nerves are rarely affected, even in severe poisoning. 2  The mechanism of arsenic neuropathy may be similar to the neuropathy of thiamine deficiency [Sexton and Gowdy 1963], whereby arsenic inhibits the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A and thus blocks the Krebs cycle.
1 The kidney is not the most sensitive target organ for chronic arsenic toxicity as other organ systems may be affected at lower doses. 2  There is limited strength of association between chronic arsenic exposure and renal cancer [IARC 2004; NRC 2000].
Soluble inorganic arsenic can have immediate toxic effects. Ingestion of large amounts can lead to gastrointestinal symptoms such as severe vomiting, disturbances of the blood and circulation, damage to the nervous system, and eventually death.
Arsenic affects intestinal health by disrupting barrier function and inducing inflammatory responses. Processes involved in the transiting of arsenic through the gastrointestinal tract can affect toxicity. More toxic arsenic species which are ingested may be formed in the intestinal lumen as a result of interaction of arsenic with food components and as a consequence of enterocytes and microbiota metabolism.
1 An increased risk of skin cancer in humans is associated with chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic in contaminated water and the workplace. 2  Arsenic-induced skin cancer is frequently characterized by lesions over the entire body, mostly in unexposed areas such as the. 3  palms, 4  soles, and. 5  trunk.
Humans may be exposed to arsenic through food, water and air. Exposure may also occur through skin contact with soil or water that contains arsenic. Levels of arsenic in food are fairly low, as it is not added due to its toxicity.
Both acute and chronic exposure to high levels of arsenic may result in a wide range of adverse cardiovascular effects. 1  There is limited strength of association between chronic arsenic exposure and peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease [IARC 2004].