Windows PC HDMI audio and Elgato Game Capture HD. Elgato Game Capture HD can be used to capture the output of many Windows PCs, via HDMI. The following instructions will help you make sure that the audio from your PC can be picked up both by Elgato Game Capture HD, and your PC's speakers. Windows 7 or Windows 8 Setup. Jack can connect a number of different applications to an audio device, as well as allowing them to share audio between themselves. http://jackaudio.org/. Virtual Audio Cable software allows you to transfer audio (wave) streams between applications and/or devices. http://software.muzychenko.net/eng/vac.htm
Elgato Game Capture HD uses advanced hardware H.264 encoding to capture your gameplay in stunning 1080p Full HD, while keeping the file size low. At the same time, your console's picture is passed through to your TV via HDMI, so you can keep on enjoying your game on the big screen-in pristine quality, without delay. Be efficient. Elgato Game Capture HD doesn't need a lot of cables or even a power supply to record your game: With direct Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 input, you can use a single cable to connect it to your console.
Please try again later. Quick tutorial on how to record audio through your pc if you do not have the ability to stream audio through your hdmi due to graphics card limitations or due to pc problems. 
(By the way the video is not affected, just the audio). Now here's another interesting thing, whenever I change the option from All audio to Chat audio it seems to record the audio just fine, but not the chat. Can the PS4 not focus on 2 different audio outputs (the headphones and the elgato). Please reply as soon as possible I really want this fixed. Mod Edit: Updated label & added break to body of text. Please click here to learn more about labels and here to review the Rules of Conduct.
Elgato Game Capture HD enables you to record PlayStation or Xbox gameplay to a Mac or PC and share it with your friends and fans. With advanced hardware H.264 encoding, you can capture in stunning HD quality, while keeping the file size low. Be efficient. Elgato Game Capture HD doesn't need a lot of cables or even a power supply to record your game: With direct Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 input, you can use a single cable to connect it to your console.
Connect Audio Next, connect your video source’s audio outputs to Elgato Video Capture. Click “Continue” once you hear sound through your computer’s speakers. If the volume is too loud, the meter will turn red, which is a sign of distortion. It is recommended to adjust the volume so that the meter does not turn red. 3. Connect Video Next, start playing back your video source and connect its output to the Elgato Video Capture. Choose the appropriate input (either the S-Video or Composite “RCA”) using the radio buttons until you see your video playing.
Thank you for contacting Elgato Systems. We are sorry to hear that you are having audio issues with your Elgato Game Capture HD. Instead of exporting the raw .ts file, convert and export the video file via the Game Capture HD software to. Sony Vegas in the Sharing section of the Game Capture HD software. I've had the same problem when I record gameplay with my elgato I get video but no sound on my computer. I know the sound works on my computer cause audacity works.
Elgato Game Capture HD: http://www.elgato.com/elgato/na/mainm... I hope this tutorial helped you guys out! If you have any other questions or concerns please let me know in the comment section down below and I will get back to you as soon as possible. 
PC: Insert the software CD-ROM that came with Elgato Video Capture. When the Elgato Video Capture window appears, choose “Install Driver”. Next, choose “Elgato Video Capture”. Usage Connect the Elgato Video Capture hardware to your computer and launch the Elgato Video Capture application. A video capture assistant will walk you through the entire process of capturing video and transferring it to your selected destination. 3. Connect Video Next, start playing back your video source and connect its output to the Elgato Video Capture. Choose the appropriate input (either the S-Video or Composite “RCA”) using the radio buttons until you see your video playing.