Look up aka, AKA, or A.K.A. in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. A.K.A. , AKA, a.k.a. , aka, or a/k/a may refer to:  1 Also known as, used to introduce pseudonyms, aliases, nicknames, working names, legalized names, pen names, maiden names, etc. 1 Aka II of Commagene, Princess from the Kingdom of Commagene, one of the daughters of Mithridates III and Iotapa. 2  Aka people, a group of African pygmies living in the Central African Republic and Congo. 3  Aka (tribe) , a tribe found in West and East Kameng, Arunachal Pradesh, India.
1 Aka I of Commagene, Princess from the Kingdom of Commagene and daughter of Antiochis of Commagene. 1 Aka II of Commagene, Princess from the Kingdom of Commagene, one of the daughters of Mithridates III and Iotapa. 2  Aka people, a group of African pygmies living in the Central African Republic and Congo. 3  Aka (tribe) , a tribe found in West and East Kameng, Arunachal Pradesh, India.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Azqs. Confidence votes 47. An aka name is supposedly what someone is known as or their nickname, because aka stands for also known as. People might label others so they are also known as some other nickname based off of usually what they do or how they ac
AKA / DBA Names. Use AKA/DBA Names to complete alternate business names for the client. It is here where you would enter the “Also Known As” or “Doing Business As” name (if applicable) to be shown on the Client’s Account and Policy forms and coverage. When all AKA/DBA Names have been added, click the Back button to return to the list of AKA/DBA’s that have been entered. See List Example. To edit the information on an AKA/DBA, click on the name of the AKA/DBA in red, make the necessary changes and press Save.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. abbreviation. The definition of aka is an abbreviation that means also-known-as. When your name is Joe but you are also known as Joseph, this is an example of a situation where you are Joe AKA Joseph.
› abbreviation for also ​known as: used when someone has another ​name: James Brown, aka the Godfather of Soul. (Definition of aka from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). › abbreviation for also ​known as (= having as another ​name): James Brown, aka the Godfather of Soul, is one of my ​musical ​heroes. (Definition of aka from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary