Web Original: Zalgo. Zalgo is essentially what happens when you combine a Lovecraftian Eldritch Abomination with modern-day Internet Memetic Mutation and a dash of meta sensibility. Zalgo is the embodiment of that which is right decaying grotesquely into something very wrong. The internet meme is to have corrupted text indicating his approach. We won't burden you with the font on this page, but you can see it here. This site will let you easily Zalgo-ify text.
Zalgo is an Internet legend about an ominous entity believed to cause insanity, death and destruction of the world, similar to the creature Cthulhu created by H.P. Lovecraft in the 1920s. Zalgo is often associated with scrambled text on webpages and photos of people whose eyes and mouth have been covered in black. On March 21st, the earliest known 4chan thread about Zalgo was posted onto /b/ (random) board, featuring a Zalgo-style Calvin and Hobbes image. On April 6th, the first Reddit thread mentioning Zalgo was posted by user Trarcuri.
Zalgo is an unusual internet phenomenon confined to a few select off beat forums and image boards. It often manifests itself in comic strips and formatted text. Confidence votes 4. Zalgo is an unusual internet phenomenon confined to a few select off beat forums and image boards. It often manifests itself in comic strips and formatted text. You can generate Zalgo text here: www.textozor.com.
On forums and image boards, scrambled text began being associated with Zalgo with phrases like “he comes” and “he waits behind the wall.” David Higgins revealed that the text is an abuse of a Unicode feature that enables the user to combine multiple superscript and subscript characters into a vertical line. On March 21st, the earliest known 4chan thread about Zalgo was posted onto /b/ (random) board, featuring a Zalgo-style Calvin and Hobbes image. On April 6th, the first Reddit thread mentioning Zalgo was posted by user Trarcuri.
Zalgo. Zalgo is an internet phenomena and a meme-status urban legend often seen as the personification of chaos and evil, in a similar fashion to the later adaptations of Lovecraft (the earlier Lovecraftian literature however did not have evil and good - due to Lovecraft's nihilistic thinking). 
Zalgo text generator. Let's give our text some metal/scary movie feeling. This tool is not invented by me and, as it turns out, was originally known as Z҉A҉L҉G҉O̚̕̚, but the second I saw the writing, I was sure it's called grunge, because it reminded me the sound of distorted guitars on a loud rock concert. 
Zalgo is a meme where a person takes a popular picture/comic and corrupts it, with scary results. People can also use  Messy text  as a long way of saying Zalgo wuz heer.. Zalgo can be recognized in any context by the two words people say when Zalgo is near... The Creature. Zalgo Invocation. Zalgo is a being that could best be described as a horror, a creature of utmost terror. He is known as He Who Waits Behind the Wall and the Nezperdian Hivemind in some circles. He is an eyeless abomination with seven mouths
I've seen weirdly formatted text called Zalgo like below written on various forums. It's kind of annoying to look at, but it really bothers me because it undermines my notion of what a character is supposed to be. 