In case anyone is wondering. I make the eggs by putting them in a pot with water, then bring it to a rolling boil, remove from heat, cover the pot and let it sit for 12 minutes. I then crack the eggs and dip them in water to remove any small pieces of shells, and then finally dry them. 
The ice water will also cause the egg to contract and pull away from the shell which will make it easier to peel. Let the eggs sit in the ice bath for at least 5 minutes. If you live in a climate where tap water runs very cold, you can run cold water over the eggs for five minutes rather than preparing an ice bath. If the eggs sit in the hot water too long, they will over cook and end up with a green yolk. Extra large eggs will need 18 minutes to fully cook, large eggs need 15 minutes, and medium eggs need 12 minutes. Set a timer to prevent over or under cooking
After the water comes to a boil, cover and remove from heat for at least 10 minutes. The residual heat will cook the yolks completely without turning them green/brown. (The hint here is how many eggs and how much water. If you are cooking 12-18 eggs in lots of water, 10 or 12 minutes works fine. If you are cooking only 6 eggs in a smaller pot with less water, you might want to let them sit for 15 minutes). Finally, stop the cooking by placing the eggs in ice water. PS
Many people feel that eggs should not be hard boiled, only hard cooked. Put the eggs in hot water for 5 minutes while you bring a pot of water to a simmer. Put the eggs in the simmering water and let them simmer for 20 minutes. If you add a splash of vinegar to the water, it will make the eggs easier to peel. put your eggs in a pan, add cold water to cover by 1 inch plus 1 Tb of vinegar or salt (this will keep the egg from running if the shell cracks a bit during the process). bring to a boil, boil for 10 minutes. remove the pan from the heat, let rest for 5 minutes. the eggs will be perfectly hard boiled.
Let the water (with the eggs) boil for about 8-10 minutes. Turn off the heat and let sit for another 5 minutes for hard boiled eggs. If you don't want a dark layer on the egg yolk, and to avoid having that sulfur-like smell to your boiled eggs, take a tack board pin and prick a small hole on the round part of the egg. put your eggs in a pan, add cold water to cover by 1 inch plus 1 Tb of vinegar or salt (this will keep the egg from running if the shell cracks a bit during the process). bring to a boil, boil for 10 minutes. remove the pan from the heat, let rest for 5 minutes. the eggs will be perfectly hard boiled.
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time.
→ Follow this tip: Start by putting the eggs in a saucepan, covering them with cold water, and bringing it to a boil. Then, remove the pan from the heat, cover it, and let it sit for 10 minutes for firm yet creamy hard-boiled eggs, or up to 15 minutes for very firm eggs. 1  How To Boil Eggs Perfectly Every Time. 
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!).
Hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator, unpeeled, for up to a week. Only cook as many eggs as you plan to eat within one week. Choose the size of your pot based on how many eggs you will be cooking. For even heating, the eggs should be placed in a single layer on the bottom of the pot; do not stack the eggs. The pot must also hold enough water to cover the eggs by one inch. If the eggs sit in the hot water too long, they will over cook and end up with a green yolk. Extra large eggs will need 18 minutes to fully cook, large eggs need 15 minutes, and medium eggs need 12 minutes. Set a timer to prevent over or under cooking