A jet bridge (also termed jetway, loading  bridge, aerobridge/airbridge, air jetty,  portal, passenger walkway or passenger boarding  bridge) is an enclosed, allowing passe … ngers to board and  disembark without having to go outside. The reason is simple: Historically, in aerial engagements between two fighter aircraft, the goal was to get to behind the tail of the enemy aircraft, allowing cannon fire to … easily hit the target. They are called dogfights because of their resemblance to two dogs playing, trying to catch each other's tails.
An airport terminal is a building at an airport where passengers transfer between ground transportation and the facilities that allow them to board and disembark from aircraft. Within the terminal, passengers purchase tickets, transfer their luggage, and go through security. 1 Mariano Escobedo International Airport is the first and only airport in Mexico which has a completely satellite terminal. 2  Terminal A is connected from Main to Satellite building via underground tunnels.
The Plane Train opened along with the current airport terminal on September 21, 1980. The system was jointly built by Westinghouse Electric and Adtranz, who supplied the system's initial fleet of C-100 vehicles. The Plane Train is in the secure area of the airport. It operates within two tunnels beneath the centers of the concourse buildings in the airport's Transportation Mall, which also includes a pedestrian tunnel between the train tunnels.
Best Answer: It's called a jetway or jetbridge. It is also refered to as a passanger boarding bridge or an aerobridge. I always hear jetway. (And jetway seems to have a nice ring to it. lol). Source(s): Dad is a pilot.
· just now. Report Abuse. A jet bridge (also termed loading bridge, aerobridge/airbridge, jetway, or passenger boarding bridge) is an enclosed, movable connector which extends from an airport terminal gate to an airplane, thereby enabling passengers to board and disembark without having to go outside. It is a type of movable bridge. 
Bottlenecks. In much of the rest of the world, airdraft park on the ramp. Passengers are transported to the aircraft on busses, and board via wheeled starways. If you have ever landed on time and then waited 45 minutes to an hour for an available gate, you can appreciate the virtues of this austere system. 
An airport terminal is a building at an airport. It is where passengers are able to get on and off aircraft. Inside the terminal, passengers can buy tickets, leave or pick up their luggage, and be checked by security staff. The buildings that provide access to the airplanes through gates are usually called concourses. 
The system is the world's most heavily traveled airport APM system, with 64,000,000 riders in 2002. The APM was designed to quickly transport passengers between Atlanta Airport's Main Terminal and the seven airside concourses, which include the hub for Delta Air Lines and a major focus of Southwest Airlines operations. The Plane Train is in the secure area of the airport. It operates within two tunnels beneath the centers of the concourse buildings in the airport's Transportation Mall, which also includes a pedestrian tunnel between the train tunnels.
Console and terminal are closely related. Originally, they meant a piece of equipment through which you could interact with a computer: in the early days of unix, that meant a teleprinter-style device resembling a typewriter, sometimes called a teletypewriter, or “tty” in shorthand. There is some symbiosis between the terminal emulator (or real terminal on a serial port), the kernel tty semantics/behaviour, and the shell or other process on the other end of the tty. I think I just half-convinced myself I'm wrong here: Consider resizing your xterm.
A satellite terminal is a building detached from other airport buildings, so that aircraft can park around its entire circumference. The first airport to use a satellite terminal was London Gatwick Airport. It used an underground pedestrian tunnel to connect the satellite to the main terminal. 1 Mariano Escobedo International Airport is the first and only airport in Mexico which has a completely satellite terminal. 2  Terminal A is connected from Main to Satellite building via underground tunnels.