The Model of Human Occupation and its corresponding assessments and resources are the result of three decades of extensive contributions and collaborations from the late Dr. Gary Kielhofner, Professor and Head of the Department of Occupational Therapy at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
It has been argued that MOHO is the most widely-cited and utilized occupation-focused practice model in the world (Haglund, Ekbladh, Thorell, & Hallberg, 2000; Law & McColl, 1989; Lee, 2010; National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy, 2004).
According to the NBCOT report, it was the occupation-based model most frequently used by practitioners and its use is comparable to that of other major occupational therapy models [e.g., biomechanical (17%), neurodevelopmental (14%) sensory integration (13%)].
MOHO is also used in a variety of contexts. For example, it has been applied in hospitals, outpatient clinics, residential facilities, nursing homes, rehabilitation programs, work programs, prisons and correctional settings, and community based organizations.
The Model of Human Occupation (MOHO) explains how occupations are motivated, patterned, and performed within everyday environments (Kielhofner, 2008).
A National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) study of U.S. entry level practitioners asked respondents to indicate their top three frames of reference.
A Model Of Human Occupation Approach. *MOHO emerged around 1980 as a further definition of the theory of OCCUPATIONAL BEHAVIOR developed by Mary Reilly (1962). *The central idea of occupational behavior is that theory engagement in activity or occupation in itself will produce and maintain health.
MOHO Web is a confidential online resource for occupational therapy practitioners, educators, students, and researchers. Here you may access and use all of the MOHO assessments and interventions that are supported for distribution through the University of Illinois at Chicago.
522-533 Applying the MOHO in pediatric practice 4. READ: Willard and Spackman's occupational therapy, (12th ed.); pp. 505-525 The Model of Human Occupation 5. READ: Occupational therapy for elders (3rd ed.); pp. 96-101 Model of Human Occupation 6.