The study of insects is a subset of Biology called Entomology. Thus scientists who study insects (bees, ants, wasps, butterflies, moths, flies, beetles, bugs, mayflies, manti … ds, dragonflies et cetera) are called entomologists. 8 people found this useful.
A scientist that studies nature is called a naturalist, I believe. Though there's other variations such as scientists who study plants alone, they are known as botanists. Hope … that helped somewhat. Thus scientists who study insects (bees, ants, wasps, butterflies, moths, flies, beetles, bugs, mayflies, manti … ds, dragonflies et cetera) are called entomologists. 8 people found this useful.
Francesco Redi, the founder of the experimental biology, is recognized to be one of the greatest biologists of all time. A biologist, or biological scientist, is a scientist who studies living organisms, often in the context of their environment. Biologists involved in fundamental research attempt to explore and further explain the underlying mechanisms that govern the functioning of organisms. There is much overlap between different fields of biology such as botany, zoology, microbiology, genetics and evolutionary biology, and it is often difficult to classify a biologist as only one of them. Many jobs in biology as a field require an academic degree.
The study of insects is a subset of Biology called Entomology. Thus scientists who study insects (bees, ants, wasps, butterflies, moths, flies, beetles, bugs, mayflies, manti … ds, dragonflies et cetera) are called entomologists. 8 people found this useful.
FIND OUT MORE. The study of life and living things is called biology. Scientists who study biology are known as biologists. The main branches of biology are zoology (the study of animals), botany (the study of plants), and MICROBIOLOGY (the study of tiny organisms). Biologists study even more specialized branches within zoology, botany, and microbiology. Cell biology, for example, involves studying one of the smallest units of a living thing. Anatomy, on the other hand, looks at the complete structure of organisms. Physiology is the study of how organisms work.
Some work on microorganisms while others study multicellular organisms. There is much overlap between different fields of biology such as botany, zoology, microbiology, genetics and evolutionary biology, and it is often difficult to classify a biologist as only one of them. Many jobs in biology as a field require an academic degree.
While biologist can apply to any scientist studying biology, most biologists research and specialise in specific fields. In this way, biologists investigate large-scale organism interactions (ecology), whole multicellular organisms, organs, tissues, cells, and small-scale cellular and molecular processes. There is much overlap between different fields of biology such as botany, zoology, microbiology, genetics and evolutionary biology, and it is often difficult to classify a biologist as only one of them. Many jobs in biology as a field require an academic degree.
Calling All Animal Scientists. A person who specializes in the study of animals is called a zoologist. Zoologists who study certain kinds of animals have their own names. 1  Anthropologists study human beings. 2  Entomologists study insects. 3  Herpetologists study reptiles and amphibians. 4  Ichthyologists specialize in fish. 
Biological scientists study living organisms and their relationship to the environment. They perform research to gain a better understanding of fundamental life processes and apply that understanding to developing new products or processes. Research can be broken down into two categories: basic and applied. 
Every type of animal from birds to insects is studied by scientists under a particular branch of biology called zoology -- the study of animals. The scientists that study reptiles and amphibians are called herpetologists. These scientists dedicate large portions of their lives to the understanding of these creatures. 