The wall of the trachea are supported by rings of stiff cartilage. This structure prevents the trachea from collapsing during inhalation and reduce airway resistance. 3 people found this useful. Edit. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Koala coco. Confidence votes 43. The cartilage is necessary to hold the trachea open. The pressures of the air moving in and out of the lungs would collapse the trachea if there was nothing to hold it open.
Click to read more below. The trachea (or windpipe) is a wide, hollow tube that connects the larynx (or voice box) to the bronchi of the lungs. It is an integral part of the body’s airway and has the vital function of providing air flow to and from the lungs for respiration. The open ends of the cartilage rings face the posterior of the trachea near the esophagus. Four layers of tissues make up the walls of the trachea: 1  The mucosa is the innermost layer and consists of ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium with many goblet cells.
Cartilage is necessary in the wall of the trachea because it supports the trachea and keeps it open at all times. New born babies do not have these rings of cartilage around t … heir trachea, which is why their heads need to always be supported carefully. 2 people found this useful. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Koala coco. Confidence votes 43. The cartilage is necessary to hold the trachea open. The pressures of the air moving in and out of the lungs would collapse the trachea if there was nothing to hold it open.
1. Perichondrium. 2. Ring of hyaline cartilage. 3. Adipose (fat) cells. Close-Up View. This slide shows a stained section of the trachea (windpipe). Note the rings of hyaline cartilage embedded in the walls of the trachea that provide support and help to maintain an open airway.
In the thorax, the trachea ends where it splits into the left and right bronchi, which continue onward toward the lungs. Viewed in cross section, the trachea is about one inch (2.6 cm) in diameter. It has a thin, membranous wall with C-shaped rings of cartilage embedded into it. Between sixteen and twenty cartilage rings are stacked along the length of the trachea, with narrow membranous regions spaced between the cartilage rings. The open ends of the cartilage rings face the posterior of the trachea near the esophagus. Four layers of tissues make up the walls of the trachea: 1  The mucosa is the innermost layer and consists of ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium with many goblet cells.
Trachea. The trachea is a wide flexible tube, the lumen of which is kept open by 20 tracheal cartilages, which are C-shaped rings of hyaline cartilage. The gaps between the rings of cartilage are filled by the trachealis muscle-a bundle of smooth muscle, and fibroelastic tissue. Respiratory | Trachea, bronchioles and bronchi. The conducting portion is made up of: nasal cavities, nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchii and bronchioles. The trachea branches to give rise to two primary (main) bronchii. These then branch successively to give rise in turn to secondary and tertiary bronchii
In the wall of the trachea, there are pieces of stiff material called cartilage. Report Abuse. The cartilage is there for support. Without it, your trachea would collapse, and you'd suffocate painfully. *winces* Try not to get punched in the throat.