Cartilage is a strong, flexible type of connective tissue found within a body. Learn more about its structure and function, as well as the different types of cartilage connective tissue we have in our bodies. Fibrocartilage is the cartilage with the fewest number of chondrocytes, which means it bends the least. This is the type of cartilage found in your knee, as well as in between the vertebrae in your spine. Note how many chondrocytes are on this slide-only three!
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cartilage (Noun). A type of dense, non-vascular connective tissue, usually found at the end of joints, the rib cage, the ear, the nose, in the throat and between intervertebral disks. Origin: From cartilage, from cartilago. Cartilage. Is a form of flexible connective tissue found in many areas in the bodies of humans and other animals. In humans cartilage can be found in the joints between bones, the rib cage, the ear, the nose, the bronchial tubes and the intervertebral discs.
a specialized, gristly connective tissue present in both mature animals and embryos, providing a model in which most of the bones develop, and constituting an important part of the organism's growth mechanism; the three most important types are hyaline cartilage, elastic cartilage and fibrocartilage. costal cartilage a bar of hyaline cartilage that attaches a rib to the sternum in the case of true ribs, or to the immediately above rib in the case of the upper false ribs. cricoid cartilage a ringlike cartilage forming the lower and back part of the larynx. diarthrodial cartilage articular cartilage.
It is the only type of cartilage that contains type I collagen in addition to the normal type II. Fibrocartilage is found in the pubic symphysis, the anulus fibrosus of intervertebral discs, menisci and the TMJ. It is also present at the tendon bone interface, where there is a transition from soft tendon to uncalcified then calcified fibrocartilage before becoming bone. If hyaline cartilage is torn all the way down to the bone, the blood supply from inside the bone is sometimes enough to start some healing inside the lesion. In cases like this, the body will form a scar in the area using a special type of cartilage called fibrocartilage.
Of the three kinds of cartilage in the body, fibrocartilage has the greatest tensile strength. Fibrocartilaginous disks between the vertebrae help cushion the jolts to which the vertebral column is continually subjected. See also hyaline cartilage. fibrocartilaginous, adj. /fi·bro·car·ti·lage/ (-kahr´tĭ-laj) cartilage of parallel, thick, compact collagenous bundles, separated by narrow clefts containing the typical cartilage cells (chondrocytes).fibrocartilag´inous.
Full Definition of CARTILAGE. 1. : a usually translucent somewhat elastic tissue that composes most of the skeleton of vertebrate embryos and except for a small number of structures (as some joints, respiratory passages, and the external ear) is replaced by bone during ossification in the higher vertebrates. 2. cartilage. noun car·ti·lage \ˈkaer-ˈkär-tə, lij-ˈkaert\. ˈkärt. : lij tweet a strong but flexible material found in some parts of (the body such as, the nose the, outer ear and).
White fibrocartilage consists of a mixture of white fibrous tissue and cartilaginous tissue in various proportions. It owes its flexibility and toughness to the former of these constituents, and its elasticity to the latter. If hyaline cartilage is torn all the way down to the bone, the blood supply from inside the bone is sometimes enough to start some healing inside the lesion. In cases like this, the body will form a scar in the area using a special type of cartilage called fibrocartilage.
Medical Definition of FIBROCARTILAGE. : cartilage in which the matrix except immediately about the cells is largely composed of fibers like those of ordinary connective tissue; also: a structure or part composed of such cartilage. — fi·bro·car·ti·lag·i·nous \-ˌkaert-ˌkärt-əl-ˈaj-ə\ nəs. adjective Tweet. : cartilage in which the matrix except immediately about the cells is largely composed of fibers like those of ordinary connective tissue; also: a structure or part composed of such cartilage.
Medical Definition of CARTILAGE. 1. : a usually translucent somewhat elastic tissue that composes most of the skeleton of vertebrate embryos and except for a small number of structures (as some joints, respiratory passages, and the external ear) is replaced by bone during ossification in the higher vertebrates. 2. cartilage. noun car·ti·lage \ˈkaer-ˈkär-tə, lij-ˈkaert\. ˈkärt. : lij tweet a strong but flexible material found in some parts of (the body such as, the nose the, outer ear and).