The trachea, colloquially called the windpipe, is a tube that connects the pharynx and larynx to the lungs, allowing the passage of air, and so is present in almost all air-breathing animals with lungs. Only in the lungfish, where the lung is connected to the pharynx and the larynx, is it absent. The epiglottis closes the opening to the larynx during swallowing. The trachea develops in the second month of development. It is lined with an epithelium that has goblet cells which produce protective mucins. An inflammatory condition, also involving the larynx and bronchi, called croup can result in a barking cough.
The trachea is reinforced with cartilaginous rings in order to retain the shape while breathing and the rings are incomplete to allow the trachea to expand and move when food … passes through the esophagus and while bending the neck. 5 people found this useful. The trachea is surrounded by bands of cartilaginous tissue to prevent it collapsing in on itself, which would then cut-off our airway and prevent us from breathing. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
they hold the trachea open, otherwise it would be squeezed flat like the esophagus when it is empty. the trachea also has bands of smooth muscle that allow the esophagus … to expand into the trachea when swallowing. this is why you cant breathe and swallow at the same time. The trachea is surrounded by bands of cartilaginous tissue to prevent it collapsing in on itself, which would then cut-off our airway and prevent us from breathing. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
They prevent the trachea from collapsing when there is no air in it. Being rings they allow for more movement, and being cartilage (as opposed to bone) they are softer and all … ow for some flexibility. 2 people found this useful. The trachea is surrounded by bands of cartilaginous tissue to prevent it collapsing in on itself, which would then cut-off our airway and prevent us from breathing. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
The 'c' shaped cartilage rings are present in the trachea to prevent it from collapsing and they keep the trachea open for air to come in and out. The C-shaped cartilage rings surrounding the trachea act as a support system, and allow the trachea to remain opened and prevent collapse with normal body movements.
The cricoid cartilage is the only complete ring of cartilage in the trachea. Below this there are from fifteen to twenty incomplete C-shaped tracheal rings of cartilage that reinforce the front and sides of the trachea to protect and maintain the airway. The epiglottis closes the opening to the larynx during swallowing. The trachea develops in the second month of development. It is lined with an epithelium that has goblet cells which produce protective mucins. An inflammatory condition, also involving the larynx and bronchi, called croup can result in a barking cough.
In humans there are about 15 - 20 incomplete C-shaped cartilaginous rings which reinforces the anterior and lateral sides of the trachea to protect and maintain the airway open. The C-shaped cartilage rings surrounding the trachea act as a support system, and allow the trachea to remain opened and prevent collapse with normal body movements.
The rings of cartilage strengthen the trachea so that it does not collapse, but remains open so that air can get through it. If It didn't it would collapse in on itself and yo … u would be unable to breathe. 14 people found this useful. The C-shaped cartilage rings surrounding the trachea act as a support system, and allow the trachea to remain opened and prevent collapse with normal body movements.
The Trachea (also known as the wind pipe) has cartilage rings on it. This prevents the pipe collapsing on itself. If the trachea did collapse, it would disallow us from breath … ing. Also the trachea might collapse and damage the esophagus (also known as the food pipe) which is behind it. The C-shaped cartilage rings surrounding the trachea act as a support system, and allow the trachea to remain opened and prevent collapse with normal body movements.