Fly to London on the Emirates A380. Book Emirates A380 flights to London Heathrow and experience unmatched luxury in the air, including a spacious onboard Lounge in Business Class and our First Class Shower Spas.
Emirates flights arriving from Dubai in London Heathrow depart and arrive in Terminal 3. report this answer. Updated on Friday, February 03 2012 at 03:11PM GMT. Source: www.heathrowairport.com/... 
Check in at Heathrow Airport For Flights to Dubai. Check In for flights from London Heathrow to Dubai with Emirates is at terminal 3. A designated check in area is available and your flight information will be displayed on the monitors within the terminal building. Flights From London Heathrow to Dubai. Flights run daily from London Heathrow to Dubai International Airport with British Airways, Emirates, Virgin Atlantic and Royal Brunei. *Five scheduled flights depart from London Heathrow to Dubai daily with Emirates at the following times:
While most airlines cancelled all their flights to London during the last 12 hours, morning flights today were once again placed on schedule. The 2.50am Dubai to London Gatwick Emirates flight EK011 took off at 3.12am and is scheduled to land at 7am local time. The EK007 that was scheduled at 3.10am from Dubai to Heathrow was delayed by almost 45 minutes and is expected to land at 7.45am. All other Emirates flights for the day to London are marked as scheduled. As for departures from Heathrow, two morning flights were about 25 minutes late while the status of 16 others flights departing to Dubai are on schedule. Flight EY11 departed from Abu Dhabi at 9.25am (delayed from 2.40am) and EY19 departed on schedule at 8.40am.
Emirates A380 flights Dubai-London Heathrow. Book Emirates A380 flights to London Heathrow and experience unmatched luxury in the air, including a spacious onboard Lounge in Business Class and our First Class Shower Spas.
Emirates. Emirates departs and flies from Heathrow Airport's Terminal 3. Check in at check-in area E, T3, between 3 hrs and 2.5 hrs before your Emirates flight. Additional information-First Class passengers have a baggage limit of 40 kgs and a minimum check-in time of 1 hr. 
London Heathrow Airport (LHR). One of the world’s largest airports, Heathrow Airport is the hub where most flights to London arrive, including many offered by British Airways. Located in west of London, Heathrow Airport has five terminals
Executive lounges are based at all terminals at London Heathrow. Flights to Dubai with Virgin Atlantic and flights to Dubai with Emirates will depart from terminal 3 and will therefore use the servisair lounge. It is open daily from 06:30 until 22:30. Flights From London Heathrow to Dubai. Flights run daily from London Heathrow to Dubai International Airport with British Airways, Emirates, Virgin Atlantic and Royal Brunei. *Five scheduled flights depart from London Heathrow to Dubai daily with Emirates at the following times:
Heathrow Terminal 3 is an airport terminal at Heathrow Airport, serving London, the capital city of the United Kingdom. Terminal 3 is currently used by Oneworld members and a few other non-affiliated airlines. It is also the hub for Virgin Atlantic 's long-haul operations. Opened as The Oceanic Terminal on 13 November 1961, it was built to handle flight departures for long-haul routes. At this time the airport had a direct helicopter service to Central London from the gardens on the roof of the terminal building.