As well one may need more complicated treatment like surgery. In general, small broken bones with simple fractures take about four weeks to heal in small children. In teenagers and adults, small bones — like a finger or wrist bone — with a simple fracture, will take about six weeks to heal. Larger broken bones, for example the bones in the thigh, would take a great deal longer to heal, usually six weeks to three months in the average healthy adult.
Unfortunately, this can take up to a year to 18 months sometimes, before a final outcome is known. That is not to say that you will be laid up for a year, you will be up and about long before that, but it may be that long till you get to the end of your rehabilitation. Also ask your surgeon how long he thinks it will take for union of the fracture and also how long till you get back to your regular activities. He/she is the one who knows how well the fracture was fixed and what it can withstand. Hang in there. You still have a long ways to go and a lot of hard work to do
Article by Dr.Sal. The following is a rough estimate to how long it will take for your poor broken bone to heal in a cast. Remember that if you smoke or drink alcohol heavy, or required surgical correction, these times may be longer. 3 weeks. Legs take so long to heal because they have to support the full weight of your body so they need to be pretty sturdy before you can start using 'em.
How Broken Bones Repair Themselves. It's easy to think of our bones as solid, lifeless matter where all of our living tissue just sits. But your skeleton is as much a living part of your being as your softer tissues and organs. The body stores minerals in the hard, compact bone. 
Natural help for a lamb with a broken leg. A month ago we had a day old lamb come in the house with a broken leg. It was a clean break, just below the knee joint of his left hind leg. At a day old, common farm wisdom says, “he doesn’t stand a chance. It will also wick moisture away from the lamb’s skin keeping the wound dryer. We had to splint the leg three times before we got it right. Here’s what we learned: 1  The knee and hock joints need to be stabilized by the splint, in order for the break to heal properly.
charles, There is a difference between the time it takes for the bone to unite and for you to rehabilitate the limb. In femur fractures, the time to union is usually between 12 to 16 weeks for low energy fractures and around 16 to 20 for high energy fractures. Also ask your surgeon how long he thinks it will take for union of the fracture and also how long till you get back to your regular activities. He/she is the one who knows how well the fracture was fixed and what it can withstand. Hang in there. You still have a long ways to go and a lot of hard work to do
Intramembranous ossification is the process through which bones heal. The bones of a child tend to break more easily, and so it's important to be vigilant about a second injury to the broken bone. A person with a broken finger. The way in which a bone is broken may effect the amount of time it takes to heal. Wrist fractures take about six weeks to heal. In teenagers and adults, small bones — like a finger or wrist bone — with a simple fracture, will take about six weeks to heal. Larger broken bones, for example the bones in the thigh, would take a great deal longer to heal, usually six weeks to three months in the average healthy adult.
· just now. Report Abuse. it's depend on how bad is your 'broken leg' are.. no exercise, complately rest in bed and take a good or balance diet..sure your leg injury will heal fast.... 
If the broken bone is still in position, you'll usually just need a plaster cast. This holds the bone in place so it can heal. If there's a lot of swelling, you may just have a splint or cast around the back half of your leg until the swelling goes down. A full cast can be fitted a few days later. You may be provided with painkillers to take home and information on how to look after your cast. Recovering from a broken leg. You'll be given advice by your doctor about how much you should move your leg and when you can put weight on it. It takes around six to eight weeks for a minor fracture to heal.