That could be pork’s new slogan after the United States Department of Agriculture on Tuesday said it was lowering its safe cooking temperature to 145 degrees, from the longtime standard of 160. The new recommendation is in line with what many cookbook authors and chefs have been saying for years.
One of the most common misconceptions about pork is that it needs to be cooked well-done. For many years, that meant cooking it to an internal temperature of 160°F. Any sign of pink in a grilled pork chop or roasted pork loin was cause for alarm.
The internal temperature of the pork roast should between 145 and 160 degrees. Do not overcook the pork, it will become dry. Also make sure you allow the pork loin roast for about 10 minutes before serving. There is no need to cover the roast with foil or a lid while it is cooking; this is a dry roasting technique.
With a pork tenderloin: Season the meat, sear all sides in a very hot pan, and then finish in the oven at 350°F (175°C) degrees until the internal temp. hits 145°F (63°C). Then let it sit for 10 minutes, and cut 'er up. If you need it done faster, a higher oven temp will accomplish this, but may compromise quality.
A boneless pork loin is best when smoked until the internal temperature reaches 145°F, then removed and covered for a three minute rest. According to the USDA (the United States Department of Agriculture), pork is safely done when it reaches 145°F.
Today's pork can be safely enjoyed when cooked to an internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming.
Check roast for temperature with a meat thermometer. When the temperature is between 145 to 160 degrees remove the roast for from the oven. You may need to adjust cooking time. All ovens and cuts of meat are different. Allow roast to rest for about 10 minutes before carving. If desired serve with pan juices.
I always season my pork tenderloins, then pan-sear for a crispy brown outer crust, then put into the oven at 350 degrees for about 45 minutes to one hour. At 45 minutes, I begin checking the internal temperature of the meat.