It's not easy to find money to start a business if your personal credit history isn't pristine. But it can be done. Here are some ways you may be able to get the money you need to get the business off the ground. Times are tough-especially for those budding entrepreneurs looking to get their business off the ground. 
Get the word out. The best-run business in the world will fail, if no body knows it exists. Here's your chance to make up for a lack of capital with your own hard work-if you can't afford to run TV adds or rent billboard space, try printing off flyers at home and handing them out on weekends. 1 Though it's harder to balance your side project with your day job and your family life, it's much safer. 2  If you think you may want to start your own business in the near future, avoid signing an employment contract with a clause restricting your ability to pursue other sources of income.
In order to start a business with no money, try using credit cards. Find out ... How to Start up Your Own Small Business with No Money -- and Bad ... bigenoughbusiness.com/how-to-start-up-yo ­ur-own-small-business-wi... Oct 11, 2011 -- I want to start a business, but I have no money.. I hear you, and you're not alone. ... How can I start a business with no money and bad credit I know it sounds impossible just .... SCORE is a resource partner with the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Looking for small business grants with no money and bad credit ...‎ - Jul 30, 2011.
If you're determined to save money, you can probably find a lot of other ways to cut back on your spending. 6 - Use a credit card. Using a credit card-if you have good credit-is the easiest way to get money to start a business. Equipment, suppliers, advertising and postage (for mailings) can all be purchased with a credit card. And if your credit card gives you a line of credit, you can give yourself an instant loan (up to your credit limit)
4 - Get a part-time job. Work part time and save up your earnings until you have enough money to start the business. Or, as an alternative, work part-or full-time in your own business and take a part-time job to supplement the income from your new business. 5 - Live frugally-and invest the savings in your business. Using a credit card-if you have good credit-is the easiest way to get money to start a business. Equipment, suppliers, advertising and postage (for mailings) can all be purchased with a credit card.
If you ever wanted to know How to get a grant to start my own business - then this article is for you. It covers helpful information and provides resource links for getting government grants for starting a business as well as an overview of government grants for minorities. slide 1 of 4. 
It's not easy to find money to start a business if your personal credit history isn't pristine. ... BusinessKnowHow.com small business and home business website ... Plus, bad credit (or even no credit) will make it very difficult for business owners ... ... How can I start a business with no money and bad credit I know it sounds impossible just .... SCORE is a resource partner with the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Looking for small business grants with no money and bad credit ...‎ - Jul 30, 2011.
Creating and sustaining your own business isn't just a way to wealth-it's a way to pursue your life's dreams and find personal fulfillment. This path isn't an easy one, but it's one that all of history's greatest entrepreneurs have had to follow. 1 Though it's harder to balance your side project with your day job and your family life, it's much safer. 2  If you think you may want to start your own business in the near future, avoid signing an employment contract with a clause restricting your ability to pursue other sources of income.
Most businesses do not qualify for government grants. money, money, money image by easaab from Fotolia.com. If you look hard enough, and sometimes get lucky, you might find free money to help start your business — a grant. You should not, however, bank on getting one, because grants are extremely hard to find. Despite what some people say, the federal government does not give tons of free money to businesses. Thus, you probably have to look to alternative sources for a grant.