On May 27, 1774, the Virginia House of Burgesses proposed a continental congress. A special convention was held on August 1 to elect delegates to the meeting in Philadelphia the following month. Thomas Jefferson, a delegate from Albemarle County, introduced a Summary View of the Rights of British America.. It failed to gain the support of the Virginia convention, but it brought attention to Jefferson as an exponent of the American cause. The First Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia 's Carpenters Hall on September 5, 1774. Twelve of the 13 colonies sent delegates.
Answer There were several causes for calling the First Continental Congress. Many of the reasons centered around new, and severe, taxes passed by the English Parliament on Colonial commerce. There was the Tea Act, the Molasses Act, several other tax revenue acts, and then, the ultimate insult, The Stamp Act.
In addition to the colonies which had sent delegates to the First Continental Congress, the Congress resolved on October 21, 1774 to send letters of invitation to Quebec, Saint John's Island (now Prince Edward Island), Nova Scotia, Georgia, East Florida, and West Florida. Their appeal to the Crown had no effect, and so the Second Continental Congress was convened the following year to organize the defense of the colonies at the onset of the American Revolutionary War. The delegates also urged each colony to set up and train its own militia.
On September 5, 1774, delegates from each of the 13 colonies except for Georgia (which was fighting a Native-American uprising and was dependent on the British for military supplies) met in Philadelphia as the First Continental Congress to organize colonial resistance to Parliament’s Coercive Acts. The First Continental Congress, which was comprised of delegates from the colonies, met in 1774 in reaction to the Coercive Acts, a series of measures imposed by the British government on the colonies in response to their resistance to new taxes.
It was called in response to The passage of the Coercive Acts (also known as Intolerable Acts by the Colonial Americans) by the British Parliament. The Intolerable Acts had punished Massachusetts for the Boston Tea Party. Their appeal to the Crown had no effect, and so the Second Continental Congress was convened the following year to organize the defense of the colonies at the onset of the American Revolutionary War. The delegates also urged each colony to set up and train its own militia.
The First Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia's Carpenters Hall on September 5, 1774. Twelve of the 13 colonies sent delegates. Organized in response to the Coercive Acts enacted by Great Britain earlier that year, the major accomplishments of the Congress was to formalize a boycott of the British goods and to set up a Second Continental Congress the next year.
The First Continental Congress was a meeting of delegates from twelve of the thirteen colonies that met on September 5 to October 26, 1774 at Carpenters' Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, early in the American Revolution. Their appeal to the Crown had no effect, and so the Second Continental Congress was convened the following year to organize the defense of the colonies at the onset of the American Revolutionary War. The delegates also urged each colony to set up and train its own militia.
There were several causes for calling the First Continental Congress. Many of the reasons centered around new, and severe, taxes passed by the English Parliament on Colonial commerce. There was the Tea Act, the Molasses Act, several other tax revenue acts, and then, the ultimate insult, The Stamp Act. Organized in response to the Coercive Acts enacted by Great Britain earlier that year, the major accomplishments of the Congress was to formalize a boycott of the British goods and to set up a Second Continental Congress the next year.
There were actually several causes of the First Continental  Congress. One such cause was the series of tax acts that the  British Parliament had passed on the American colo … nies. 3 people found this useful. Organized in response to the Coercive Acts enacted by Great Britain earlier that year, the major accomplishments of the Congress was to formalize a boycott of the British goods and to set up a Second Continental Congress the next year.
What event prompted the formation of the First Continental Congress? the Boston Massacre the Boston Tea Party the battles of Lexington and Concord the publication of Thomas Paine’s Common Sense. 