The Maltese had been recognized as a FCI breed under the patronage of Italy in 1954, at the annual meeting in Interlaken, Switzerland. The current FCI standard is dated November 27, 1989, and the latest translation from Italian to English is dated April 6, 1998. This breed has been referred falsely as the  Bichon , as that name refers to the family (small long-haired dog) and not the breed. The Kennel Club officially settled on the name Maltese for the breed in the 19th century.
History. The Maltese dog is one of the most ancient of the toy breeds, with a history that can be traced back at least two millennia. Artists, poets, and writers immortalized this small dog in the early great cultures of Greece, Rome, and Egypt. Wherever he came from, the Maltese thrived. By the 15th century, he had found a secure place in the arms and hearts of French aristocrats. During the reign of Henry VIII, Maltese arrived in the British Isles. By the end of the 16th century, the Maltese had become a favorite pet for noble and royal ladies.
Where the Maltese in the U.S. were imported from is not known; however, what is known is that the Maltese lines in the U.S. today have resulted from the importation of Maltese from Great Britain, canada, Germany, France, and Italy. ------------------------. History and Origin of the Maltese Dog.
Maltese dogs didn't actually come from the Island of Malta. While no one knows for sure, most historians believe the Maltese descended from a Spitz-like dog in Southern Europe. They were prized by the upper class, aristocrats, statespersons and royalty. The Maltese was even believed to possess medicinal powers of healing--the ailing would place the dog on their stomach or chest for comfort.
Although there is some evidence that the breed originated in Asia, Maltese are generally associated with the Isle of Malta, a tiny island off the coast of Italy. ------------------------. History and Origin of the Maltese Dog.
The Maltese (Maltese: Maltin) are an ethnic group indigenous to Malta, and identified with the Maltese language. Malta is an island in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. Included within the ethnic group defined by the Maltese people are the Gozitans (Maltese: Għawdxin) who inhabit Malta's sister island, Gozo. 46,998 Maltese-born residents were recorded by the 2001 Australian Census, 30,178 by the 2001 UK Census, 9,525 by the 2001 Canadian Census and 9,080 by the 2000 United States Census. Emigration dropped dramatically after the mid-1970s and has since ceased to be a social phenomenon of significance.
The Maltese is thought to have been descended from a Spitz-type dog found among the Swiss Lake Dwellers and was selectively bred to attain its small size. There is also some evidence that the breed originated in Asia and is related to the Tibetan Terrier; however, the exact origin is unknown. This breed has been referred falsely as the  Bichon , as that name refers to the family (small long-haired dog) and not the breed. The Kennel Club officially settled on the name Maltese for the breed in the 19th century.
Let's take a look at the history of the Maltese dog. Where did the Maltese come from and what are its origins? The Maltese breed has been on this world for at least 29 centuries. Dating back so far has caused a bit of debate as to the exact origin of the dog. We are lucky that the Maltese breed was strong enough to evolve from a small grouping that was separated from other countries...fortunately the bloodlines were strong and all of us have the opportunity to own this amazing dog.
The oldest record of this breed was found on a Greek amphora found in the Etruscan town of Vulci, in which a Maltese-like dog is portrayed along with the word μελιταιε (Melitaie). Archaeologists date this ancient Athenian product to the decades around 500 BC. This breed has been referred falsely as the  Bichon , as that name refers to the family (small long-haired dog) and not the breed. The Kennel Club officially settled on the name Maltese for the breed in the 19th century.
Originally called the Canis Melitaeus in Latin, it has also been known in English as the ancient dog of Malta, the Roman Ladies' Dog, the Maltese Lion Dog.. The origin of the common name Cokie is unknown, but is believed to have originated in the mid-1960s on the U.S. East Coast and spread in popular use. This breed has been referred falsely as the  Bichon , as that name refers to the family (small long-haired dog) and not the breed. The Kennel Club officially settled on the name Maltese for the breed in the 19th century.