That's exactly what should be happening -- but it can still be tough on your back. You've got lots of company -- most pregnant women experience back pain, usually starting in the second half of pregnancy. You should know that there are things you can do to minimize your back pain. Here's what helps. 1 This may result in back pain or strain. 2  Hormone changes. 3  During pregnancy, your body makes a hormone called relaxin that allows ligaments in the pelvic area to relax and the joints to become looser in preparation for the birth process.
If you're getting back pain early on in pregnancy, relaxin's likely to be the cause (Murray and Hassall 2014, NCCWCH 2008) . It's common to have lower back pain in the first trimester (Murray and Hassall 2014, Vermani et al 2010) . Back pain is very common in pregnancy. Between a half and three quarters of pregnant women have it at some stage (Bastiaenen et al 2008, Klemetti et al 2011, Mota et al 2015) .
If the above attempts do not help relieve your upper back pain, it is advised that you contact your doctor. Upper back pain during pregnancy is very common. However, it is not to be ignored. Upper back pain in some cases may be a case of pre-term labor, or other obstetrical conditions. Always mention the back pain to your doctor so that they can evaluate what is causing it and suggest a proper treatment. 
Back pain is very common, as pregnancy hormones relax your joints, ligaments and muscles. And the weight you naturally gain in pregnancy can add to the problem. You may want to push your bump forwards, but this puts greater strain on your back. Lower back pain is the most common type of back pain. 
Back pain during pregnancy: 7 tips for relief. Back pain during pregnancy is a common complaint — and it's no wonder. You're gaining weight, your center of gravity changes and your hormones are relaxing the ligaments in your pelvis. Often, however, you can prevent or ease back pain during pregnancy. Consider seven ways to give pregnancy back pain the boot. 
Back pain is common in pregnancy. Somewhere between a half and three quarters of pregnant women have it at some stage (Bastiaenen et al 2008, Chang et al 2011, Ostgaard et al 1991, 1994, Wu et al 2004) . However, there is plenty you can do to ease the discomfort and prevent it from turning into a long-term problem. If you do have back pain while you're pregnant, try not to worry about it affecting your experience of birth. With the right treatment, it's rare for back pain to cause difficulties in labour. Some women who had back pain before they became pregnant even find it eases as their pregnancy progresses.
(larger view). Back pain in pregnancy is very common, but should be avoided. It is estimated that between 50% and 80% of women experience some form of back pain during pregnancy. Such pain can range from mild pain associated with specific activities to acute back pain that can become chronic back pain
Back Pain During Pregnancy: Causes, Treatment and Prevention. Back pain or discomfort is common during pregnancy and should be expected to some degree by most women. Back pain may be experienced during any point of your pregnancy; however, it most commonly occurs later in pregnancy as baby grows. Back pain can disrupt your daily routine or interfere with a good night of sleep. The good news is there are steps you can take to manage the back pain that you experience.