If you really want to keep a check of the refrigerator temperature, you can either use a refrigerator thermometer or freezer thermometer (that is available in most of the grocery stores or kitchen outlets) - or use a basic thermometer or a digital thermometer (if a refrigerator thermometer is not readily available). 
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
If you keep potatoes in the fridge they should not be stored at temperatures below 7 °C (45 °F). If, that is, you intend to use them for roasting for frying. At lower temperatures the starch in the potato breaks down giving a burnt look and a bitter taste after roasting. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2
1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming. To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more.
The FDA advises that you should keep the temperature of your fridge between 32 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit, preferably right in the middle of that range, at, say, 35 degrees. Set the temperature at 35, and you avoid the risk of frozen food (that’s what the freezer’s for!) and you avoid the risk of spoilage. 
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5  Check temperatures periodically.
Various Answers The refrigerator should be at about 35°F (1.6°C) which is above freezing, so your milk won't freeze. The refrigerator should be set between 40°F and 34°F (~4.4°C to 1.1°C). The closer it gets to freezing (32°F or 0°C), the longer the food will keep. Freezer temperature should be maintained at minus 18°C. (Ice cream is a good indicator of freezer temperature: it should be firm.) Consult your fridge manufacturer's manual for advise on temperature control. Try not to keep opening the fridge door every few minutes.