1 Upperparts: Like the male, the upperparts of the female ruby-throated hummingbird are a shimmery iridescent green. 2  Depending on the light, the feathers may show a yellow or gold hue. 3  Bill: The bill of the female ruby-throated hummingbird is long, thin and uniformly black. 1 Bill: The bill of the female ruby-throated hummingbird is long, thin and uniformly black. 2  Throat: Unlike the male's colorful throat, the female ruby-throated hummingbird has a plain white chin and throat with only limited, faint gray streaking.
Female and Male Characteristics. Like most birds in the wild, male hummingbirds wear the bright colors and the females are dull and drab, making them easy to distinguish. According to the Scientific American website, Charles Darwin believed the bright colors of the males help attract favorable mates. The male ruby-throated hummingbird has a glowing, bright red throat. The blue-throated male has a dark blue colored throat that appears black in dim light. The female ruby-and blue-throated hummingbird is fairly colorless. The blue-throated female has a rounded tail with light gray or white corner
They use these to display to one another. Females find it attractive, and other males are repelled. Male hummingbirds are extremely feisty and territorial and these feathers are part of their territorial display. The tail of a hummingbird can provide a vital clue to help determine if it is a male or female hummingbird. Most of the time, the tail of an adult male hummingbird will be solid in color while most female and juveniles’ tails have white tipped rather then solid in color.
This includes size, migration habits, plumage and tail. This post will discuss the characteristics which will aide you in becoming more of an expert at determining if the hummingbird at your feeder is a male or a female. The tail of a hummingbird can provide a vital clue to help determine if it is a male or female hummingbird. Most of the time, the tail of an adult male hummingbird will be solid in color while most female and juveniles’ tails have white tipped rather then solid in color.
There is a difference in the plumage of the male and female hummingbird. It may come as a bit of a surprise to many of you, but it is only the male hummingbird which has the brilliant iridescent throat feathers. The tail of a hummingbird can provide a vital clue to help determine if it is a male or female hummingbird. Most of the time, the tail of an adult male hummingbird will be solid in color while most female and juveniles’ tails have white tipped rather then solid in color.
All text & photos © Operation RubyThroat & Bill Hilton Jr. A young male Ruby-throated Hummingbird also may have a white throat like a female, but more often it is streaked to a greater or lesser degree with black or green; this gives the appearance of a five o'clock shadow.. The bird just above is the most heavily streaked we have seen; the one above it is more typical. 
Appearance. Male and female hummingbirds can be identified simply based on the color of their feathers. Male hummingbirds have bright feathers to attract females and to deter males by expressing their dominance. A patch of brightly-colored feathers on the necks of males is known as a gorget. A gorget's color range includes red, purple, orange, blue and pink. Size. Although it is hard to tell, female hummingbirds are typically larger than males. For example, females usually weigh between 2.8 and 4.5 grams, while males weigh between 2.4 and 3.6 grams.
With over 300 distinct species, the hummingbird is a very diverse creature. Fortunately, all hummingbird species have certain characteristics -- such as their plumage, size, behavior and mating habits -- that can help you distinguish the males from the females. As opposed to many other animal species, female hummingbirds are generally larger than their male counterparts; for example, female ruby-throated hummingbirds weigh around 3.8 grams, while males weigh in at around 3.4 grams.
Hummingbird Plumage. Male hummingbirds can be identified by their bright, iridescent throat feathers, or gorgets.. The male ruby-throated hummingbird, for example, has a brilliant red gorget -- though other breeds of hummingbirds may have gorgets ranging in color from green to purple. As opposed to many other animal species, female hummingbirds are generally larger than their male counterparts; for example, female ruby-throated hummingbirds weigh around 3.8 grams, while males weigh in at around 3.4 grams.