The Stahl surname was f irst found in Prussia, where it was closely associated in early medieval times with the feudal society which became prominent throughout Europe. Prussia is a historical region on the Baltic that gave its name to the later Kingdom of Prussia.
History of the Surname. Stahl is a very early Germanic name and is one of the very first recorded in that country. Due to its popularity and duration this name, and its variant spellings, have traveled widely in many forms throughout Europe.
First found in Prussia, where the name Stahl was closely associated in early medieval times with the feudal society which became prominent throughout Europe. The name later emerged as a noble family with great influence, having many distinguished branches in Bavaria and Austria.
STAHL Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname STAHL. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull.
Today about 98 persons per million in the United States have the Stahl surname. The heaviest concentration of the name is found in the states of South Dakota, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Kansas and Montana. In Germany about 350 persons per million have Stahl surname. The most significant clustering of the name is found in the southwestern areas of Germany Bavaria, Baden-Wurttemberg, Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate, and North Rhine-Westphalia.
You can find out where the majority of the Stahl families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Stahl at RootsWeb databases. Stahl in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Stahl genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Stahl surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name.