When the substrate is a TMB substrate where the reaction product between TMB, peroxide and HRP is measured at around 450 nm (yellow), it is preferred that the substrate (dye) has a visible colour in the range of 500-600 nm, i.e. in the range clear of the blue and the yellow colours of TMB. For the detection of the enzyme activity is needed a specific enzyme substrate for the actual enzyme. Various enzyme substrates such as ortho-phenylenediamine (OPD), 2,2′-azino-bis-(3-ethylbenz-thiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and 3,3′,5,5′-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) are commonly used.
A. Comparison of the kinetic curves of several TMB substrates at 500 pg/mL msIgG in the model assay system monitored over time at 650 nm. B. Standard curve comparison for TMBW and TMBX stopped and read at 450 nm using the model assay system. Results show an extended dynamic range when TMBX is used. MethodsIn order to illustrate the differences between various TMB substrates, a model assay system was developed (Figure 2). Rabbit anti-mouse IgG was coated at 0.1 µg/well on a 96-well ELISA plate and stabilized with StabilCoat® Immunoassay Stabilizer (SC01).
The enzyme horseradish peroxidase (HRP), found in the roots of horseradish, is used extensively in biochemistry applications primarily for its ability to amplify a weak signal and increase detectability of a target molecule. It is a metalloenzyme with many isoforms, of which the most studied type is C. Horseradish peroxidase is a 44,173.9-dalton glycoprotein with 6 lysine residues which can be conjugated to a labeled molecule. It produces a coloured, fluorimetric, or luminescent derivative of the labeled molecule when incubated with a proper substrate, allowing it to be detected and quantified
Stop Solution is 0.16M sulfuric acid for use with the ELISA substrate 3,3’,5,5’ - tetramethylbenzidine (TMB). Store at room temperature or 2-8°C. • Application: ELISA: Following TMB incubation, add an amount of stop solution equal to the amount of TMB substrate added to each well of the ELISA plate (typically 50 - 100 mL per well). Use at full strength.
Product identifier Product name: BioFX®TMB One Component HRP Microwell Substrate Product form: Mixture Product code: TMBW 1.2. Relevant identified uses of the substance or mixture and uses advised against Use of the substance/mixture: For laboratory use 1.3. 
TMB (3,3',5,5' -tetramethybezidine) is commonly used in HRP-based ELISA (emzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). This TMB reagent is formulated as all-in-one, ready to use HRP substrate. The reagent contains all essential components (TMB, substate buffer and H 2 O 2) in one solution for HRP enzyme reaction. When HRP enzyme reaction occurs, the substrate reagent produces a blue color reaction product. 
In the presence of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) enzyme conjugates, TMB and peroxide react to produce a blue byproduct having maximum absorbance at 605nm. The color intensity is proportional to the amount of HRP activity, which in turn is related to the levels of target analyte in an optimized ELISA procedure. Store at room temperature or 2-8°C. • Application: ELISA: Following TMB incubation, add an amount of stop solution equal to the amount of TMB substrate added to each well of the ELISA plate (typically 50 - 100 mL per well). Use at full strength.
We offer one colorimetric (also called chromogenic) substrate for ELISA development with alkaline phosphatase (AP) and three substrates for horseradish peroxidase enzyme (HRP): 1  PNPP (p-Nitrophenyl Phosphate, Disodium Salt) is a widely used substrate for detecting alkaline phosphatase in ELISA applications. ELISA substrates require a variety of procedures for preparing the substrate working solution and detecting the signal. Some substrates are ready to use, while others require additional materials to be supplied. In addition, each substrate has unique requirements for optimization.
Horseradish peroxidase catalyses the oxidation of luminol to 3-aminophthalate via several intermediates. The reaction is accompanied by emission of low-intensity light at 428 nm. Horseradish peroxidase is a 44,173.9-dalton glycoprotein with 6 lysine residues which can be conjugated to a labeled molecule. It produces a coloured, fluorimetric, or luminescent derivative of the labeled molecule when incubated with a proper substrate, allowing it to be detected and quantified