Answer by KidPrawn. Confidence votes 1.4K. The Mesozoic Era in the Triassic Period. Dinosaurs first appeared during the Triassic Period (250-230 million years ago) and were on the Earth through the Jurassic Period (200-145 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous Period (65 million years ago). This whole era is called the Mezozoic Era (250-65 million years ago). The dinosaurs died 65 million years ago, in the cretaceous period ,during the mesozoic era.
Dinosaurs lived between 230 and 65 million years ago, in a time known as the Mesozoic Era. This was many millions of years before the first modern humans, Homo sapiens, appeared. Scientists divide the Mesozoic Era into three periods: the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous. 
Dinosaurs first appeared during the Triassic period, around 280 MYA (Million Years Ago), and died out around 65.5 MYA. They evolved from Archosaurs, or Ruling Reptiles. It … is still unknown why they died out. The dinosaurs died 65 million years ago, in the cretaceous period ,during the mesozoic era.
245 to 208 million years ago. 1  During the Triassic period, all land on Earth existed as one enormous mass. 2  It was called Pangaea. 3  The supercontinent slowly began to break up during the Triassic Period. Dinosaurs lived throughout the Mesozoic Era, which began 245 million years ago and lasted for 180 million years. It is sometimes called the Age of the Reptiles. The era is divided into three periods.
Triassic Period. This period started 248 million years ago and finished 213 million years. This period was the beginning of the Mesozoic era. Life in the Triassic Period Dinosaurs and other reptiles became the dominate land animals. Frogs appeared and later the first tortoises, turtles and crocodiles
Geological timescale. Triassic period: 250–200 million years ago. Jurassic period: 200–145 million years ago. Cretaceous period: 145–65 million years ago. Dinosaurs roamed the planet for about 165 million years, during a time in the Earth’s history called the Mesozoic Era. It is difficult to imagine how long this was, until we compare it with ourselves: humans have lived on Earth for less than two million years
The creatures that we normally think of as dinosaurs lived from late in the Triassic period (about 248 million years ago) until the end of the Mesozoic era (about 65 million years ago). Cretaceous dinosaurs included: Iguanodon, Tyrannosaurus Rex, Parasaurolophus and many more. Dinosaurs are not extinct. Dinosaurs went extinct about 65 million years ago (at the end of the Cretaceous Period), after living on Earth for about 165 million years. The dinosaurs' long period of dominance certainly makes them a great success story in the history of life on Earth
Dinosaurs were the largest land animals of all time, but a great number of dinosaurs were smaller than a turkey. Dinosaurs first appeared about 230 million years ago. They ruled the Earth for about 135 million years until an extinction event 65 million years ago wiped out all but bird-like dinosaurs. 
New Geological Period. In March 2004, geologists added a new time period to Earth's chronology—the Ediacaran Period. The Ediacaran Period lasted about 50 million years, from 600 million years ago to about 542 million years ago. It was the last period of the Precambrian's Neoproterozoic Era. Multicelled organisms first appeared during this time. This period is the first new one added in 120 years. 