SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Inventory is a current asset on your company’s balance sheet. More important, it is a major part of your ongoing business operations. For manufacturers, inventory includes raw materials used to make and assemble products. For resellers, it includes products you acquire to resell to customers. In either case, you need inventory to earn revenue. 
Confidence votes 14. Stoketake is a process of stock varification in the Libraries. Periodic stocktakes are important to ensure that operator data entry and external handling errors are caught and corrected, and that the quantity information in your stock files remain accurate. Folowing are few another resons which make it important process for all storehouses. to identify missing items e. The stock exchange is important in agriculture because it keeps a  check on supply and demand. It allows the stockholders to use the  value of the stock to obtain loans and … make purchases. It is also  very boring.
3. You must take the stock at the same time and/or the same day. If you count a weekly stock value, you must decide on what day and at what time the stock will be valued. If your end of week is Sunday, then Sunday evening or first thing on Monday – every week – is when you should carry out your stock take. This is important because you want the consistency to get an accurate handle on stock movement and gross margin value. 1. Know what you need to count and value. Regular stock takes are usually for the reasons outlined above. Therefore you are counting and valuing all of your direct cost stock items. They are the items that you use and can’t re-use when you make a sale.
We frequently encounter clients who only check their stock inventory once a year. In the retail market where stock turnover is high lack of stock take information will often mean the operator of the business is unaware of their true financial position. Here are four reasons why you should take regular stock takes: 1. Theft. Profit margins can rapidly be eroded if stock is being stolen by shoplifters or staff. Where margins are low and sales volumes are high regular stock takes are essential to make sure that stock is not being stolen.
Stock taking is an important part of business. It is important that  a business owner knows what their inventory is. It will help  highlight what you need more of and which … things you can do  without. The main objectives of stock-taking include the recording of data  in respect of quantity and value of stock at any given time and to  facilitate the effective comparing bet … ween value and loss of goods.  Stock-taking also aims to avoid discrepancies in the balancing of  accounts.
Every stock taking system requires some focus and hard work at the beginning, because you need to populate the system with all of your stock lines. Step 1. List your stock lines in logical groups linked to how you run the business and in a language that everyone in the business will understand. 1. Know what you need to count and value. Regular stock takes are usually for the reasons outlined above. Therefore you are counting and valuing all of your direct cost stock items. They are the items that you use and can’t re-use when you make a sale.
Stocktaking is essential to all businesses in the licensed trade, as it enables you to check that your business is performing to its projected forecast, and that you are receiving the gross profit that you had intended. 
Stoketake is a process of stock varification in the Libraries. Periodic stocktakes are important to ensure that operator data entry and external handling errors are caught and … corrected, and that the quantity information in your stock files remain accurate. The main objectives of stock-taking include the recording of data  in respect of quantity and value of stock at any given time and to  facilitate the effective comparing bet … ween value and loss of goods.  Stock-taking also aims to avoid discrepancies in the balancing of  accounts.
Stock taking is an important part of business. It is important that  a business owner knows what their inventory is. It will help  highlight what you need more of and which … things you can do  without. The stock exchange is important in agriculture because it keeps a  check on supply and demand. It allows the stockholders to use the  value of the stock to obtain loans and … make purchases. It is also  very boring.
Stock-taking or inventory checking is the physical verification of the quantities and condition of items held in an inventory or warehouse. This may be done to provide an audit of existing stock valuation. It is also the source of stock discrepancy information. Stock-taking may be performed as an intensive annual check or may be done continuously by means of a cycle count. The above is also referred to periodic count. Periodic counting is usually undertaken for regular, inexpensive items. The term periodic generally refers to annual stock count