Interest is an amount you pay for the use of borrowed money. Some interest can be claimed as a deduction or as a credit. To deduct interest you paid on a debt, review each expense to determine how it qualifies and where to take the deduction.
Interest you pay on business loans is usually a currently deductible business expense. It makes no difference whether you pay the interest on a bank loan, personal loan, credit card, line of credit, car loan, or real estate mortgage.
If you use your car only for business, you can deduct all of the interest you pay. If you use it for both business and personal reasons, you can deduct the business percentage of the interest. For example, if you use your car 60% of the time for business, you can deduct 60% of the interest you pay on your car loan.
Generally, home mortgage interest is any interest you pay on a loan secured by your home (main home or a second home). The loan may be a mortgage to buy your home, a second mortgage, a line of credit, or a home equity loan. You can deduct home mortgage interest if all the following conditions are met.
Home mortgage interest for a loan or loans totaling $1 million is deductible as an itemized deduction. Interest on a home equity loan on a main or second home of up to $100,000 is also deductible. Thus, you can deduct the interest on a total of $1.1 million in home loans each year.
If you use the money for business, the interest you pay to get that money is a deductible business expense. It’s how you use the money that counts, not how you get it. Borrowed money is used for business when you buy something with the money that’s deductible as a
Types of interest deductible as itemized deductions on Form 1040, Schedule A (PDF), Itemized Deductions, include: 1  Investment interest (limited to your net investment income) and. 2  Qualified mortgage interest including points (if you are the buyer).
Definition of an investment interest expense. When you borrow money to buy property for investment purposes, any interest you pay on that borrowed money becomes an investment interest expense.. For example, say you take out a $5,000 loan against your home equity and use the money to buy stock. The interest on that loan is investment interest. (It wouldn't be deductible as mortgage interest because you didn't use the money to buy, build or improve your home.) If you use only part of the borrowed money for investments, you can deduct only a proportional amount of the interest you pay.