Galactosemia is an inherited defect of galactose metabolism caused by an enzyme deficiency that prevents proper metabolism and utilization of galactose, or milk sugar. The main dietary source of galactose is lactose, the principle carbohydrate found in all forms of milk. 
Galactosemia Test. Guide. Galactose is a sugar that is part of the lactose found in milk and milk products. A galactosemia test is a blood or urine test that checks for enzymes that are needed to change galactose into glucose, a sugar that your body uses for energy.
Galactosemia is a rare hereditary disease that can lead to cirrhosis in infants, and early, devastating illness if not diagnosed quickly. This disease is caused by elevated levels of galactose (a sugar in milk) in the blood resulting from a deficiency of the liver enzyme required for its metabolism (breakdown). 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Galactosemia is a rare genetic disorder that causes an inability to digest galactose, which is a breakdown product of lactose. Lactose is one of the main carbohydrates in milk. One of the enzymes involved is galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) and in galactosemia, this enzyme is either defective or missing. When this happens, an infant is unable to convert the galactose into glucose which causes galactose to accumulate in the blood.
A galactosemia test is a blood test (from the heel of the infant) or urine test that checks for three enzymes that are needed to change galactose sugar that is found in milk and milk products into glucose, a sugar that the human body uses for energy. A person with galactosemia doesn't have one of these enzymes. Galactosemia follows an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance that confers a deficiency in an enzyme responsible for adequate galactose degradation.
Galactosemia I and II are treated by removing galactose from the diet. Since galactose is a breakdown product of lactose, the primary sugar constituent of milk, this means all milk and foods containing milk products must be totally eliminated. Galactosemia iii. Galactosemia III is caused by defects in the gene that codes for an enzyme called uridyl diphosphogalactose-4-epimerase (GALE). This form of galactosemia is very rare. There are two forms of galactosemia III, a severe form, which is exceedingly rare, and a benign form.
Galactosemia is a disorder that affects how the body processes a simple sugar called galactose. A small amount of galactose is present in many foods. It is primarily part of a larger sugar called lactose, which is found in all dairy products and many baby formulas. The signs and symptoms of galactosemia result from an inability to use galactose to produce energy. Researchers have identified several types of galactosemia. These conditions are each caused by mutations in a particular gene and affect different enzymes involved in breaking down galactose. Classic galactosemia, also known as type I, is the most common and most severe form of the condition. If infants with classic galactosemia are not treated promptly with a low-galactose diet, life-threatening complications appear within a few days after birth
Galactosemia is an inherited disorder that prevents a person from processing the sugar galactose, which is found in many foods. Galactose also exists as part of another sugar, lactose, found in all dairy products. Treatment requires the strict exclusion of lactose/galactose from the diet. A person with galactosemia will never be able to properly digest foods containing galactose. There is no chemical or drug substitute for the missing enzyme at this time.
Galactosemia (British galactosaemia) is a rare genetic metabolic disorder that affects an individual's ability to metabolize the sugar galactose properly. Galactosemia follows an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance that confers a deficiency in an enzyme responsible for adequate galactose degradation.