(a fee of BD 0.500 will be charged). Currency calculator. Entry Visas: Foreign nationals may enter Bahrain with a tourist visa (for individuals or groups), 72-hour visa, 7-day visa, visit visa, business visa, family visa, dependent visa, or an employment visa. 3. Visit Visa: Issued to foreign nationals who intend to visit Bahrain to meet their relatives or friends. The application for a visit visa must be made by a local sponsor to the General Directorate of Immigration and Passports (GDIP).
On arrival in Bahrain, visitors can be issued visas for 24 hours, 72 hours, 2 weeks or 3 months, depending on their need and at the discretion of the Immigration Officer. You may be asked to provide evidence of onward or return travel. If you enter as a visitor you must not take up employment. Make sure you check the latest entry requirements with the Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain before you travel. You can get a visa on arrival, but to ensure a smoother process at the border in Bahrain it is best to get a visa in advance, either online or from the Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain in the UK.
Announcing new online embassy visas. Applicants can now start the embassy visa application process by clicking on the Apply for eVisa button on this site. Applicants can also check their eligibility for embassy visas (in addition to the existing types that are already available online)
Nationals not referred to in the chart above are advised to contact the embassy to check visa requirements. Types and cost : Single-entry visit visa at port of entry: BHD25; single-entry visit eVisa: BHD29; five-year multiple-entry visa: BHD20 (available to certain nationalities); Formula 1 visa: free to ticketholders. Validity : Single-entry visa: two weeks to three months depending on nationality. Multiple-entry visas: up to five years with a maximum stay of four weeks per visit. eVisas: two weeks to three months depending on nationality and must be used within 30 days of approval. 
II. Visa Application. Visa On Arrival. Citizens of the following countries/regions can obtain a two-week tourist visa at the entry posts of immigration at the Kingdom of Bahrain at a cost of BD25 (about USD$66). An extension can be obtained for another two weeks by visiting the General Directorate of Nationality, Passports and Residence (NPRA) in Bahrai
The visit visa is normally valid for one month's stay in Bahrain, but can sometimes be extended up to a maximum of three months. A person on a visit visa cannot work or engage in business activities during his/her stay in Bahrain. Fee: BD22. 3. Visit Visa: Issued to foreign nationals who intend to visit Bahrain to meet their relatives or friends. The application for a visit visa must be made by a local sponsor to the General Directorate of Immigration and Passports (GDIP).
From this site you can: 1  Check your eligibility for a Bahrain visa. 2  Apply on-line for certain types of visa (if available) -- press Apply for eVisa. 3  Check the status of an eVisa application -- press Check your eVisa. Applicants can now start the embassy visa application process by clicking on the Apply for eVisa button on this site. Applicants can also check their eligibility for embassy visas (in addition to the existing types that are already available online)
Business visa. required. Bahrain tourist visa for citizens of United States is issued on arrival for stay up to 14 days. The Embassy of Bahrain does not accept applications for this type of visa from citizens of United States. The good news is that the visa is issued on arrival. Sounds good! VisaHQ is a private visa agency, not affiliated with the government of Bahrain. VisaHQ provides expediting services for visa to Bahrain and charges a service fee. Bahraini visas might also be obtained directly from Consulate at the lower cost of government fee. See how we compare in the 90 seconds.
1 Check your eligibility for a Bahrain visa. 2  Apply on-line for certain types of visa (if available) -- press Apply for eVisa. 3  Check the status of an eVisa application -- press Check your eVisa. Applicants can now start the embassy visa application process by clicking on the Apply for eVisa button on this site. Applicants can also check their eligibility for embassy visas (in addition to the existing types that are already available online)