When a person bends forward, his paraspinal muscles are lengthening; when he stands up again, they are contracting to pull him back to a standing position. Paraspinal muscles on the left and right side of the body work together in the same way when the person bends sideways. When the person is not bending, the paraspinal muscles keep the spinal column in vertical alignment while he is sitting or standing. 
The erector spinae (/spinæ ˌɨˈrɛktər/ ˈspiːniː-ə-rek TəR-spee) nee is a muscle group of the back in humans and other, animals which extends the vertebral (column bending the spine such that the head moves posteriorly while the chest protrudes). Anteriorly it is also known as sacrospinalis in older. texts Structure [edit]. The erector spinae spinæ is not just one, muscle but a bundle of muscles and. Tendons it is paired and runs more or less. Vertically it extends throughout the, lumbar thoracic and cervical, regions and lies in the groove to the side of the vertebral. column
These are deep or intrinsic back muscles. These muscles form a prominent mass on each side of the spinal column extending from base of the skull to the sacrum. These muscles consists of many separate, overlapping muscles of different lengths, attached to the spinous or transverse processes of different vertebrae. 
Low back pain causes: Lumbar paraspinal muscles. by Christina Abbott on. This is a series on low back pain. If you missed the summary of causes, go back to Part 1. Running all the way down your back are two sets of muscles, together called the erector spinae. They keep the spine erect. With the prevalence of postural issues at all age levels, these muscles are common causes of low back pain. The longissimus is nearest to the spine and the iliocostalis farther out on the rib
Definitions. Vertebrae are the bones of the spine. The spinous process is the pointy protrusion on the back of a vertebra that you can feel when you touch the back of your spine. The transverse processes are the bony extensions on each side of a vertebra. Shares & Saves. Save. human anatomy showing the skeleton from the back image by patrimonio designs from Fotolia.com. The paraspinals is a collective name for the band of muscles next to the spine that support and move the spine. The paraspinal musculature of the thoracic spine consists of five sets of muscles.
Vertebrae are the bones of the spine. The spinous process is the pointy protrusion on the back of a vertebra that you can feel when you touch the back of your spine. Shares & Saves. Save. human anatomy showing the skeleton from the back image by patrimonio designs from Fotolia.com. The paraspinals is a collective name for the band of muscles next to the spine that support and move the spine. The paraspinal musculature of the thoracic spine consists of five sets of muscles.