Pleurisy. Many conditions can cause pleurisy. Viral infections are likely the most common cause. Other causes of pleurisy include: 1  Bacterial infections, such as pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah) and tuberculosis, and infections from fungi or parasites. Pleural Effusion. The most common cause of a pleural effusion (a buildup of fluid in the pleural space) is heart failure. Lung cancer, LAM, pneumonia, tuberculosis, and other lung infections also can lead to a pleural effusion. Sometimes kidney or liver disease can cause fluid to build up in the pleural space
Pleurisy is a lung disease. It means inflammation of the pleura — the thin, 2-layer protective membrane that covers the lungs and also lines the inside of the chest wall. The 2 layers are lubricated by a thin layer of fluid between them. Primary pleurisy is inflammation that starts in the pleural tissue itself, often from an infection or following an injury, such as a broken rib. Secondary pleurisy means the pleurisy results from another lung or chest disease such as pneumonia, or even a tumour.
Viral infections are the most common cause of pleurisy. Viruses can cause infections it the lung, which in turn can lead to pleurisy. Other causes of pleurisy include: 1  bacterial pneumonia. 2  tuberculosis. 3  chest wounds. 4  rib fractures. 5  blunt trauma to the chest wall. 6  chest or lung tumors. 7  blood clots in arteries of the lung (pulmonary emboli).
1 Pleurisy is often associated with the accumulation of fluid between the two layers of pleura, known as pleural effusion. 2  Pleurisy is caused by a variety of conditions, such as infections, tuberculosis (TB), congestive heart failure, cancer, pulmonary embolism, and collagen vascular diseases. 1 Pleurisy is caused by a variety of conditions, such as infections, tuberculosis (TB), congestive heart failure, cancer, pulmonary embolism, and collagen vascular diseases. 2  Symptoms of pleurisy include pain in the chest, which is aggravated by breathing in, shortness of breath, and local tenderness.
Viral infection is one of the most common causes of pleurisy. Viruses that have been linked as causative agents include influenza, parainfluenza, coxsackieviruses, respiratory syncytial virus, mumps, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, and Epstein-Barr virus. 
Pleurisy occurs when the pleura becomes irritated and inflamed. As a result, the two layers of the pleural membrane rub against each other like two pieces of sandpaper, producing pain when you inhale and exhale. Pleurisy. Two large, thin layers of tissue called pleura separate your lungs from your chest wall. One layer wraps around the outside of the lungs. The other layer lines the inner chest wall. Between these two layers is a small space (pleural space) that's usually filled with a very small amount of liquid
The pleural cavity is the area between the lungs and inner chest wall. Pleurisy is a common complication of several different medical conditions, the most pervasive being a viral infection of the lower respiratory system. Other causes of pleurisy include: 1  Bacterial infections such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. 2  A chest wound that punctured the pleural cavity. 3  A pleural tumor. 4  Autoimmune disorders like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. 5  Sickle cell anemia. 6  Pancreatitis. 7  Pulmonary embolis
Causes of pleurisy. Pleurisy is inflammation of the pleura. It's usually caused by another condition, such as an infection, but sometimes no cause can be identified. The pleura are two thin sheets of tissue that separate the lungs and ribcage. One is attached to the ribcage and the other is attached to the lungs. 