The English word snake comes from Old English snaca, itself from Proto-Germanic *snak-an- (cf. Germanic Schnake ring snake, Swedish snok grass snake), from Proto-Indo-European root *(s)nēg-o- to crawl, to creep, which also gave sneak as well as Sanskrit nāga nāgá. snake The ribs of the snake do not move in this mode of locomotion and this method is most often used by large pythons, boas, and vipers when stalking prey across open ground as the snake's movements are subtle and harder to detect by their prey in this manner.
• SERPENT (noun). The noun SERPENT has 3 senses: 1. limbless scaly elongate reptile; some are venomous. 2. a firework that moves in serpentine manner when ignited. 3. an obsolete bass cornet; resembles a snake. Familiarity information: SERPENT used as a noun is uncommon. 
Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin serpent-, serpens, from present participle of serpere to creep; akin to Greek herpein to creep, Sanskrit sarpati he creeps. First Known Use: 13th century. Learn More About SERPENT. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for serpent. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of serpent. Nglish: Translation of serpent for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of serpent for Arabic speakers. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about serpent.
Snakes are elongated, legless, carnivorous reptiles of the suborder Serpentes that can be distinguished from legless lizards by their lack of eyelids and external ears. Like all squamates, snakes are ectothermic, amniote vertebrates covered in overlapping scales. The ribs of the snake do not move in this mode of locomotion and this method is most often used by large pythons, boas, and vipers when stalking prey across open ground as the snake's movements are subtle and harder to detect by their prey in this manner.
'serpent' also found in translations in French-English dictionary. serpent a à. plumes serpent a. à. plumes n. plumed serpent nourrir un serpent dans. son sein nourrir un serpent dans. son. sein v serpent n (=snake) serpent m → ... the serpent in the Garden of Eden. serpent. n (=snake) serpent m.
The serpent, or snake, is one of the oldest and most widespread mythological symbols. The word is derived from Latin serpens, a crawling animal or snake. Snakes have been associated with some of the oldest rituals known to humankind and represent dual expression of good and evil. The Greek Ladon and the Norse Niðhoeggr (Níðhöggr Nidhogg) nagar are sometimes described as serpents and sometimes as. Dragons In germanic, mythology (Serpent Old: english, Wyrm Old High: german, Wurm Old: norse) ormr is used interchangeably with The greek borrowing (DRAGON: oe, DRACA: ohg, TRAHHO: on). dreki
More. Snakes take their name from the fact that they have no legs and crawl along the ground. The ancestor of snake is an ancient Germanic word that meant ‘to crawl or creep’. Serpent (Middle English) has a similar origin—it comes from Latin serpere, which also meant ‘to crawl or creep’. Yet another word with this original sense was Old English slink. You can describe a treacherous person as a snake in the grass, with the idea of a lurking danger. 2 (also snake in the grass) A treacherous or deceitful person: that man is a cold-blooded snake. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  And some CBS people I've talked to, as you well know, have referred to you as selfish, as sleazy, as a snake in the grass, and some other things that I can't say on the air.
Joermungandr, jörmungandr alternately referred to as The Midgard serpent Or World, serpent is a sea serpent of The norse, mythology the middle child Of loki and the Giantess. angrboða The Greek Ladon and the Norse Niðhoeggr (Níðhöggr Nidhogg) nagar are sometimes described as serpents and sometimes as. Dragons In germanic, mythology (Serpent Old: english, Wyrm Old High: german, Wurm Old: norse) ormr is used interchangeably with The greek borrowing (DRAGON: oe, DRACA: ohg, TRAHHO: on). dreki
More. snake from Old English: Snakes take their name from the fact that they have no legs and crawl along the ground. The ancestor of snake is an ancient Germanic word that meant ‘to crawl or creep’. Serpent (Middle English) has a similar origin—it comes from Latin serpere, which also meant ‘to crawl or creep’. More example sentences. 1  It's a snake-like serpent which came upon the landscape and created the rivers and streams and waterholes. 2  It had dragons and serpents and chimeras and gryphons and other fun creatures that I wish existed. 3  The dragon and the serpent flew into the clouds and it started to rain heavily