Yellow fever virus is found in tropical and subtropical areas in South America and Africa. The virus is transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected mosquito. Yellow fever is a very rare cause of illness in U.S. travelers. There is no specific treatment for yellow fever; care is based on symptoms. Steps to prevent yellow fever virus infection include using insect repellent, wearing protective clothing, and getting vaccinated.
Yellow fever is a viral hemorrhagic disease spread between humans, as well as between certain other primates and humans, by the bite of yellow fever-infected mosquitoes. The virus is called simply Yellow fever virus and belongs to the virus family Flaviviridae. Yellow Fever. Yellow fever is a viral hemorrhagic disease spread between humans, as well as between certain other primates and humans, by the bite of yellow fever-infected mosquitoes. The virus is called simply Yellow fever virus and belongs to the virus family Flaviviridae. There are three main types of the disease:
Because there is no cure for the viral infection itself, medical treatment of yellow fever focuses on easing symptoms such as fever, muscle pain, and dehydration. Because of the risk of internal bleeding, avoid aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs if you suspect you have yellow fever. 
Yellow fever is a serious, potentially deadly flu-like disease spread by mosquitoes. Characterized by a high fever and jaundice, it is most prevalent in certain parts of Africa and South America. The disease is not curable, but is preventable with the yellow fever vaccine. Yellow fever is caused by the yellow fever virus (YFV), also called Flavivirus. The virus is transmitted by female mosquitos, who pick it up from monkeys or other humans, then delivers it to a new human when they bite and suck blood. The disease cannot be spread from person to person.
Yellow Fever Cure: An Overview. Once a person has become infected, there is only one yellow fever cure: time. Therefore, current yellow fever treatment goals are focused on providing relief of symptoms as the body fights the yellow fever virus. In most cases, the body can effectively kill the virus. The yellow fever vaccine is a live-virus vaccine that has been used for several decades. A single dose provides protection for 10 years or more. If a person is at continued risk for yellow fever infection, a booster dose is needed every 10 years.
Yellow fever is a viral infection transmitted by a bite from infected mosquitoes most commonly found in parts of South America and Africa. When transmitted to humans, the yellow fever virus can damage the liver and other internal organs and be potentially fatal. 
Yellow fever, known historically as yellow jack, yellow plague, or bronze john, is an acute viral disease. In most cases, symptoms include fever, chills, loss of appetite, nausea, muscle pains particularly in the back, and headaches. Symptoms typically improve within five days. The disease is caused by the yellow fever virus and is spread by the bite of the female mosquito. It infects only humans, other primates, and several species of mosquitoes. In cities, it is spread primarily by mosquitoes of the Aedes aegypti species.