The Dorsal Cavity contains the Cranial Cavity (brain) and the Spinal Cavity (spinal cord). It's basically your back (think dorsal fin of a fish). The Ventral Cavity contains the Thoracic Cavity and the Abdominal-pelvic Cavity. Think ventral = front. It contains all the structures within the chest and abdomen. Like the dorsal cavity, the ventral body cavity is subdivided. The superior thoracic cavity is separated from the rest of the ventral cavity by a dome-shaped muscle, the diaphragm.
Cranial cavity: enclosed by the skull and contains the brain, eyes, and ears. Spinal canal: enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord. Ventral body cavity contains the thoracic cavity (contains the lungs and heart) and the abdominopelvic cavity (contains abdomen and pelvic cavity). Abdominal cavity: enclosed by the ribcage and pelvis and contains the kidneys, ureters, stomach, intestines, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas
The pelvic cavity is the portion of the ventral body cavity inferior to the abdominal cavity. The bones of the pelvis form the walls of the pelvic cavity, and a layer of muscle forms its floor. The pelvic cavity contains the last portion of the large intestine, the urinary bladder, and various reproductive organs. For example, because they are inside body cavities, the lungs, heart, stomach, intestines, urinary bladder, and many other organs can expand and contract without distorting surrounding tissues or disrupting the activities of nearby organs. The dorsal body cavity contains the brain and spinal cord.
the ventral cavity contains the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities(abdominal and pelvic cavities) the cranial cavity holds the brain and part of the spinal cord. 2 people found this useful. Edit. 
The much larger ventral body cavity contains organs of the respiratory, cardiovascular, digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems. The relationships among the dorsal and ventral body cavities and their subdivisions are indicated in Figure 1-10 and shown in Figure 1-11. For example, because they are inside body cavities, the lungs, heart, stomach, intestines, urinary bladder, and many other organs can expand and contract without distorting surrounding tissues or disrupting the activities of nearby organs. The dorsal body cavity contains the brain and spinal cord.
The dorsal (posterior) cavity and the ventral (anterior) cavity are the largest body compartments. These cavities contain and protect delicate internal organs, and the ventral cavity allows for significant changes in the size and shape of the organs as they perform their functions. Subdivisions of the Posterior (Dorsal) and Anterior (Ventral) Cavities The anterior (ventral) cavity has two main subdivisions: the thoracic cavity and the abdominopelvic cavity. The thoracic cavity is the more superior subdivision of the anterior cavity, and it is enclosed by the rib cage.
Human body cavities: Ventral body cavity is to the right. The ventral body cavity is a human body cavity that is in the anterior (front) aspect of the human body. It is made up of the thoracic cavity, and the abdominopelvic cavity. The abdominopelvic cavity is further divided into the abdominal cavity and pelvic cavity, but there is no physical barrier between the two. The thoracic cavity is separated from the abdominopelvic cavity by the diaphragm. The thoracic cavity is further separated into the pleural cavity which contains the lungs and the superior mediastinum which includes the pericardial (heart) cavity. The organs within the ventral body cavity are called the viscera.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. the ventral cavity contains the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities(abdominal and pelvic cavities) the cranial cavity holds the brain and part of the spinal cord. The ventral cavity is the area of the body from the top of the rib  cage to the top of the leg. The organs that are found in this area  are, reproductive organs, digestive o … rgans, bladder, rectum, and  the pelvic area. Bonnie Peregrine. 36,009 Contributions.
The cavities include: 1  Dorsal body cavity. 2  cranial cavity, enclosed by the skull and contains the brain. 3  spinal canal, enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord. 4  Ventral body cavity. 5  thoracic cavity, enclosed by the ribcage and contains the lungs and heart. 6  abdominopelvic cavity. Subdivisions of the Posterior (Dorsal) and Anterior (Ventral) Cavities The anterior (ventral) cavity has two main subdivisions: the thoracic cavity and the abdominopelvic cavity. The thoracic cavity is the more superior subdivision of the anterior cavity, and it is enclosed by the rib cage.