According to April 2012 job postings, you must have at least a bachelor's degree to become an embryologist. A degree in biological science, human physiology or life science could be useful. Through these programs, you'll explore biology, chemistry, rehabilitation sciences, calculus, human anatomy and bioethics. Embryologists typically work in fertility centers. Although there isn't any information about the employment growth of embryologists, the CDC reported that about six million women, or about ten percent of women in the U.S. between the ages of 15 and 44, have difficulty getting and staying pregnant.
Job Outlook and Salaries. Because embryology is a relatively new field, there is little data available regarding job outlook or salaries. The BLS notes that medical laboratory technologists in general can expect job growth of 22 percent from 2012 to 2022. Demand for microbiologists is expected to be much lower, at 7 percent. The average growth rate for all occupations is projected to be 11 percent for the same period. Most individuals in the field of embryology begin their careers as medical laboratory technologists or biologists. The profession requires both the knowledge of clinical laboratory techniques and an understanding of reproductive biology.
Embryologists may be a part of an infertility team or they may study abnormalities in embryos to discover their cause and find treatments. If you enjoy working in a lab and helping people, a career as an embryologist may be for you. Instructions Difficulty: Moderately Challenging Steps 1 Step One Study hard in high school. Take as many science courses as you can. Join any extra-circular science programs you high school offers.
I think you have to have a Vet degree to be an Embryologist (not positive). I know most of the people that we know that do this type of work have huge investments in facilities, work horrible hours, but the pay seems to be nice, most however do not own their own sires or dams, they work for other people. I'm looking in to a career as a Embryologist and owning my own Donors and AI sires which to sell semen off of. But I can't find info on what a need to take in college. I plan on majoring in animale science an having a minor in Ag busness.
Embryologist: Salary and Career Facts. Research what it takes to become an embryologist. Learn about the educational requirements, job duties and potential salaries to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Anatomy & Physiology degrees can also be found in these popular choices. According to PayScale.com, embryologists earned a median salary of $54,673 as of 2014. Most of these professionals earned between $36,434 and $88,074 per year. To continue researching, browse degree options below for course curriculum, prerequisites and financial aid information
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an embryologist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and coursework to find out if this is the career for you. Embryologist Education Requirements. Students interested in entry-level embryology research assistant positions should obtain a Bachelor of Science in Embryology. Alternate fields of study include microbiology or biochemistry. A 4-year degree is the minimum level of education needed to work in the field.
Medical Scientist. If you're not sure if becoming an embryologist is right for you, but you like research and working in a lab, you might consider becoming a medical scientist. These professionals usually have a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in a field such as biology or life science and some have a medical license. Embryologists typically work in fertility centers. Although there isn't any information about the employment growth of embryologists, the CDC reported that about six million women, or about ten percent of women in the U.S. between the ages of 15 and 44, have difficulty getting and staying pregnant.
Embryologists study the beginning of life and the science of reproduction. They typically have at least a master's degree, though some may have either a doctoral or medical degree. Those trained in embryology can pursue careers as fertility researchers, senior embryologists, professors and andrologists. Education Requirements. Embryologists need a bachelor's degree in biology or biomedicine and a master's degree in reproductive science or clinical science, though some embryologists earn a Ph.D. or M.D. as well. A few such scientists possess both a doctorate and