To become a teacher, you have to get a bachelors degree from an  accredited college or university. That takes four years if you go  full time. Many states require you to tak … e courses after you become  a teacher in order to renew your teaching license periodically. To become an elementary school teacher, you have to complete a 4-year bachelor's degree program at an accredited college. During that time, you will complete several weeks of … student teaching.
Best Answer: 4 yours, maximum of six. If you want to specialize in a specific class, then you need to take an additional certification, but you can take that while completing your bachelors degree, the credits required for the certification, can be counted as electives. I am still in high school, and I was wondering how long I would have to go to college to become a teacher.
By the way I would like to add, that being a teacher is not easy nowadays, you really need to love this to be successful. I wish you good luck in all of your dreams, and I do find it magnificent that you are already thinking about your future. Well done!..................... I am still in high school, and I was wondering how long I would have to go to college to become a teacher.
The minimum education requirement for a teacher is a Bachelor's degree. That is, it will take minimum four years to complete your education for a teaching degree. It is likely to take longer the more specialized you are. Typically, you may teach in your major and minor areas. To become an elementary school teacher, you have to complete a 4-year bachelor's degree program at an accredited college. During that time, you will complete several weeks of … student teaching.
You'd have to go to school for four to five years (Bachelor's Degree) to be an elementary school teacher or a middle school teacher, and you can teach high school in most states with a Bachelor's Degree. How many years do i have to go to college to be a teacher? im in 10th grade right now, but i want to be a third-six grade teacher. I live in pennsylvania.. if that matters (: thanks. oh & is it hard? haha
How long does a teacher have to go to college? I've been told that a 2 year degree will get you to be a full time substitute with benefits. 4 years will get you your own classroom. To become an elementary school teacher, you have to complete a 4-year bachelor's degree program at an accredited college. During that time, you will complete several weeks of … student teaching.
Now they require a Masters Degree to become a teacher, so plan on at least 5-6 years of college. You can probably earn anything from about $30,000 up to over $100,000. It just depends if you're at a small school or a college professor. In UK, it takes 4 years of university level study to obtain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS). There are two ways: 1. Get admission to a B. Ed. course after A-levels (or IB or National Diploma or NVQ Level 3, or just by applying if you are over 21 years) - 4 years programme. 2.
You have to go to school for at least six years to teach in community college (Master's Degree), and some states require a Master's Degree to teach high school. You have to have a Ph.D (usually 10 years) to teach at a college or university. How many years do i have to go to college to be a teacher? im in 10th grade right now, but i want to be a third-six grade teacher. I live in pennsylvania.. if that matters (: thanks. oh & is it hard? haha