1 Having a particular habit, activity, or interest that is long-established and unlikely to change: an inveterate gambler. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  They are inveterate gamblers, drink as much beer as their wages will permit, are devoted to bawdy jokes, and use probably the foulest language in the world. 1 Every administration, that is, until this one, which from its first days has made clear its inveterate hostility to arms control. 2  The three have a lot in common with each other in their inveterate hatred of that ethnic group.
1 Old; firmly established by long continuance; of long standing; obstinately deep-rooted; as, an inveterate disease; an inveterate habit. ( 2 of a person) Having habits fixed by long continuance; confirmed; habitual; as, an inveterate idler or smoker. 3  Malignant; virulent; spiteful. 1 4) afford complete testimony for the prevalence of Baalism as late as the exile, but prove that the clearest distinction was then drawn between the pure worship of Yahweh the god of Israel and the inveterate and debased cults of the gods of the land.
1 According to the media, people nationwide have developed an offbeat mentality characterized by inveterate hostility to the rich. 2  Every administration, that is, until this one, which from its first days has made clear its inveterate hostility to arms control. 1 Every administration, that is, until this one, which from its first days has made clear its inveterate hostility to arms control. 2  The three have a lot in common with each other in their inveterate hatred of that ethnic group.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of inveterate from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Close.
in·vet·er·ate. adj. 1. Firmly and long established; deep-rooted: inveterate preferences. 2. Persisting in an ingrained habit; habitual: an inveterate liar. in•vet•er•ate. 1. confirmed in a habit, feeling, or the like: an inveterate gambler. 2. firmly established by long continuance, as a disease; chronic.
1 They are inveterate gamblers, drink as much beer as their wages will permit, are devoted to bawdy jokes, and use probably the foulest language in the world. 2  The Clermont club was founded in 1962 by inveterate gambler Aspinall, in London's Berkeley Square. 1 Every administration, that is, until this one, which from its first days has made clear its inveterate hostility to arms control. 2  The three have a lot in common with each other in their inveterate hatred of that ethnic group.
The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Close.
inveterate. adj. 1. long established, esp so as to be deep-rooted or ingrained: an inveterate feeling of hostility. 2. (prenominal) settled or confirmed in a habit or practice, esp a bad one; hardened: an inveterate smoker. in•vet•er•ate. 1. confirmed in a habit, feeling, or the like: an inveterate gambler. 2. firmly established by long continuance, as a disease; chronic.
Adjective. (comparative more inveterate, superlative most inveterate). 1  Old; firmly established by long continuance; of long standing; obstinately deep-rooted; as, an inveterate disease; an inveterate habit. ( 2 of a person) Having habits fixed by long continuance; confirmed; habitual; as, an inveterate idler or smoker. 1 4) afford complete testimony for the prevalence of Baalism as late as the exile, but prove that the clearest distinction was then drawn between the pure worship of Yahweh the god of Israel and the inveterate and debased cults of the gods of the land.