Muscle weakness is often present in children who are given a diagnosis of low muscle tone and it is the muscle weakness and poor stamina, along with some muscle tightness that are the real underlying reasons why a child has movement difficulties. It is also important to understand that this muscle tightness can be an important underlying cause of some of the difficulties experienced by children with a diagnosis of low muscle tone. Poor sitting posture is usually caused by a mixture of tightness, weakness and sometimes poor coordination.
(Redirected from Low muscle tone). Hypotonia, also known as floppy baby syndrome, is a state of low muscle tone (the amount of tension or resistance to stretch in a muscle), often involving reduced muscle strength. True muscle tone is the inherent ability of the muscle to respond to a stretch. For example, quickly straightening the flexed elbow of an unsuspecting child with normal tone, will cause their biceps to contract in response (automatic protection against possible injury).
• A child with hypotonia may also have problems with speech or exhibit shallow breathing. How Boston Children's Hospital approaches muscle weakness. Your child's muscle weakness can be caused by several different diseases, and treatment cannot begin without sussing out the real cause. At Boston Children's, doctors have several tests available to diagnose the cause of your child's weakness. It can be a condition on its own, called benign congenital hypotonia, or it can be indicative of another problem where there is progressive loss of muscle tone, such as muscular dystrophy or cerebral palsy.
Andrew Adesman. pediatric development expert. A child is said to have low muscle tone — hypotonia — if his muscles are on the loose, floppy side. You may find it unusually easy to move your child's arms and legs when they are relaxed, or that he seems to slip through your arms when you pick him up. Although hypotonia is not a well-understood phenomenon, children with low muscle tone often have delayed motor skills, muscle weakness, and / or coordination problems. 
Introduction. Hypotonia is the medical term for decreased muscle tone. Healthy muscles are never fully relaxed. They retain a certain amount of tension and stiffness (muscle tone) that can be felt as resistance to movement. 
Hypotonia is a medical term used to describe decreased muscle tone. Normally, even when relaxed, muscles have a very small amount of contraction that gives them a springy feel and provides some resistance to passive movement. It is not the same as muscle weakness, although the two conditions can co-exist. 
Hypotonia, or poor muscle tone, is usually detected at birth or during infancy. If your infant has hypotonia, he or she may appear limp at birth and not be able to keep his or her knees and elbows slightly bent. Your child may continue to struggle with feeding and motor skills. 
Often a child will get a diagnosis of low muscle tone because of one or more movement difficulties. 1  May be late learning to sit and walk-but not always. 2  Has trouble sitting erect and working at a table-tends to sit with back rounded, may lean on one hand when drawing and writing. It is also important to understand that this muscle tightness can be an important underlying cause of some of the difficulties experienced by children with a diagnosis of low muscle tone. Poor sitting posture is usually caused by a mixture of tightness, weakness and sometimes poor coordination.
The low muscle tone can be caused by a variety of conditions and is often indicative of the presence of an underlying central nervous system disorder, genetic disorder, or muscle disorder. Muscle tone is the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle. It is not the same as muscle weakness, which is a reduction in the strength of a muscle, but it can co-exist with muscle weakness. Muscle tone indicates the ability of a muscle to respond to a stretch. Definition. Hypotonia, or severely decreased muscle tone, is seen primarily in children. Low-toned muscles contract very slowly in response to a stimulus and cannot maintain a contraction for as long as a normal muscle. Hypotonia is a symptom that can be caused by many different conditions.