A common height for a wall outlet is between 12 to 16 inches to the bottom of the device. In rare instances, outlets are still installed in baseboards and in the floor with proper box/covers. The direct answer to your question is There is no standard. Outlets can be installed at whatever height is comfortable for the intended use. The only NEC requirement is that you must be within 8 foot of an outlet along any wall.
Choose a location for the outlet that is within 3 feet of the sink unless there is an existing one within that distance. Find the studs near your chosen location with a stud finder. You can install the outlet between studs or next to one but not in front of one. Run electrical cable to the electrical box from an existing bathroom receptacle or directly from the circuit panel. If you only have one receptacle circuit in the bathroom, which is common, it must be controlled by a 20-amp breaker, and you must wire it with 12-gauge cable.
You need an outlet within 3 feet of the bathroom sink. The National Electrical Code doesn't have any specific requirement regarding the height of a receptacle above a vanity. The only thing the NEC requires is that there must be one outlet within 36 inches of the outside edge of the sink, and it must be in the wall adjacent to the basin or countertop. Run electrical cable to the electrical box from an existing bathroom receptacle or directly from the circuit panel. If you only have one receptacle circuit in the bathroom, which is common, it must be controlled by a 20-amp breaker, and you must wire it with 12-gauge cable.
The standard height for a bathroom vanity is 30 inches. It is made 6 inches shorter than the standard kitchen countertop (normally 36 inches) in order to accommodate children. … However a bathroom vanity can normally be made to specification, higher or lower depending on preference. 50 people found this useful. 
A Typical Receptacle Mounting Height. A typical bathroom counter is 32 to 36 inches above the floor. A bathroom counter usually has a 4-inch backsplash, where the counter surface turns up the wall. Backsplashes prevent water from running behind a countertop. An electrical outlet receptacle is usually placed 2 to 3 inches above the top of the backsplash. The outlets can be placed horizontally or vertically
NY. Posts. 538. In my basement bathroom that was wired by a licensed electrician (actually, by his techs), I notice that the height of the receptacle over the sink is positioned 3-4 inches higher than the height of the vanity wall switch (which is, of course, located at the entry to the room). Although the height is not specified in the code, there is a restriction that a receptacle must be within 36 inches of the rim of the each sink. That rule imposes a limit on the height.
there is no prescribed height requirement, however to be counted as one of the NEC required receptacles in a residence the mounting height must be below 6'6. The maximum he … ight for the required outlets is actually 5 feet and includes receptacles within 18 inches of the wall if installed in the floor. Generally speaking, most residential receptacles put in bedrooms, living rooms, and hallways are mounted 16 inches above the floor. if following the NFPA (most popular in the USA) the rule for bathroom receptacles is. that is shall be adjacent to the sink within 30 inches of the sink basin (and must be ground fault protected); there is no specific HEIGHT requirement per code.
up vote 2 down vote accepted. There are no set rules for the height of receptacles on walls or over counters, even in a bathroom. Good practice is to keep them at least 4 inches above a counter top or backsplash and not directly over a sink or under a window. 
If I run 2 rows of 4 inch tile with a 2 inch cap, that would put my outlets at about 16 inches to center above the vanity top, and if my vanity is 33 inches tall (34 inches with a top), that would put the outlets at about 50 inches off the floor. That seems high. Question -. Hello! I am replacing the vanity, vanity top and backsplash in my bathroom and I would like to move the electrical outlets UP to a standard height. Currently, the bottom of the 2 outlets are about 3/4 above the vanity top, which is tile.