In 1933 Antonio Zanussi launched REX, the company's newest trademark at that time, to coincide with a huge media event of the day: the new record for a transatlantic crossing (Gibraltar to New York) with which the Italian liner “Rex” conquered the Blue Riband. In 1916 Antonio Zanussi founded his company, Officina Fumisteria Antonio Zanussi, based in Pordenone. In 1933 the brand-name REX was adopted. In 1946 following the war and after the death of Antonio Zanussi, his son Lino succeeded him. In 1954 Lino Zanussi called in Gino Valle as a consultant for the design of products.
He was responsible for the design of the first washing machine produced at Zanussi, the model “Rex 201”, which in 1958 marked the debut of the company in the production of washing machines (licensed Westinghouse). In 1916 Antonio Zanussi founded his company, Officina Fumisteria Antonio Zanussi, based in Pordenone. In 1933 the brand-name REX was adopted. In 1946 following the war and after the death of Antonio Zanussi, his son Lino succeeded him. In 1954 Lino Zanussi called in Gino Valle as a consultant for the design of products.
By JANET MASLIN. Krzysztof Zanussi, who made last year's New York Film Festival selection ''The Constant Factor'' while also working on ''Contract,'' a current festival entry, is clearly now working at the top of his form. 
AB Electrolux (commonly known as Electrolux) is a multinational appliance manufacturer, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. It is consistently ranked the world's second-largest appliance maker by units sold (after Whirlpool). Electrolux products sell under a variety of brand names (including its own), and are primarily major appliances and vacuum cleaners intended for consumer use. The company also makes appliances for professional use. Electrolux has a primary listing on the Stockholm Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the OMX Stockholm 30 index.
About. Zanussi is a leading brand for domestic kitchen and cleaning appliances. Exported from Italy since 1946, Zanussi is widely recognized for the quality of its innovative products and distinctive modern design. The Zanussi Company began as the small workshop of Antonio Zanussi in 1916. The enterprising 26-year-old son of a blacksmith in Pordenone in Northeastern Italy began the business by making home stoves and wood-burning oven
Best oven brands Zanussi ovens. The Zanussi brand was founded in Italy by Antonio Zanussi in 1916, becoming best known for its range of gas cookers. In the 1980s, Zanussi became part of the Electrolux AB Stockholm group, and it continues to manufacture a range of household appliances, both for cooking and cleaning. Zanussi’s range of ovens is broad: the company makes single and double, gas and electric, and built-in and built-under models. It also makes those with side-opening doors, easy-clean linings and, more recently, ovens that can cook with gas.
In 1985, Zanussi introduced the Jetsystem on their range of washing machines, which uses a regurgitation pump to pump the water in the drum onto the clothes via a jet hole in the door seal. This helps save water as the clothes are soaked with soapy water quicker. In 1916 Antonio Zanussi founded his company, Officina Fumisteria Antonio Zanussi, based in Pordenone. In 1933 the brand-name REX was adopted. In 1946 following the war and after the death of Antonio Zanussi, his son Lino succeeded him. In 1954 Lino Zanussi called in Gino Valle as a consultant for the design of products.
Note that some brands retain all their original differences but are just owned by a rival company and some are virtually the same machine inside with different logos and trimmings. Here is a sample of some of the household brand appliance manufacturers who are owned or made by the same company. Electrolux: own well over 50 brand names (though not all of them washing machines). Among the more well known ones are AEG, Tricity Bendix, Zanussi. If a customer is very unhappy with a washing machine, or the service provided by its service network, they are likely to want to avoid purchasing from that company again, but they may well end up buying virtually the exact same washing machine with a different logo – repaired by the same service engineers.
Also Hotpoint, Indesit and Creda are all owned by the same company. The Whirlpool group owns Whirlpool, Maytag and Kitchenaid, with many of the appliances being made in the same factories. Another extremley large European white goods manufacturer is the BSH group which owns the Bosch, Neff, Siemens and Gaggenau brands. However, they may well end up purchasing virtually the exact same washing machine with a different logo along with the same after sales service engineers as well as the same company ethos. A few examples of this are Hoover and Candy, who used to be totally different companies, are now both owned by the Candy group.