Towing capacity and payload are two different creatures. Lets start with payload. Payload is the difference between empty weight of your vehicle and the gross weight (the maximum weight it will safely haul. Also called GVWR or gross vehicle weight rating). Gross wieght minus empty weight = payload. Towing capacity is what the vehicle will safely pull and be able to safely stop with without the trailer trying to push you through an intersection with the brakes locked on the towing vehicle. I hope that this helped you
Payload refers to the amount of cargo weight a vehicle can safely carry. For example: An over the road semi can gross a max weight of 80,000 lbs. This is max weight including the truck, the trailer, the fuel and the driver. The payload capacity refers to the actual weight of the cargo which could be less than half of the vehicles gross weight. There may be room for more cargo in the trailer, but this would cause an overweight situation that could be unsafe. The same is true with the Tacoma
For instance, they often calculate this number by supposing that nothing is in the truck except for a 150-pound (68-kg) driver. In realistic situations, where the driver may be heavier, other passengers are in the cab and extra cargo is in the bed, the truck's actual towing capacity is lower [source: Edmunds ]. It turns out that not only do half-ton pickups weigh and carry more than a half ton, they can also tow more than a half ton. Although payload capacity usually refers to how much weight a truck can carry in both passengers and cargo in the cab and bed, towing capacity refers to how much the truck can safely tow. Although different, these two parameters can affect each other. For instance, the payload can include the tongue weight, which is the portion of trailer weight -- usually about 15 percent -- that bears down on the truck's hitch. Manufacturers often embellish the maximum towing capacity of a truck in advertisements
Payload is the carrying capacity of an aircraft or launch vehicle, usually measured in terms of weight. Depending on the nature of the flight or mission, the payload of a vehicle may include cargo, passengers, flight crew, munitions, scientific instruments or experiments, or other equipment. Extra fuel, when optionally carried, is also considered part of the payload. When the weight of the payload and fuel are considered together, it is known as the  useful load fraction . In spacecraft, mass fraction is normally used, which is the ratio of payload to everything else, including the rocket structure.
Best Answer: Payload is how much weight you can put into and on a vehicle. Towing capacity is the maximum weight of a trailer and load that can be pulled behind a vehicle. Payload is the difference between empty weight of your vehicle and the gross weight (the maximum weight it will safely haul. Also called GVWR or gross vehicle weight rating). Gross wieght minus empty weight = payload.
Full Definition of PAYLOAD. 1. : the load carried by a vehicle exclusive of what is necessary for its operation; especially: the load carried by an aircraft or spacecraft consisting of things (as passengers or instruments) necessary to the purpose of the flight. 2. : the weight of a payload.
For a rocket, the payload can be a satellite, space probe, or spacecraft carrying humans, animals, or cargo. For a ballistic missile, the payload is one or more warheads and related systems; the total weight of these systems is referred to as the throw-weight. When the weight of the payload and fuel are considered together, it is known as the  useful load fraction . In spacecraft, mass fraction is normally used, which is the ratio of payload to everything else, including the rocket structure.
payload. 1. The sum of the weight of passengers and cargo that an aircraft can carry. See also load. 2. The warhead, its container, and activating devices in a military missile. 3. The satellite or research vehicle of a space probe or research missile. The total weight of passengers and cargo that an aircraft carries or can carry. b. The total weight of the instruments, crew, and life-support systems that a spacecraft carries or can carry. c. The passengers, crew, instruments, or equipment carried by an aircraft, spacecraft, or rocket.