I am planning a trip for my family of 4, starting in Stuttgart Germany for 2 nights, driving to Hohenzollern castle, then to Strasbourg France for 2 nights, possibly Colmar or Basel for a night, then to Lucerne for 2 nights and finally Zurich to fly home. Yes, you need an highway sticker to drive in Switzerland (you could try to avoid driving on highways to spare the fee but I do not advice it); it costs 40 chf, no matter if you drive some miles or all the year long. And dropping the car in a different country may be really expensive.
For the Hohenzollern castle: From Stuttgart to Hechingen you take the train and from the station you take the shuttle bus right to the castle entrance. See details at www.burg-hohenzollern.com/driving-directions.html-scroll down below the map for train and bus info. Yes, you need an highway sticker to drive in Switzerland (you could try to avoid driving on highways to spare the fee but I do not advice it); it costs 40 chf, no matter if you drive some miles or all the year long. And dropping the car in a different country may be really expensive.
Find out the distances between two ore more cities on the map: Example: Enter the names of the places FROM Stuttgart,Germany TO Florence,Italy then press ENTER or DISTANCE button. 
You can also calculate the cost of driving from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy based on current local fuel prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. Since this is a long drive, you might want to stop halfway and stay overnight in a hotel. More trip calculations. 1  driving time from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. 2  reverse drive distance from Rome, Italy to Stuttgart, Germany. 3  hotels near Rome, Italy. 4  flight distance from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. 5  flight time from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy
Choose your departure city from Germany; this will likely depend on the largest city you are closest to, especially if you are flying and arrived in Germany from elsewhere. Frankfurt, Munich and Dusseldorf have the largest airports; Munich has the closest train station to Italy. Traveling to Italy from Germany can be simple; only smaller nations like Switzerland are in between them. Due to the small nature of Europe, traveling between countries can be like traveling between American states, except for crossing borders.
Driving distance from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. The total driving distance from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy is 672 miles or 1 081 kilometers. Your trip begins in Stuttgart, Germany. It ends in Rome, Italy. More trip calculations. 1  driving time from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. 2  reverse drive distance from Rome, Italy to Stuttgart, Germany. 3  hotels near Rome, Italy. 4  flight distance from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. 5  flight time from Stuttgart, Germany to
Book your STR to FLR flights with Expedia and find last-minute Stuttgart to Florence airfare. Expedia offers discount airfare on multiple airline carriers that fly direct and indirect routes between STR and FLR, with new flight deals and promotions almost daily. Browse the most popular airlines servicing the Florence (FLR) airport. Visit their flights pages to learn more about the most popular routes these carriers fly. Expedia, Inc. is not responsible for content on external Web sites.
Map of driving directions from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. Click here to show map. Drag the line on the map to calculate the driving distance for a different route. If you want to verify these driving directions or look for another possible route, you can try. Google Maps, Bing Maps, or MapQuest. More trip calculations. 1  driving time from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. 2  reverse drive distance from Rome, Italy to Stuttgart, Germany. 3  hotels near Rome, Italy. 4  flight distance from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy. 5  flight time from Stuttgart, Germany to Rome, Italy
Italy's vacation spots include the ruins of the Roman Empire and the arts and sports of Milan. Traveling to Italy from Germany can be simple; only smaller nations like Switzerland are in between them. Due to the small nature of Europe, traveling between countries can be like traveling between American states, except for crossing borders.