It’s called the Disability Tax Credit. It can have a significant impact on your tax bill. There are several limits on the credit, ranging from what qualifies as a “disability” to how much you can claim. If you’re unable to work because of a disability, you should look into the credit before you file your tax return.
Line 316 – Disability amount (for self). If you are eligible for the disability tax credit (DTC), you may be able to claim the disability amount of $7,766 on line 316 of your tax return. 
Taxpayers who are under 65 years of age can still claim the tax credit if they are retired on permanent and total disability, or if they receive taxable disability income during the year and do not reach the mandatory retirement age by the first day of the tax year. If you file a joint return, your adjusted gross income can’t exceed $20,000 plus a maximum of $5,000 in social security and pension benefits. If you meet all of the requirements, you can calculate the credit amount on the Schedule R attachment to your personal income tax return.
Age & Disability Requirements. You have to be under 65 years old at the end of the tax year to qualify. You’re considered to be age 65 on the day before your 65th birthday. If you’re born on January 1, 1946, you’ll be treated as 65 years old at the end of 2010. There are several limits on the credit, ranging from what qualifies as a “disability” to how much you can claim. If you’re unable to work because of a disability, you should look into the credit before you file your tax return.
Disability income does not include any payments you receive from a plan that is not specifically designated to provide disability benefits, such as taking early distributions from a 401K account or obtaining cash payment for an accrual of personal and vacation days. If you file a joint return, your adjusted gross income can’t exceed $20,000 plus a maximum of $5,000 in social security and pension benefits. If you meet all of the requirements, you can calculate the credit amount on the Schedule R attachment to your personal income tax return.
Mention the term disability tax credit to some people, and you'll get an earful. It's not worth enough, some say, or applying for it is too complex, or the Canada Revenue Agency has unfairly turned down their claim, or the eligibility requirements are too restrictive, or their doctor says they're not eligible at all. (Bill Siel/Kenosha News/Canadian Press). ​ Enter disability tax credit consultants into a search engine, and you'll be presented with a long list of firms that trumpet their success in getting refunds of $20,000, $30,000, even $40,000 for clients — for a fee.
The ABC's of the DTC. The basic disability tax credit is an attempt to address, through the tax system, the added costs of living with an ongoing disability. People who qualify get tax relief that amounts to as much as $1,165 a year, with a supplemental benefit for those under 18 that's worth up to $680 a year. (Bill Siel/Kenosha News/Canadian Press). ​ Enter disability tax credit consultants into a search engine, and you'll be presented with a long list of firms that trumpet their success in getting refunds of $20,000, $30,000, even $40,000 for clients — for a fee.
OVERVIEW. The elderly and disabled can receive a tax credit that could reduce and even potentially eliminate the tax they owe for the entire year. Here's how to figure out if you qualify. If you file a joint return, your adjusted gross income can’t exceed $20,000 plus a maximum of $5,000 in social security and pension benefits. If you meet all of the requirements, you can calculate the credit amount on the Schedule R attachment to your personal income tax return.
There is a wide range of disability-related financial support, including benefits, tax credits, payments, grants and concessions. The main disability and sickness benefits are: 1  Disability Living Allowance or Personal Independence Payment. 2  Attendance Allowance. 3  Employment and Support Allowance. 