If your liner is being installed on a new above ground pool, you should have completed creating the cove at this point. The cove is a wedge of sand or pre-formed foam that keeps the liner from slipping under the pool wall and also provides a protective layer between the liner and the metal frame of the pool. You can fill above ground pools with a common garden hose, or hire a water truck which is much faster. When the water is no more than 1 inch deep, check for levelness. If water runs to one side, pull back the liner and make the ground level. When level, continue to fill and adjust the liner.
1 Installation labor to replace an above ground pool liner can cost $200-$800 or more, depending on local rates and the size and shape of the pool. 2  For example, Edwards Pools in Ohio estimates its labor charges for replacing an above ground pool liner vary from $400 for an 18' round pool to $700 for a 18'x33' oval. 1 Replacing a vinyl liner in an in-ground swimming pool typically costs $700-$1,500 for just the liner, depending on the size and shape of the pool, the thickness (20-30 mil, but typically 28 mil) of the liner and any special colors or designs on the liner.
1 Total cost, labor and materials, for replacing an in-ground swimming pool liner is typically $2,000-$5,000. 2  A vinyl liner for an above ground pool can cost $150-$600, depending on the size and style of the swimming pool, plus any special colors, patterns or textures in the liner. 1 Replacing a vinyl liner in an in-ground swimming pool typically costs $700-$1,500 for just the liner, depending on the size and shape of the pool, the thickness (20-30 mil, but typically 28 mil) of the liner and any special colors or designs o
How to replace an above ground pool liner. Sooner or Later, your above ground pool vinyl liner will need to be replaced. Generally, above ground liners last 10 years or so, depending on the quality of the pool liner and the care given to the water chemistry. Over time, harsh water conditions can deplete the plasticizers within vinyl and cause your vinyl liner to become brittle and stiff. How to replace an above ground pool liner. Rob Cox by Rob Cox, August 18, 2010 How to replace an above ground pool liner Sooner or Later, your above ground pool vinyl liner will need to be replaced.
Save. If you have an above-ground pool, there will come a time where it will be inevitable to change the liner. After years, the liner may become cracked from chemicals and the sun or something sharp may have cut the liner beyond repair. Replace Overlap Above Ground Pool Liner. Empty the pool if it is not already empty. Place the submersible pump in the lowest part of the pool, usually the center. Make sure the drain hose is away from the pool and the water is not coming back towards the pool.
An above ground pool is useless without its liner. The pool liner is basically a large bag made of vinyl that is designed to hold water within the pool's frame. It is the most important part of above ground pools and has the potential to be the most frustrating. Liners must be handled carefully and installed properly to avoid damage to the vinyl
1. Measuring the pool. Before you can replace an your Liner you will need to measure your pool. If you have around pool, you will need to know the diameter and wall height. Oval and rectangle pools will require measurements for the length and width. You will also need to know information about the bottom of your
An above ground pool is useless without its liner. The pool liner is basically a large bag made of vinyl that is designed to hold water within the pool's frame. It is the most important part of above ground pools and has the potential to be the most frustrating. You can fill above ground pools with a common garden hose, or hire a water truck which is much faster. When the water is no more than 1 inch deep, check for levelness. If water runs to one side, pull back the liner and make the ground level. When level, continue to fill and adjust the liner.
1 For example, a 20' Round and 4' High 20 gauge Vinyl Liner with a pebble pattern on the bottom costs about $265 from Inyo Pools in Florida. 2  Installation labor to replace an above ground pool liner can cost $200-$800 or more, depending on local rates and the size and shape of the pool. 1 Replacing a vinyl liner in an in-ground swimming pool typically costs $700-$1,500 for just the liner, depending on the size and shape of the pool, the thickness (20-30 mil, but typically 28 mil) of the liner and any special colors or designs on the liner.