Glucose is found in animal cells. Plant use glucose to stay alive, glucose acts like food to the plants. Plants do not store glucose, but, they turn glucose into starch and st … ore them in their leaves. When they cannot photosynthesise and they need food, they would turn starch back into glucose and use them. It is used as an energy source in cells is via aerobic or anaerobic respiration. Both of these start with the early steps of the glycolysis metabolic pathway. The first step of this is the phosphorylation of glucose by hexokinase to prepare it for later breakdown to provide energy.
Cellular respiration allows organisms to use (release) energy stored in the chemical bonds of glucose (C6H12O6). The energy in glucose is used to produce ATP. Cells use ATP … to supply their energy needs. Cellular respiration is therefore a process in which the energy in glucose is transferred to ATP. Cells perform cellular respiration to create ATP. ATP is the main energy source in a cell, which is used to carry out the cell's processes. Cellular respiration is when oxygen is used to convert the chemical energy in organic molecules in to ATP.
Mitochondria are the energy factories of the cells. The energy currency for the work that animals must do is the energy-rich molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The ATP is produced in the mitochondria using energy stored in food. Just as the chloroplasts in plants act as sugar factories for the supply of ordered molecules to the plant, the mitochondria in animals and plants act to produce the ordered ATP molecules as the energy supply for the processes of life. A typical animal cell will have on the order of 1000 to 2000 mitochondria. 
Glycogen is a multibranched polysaccharide of glucose that serves as a form of energy storage in animals and fungi. The polysaccharide structure represents the main storage form of glucose in the body. 
Like all other animal and plant cells they contain mitochondria (singular mitochondrion). These are cell organelles. Their job is to obtain energy from glucose by tissue respiration. The energy produced by mitochondria is released into the cell in the form of ATP (Adenosine Tri-Phosphate). Here is a diagram of a sperm.
In addition, both plant and animal cells store energy by shunting glucose into fat synthesis pathways. One gram of fat contains nearly six times the energy of the same amount of glycogen, but the energy from fat is less readily available than that from glycogen. Complex organic food molecules such as sugars, fats, and proteins are rich sources of energy for cells because much of the energy used to form these molecules is literally stored within the chemical bonds that hold them together.
Instead of making their own glucose, animals got it from the plants that they ate. Glucose is the source of energy for all of our body functions, especially the brain. The only energy the brain can use is from glucose. Glucose is also the primary source of energy for muscles, backed up by other sources if it runs out. In a nutshell, the human body requires glucose for normal functioning of the brain and other tissues. If the system for obtaining, creating, and using glucose is disrupted, diabetes occurs and a lot of bad things can follow like heart attacks, blindness, and loss of limbs. But, it can all be prevented.
Animal cells can also synthesize branched polymers of glucose known as glycogen, which in turn aggregate into particles that are observable via electron microscopy. A cell can rapidly mobilize these particles whenever it needs quick energy. Complex organic food molecules such as sugars, fats, and proteins are rich sources of energy for cells because much of the energy used to form these molecules is literally stored within the chemical bonds that hold them together.
In Plants 1) photosynthesis creates glucose molecules (instead of eating) → 2) this fuels cellular respiration in the plant cells → 3) creates ATP → 4) fuels plant growth and reproduction → 5) provides carbohydrates to animals for their cellular respiration. The cycle continues. In those tiny organelles, one molecule of glucose with 6 molecules of oxygen are changed into 36 molecules of ATP – the energy cells can use to get things done. Cellular respiration is going on in every cell in both animals and plants.
Cells do not use the energy from oxidation reactions as soon as it is released. Instead, they convert it into small, energy-rich molecules such as ATP and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), which can be used throughout the cell to power metabolism and construct new cellular components. Complex organic food molecules such as sugars, fats, and proteins are rich sources of energy for cells because much of the energy used to form these molecules is literally stored within the chemical bonds that hold them together.