The Digital Age. The band The Digital Age, sings about the power in the name of Jesus with their new song, Break Every Chain,” off their debut album Evening:Morning (August 13, 2013). Formally members of the David Crowder*Band, Jack Parker, Jeremy B-Wack Bush, Mike Mike D Dodson, and Mark the Shark. Change Location. Email Print. The band The Digital Age, sings about the power in the name of Jesus with their new song, Break Every Chain,” off their debut album Evening:Morning (August 13, 2013). Formally members of the David Crowder*Band, Jack Parker, Jeremy B-Wack Bush, Mike Mike D Dodson, and Mark the Shark.
Tasha Cobb sings Break Every Chain at Woman Thou Art Loosed under Bishop TD Jakes. Category. License. Source videos. 
Jesus Culture-Break Every Chain, Year: 2011. To buy CD from Jesus Culture Store: http://store.ibethel.org/p5561/jesus-... There is power in the name of Jesus. There is power in the name of Jesus. There is power in the name of Jesus. To break every chain. Break every chain. Break every chain. There is power in the name of Jesus. 
The song topped the Billboard Gospel Songs chart in 2012, as well as the corresponding digital and airplay gospel charts. The song also managed to peak at number thirty-five on the Billboard Holiday Songs chart and twenty-nine on the Billboard Adult R&B Songs chart. The song was originally written and performed by Will Reagan and the United Pursuit Band in 2009. The song was later covered by Jesus Culture in 2011. However, Tasha Cobb's interpretation of the song is the first commercially successful and accepted within the gospel community, of the trio.
There is power in the name of Jesus. There is power in the name of Jesus. To Break every chain. Break every chain. Break every chain. To Break every chain. Break every chain. Break every chain. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
Break Every Chain  is a song performed by American recording artist Tasha Cobbs from her major-label debut studio album Grace (2013). The song was composed by Will Reagan, produced by VaShawn Mitchell and released as the album's lead single. The song was originally written and performed by Will Reagan and the United Pursuit Band in 2009. The song was later covered by Jesus Culture in 2011. However, Tasha Cobb's interpretation of the song is the first commercially successful and accepted within the gospel community, of the trio.
[Lead:]. There is power in the name of Jesus [x3]. To break every chain, break every chain, break every chain. [x2]. [Chorus:]. There is power in the name of Jesus [x3]. To break every chain, break every chain, break every chain. [x2]. [Lead:]. There's an army rising up. [x3]. To break every chain, break every chain, break every chain
Take a listen to “Break Every Chain”, the newly released single from Tasha Cobbs!! This song has been getting lots of attention, you will want to get this song!! Wonderful!! 1  Follow Tasha on Twitter: 2  Visit Tasha on Facebook: 3  View Tasha‘s Website: 4  Purchase this song on Amazon!! 