Because of the jostling of the bicycle or trailer, and the additional weight of a helmet (8-10 oz.), the start time is usually a few months after a baby can first hold their head up. Note: Some jurisdictions have laws requiring passengers on bicycles to be at least one year old. And, some jurisdictions have laws requiring children to wear helmet, include when they are riding in a trailer. Conceptually, a infant seat setup, used on smooth roads, combined with a good shock-absorption system and good head-neck-back support would be safe for an infant sooner.
After much debate, we tried a first ride with Luke in his bike trailer when he was 7 weeks old, with the infant sling (not officially recommended for cycling). We decided to do this based on two main factors: 1  Luke is very big and strong for his age. But then, they recommend this…. If you can find one that accommodates your weight and size, ride in a trailer yourself for at least 10 miles, at the speed you expect to travel. At least put a jar of milk in a trailer and ride as you will with the baby, checking the foam level when you stop. We find this ridiculous.
In answer to the first question, the Winnipeg Health Region recommends that children be at least 12 months old before riding on a bike carrier or in a bike trailer. There are several reasons for this. Infants under one year of age have large heads and weak necks. 
9 answers. My son is 5 months old now, and I really need to start working out and losing that pregnancy weight that I have gained. I hate to run, but love biking. I was wondering if any of you moms have used any attachments or carriers on your bike for your infant (5 - 6 months old). He can't sit up by himself yet but can sit well when leaning on something. If you have any suggestions please let me know what kind it was and where you got it so that I can research it
Tallin & Zali in their bike trailer. We went on our first bike trip with Tallin when he was 7 months old. Zali will be 5 months old when we head off in June to Sumatra. However, we had them both in the Chariot on smooth roads at around 8 weeks old, in the infant sling. But then, they recommend this…. If you can find one that accommodates your weight and size, ride in a trailer yourself for at least 10 miles, at the speed you expect to travel. At least put a jar of milk in a trailer and ride as you will with the baby, checking the foam level when you stop. We find this ridiculous.
Our infant was born in October and is approaching 8 months old. We recently purchased a bike trailer for the purpose of taking family bike rides (we also have a 3 year old). We live in a part of the United States that gets four distinct seasons. So when comparing bike seats to bike trailers, I would err on the side of caution and add a few months' worth of development. Once the child is old enough to make himself sit comfortably, he will know how to position himself in a trailer.
Note: Some jurisdictions have laws requiring passengers on bicycles to be at least one year old. Usually by age 12 months parents can start checking with the child's physician to see if they have the neck development to safely go for a bike ride. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Obviously a child can't be on a bike until they can safely wear a helmet. http://www.helmets.org/little1s.htm Nobody we have met in the injury prevention field recommends taking an infant of less than 12 months in a bicycle child seat, trailer, sidecar or any other carrier. Nobody. And we do not either
A bike carrier is a no-no for such a young child. Your child needs to be at least 1 year old before considering this. He should always were a helmet and he will not have the strenghth to do so until he is a year. Ask your ped if you don't believe me. I was wondering if any of you moms have used any attachments or carriers on your bike for your infant (5 - 6 months old). He can't sit up by himself yet but can sit well when leaning on something.
Usually by age 12 months parents can start checking with the child's physician to see if they have the neck development to safely go for a bike ride. Most toddlers' neck and shoulder muscles can tolerate the weight of a helmet and absorb shock from bumps in the road at 1 years old. And, some jurisdictions have laws requiring children to wear helmet, include when they are riding in a trailer. Conceptually, a infant seat setup, used on smooth roads, combined with a good shock-absorption system and good head-neck-back support would be safe for an infant sooner.