Medical conditions are often related to other diseases and conditions. Our doctors have compiled a list of ailments related to the topic of Chronic Cough. These conditions may be a cause or symptom of Chronic Cough or be a condition for which you may be at increased risk. Malaria Article. 1  Malaria facts. 2  What is malaria? 3  Is malaria contagious? 4  What causes malaria? 5  What are risk factors for malaria? 6  What are malaria symptoms and signs? 7  How do physicians diagnose malaria? 8  What is the treatment for malaria? 9  What is the prognosis of malaria? 10  Is there a malaria vaccine? 11  Can malaria reoccur after treatment?
During its early stages misdiagnosis is common, because the signs and symptoms of early stage whooping cough are similar to those found in other respiratory diseases, such as bronchitis, the flu and the common cold. Whooping cough symptoms usually appear between six to twenty days after the Bordetella pertussis bacterium has infected the patient, in other words, pertussis has 6-to-20 day incubation period. The illness starts off with mild symptoms, which then get much worse before improving.
In a Obstructive Bronchiectasis: Decreased Tactile Fremitus and vocal fremitus Hyperresonant percussion note Diminished breath sounds Wheezing Rhochi and wheezing In a Restrictive Bronchiectasis: Increased tactile and vocal fremitus Bronchial breath sounds Crackles Whispered pectoriloquy Dull percussion note. With a sample of the patients blood a DNA test can be performed to analyze for the presence of CFTR gene mutations. 1 
vocal fremitus (VF) transmission of the spoken voice to the chest wall, detectable by auscultation or palpation; it is increased with lung consolidation and decreased with pleural effusion, pneumothorax, and airway obstruction. 
A cough can be the result of a respiratory tract infection such as the common cold, acute bronchitis, pneumonia, pertussis, or tuberculosis. In the vast majority of cases, acute coughs, i.e. coughs shorter than 3 weeks, are due to the common cold. In people with a normal chest X-ray, tuberculosis is a rare finding. A psychogenic cough ( habit cough  or tic cough) may be the cause in the absence of a physical problem. In these instances, emotional and psychological problems are suspected. However, other illnesses have to be ruled out before a firm diagnosis of psychogenic cough is made.
As mentioned before, whooping cough is a bacterial infection caused by Bordetella pertussis. Infection occurs in the lining of the airways, principally in the trachea (the windpipe) as well as the bronchi (airways that branch off from the trachea to the lungs. Whooping cough symptoms usually appear between six to twenty days after the Bordetella pertussis bacterium has infected the patient, in other words, pertussis has 6-to-20 day incubation period. The illness starts off with mild symptoms, which then get much worse before improving.
The most common cause of an acute or subacute cough is a viral respiratory tract infection. In adults with a chronic cough, i.e. a cough longer than 8 weeks, more than 90% of cases are due to post-nasal drip, asthma, eosinophilic bronchitis, and gastroesophageal reflux disease. A psychogenic cough ( habit cough  or tic cough) may be the cause in the absence of a physical problem. In these instances, emotional and psychological problems are suspected. However, other illnesses have to be ruled out before a firm diagnosis of psychogenic cough is made.
During this second paroxysmal stage, there are extremely intense episodes of coughing, often called paroxysms of coughing. Symptoms include: In adults and teenagers, whooping cough paroxysmal symptoms are less severe than in babies and young kids-they are usually similar to the symptoms found in bronchitis. In very rare cases, whooping cough can cause sudden unexpected death in babies. Whooping cough symptoms usually appear between six to twenty days after the Bordetella pertussis bacterium has infected the patient, in other words, pertussis has 6-to-20 day incubation period. The illness starts off with mild symptoms, which then get much worse before improving.
Rhonchal fremitus, also known as bronchial fremitus, is a palpable vibration produced during breathing caused by partial airway obstruction. The obstruction can be due to mucus or other secretions in the airway, bronchial hyperreactivity, or tumors. Tactile fremitus, known by many other names including pectoral fremitus, tactile vocal fremitus, or just vocal fremitus, is a vibration felt on the patient's chest during low frequency vocalization.