38DISCUSSION Practical Implications The data from this study reveals several practical applications worthy of future study. First, it would be valuable to further examine how society constructs images of masculinity and femininity and how this impacts health care procurement.
Other factors that might be considered in recommendations include the disease burden of the condition being addressed, the timeliness (e.g. length of follow-up, duration of intervention), and the study type that would best suit subsequent research (Brown 2006) .
12.7.3 Implications for research. Review conclusions should help people make well-informed decisions about future healthcare research. The ‘Implications for research’ should comment on the need for further research, and the nature of the further research that would be most desirable.
Summary of the study The goal of this convergent study was to use a larger sample of physics instructors from various higher education institutions to refine and expand an initial explanatory model of physics instructor’s conceptions about the problem-solving process in introductory calculus-based physics.
The best way to show findings is to look for those critical incidents in your data, the aha or oh no moments, when you had a breakthrough in answering your research question. If it was a moment of vivid insight for you, it may well be a breakthrough for your audience. (Hubbard and Power, 1993. P. 113). A conclusion section refocuses the purpose of the research, revealing a synopsis of what was found and leads into the implications of the findings.
155 CHAPTER 5: Implications This chapter will provide a brief summary of the study, relate the findings to prior research, and suggest possible directions for future studies.
The results of this study clearly showed that there were motivational effects of publishing students' work on the World Wide Web. What is less clear is if the motivational effects were due to a wider audience or the novelty of using computers to publish the students' own work on the ever increasingly popular Internet.
Theoretical Implications The previous stage of this research program showed that it was possible to generate an initial explanatory model of physics instructors’ conceptions about the teaching and learning of the problem solving in introductory calculus-based physics.