Centrioles are built from a cylindrical array of 9 microtubules, each of which has attached to it 2 partial microtubules. The photo (courtesy of E. deHarven) is an electron micrograph showing a cross section of a centriole with its array of nine triplets of microtubules. 1 Some attach to one kinetochore of a dyad with those growing from the opposite centrosome binding to the other kinetochore of that dyad. 2  Some bind to the arms of the chromosomes. 3  Still others continue growing from the two centrosomes until they extend between each other in a region of overlap.
Role of the centrosome in cell cycle progression. Centrosomes are associated with the nuclear membrane during prophase of the cell cycle. In mitosis the nuclear membrane breaks down and the centrosome nucleated microtubules (parts of the cytoskeleton) can interact with the chromosomes to build the mitotic spindle. The centrosome replicates during the S phase of the cell cycle. During the prophase in the process of cell division called mitosis, the centrosomes migrate to opposite poles of the cell. The mitotic spindle then forms between the two centrosomes. Upon division, each daughter cell receives one centrosome. Aberrant numbers of centrosomes in a cell have been associated with cancer
Answer by Tombo H. Confidence votes 1.7K. The centrosome is a place inside the cell where microtubles are formed. inside the cell centrosome there are centrioles wich are made up of a ring of nine microtubules. these centrioles are only found inside animal cells. A centrosome is where microtubules are organised in a cell and can  be thought of as the centre of a spiders web with all the threads  coming out from it. It provide support … for the microtubules and is  responsible for their breakdown and construction.
Noun. 1. centrosome-small region of cytoplasm adjacent to the nucleus; contains the centrioles and serves to organize the microtubules. central body. cytol, cytoplasm-the protoplasm of a cell excluding the nucleus; is full of proteins that control cell metabolism. 1  Facebook. 
In cell biology, the centrosome (Latin centrum 'center' + Greek sōma 'body') is an organelle that serves as the main microtubule organizing center (MTOC) of the animal cell as well as a regulator of cell-cycle progression. The centrosome replicates during the S phase of the cell cycle. During the prophase in the process of cell division called mitosis, the centrosomes migrate to opposite poles of the cell. The mitotic spindle then forms between the two centrosomes. Upon division, each daughter cell receives one centrosome. Aberrant numbers of centrosomes in a cell have been associated with cancer
Centrosome and Centrioles. A centrosome is an organelle that is found close to the nucleus within the cytoplasm of cells. Centrosomes are key to the division of cells and produce the spindle fibers that are required during metaphase of mitosis. Each centrosome consists of two centrioles that are orientated at right-angles to each other
The Centrosome. 1  is located in the cytoplasm usually close to the nucleus. 2  It consists of two centrioles — oriented at right angles to each other — embedded in a mass of amorphous material containing more than 100 different proteins. 3  It is duplicated during S phase of the cell cycle. 1 Some attach to one kinetochore of a dyad with those growing from the opposite centrosome binding to the other kinetochore of that dyad. 2  Some bind to the arms of the chromosomes. 3  Still others continue growing from the two centrosomes until they extend between each other in a region of overlap.
In cell biology, the centrosome is an organelle that is the main place where cell microtubules get organised. They occur only in animal cells. Also, it regulates the cell division cycle, the stages which lead up to cell division. Interestingly, centrosomes are not required for the progression of mitosis. When the centrosomes are irradiated by a laser, mitosis proceeds with a normal spindle. In the absence of the centrosome, the microtubules of the spindle are focused by motors allowing the formation of a bipolar spindle.
The real answer is the centrosome is an area in the cell where microtubules are produced. Microtubules carry out a variety of functions, ranging from transportation to structu … ral support. During cell division, the centrosome divides, and both parts move to opposite sides of the cell. A centrosome is where microtubules are organised in a cell and can  be thought of as the centre of a spiders web with all the threads  coming out from it. It provide support … for the microtubules and is  responsible for their breakdown and construction.