Growing Chilli Peppers Guide. Growing chilli plants is associated with growing in the relatively warm climes of South America and Asia however growing peppers can be done successfully in the northern hemisphere. In order to get a decent harvest the plants will need to be started off either indoors or under glass. 
For the smaller peppers (under 12  tall), you'll need a 2 gallon container. For the larger pepper plants, a 5 gallon or even 10 gallon container will give the peppers plenty of room to grow. Oh, and remember -- your container needs to have drainage holes, so excess water has a way to escape. 
Growing on chilli pepper plants. Water chilli pepper plants regularly throughout the growing season and feed weekly with a high potash tomato fertiliser once the first fruits have set. Pinch out the growing tip of the first flowering shoots promote more branching and therefore increase your harvest. Alternatively grow chillies in a sheltered, sunny position outdoors. Transplant them into grow bags (3 per growbag) or individually into 2 litre containers. When growing your own chilli plants outdoors, gradually acclimatise them to outdoor conditions over a period of 7 to 10 days.
Plant Size and Spacing. Jalapeno pepper plants grow 24 to 30 inches tall and16 to 18 inches wide. Space the plants 12 to 18 inches apart in full sun. All pepper plants belong to the same species and can cross-pollinate. Plant different types of peppers at least 50 feet apart if you plan to harvest seeds for replanting. 
Average Height. Bell pepper plants may be as short as 6 inches, or as tall as 3 feet tall. The spread of these plants may be anywhere from 1 to 3 feet. Grown in upper U.S. Department of Agriculture zones 8 through 11, bell pepper plants may be overwintered outdoors, where they become full and bush-like. Bell pepper plants naturally take up quite a bit of room in the garden. Grown in the soil, these plants must be positioned with 4 to 5 feet of space on center between plants. But many factors that influence the size of these plants, and plants that have been stunted may be much shorter and less spread out.
The beautifully colored 4 inch fruits weigh 6 ounces each, and grow on plants that are 24 to 30 inches tall: http://www.heirloomseeds.com/pepper.htm http://www.crosmanseed.com/pepper.htm Greenhouse pepper cultivars generally have an indeterminate pattern of growth. Best Answer: Depending on the variety, most pepper plants grown outdoors will measure 2 to 3 feet tall. http://aggie-horticulture.tamu.edu/plant...
They don't grow very big at all, defnitly no bigger than 50cm. They spread out quite a bit and form a bush shape. Its really amazing how many chillis you get from a single plant. Last year I grew 3 Jalapeno and 3 Hot wax and had nearly 100 jalepeno and proably 50+ hot wax. They take quite a lot of abuse such as underwatering but just soldier on.
Growing chilli plants. Chillies grow in a variety of soils. Like most plants they grow better in rich soils and produce more fruit, but they will grow in any reasonably fertile soil and don't need any special treatment. 
Growing chilli plants. Chillies grow in a variety of soils. Like most plants they grow better in rich soils and produce more fruit, but they will grow in any reasonably fertile soil and don't need any special treatment. If you use plenty of mulch and compost in your garden the chillies will grow just fine.