Most pet owners calculate the price of the food and add it to the cost of the dog and figure that they can afford it regardless of their budget. The reality is that very few people have any idea how much owning a dog really costs and grossly underestimate it. After all, we love our pets and we would not put a price on their health and happiness. The hard facts are that the cost of owning a dog is an extremely important consideration for a number of often overlooked reasons. The first concerns the purchase price of the dog. Many people balk at paying $500 to $1000 for a dog. They rationalize that they simply can not afford it and settle for a poorly bred $150 puppy instead. What a huge mistake. The cost of a guaranteed healthy, well-bred $1000 puppy is a fraction of what it will cost to own that dog for 12 years. A poorly bred dog with bad hips, allergies, and a not so bright disposition will end up costing you thousands more in medical bills not to mention hours of frustration and disappointmen
According to this report, the total first-year cost of owning a dog is $1,270 and for a cat it’s $1,070. As you can see, having a pet can cost you over $1,000 in the first year, and well over $500 each additional year. Depending on the food you buy and your actual medical expenses, the costs could be much higher. The costs of bringing an animal into your home go far beyond any initial adoption fee, which can vary from nothing at all to hundreds of dollars. Here is a breakdown of the average first year cost of pet ownership costs for one medium dog or one cat, according to the ASPCA.
Having and loving a pet is not a right, but a privilege! The following items reflect the average costs of properly caring for a 40-50 lb. dog. Larger dogs cost a bit more, small dogs cost a bit less. This list is for information purposes only. 1  $20 per month ($240 per year) for a premium food such as Science Diet, Iams, or Pro Plan (costs based on 40 lb. bags of food, 20 lbs. 1 $14 - $50 per night for boarding the pet, or having a pet sitter come in during your vacations. 2  $50 - $150 for toys and miscellaneous items (this can go much higher!). 3  $50 - $150 for a crate. 4  Obedience training (highly recommended!) - $120 for an 8 week program. 5  Some programs offer discounts for rescued pets.
1 The cost of spaying, a more complicated surgery, usually ranges from about $50 to $175. 2  Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 3  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 
Additional Costs. You may have to pay extra for the neutering procedure if the dog is in heat or obese. Most vets will charge a flat fee of $25 to $50. If the dog is pregnant, the spaying may cost more (an extra $50 to $100). After the surgery, the dog will require pain medication, which will cost something extra. The costs of neutering should include the general anesthesia as well
If you’re getting a dog from a reputable breeder, the price could be anything from $800 to several thousand dollars. If you’re adopting the dog from the humane society or a shelter, the cost could be between $35 and $400. It all depends on the animal and whether or not it’s a pure-breed or a mix. 
The cost of spaying or neutering a dog is $50-200 depending on the size of the dog and whether there are health conditions that can complicate the surgery. A routine veterinary exam runs from $45-150. The cost of puppy vaccinations and boosters is $20-150. The cost of a dog is usually more the first year than each year after because of several one-time expenses. These include the price of the puppy, initial vaccinations, and the purchase of supplies like a crate, collar, and leash.
The cost of owning a dog can be estimated at $700-3000 per year (see the chart at the bottom of this page). There are ways to save money depending on the choices you make. Contributing factors include your dog's size and age, the region in which you live, your own lifestyle, and your dog's individual needs. Routine veterinary care is a huge part of keeping your dog healthy. Plan on going to the vet for wellness checkups once or twice a year at a cost of at least $150-300 yearly. Annual blood work can add about $100-200. Dental cleanings are often recommended once a year and usually cost at least $300