average golf cart battery is 110 amps.   if you have 6 batteries in a 36 volt system, and you use a 20 amp charger it could   take up to 5 1/2 hours (depending on … the state of charge of your batteries when   you begin the charge).
1 Connect the USB cable to your camera and to the USB port on your computer. 2  Do not use a USB hub. 3  If you have an EASYSHARE M873 or M883 Zoom Digital Camera, turn on your camera. 4  Wait for your camera battery to charge (approximately 3 hours). Charging your camera using a KODAK USB AC Adapter. NOTE: See your camera Extended User's Guide to determine if your camera is compatible with the KODAK USB AC Adapter. 1  Turn off your camera. 2  Verify that the correct battery is installed properly i
Some of the newer batteries will recharge in 1 to 3 hours, while some of the less expensive ones may … take 8 to 12 hours. Both are available from retail outlets at a nominal cost. also the charger must have the capability to charge the 1-3 hours ones if those are the ones you are using. On average a camera battery will charge in 1-6 hours, depending on the battery and the charge it will hold. Sometimes, it can depend on where you are charging it also. For mor … e info, refer to your owners manual for your camera, or your battery if it was purchased seperately. + 5 others found this useful. Yvonne Gunn
batteries can be severely damaged. The time required to charge batteries depends on the state of charge and the charge rate. The smart thing to do is get a smart charger because you can easily ruin your batteries. Check the first source link for other camera tips and information. Source(s): http://www.google.com/base/a/4210404/D13... http://data.energizer.com/PDFs/Rechargea...
Confidence votes 262K. On average a camera battery will charge in 1-6 hours, depending on the battery and the charge it will hold. Sometimes, it can depend on where you are charging it also. For more info, refer to your owners manual for your camera, or your battery if it was purchased seperately. if you have 6 batteries in a 36 volt system, and you use a 20 amp charger it could   take up to 5 1/2 hours (depending on … the state of charge of your batteries when   you begin the charge).
1 It takes approx. 2  2 hours to fully recharge a completely exhausted battery at 23℃ / 73℉. 3  The time required to recharge the battery depends on the ambient temperature and battery's charge level. 4  For safety reasons, recharging in low temperatures (6℃ - 10℃ / 43℉ - 50℉) will take a longer time (up to 4 hours). 
1 Connect the USB cable to your camera and to the USB port on your computer. 2  Do not use a USB hub. 3  Wait for your camera battery to charge (approximately 3 hours). 4  See your Extended User's Guide to learn how to determine when charging is complete and for information on battery life expectancy. Charging your camera using a KODAK USB AC Adapter. NOTE: See your camera Extended User's Guide to determine if your camera is compatible with the KODAK USB AC Adapter. 1  Turn off your camera. 2  Verify that the correct battery is installed properly in
The following instructions detail the best way to fully charge your camera battery. 1  Power the camera and Wi-Fi (if applicable) off. 2  Disconnect any BacPac accessories (if applicable). 3  Connect the camera to the USB port on the computer. 4  If possible use a USB port on the back of the computer. 1 Connect the camera to the USB port on the computer. 2  If possible use a USB port on the back of the computer. 3  Alternatively, you can connect it to a USB wall charger that outputs 5V and 1A. 4  Wall Chargers can be purchased at the GoPro store.