Knish is an eastern-European Jewish or Yiddish snack food. It is a dumpling covered with a dough shell that is either baked or fried. In the most traditional version, the dumpling is made entirely of mashed potato. Also see: Knish Recipes. Another version has the dumpling made of a combination of mashed potato and ground beef. It is similar to the Slavic pierogi, the Spanish and Latin American empanada, and the South Asian samosa.
knish. n. A piece of dough stuffed with potato, meat, or cheese and baked or fried. [Yiddish, from Ukrainian. and Polish, knysz (Ukranian, from Polish) : dialectal Polish. , trunk, stump, bole (akin to Lithuanian. , body) + Polish. , n. suff. knish. n. 1. (Cookery) a piece of dough stuffed with potato, meat, or some other filling and baked or fried. [Yiddish, from Russian knysh cake; compare Polish knysz ].
Origin. YouTube. Tags. none... Potato Knishes is the name of a bizarre CG animated music video that portrays a strange looking crown-adorned mouse-like creature and his love for the namesake pastry. 
Wonderland Kitchen. You'd probably recognize a potato knish in the wild -- either square or round, baked or fried, these little pillows of dough are usually filled with mashed potatoes and onions. 
“The more people know what a knish is, the more people will appreciate who we are,” she said. A version of this article appears in print on October 24, 2013, on page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: From Small Fire, a Great Fried-Knish Famine. Loading... 
I also had my first knish less than a year ago so I can relate, and so I decided to call on an expert: Laura Silver, author of Knish: In Search of the Jewish Soul Food. Pin it. Laura Silver is an award-winning journalist who lives in Brooklyn and is considered the world’s leading expert on the knish. 
User Rating. A Jewish potato knish (kuh-NISH) is a savory single-serving pie filled with meat, potatoes, kasha, sauerkraut, onions or cheese (and lately spinach and other ingredients) that is baked or fried. It's similar to a British pasty, Mexican empanada, Russian pirozhki and an Italian calzone. Read more about knishes here. 
Definition of KNISH. : a small round or square of dough stuffed with a filling (as potato) and baked or fried. See knish defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Yiddish, from Polish knysz. 
• KNISH (noun). The noun KNISH has 1 sense: 1. (Yiddish) baked or fried turnover filled with potato or meat or cheese; often eaten as a snack. Familiarity information: KNISH used as a noun is very rare.