The most common indications for digoxin are atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter with rapid ventricular response, though beta blockers and/or calcium channel blockers are a better first choice. There is tentative evidence that digoxin may increase the risk of death. The occurrence of adverse drug reactions is common, owing to its narrow therapeutic index They are also more common in patients with low potassium levels (hypokalemia), since digoxin normally competes with K + ions for the same binding site on the Na+/K+ ATPase pump.
Digoxin is the only available preparation of digitalis in the United States. Digitalis is a plant-derived cardiac glycoside commonly used in the treatment of congestive heart failure (CHF), atrial fibrillation, and reentrant supraventricular tachycardia. While one has more toxic effects they are the same drug. Cardiac Glycosides— Synthesized from the plant carbohydrate by hydrolysis. It has sugar and non-sugar parts. These are the glycosidic compounds with cardiotonic action. They have— 1. Steroid nucleus & Lactone ring (non-sugar part) 2.
Digoxin is occasionally used in the treatment of various heart conditions, namely atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter and sometimes heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication. The occurrence of adverse drug reactions is common, owing to its narrow therapeutic index They are also more common in patients with low potassium levels (hypokalemia), since digoxin normally competes with K + ions for the same binding site on the Na+/K+ ATPase pump.
(digoxin) Tablets, USP. DIGITEK (digoxin) is one of the cardiac (or digitalis) glycosides, a closely related group of drugs having in common specific effects on the myocardium. These drugs are found in a number of plants. Digoxin is extracted from the leaves of Digitalis lanata
DRUG DESCRIPTION. DIGITEK (digoxin) is one of the cardiac (or digitalis) glycosides, a closely related group of drugs having in common specific effects on the myocardium. These drugs are found in a number of plants. Digoxin is extracted from the leaves of Digitalis lanata
[All] tablets of Caraco brand Digoxin, USP, 0.125 mg, and Digoxin, USP, 0.25 mg, distributed prior to March 31, 2009, which are not expired and are within the expiration date of September, 2011, are being voluntarily recalled to the consumer level. The occurrence of adverse drug reactions is common, owing to its narrow therapeutic index They are also more common in patients with low potassium levels (hypokalemia), since digoxin normally competes with K + ions for the same binding site on the Na+/K+ ATPase pump.
Heart Failure Drug Digitek ® (digoxin) Recalled. Digitek, a drug used to treat heart failure and abnormal heart rhythms, has been recalled. In this situation, the manufacturer has voluntarily taken steps to remove existing supplies of the drug from pharmacies. Digitek is a generic equivalent for the drug Lanoxin
1 Review. Digoxin, sold under the brand name Lanoxin, is a prescription drug used to help treat irregular heartbeat and improve symptoms of fatigue caused by heart failure. Digoxin belongs to a group of drugs known as anti-arrhythmics, which work by preventing sodium from being pumped out of heart cells. Digoxin is considered safe to use in the elderly as long as the dose is no greater than 0.125 milligram (mg) or 125 mcg per day. As we age, our kidney function changes and normally slows, so our bodies can't get rid of certain substances, like digoxin, as quickly as they once could have.
In children, the use of digoxin may produce any arrhythmia. The most common are conduction disturbances or supraventricular tachyarrhythmias, such as atrial tachycardia (with or without block) and junctional (nodal) tachycardia. Ventricular arrhythmias are less common. CNS: Digoxin can produce visual disturbances (blurred or yellow vision), headache, weakness, dizziness, apathy, confusion and mental disturbances (such as anxiety, depression, delirium, and hallucination). Other: Gynecomastia has been occasionally observed following the prolonged use of digoxin.