Apes are among the longest-lived of Earth's terrestrial mammals.  Homo Sapiens (Humans) can in extreme cases … live up to 120  years. Chimpanzees can live up to approximately 80 years, while  Gorillas and Orangutans can live to be about 60.
Monkeys are haplorhine (dry-nosed) primates, a paraphyletic group generally possessing tails and consisting of approximately 260 known living species. Many monkey species are tree-dwelling (arboreal), although there are species that live primarily on the ground, such as baboons. Most species are also active during the day (diurnal). Monkeys are generally considered to be intelligent, particularly Old World monkeys. 
CHIMPANZEES. Chimpanzees are great apes that live in the tropical rain forests of Africa from Sudan and Tanzania in the East to Senegal and Angola in the West. Democratic Republic of the Congo has the largest population, although chimpanzees have become extinct in some areas. 1 Chimpanzees are the most social of all the apes and live in communities of between 15 and 120 individuals. 2  Their communities are often split into a number of subgroups with a male as the leader of the group. 3  Males seldom leave the community where they were born.
Montane bamboo forests are the most common habitats of eastern gorillas with the range measuring at 600–3308 m (1969-10,853 ft). Western gorillas also live in the submontane forests, lowland forests, and swamps with the range measuring 150–1600 m (492–5249 ft). Most gorillas exist in humid equatorial rainforest, but few of them reside in primary forests. Where Do Gorillas Live. Gorillas have an erratic distribution across the globe. The western gorillas are generally known to reside in the west central Africa and the eastern gorillas inhabits in the east central Africa.
Posted by Where do they live on 4/09/12 • Categorized as Mammals. Monkeys are mammals of the primate order and are classified into two categories, Old World Monkeys and New World Monkeys. In order to clear up any confusion Baboons are classified as monkeys but Apes are not. Most live in trees with the exception of the Baboon which lives on the. ground. The Old World Monkey includes the many species of Macca which are chiefly of Asian origin and are characterized by cheek pouches and a short tail. Several of these species are threatened or endangered.
Gorillas are ground-dwelling, predominantly herbivorous apes that inhabit the forests of central Africa. The eponymous genus Gorilla is divided into two species: the eastern gorillas and the western gorillas, and either four or five subspecies. A gorilla's lifespan is normally between 35 and 40 years, although zoo gorillas may live for 50 years or more. Colo, a female western gorilla at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium is the oldest known gorilla, at 58 years of age (as of her birthday on 22 December 2014).
Tails— Some New World monkeys, such as spider monkeys, have prehensile tails, but Old World monkeys do not. And one Old World monkey species, the Barbary macaque, has no tail at all! Most monkey species live in the tropical rain forests of Asia, Africa, Central and South America, or the savannas of Africa. 
Between the species and even within the species, gorillas live in a variety of habitats and elevations. Gorilla habitat ranges from montane forests to swamps. Eastern gorillas inhabit montane and submontane forests between 650 and 4,000 m (2,130 and 13,120 ft) above sea level. A gorilla's lifespan is normally between 35 and 40 years, although zoo gorillas may live for 50 years or more. Colo, a female western gorilla at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium is the oldest known gorilla, at 58 years of age (as of her birthday on 22 December 2014).
Apes are not monkeys. Apes are larger, have fewer young (and spend a longer time raising them), spend more time upright, and depend more on their eyes than on their noses. And unlike monkeys, apes do not have tails. But the most important difference is that apes are more intelligent than monkeys. There are four kinds of great apes: gorillas, orangutans, chimpanzees, and bonobos. Gorillas, chimpanzees, and bonobos live in groups in Africa. Orangutans live in Indonesia and spend much of their time alone. Some scientists think that humans should be considered great apes, too. Chimpanzees share more genetic material with humans—about 99%—than they do with gorilla