answer 2: I also live in Michigan, and believe it or not, you could be 8 years old and babysit! There are only 2 states with staying home alo … ne laws, and Michigan is not one of them. It is recommended though, to be at least 10 years old due to maturity reasons. 1 person found this useful. Although certification is not required under the Oklahoma babysitting laws, many teens chose to take a babysitter training class offered by the American Red Cross. The class covers what to do in emergencies, as well as how to amuse children and change diapers. There is no law in Oklahoma on the age for babysitters. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, babysitting is one of the few jobs that teens under the age of 14 may legally accept. The Red Cross course is aimed at youngsters ages 11 to 15. Many experts recommend that babysitters be at least 12 or 13 years old
Maturity Check. Most states don't have laws stipulating how old a child needs to be to stay home alone. So the decision is left up to the parents' judgment. It's pretty obvious to most parents that a 5-year-old is too young to be left alone in the house. 
Basically, if your child is age seven or younger, they should never be left alone. Kids ages 8-10 can be alone briefly, and ages 10-13 for longer periods, provided there is back-up supervision. Babysitters should be at least 12-13 years old, and can babysit for longer periods as they grow older. Again, this is a very individual decision, and these ages are only general guidelines. You need to decide if your child is mature enough. 
Although certification is not required under the Oklahoma babysitting laws, many teens chose to take a babysitter training class offered by the American Red Cross. The class covers what to do in emergencies, as well as how to amuse children and change diapers. There is no law in Oklahoma on the age for babysitters. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, babysitting is one of the few jobs that teens under the age of 14 may legally accept. The Red Cross course is aimed at youngsters ages 11 to 15
Police say an 8-year-old was supposed to be babysitting their little brother when somehow the 3-year-old left the house. This has many people questioning what age is a good age to leave kids alone. In Oklahoma, there's no law that says how old a person must be to watch a child. At Tulsa's Red Cross, there's a babysitting class that teaches kids the basic fundamentals of taking care of a younger child. Children are going to mature at different times in their life and some will be very responsible and capable at age 9 and some won't have that ability until they're older than 11, she said. Quesnel said the key to successful babysitting is to make sure you never take your eye off the child.
Currently, the state of Oklahoma does NOT require a certain age for babysitting. Although many experts recommend that babysitters be at least 12 or 13 years of age. As I know, the average age is 11-12 years. … My 12 year old son started babysitting my 3 year old daughter when he was 11. He is very responsible and he said it was easy. I think that children should be trusted with younger SIBLINGS at that age, not strangers kids.
To take the class, the child must be at least 11 years old. Quesnel said there's a reason the age is restricted. Children are going to mature at different times in their life and some will be very responsible and capable at age 9 and some won't have that ability until they're older than 11, she said. Quesnel said the key to successful babysitting is to make sure you never take your eye off the child.
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. Tami This is not the same world as 50 years ago or even 30 years ago. Today our society has more violence in neighborhoods. Child molesters seem to be lurking around every corner.
Many experts recommend that babysitters be at least 12 or 13 years old. In general, the rule is that the younger the child is, the older the babysitter should be. According to the Enid Fire Department, prevention is the best cure for fires. There is no law in Oklahoma on the age for babysitters. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, babysitting is one of the few jobs that teens under the age of 14 may legally accept.