1 Heat the olive oil and butter in a large skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 2  Cook the ribs until browned on each side, about 5 minutes per side. 3  Remove from the skillet and set aside. 4  Add the onion and garlic to the skillet; cook and stir until onion is tender, about 5 minutes. Ready In. 1  Season the short ribs with salt and pepper, then dredge in flour until coated. 2  Shake off the excess flour. 3  Heat the olive oil and butter in a large skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 4  Cook the ribs until browned on each side, about 5 minutes per side. 5
1 2 Heat the oven to 350°F and arrange a rack in the middle. ( 2 If you rubbed the ribs in advance, remove them from the refrigerator and set aside at room temperature while the oven is heating, at least 20 minutes.). 3  3 Place the ribs in the oven and roast until fork-tender, about 2 hours. 4  Meanwhile, make the sauce. To grill the ribs: 1  1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (about 350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Place the ribs on the grill and brush them with some of the sauce. 3  Cover the grill and cook until grill marks appear on the bottom of the ribs, about 5 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Arrange the short ribs in a 13 by 9-inch baking dish and season with salt and pepper, to taste. In a small bowl, combine all the remaining ingredients and stir to incorporate. Pour the sauce over ribs and toss well, coating all the pieces. 
1 Season short ribs with salt and pepper. 2  Lightly dredge in flour. 3  Shake off any excess flour. 4  Sear all sides of short ribs until golden brown. 5  Add carrots, onions and celery to roasting pan and saute sauté until, tender about 2. 6  Minutes deglaze pan with red. 7  Wine add the bay, leaves beef stock and.  peppercorns Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 2  Heat oil in a roasting pan over medium heat. 3  Season short ribs with salt and pepper. 4  Lightly dredge in flour. 5  Shake off any excess flour. 6  Sear all sides of short ribs until golden brown.
1 Heat oil in a roasting pan over medium heat. 2  Season short ribs with salt and pepper. 3  Lightly dredge in flour. 4  Shake off any excess flour. 5  Sear all sides of short ribs until golden brown. 6  Add carrots, onions and celery to roasting pan and saute sauté until, tender about 2.  minutes Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 2  Heat oil in a roasting pan over medium heat. 3  Season short ribs with salt and pepper. 4  Lightly dredge in flour. 5  Shake off any excess flour. 6  Sear all sides of short ribs until golden brown.
Place the roasted ribs on top of the vegetables in the Dutch oven and add the brown sugar and beef stock. Bring to a simmer over high heat. Cover the Dutch oven and bake for 2 hours or until the meat is very tender. Carefully remove the short ribs from the pot and set aside. Discard the herbs and skim the excess fat. Cook the vegetables and sauce over medium heat for 20 minutes, until reduced. Add the garlic and cook for another 2 minutes. Add the tomato paste and wine, bring to a boil and cook over high heat until the liquid is reduced by half, about 10 minutes. Add 1 tablespoon salt and 1 teaspoon pepper.
1 Place the ribs in a large pot, and fill with enough water to cover. 2  Bring to a boil, and cook until the meat is no longer pink, about 20 minutes. 3  Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 4  In a medium bowl, stir together the soy sauce, red wine, olive oil, flour, brown sugar, garlic and curry powder. 1 In a medium bowl, stir together the soy sauce, red wine, olive oil, flour, brown sugar, garlic and curry powder. 2  Drain the ribs, and coat generously with the sauce. 3  Arrange them on a baking sheet. 4  Roast for about 30 minutes in the preheated oven, or until fork tender.
Cook. Ready In. 1  Season the short ribs with salt and pepper, then dredge in flour until coated. 2  Shake off the excess flour. 3  Heat the olive oil and butter in a large skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 4  Cook the ribs until browned on each side, about 5 minutes per side. 5  Remove from the skillet and set aside.
1 Season short ribs with salt and pepper. 2  Lightly dredge in flour. 3  Shake off any excess flour. 4  Sear all sides of short ribs until golden brown. 5  Add carrots, onions and celery to roasting pan and saute sauté until, tender about 2. 6  Minutes deglaze pan with red.  wine Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 2  Heat oil in a roasting pan over medium heat. 3  Season short ribs with salt and pepper. 4  Lightly dredge in flour. 5  Shake off any excess flour. 6  Sear all sides of short ribs until golden brown.