1 Chronic cough is a cough that persists over time. 2  Chronic cough is not a disease in itself, but rather a symptom of an underlying condition. 3  Causes of chronic cough include: 4  smoking, 5  asthma, 6  hay fever (allergic rhinitis), 7  sinus problems, 8  GERD, 9  infections, and. 10  medications. 
A cough is a common reflex action that clears the throat of mucus or foreign irritants. Coughing to clear the throat is typically an infrequent action, although there are a number of conditions that can cause more frequent bouts of coughing. In general, a cough that lasts for less than three weeks is an acute cough. Viruses and Bacteria. The most common cause of a cough is a respiratory tract infection, such as a cold or flu. Respiratory tract infections are usually caused by a virus and may last from a few days to a week. Infections caused by the flu may take a little longer time to clear up.
The majority of coughs are caused by viruses and clear up without treatment. Causes of acute cough-in most cases the infection is in the upper respiratory tract and affects the throat, known as an URTI (upper respiratory tract infection). Examples include flu, the common cold and laryngitis
1 Viral illnesses. 2  It is normal to have a productive cough when you have a common cold. 3  Coughing is often triggered by mucus that drains down the back of the throat. 4  Infections. 5  An infection of the lungs or upper airway passages can cause a cough. There are many causes of a nonproductive cough, such as: 1  Viral illnesses. 2  Bronchospasm. 3  Allergies. 4  Medicines called ACE inhibitors that are used to control high blood pressure. 5  Exposure to dust, fumes, and chemicals in the work environment. 6  Asthma. 7  Blockage of the airway by an inhaled object, such as food or a pill.
There are many causes of a productive cough, such as: 1  Viral illnesses. 2  It is normal to have a productive cough when you have a common cold. 3  Coughing is often triggered by mucus that drains down the back of the throat. 4  Infections. 5  An infection of the lungs or upper airway passages can cause a cough. There are many causes of a nonproductive cough, such as: 1  Viral illnesses. 2  Bronchospasm. 3  Allergies. 4  Medicines called ACE inhibitors that are used to control high blood pressure. 5  Exposure to dust, fumes, and chemicals in the work environment. 6  Asthma. 7  Blockage of the airway by an inhaled object, such as food or a pill.
Causes of Coughs. Acute coughs can be divided into infectious (caused by an infection) and noninfectious causes. 1  Infectious causes of acute cough include viral upper respiratory infections (the common cold), sinus infections, acute bronchitis, pneumonia, and whooping cough. 1 Within the lungs both common and uncommon conditions cause chronic cough. 2  Common causes include asthma, emphysema, and chronic bronchitis. 3  Less common causes of lung-induced chronic cough include cancer, sarcoidosis, diseases of the lung tissue, and congestive heart failure with chronic fluid build-up in the lungs.
1 Coughing is often triggered by mucus that drains down the back of the throat. 2  Infections. 3  An infection of the lungs or upper airway passages can cause a cough. 4  A productive cough may be a symptom of pneumonia, bronchitis, sinusitis, or tuberculosis. There are many causes of a nonproductive cough, such as: 1  Viral illnesses. 2  Bronchospasm. 3  Allergies. 4  Medicines called ACE inhibitors that are used to control high blood pressure. 5  Exposure to dust, fumes, and chemicals in the work environment. 6  Asthma. 7  Blockage of the airway by an inhaled object, such as food or a pill.
1 It is normal to have a productive cough when you have a common cold. 2  Coughing is often triggered by mucus that drains down the back of the throat. 3  Infections. 4  An infection of the lungs or upper airway passages can cause a cough. 5  A productive cough may be a symptom of pneumonia, bronchitis, sinusitis, or tuberculosis. There are many causes of a nonproductive cough, such as: 1  Viral illnesses. 2  Bronchospasm. 3  Allergies. 4  Medicines called ACE inhibitors that are used to control high blood pressure. 5  Exposure to dust, fumes, and chemicals in the work environment. 6  Asthma. 7  Blockage of the airway by an inhaled object, such as food or a pill.
In the majority of cases, a cough is caused by an infection in the respiratory tract, but it can also be due to pollution, GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease), choking, chronic bronchitis, a tumor in the lung, heart failure, some drugs (e.g. ACE inhibitors), post-nasal drip, and smoking. Causes of acute cough-in most cases the infection is in the upper respiratory tract and affects the throat, known as an URTI (upper respiratory tract infection). Examples include flu, the common cold and laryngitis