written by: R. Elizabeth C. Kitchen • edited by: Diana Cooper • updated: 1/13/2011. Jugular venous distension is a condition many are not aware of. Here we will discuss this condition and provide a detailed overview for patients. slide 1 of 7. Jugular venous distention occurs as a result of high pressure in the jugular vein. When blood pressure is higher than it should be in the jugular vein, the walls of the vein can distend or swell, resulting in this condition
hepatojugular. pertaining to the liver and jugular vein. hepatojugular reflux. distention of the jugular vein induced by manual pressure over the liver; it suggests insufficiency of the right heart. esophageal reflux (gastroesophageal reflux) reflux of the stomach contents into the esophagus. hepatojugular reflux distention of the jugular vein induced by applying manual pressure over the liver; it suggests insufficiency of the right heart. intrarenal reflux reflux of urine into the renal parenchyma.
ABSTRACT. The hepatojugular reflux is a reliable but neglected physical sign which appears earlier in the course of congestive heart failure than the conventional signs and symptoms. In 1885, Pasteur originally described this sign as a manifestation of tricuspid regurgitation. 
medical dictionary. An elevation of venous pressure visible in the jugular veins and measurable in the veins of the arm, produced in active or impending congestive heart failure by firm pressure with the flat hand over the abdomen. Often called hepatojugular reflex when pressure is exclusively over the liver. 
hepatojugular. pertaining to the liver and jugular vein. hepatojugular reflux. distention of the jugular vein induced by manual pressure over the liver; it suggests insufficiency of the right heart. 1  Facebook. esophageal reflux (gastroesophageal reflux) reflux of the stomach contents into the esophagus. hepatojugular reflux distention of the jugular vein induced by applying manual pressure over the liver; it suggests insufficiency of the right heart.
Digestive Health. Subscribe to our Digestive Health e-newsletter to stay up to date on digestive health topics. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a chronic digestive disease. GERD occurs when stomach acid or, occasionally, stomach content, flows back into your food pipe (esophagus).
Technical Hints: An auscultatory equivalent of a positive hepatojugular reflux should also be sought: the first heart sound may get softer as pressure is being exerted on the abdomen of a patient with heart failure. 
1). esophageal reflux (gastroesophageal reflux) reflux of the stomach contents into the esophagus. hepatojugular reflux distention of the jugular vein induced by applying manual pressure over the liver; it suggests insufficiency of the right heart. intrarenal reflux reflux of urine into the renal parenchyma. vesicoureteral reflux (vesicoureteric reflux) backward flow of urine from the bladder into a ureter
See: hepatojugular reflux. The definition information for hepatojugular reflex is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.