While the word expressionist was used in the modern sense as early as 1850, its origin is sometimes traced to paintings exhibited in 1901 in Paris by an obscure artist Julien–Auguste Herve, hervé which he Called. expressionismes Theodor Adorno describes expressionism as concerned with the unconscious, and states that the depiction of fear lies at the centre of expressionist music, with dissonance predominating, so that the harmonious, affirmative element of art is banished (Adorno 2009, 275–76).
Definition of ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM. : an artistic movement of the mid-20th century comprising diverse styles and techniques and emphasizing especially an artist's liberty to convey attitudes and emotions through nontraditional and usually nonrepresentational means. — abstract expressionist noun or adjective often capitalized A&E. ADVERTISEMENT.
expressionism. (c. 1905–25) An emphasis on pictorial distortion or chromatic exaggeration within any art of any period. The movement emphasizing heightened emotion and the artist’s subjective vision, and was characterized by bold brushwork and stylized forms. 1. (Art Movements) (sometimes capital) an artistic and literary movement originating in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century, which sought to express emotions rather than to represent external reality: characterized by the use of symbolism and of exaggeration and distortion. (ɪkˈsprɛʃ əˌnɪz əm). n. (often cap.
Expressionism was a modernist movement, initially in poetry and painting, originating in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century. Its typical trait is to present the world solely from a subjective perspective, distorting it radically for emotional effect in order to evoke moods or ideas. Theodor Adorno describes expressionism as concerned with the unconscious, and states that the depiction of fear lies at the centre of expressionist music, with dissonance predominating, so that the harmonious, affirmative element of art is banished (Adorno 2009, 275–76).
Expressionist artists sought to express the meaning of emotional experience rather than physical reality. Expressionism was developed as an avant-garde style before the First World War. It remained popular during the Weimar Republic, particularly in Berlin. The style extended to a wide range of the arts, including expressionist architecture, painting, literature, theatre, dance, film and music. Theodor Adorno describes expressionism as concerned with the unconscious, and states that the depiction of fear lies at the centre of expressionist music, with dissonance predominating, so that the harmonious, affirmative element of art is banished (Adorno 2009, 275–76).
Definition of EXPRESSIONISM. : a theory or practice in art of seeking to depict the subjective emotions and responses that objects and events arouse in the artist. — ex·pres·sion·ist \-ˈspre-shə-nist\ noun or adjective often capitalized. — ex·pres·sion·is·tic \-ˌspre-shə-ˈnis-tik\ adjective. — ex·pres·sion·is·ti·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb.
View More. Definition: Expressionism is a term used to describe a movement of the early 20th century (c.1905-20) that was most prominent in Germany and Austria. The aims of an Expressionist were to express emotions through the use of vivid colors and strong, distorted lines, rather than capturing a likeness or reality. Expressionism is the opposite of Impressionism, which emphasized painting what the artist observed. The work of Vincent van Gogh had a lot of influence on artists who are now classified as Expressionists. See Also: 1  How to Paint Like an Expressionist. 2  Exhibition Photos: Vincent van Gogh and Expressionism.
Noun. 1. expressionism-an art movement early in the 20th century; the artist's subjective expression of inner experiences was emphasized; an inner feeling was expressed through a distorted rendition of reality. art movement, artistic movement-a group of artists who agree on general principles. 1. (Art Movements) (sometimes capital) an artistic and literary movement originating in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century, which sought to express emotions rather than to represent external reality: characterized by the use of symbolism and of exaggeration and distortion. (ɪkˈsprɛʃ əˌnɪz əm). n. (often cap.
A style of painting, music, or drama in which the artist or writer seeks to express the inner world of emotion rather than external reality. Example sentences. 1  He developed an idiosyncratic, instantly recognizable style that combined figurative expressionism with influences from Klimt, Schiele and Austrian Art Nouveau. 