I have received a message from a colleague stating certain developments at work have been created to test my resolve. Could someone please explain what this means eg, does it mean if I have brushed things under the carpet and got on with my work or does it mean something else. Follow. 2 answers 2. I have received a message from a colleague stating certain developments at work have been created to test my resolve. Could someone please explain what this means eg, does it mean if I have brushed things under the carpet and got on with my work or does it mean something else. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel
3. To find a solution to; solve: resolved the problem. 4. To remove or dispel (doubts). 5. To bring to a usually successful conclusion: resolve a conflict. 6. Medicine To cause reduction of (an inflammation, for example). 7. Music To cause (a tone or chord) to progress from dissonance to consonance. 6. to find the answer or solution to; solve: to resolve a problem. 7. to explain away or dispel: to resolve a doubt. 8. to bring to an end; conclude: to resolve an argument. 9. (Medicine) med to cause (a swelling or inflammation) to subside, esp without the formation of pus.
Best Answer: My resolve means my determination or my willpower Example: It took all my resolve to go through with it. (It took all my determination to go through with it. I had to strengthen my resolve to do the right thing even if it was hard. 
: the act of finding an answer or solution to a conflict, problem, etc. : the act of resolving something. : an answer or solution to something. : the ability of a device to show an image clearly and with a lot of detail. 
1. 'prove'. If you prove that something is true or correct, you provide evidence showing that it is definitely true or correct. He was able to prove that he was an American. Tests proved that the bullet was not fired from a police weapon. 2. 'test'.
Magnesium (Mg). Guide. A magnesium test checks the level of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is an important electrolyte needed for proper muscle, nerve, and enzyme function. It also helps the body use energy and is needed to move other electrolytes (potassium and sodium) into and out of cells. Why It Is Done. A test for magnesium is done to: 1  Find a cause for nerve and muscle problems, such as muscle twitches, irritability, and muscle weakness. 2  Find the cause of symptoms such as low blood pressure, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, muscle weakness, and slurred speech. 3  Monitor kidney function
Full Definition of RESOLVE. transitive verb. 1. obsolete: dissolve, melt. 2. c: to distinguish between or make independently visible adjacent parts of d: to separate (a racemic compound or mixture) into the two components. 3. : to cause resolution of (a pathological state). 
Use resolve in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. The definition of resolve is to solve, or settle something, or to make a commitment to do something. 1  When you have a problem involving a leaky faucet and you fix the faucet, this is an example of when you resolve your problem. 