A radiographer is an important member of the diagnostic health care team. They are responsible for producing high quality medical images that assist medical specialists and doctors to diagnose or monitor a patient's injury or illness. 1 Magnetic resonance imaging-three dimensional imaging test powered by a large magnet. 2  Fluoroscopy – X-ray test that examines the internal body and shows moving images on a screen like a movie. 3  Angiography-imaging of blood vessels and the heart.
A radiographer or medical imaging technologist is a trained health professional who performs medical imaging by producing high quality X-ray pictures or images used to diagnose and treat injury or disease. 1 Magnetic resonance imaging-three dimensional imaging test powered by a large magnet. 2  Fluoroscopy – X-ray test that examines the internal body and shows moving images on a screen like a movie. 3  Angiography-imaging of blood vessels and the heart.
Introduction. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a type of scan that uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed images of the inside of the body. An MRI scanner is a large tube that contains powerful magnets. You lie inside the tube during the sca
Radiography is an imaging technique that uses electromagnetic radiation other than visible light, especially X-rays, to view the internal structure of a non-uniformly composed and opaque object (i.e. a non-transparent object of varying density and composition) such as the human body. 
MRI technologists specialize in magnetic resonance imaging scanners. MRI technologists inject patients with contrast dyes so that the images will show up on the scanner. The scanners use magnetic fields in combination with the contrast agent to produce images that a physician can use to diagnose medical problems.
An MRI radiographer is a person who obtains accurate MRI images of the patients in accordance to the standards of the department of diagnostic. He is also assigned in performing MRI radiography and also directing and using ionizing radiation. Occupation and Progress of an MRI Radiographer. Due to the high demands in health services, there is an increase in the demand of MRI radiographers. According to some surveys, job prospects for MIR radiographers are expected to increase by 21% starting from 2007 up to 2016.
Their roles are diverse and challenging, as radiographers are often trained in several specialist areas such as: 1  Trauma radiography-challenging examinations on injured individuals. 2  Mobile radiography-for patients too sick to travel to the X-ray department. 3  Computed tomography-three dimensional X-ray imaging test. 1 Magnetic resonance imaging-three dimensional imaging test powered by a large magnet. 2  Fluoroscopy – X-ray test that examines the internal body and shows moving images on a screen like a movie. 3  Angiography-imaging of blood vessels and the heart.
Radiologic technologists perform diagnostic imaging examinations, such as x rays, on patients. MRI technologists operate magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanners to create diagnostic images. MRI technologists inject patients with contrast dyes so that the images will show up on the scanner. The scanners use magnetic fields in combination with the contrast agent to produce images that a physician can use to diagnose medical problems.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a diagnostic medical tool that uses a magnetic field and radio wave energy to produce images of the human body. An MRI technologist works in this area of specialty in radiology. Read on for more information about what an MRI technologist does. 