Continue ReadingHyperthyroidism: Causes. When you have hyperthyroidism, your body is producing excessive amounts of the thyroid hormones T3 and T4. Since these hormones regulate your metabolism (how your body processes and uses energy), having too high a level will cause symptoms related to a high metabolism. 
Hyperthyroidism, also known as over active thyroid and hyperthyreosis, is the condition that occurs due to excessive production of thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland. Thyrotoxicosis is the condition that occurs due to excessive thyroid hormone of any cause and therefore includes hyperthyroidism. Hyperthyroidism due to certain types of thyroiditis can eventually lead to hypothyroidism (a lack of thyroid hormone), as the thyroid gland is damaged. Also, radioiodine treatment of Graves' disease often eventually leads to hypo
Knowledge center. Hyperthyroidism, also known as overactive thyroid, is a medical condition caused by an abnormally high level of thyroid hormone in the bloodstream. The thyroid gland produces an excessive amount of thyroid hormones. The thyroid gland is located in the neck
Symptoms are related to the effects of excess thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones control metabolism, so excessive amounts of T4 or T3 cause a metabolic rate that is too high. This is called a hyper-metabolic state. People with hyperthyroidism typically have rapid heart rates, weight loss, and heat intolerance. The thyroid gland can be visibly enlarged (goiter). You can also have elevated blood pressure, nervousness, and hand tremors. You may also sweat a lot, feel hungry and restless, and have difficulty concentrating. 
Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which an overactive thyroid gland is producing an excessive amount of thyroid hormones that circulate in the blood. (Hyper means over in Greek). Thyrotoxicosis is a toxic condition that is caused by an excess of thyroid hormones from any cause. 1 There are many possible causes of hyperthyroidism. 2  Common symptoms of hyperthyroidism include restlessness, tremors, weight loss despite an increased appetite, sweating, rapid heart rate, intolerance to heat, and frequent bowel movements. 3  Treatments for hyperthyroidism include medications, ablation, and surgery.
About Hyperthyroidism. The thyroid gland is a part of the body's endocrine (hormone) system — which is made up of the glands that help regulate many of the body's different functions. An overactive thyroid produces too much of the thyroid hormone thyroxine, which causes some of these functions to speed up. Hyperthyroidism is the medical term for an overactive thyroid gland. Too little thyroxine reverses the process and slows down the body's functions. This can be caused by an underactive thyroid, a condition also referred to as hypothyroidism. Symptoms. Hyperthyroidism often causes the thyroid gland, which is located at the front of the neck, to become noticeably larger.
With hyperthyroidism, or overactive thyroid, the thyroid makes too much, explains Dr. Sood. The most common cause of hypothyroidism is an autoimmune disease called Hashimoto’s disease, a condition where the immune system makes antibodies that destroy thyroid cells and stop them from making the thyroid hormone. The most common form of hyperthyroidism is a condition called Grave’s disease
Graves' disease. The most common cause of hyperthyroidism is an autoimmune condition called Graves' disease. The body's immune system creates an antibody that causes the gland to make an excessive amount of thyroid hormone. Graves' disease runs in families, and usually affects younger women. Thyroiditis. 
1 Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which there is an excessive amount of thyroid hormones. 2  Thyroid hormones regulate the metabolism of the cells. 3  Normally, the rate of thyroid hormone production is controlled by the brain at the pituitary gland. 1 There are many possible causes of hyperthyroidism. 2  Common symptoms of hyperthyroidism include restlessness, tremors, weight loss despite an increased appetite, sweating, rapid heart rate, intolerance to heat, and frequent bowel movements. 3  Treatments for hyperthyroidism include medications, ablation, and surgery.