Italy is located south-east of France, south of Germany, and borders the Mediterranean sea in the continent of Europe. It is a peninsula (land surrounded by water on 3 sides) … and is shaped like a boot/high heel. 9 people found this useful. Italy is a country located on the Italian Peninsula on in Southern Europe. Italy shares its northern, Alpine boundary with France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia. To the ea … st and the west, it is bordered by the Adriatic Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea respectively. 14 people found this useful.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Italy is located south-east of France, south of Germany, and borders the Mediterranean sea in the continent of Europe. 
Italy is the boot-shaped country in Western Europe which is bordered by France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia. Italy is located on the north central Mediterranean Sea, mostly between the Ligurian, Tyrrhenian, and Adriatic Seas. Italy is a country located on the Italian Peninsula on in Southern Europe. Italy shares its northern, Alpine boundary with France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia. To the ea … st and the west, it is bordered by the Adriatic Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea respectively. 14 people found this useful.
Italy is located at a meeting point of African and Eurasian plate, in fact, island of Sicily is located northeast of Tunisia in Africa. Italy covers a total area of 301,340 sq. km. and is the seventy second largest country of the world. Italy is situated between 42° 50' N latitudes and 12° 50' E longitudes. Italy’s capital city Rome has been the home of Roman Empire and Christianity in the past. The smallest country of the world The Vatican City is located within the boundaries of Rome
Italy is located on the south of Europe and it borders with the following states-Switzerland, France, Austria and Slovenia. Italy can be easily recognized on the world map as a country having a big boot shape. You can see on the map below where Tuscany is in Italy. Location of Tuscany in Italy. Tuscany is just one of the most beautiful and interesting regions of Italy, and it is located on the Italian north-western coast. Tuscany has a shape of somewhat triangle and includes 10 provinces. All of Tuscany provinces have their own charm and open a door to a little new world to discover.
Italy is a country with a large population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Italy include San Marino, Croatia, Monaco and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its biggest cities and towns include Rome, Milan, Naples and Turin. 
Italy is a peninsula surrounded by Adriatic Sea in the east, Ionian Sea in the southeast, Tyrrhenian Sea in the southwest and its southern boundary extending into the Mediterranean Sea. It shares its northern land boundary with France, Slovenia, Switzerland and Austria. Italy covers a total area of 301,340 sq. km. and is the seventy second largest country of the world. Italy is situated between 42° 50' N latitudes and 12° 50' E longitudes. Italy’s capital city Rome has been the home of Roman Empire and Christianity in the past.
With 61 million inhabitants, it is the 4th most populous EU member state. Located in the heart of the Mediterranean Sea, Italy shares open land borders with France, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, San Marino and Vatican City. ), officially the Italian Republic (Italian: Repubblica Italiana), is a unitary parliamentary republic in Europe. Italy covers an area of 301,338 km 2 (116,347 sq mi) and has a largely temperate climate; due to its shape, it is often referred to in Italy as lo Stivale (the Boot).
--- Italy is located in Southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula. It includes the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea, Sicily and Sardinia. Italy is a country located on the Italian Peninsula on in Southern Europe. Italy shares its northern, Alpine boundary with France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia. To the ea … st and the west, it is bordered by the Adriatic Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea respectively. 14 people found this useful.