The North American Cordillera covers an extensive area of mountain ranges, intermontane basins, and plateaus in western North America, including much of the territory west of the Great Plains. It is also sometimes called the Western Cordillera, the Western Cordillera of North America, or the Pacific Cordillera. In Canada, the North American Cordillera is usually divided into three physiographic regions: the western system, the interior system, and the eastern system.
-Interior Plateaus. The Interior Plateaus were made by volcanic activity and are made of igneous and sedimentary rock. They contain very valuable metals like zinc, copper, and even gold. Also, the Interior Plateaus are in the center/middle of the Western Cordillera. -Coast Mountains. The Coast Mountains were created from the Pacific Plate going underneath the North American Plate, and the pressure from this happening caused magma to rise into the Earth's crust. The Western Cordillera was created by the North American and Pacific Plates colliding, which caused folding, faulting, and volcanic activity. The Western Cordillera has three sections.
Cordillera [Span mountains], a term that is normally applied to groups of mountain ranges. Sierra [Span sawtooth] is applied to individual ranges, eg, Sierra Nevada. In English, cordillera refers to a major mountain system and includes the plateaus, valleys and plains enclosed by the mountains. The various mountain ranges and plateaus of eastern North America are sometimes collectively referred to as the Eastern Cordillera. The name Western Cordillera is commonly applied to all mountains and intermontane plateaus of the western part of the continent. See also Geological regions; Physiographic regions; Vegetation regio
The Interior Plateaus are in the center of the Cordillera and were made by volcanic activity. The area is composed of igneous and metamorphic rock and contains valuable metals such as copper, zinc and even gold. The Coast Mountains are split into two ranges divided by a deep trough, just like the Eastern Mountains. The Western Cordillera is located along the western edge of North America, inside it are the provinces of |British Columbia and the Yukon. The Western Cordillera also touches the western side of Alberta and Northwest Territories.
In the western cordillera, on the contrary, although much of the present form of the land is due to erosion, a vast amount is due directly to so-called tectonic activities such as the breaking of the crust, the pouring out of molten lavas, and the bursting forth of explosive eruptions. In other parts of the cordillera, mountains have been formed by a single arching of the crust without any breaking. Such is the case in the Uinta Mountains of northwestern Utah and in some of the ranges of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
The North American Cordillera is the North American portion of the American Cordillera which is a mountain chain (cordillera) along the western side of the Americas. In Canada, the North American Cordillera is usually divided into three physiographic regions: the western system, the interior system, and the eastern system.
The Western Cordillera has a range of climates, depending on where you are located in the mountains. Close to the shore, the climate is very wet during the fall and winter, there is a lot of rain and the summers are usually cool. Inland, there is heavy snowfall high in the mountains. The Western Cordillera is located along the western edge of North America, inside it are the provinces of |British Columbia and the Yukon. The Western Cordillera also touches the western side of Alberta and Northwest Territories.
This report will focus on the Cordillera region of Canada. Geography. The Cordillera region is located in the western part of Canada taking up most of British Columbia, Yukon, and cutting into the Rocky Mountains. Some major landforms are: mountains, trees, grass, forests, and water. Large bodies of water can also be found in this region. 