Although much of the omega-3 scientific literature is based on the use of fish oils, alpha linolenic acid from flax can be converted in the body to EPA or DHA (the common fish source of omega-3 fatty acids). Lindberg Organic Flax Oil is 100% organic and cold-pressed to prevent damaging heat. Omega-3 benefits your heart, body and mind. For your body: Flax oil helps support healthy joint function and movement through complex prostaglandin changes in joint tissues. Many people find they use fewer anti-inflammatory drugs for joint aches and pains when using flax oil supplements.
Flax oil capsules don't need to be refrigerated like the liquid form since the softgel essentially seals the oil from the air. However, there is no harm done if you want to refrigerate the softgels as well. Flax oil is a rich source of the valuable omega-3 unsaturated fatty acid, alpha linolenic acid. Omega-3 fatty acids are essential in your diet. Like vitamins, they can't be made in your body and must come from foods or supplements. Omega-3 benefits your heart, body and mind. For your body: Flax oil helps support healthy joint function and movement through complex prostaglandin changes in joint tissues. Many people find they use fewer anti-inflammatory drugs for joint aches and pains when using flax oil
Flax oil is a good source of Omega 3 fatty acids. These important compounds can help to reduce inflammation in the body which often results in a decrease of joint pain. Flax oil has additional benefits related to the hormonal systems of both men and women. Fish oil also contains high amounts of Omega 3 fatty acids. However, unlike flax oil, your body does not need to convert fish oil to EPA and DHA. Fish oil all ready contains very high levels of
What we know: Flaxseed is high in alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), a type of omega-3 fatty acid that can be converted to EPA and DHA (the active ingredients in fish oil). Flaxseed is a good source of fiber. Origin: Seed of the flax plant, containing omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids and lignans (beneficial plant compounds, similar to fiber). Dosage: Whole seeds, ground meal or flour, capsules or oil
Omega-3 fatty acids, usually from fish oil, have been shown to reduce inflammation and help prevent certain chronic diseases, such as heart disease and arthritis. The alpha-linolenic acid and related chemicals in flaxseed oil also decrease inflammation. Although flaxseed oil is a good source of some omega-3 fatty acids, it does not contain the type of omega-3 fatty acid most often recommended for breastfeeding women (docosahexaenoic acid, also known as DHA).
What Is Fish Oil? Fish oil contains the omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). There are several omega-3 fatty acids, and each has a different metabolic fate in the body and different actions. Therefore, the term omega-3 can be somewhat misleading. Omega-3s help other aspects of joint health. Omega-3 fatty acids may decrease symptoms of morning stiffness, tender or swollen joints, and joint pain. They can also help increase blood flow during exercise.
Even without inborn errors, the process of converting the Omega 3 in flax to EPA and DHA is very inefficient. For this reason, if you are primarily interested in relief of joint pain I might suggest fish oil as a better recommendation for you. Fish oil also contains high amounts of Omega 3 fatty acids. However, unlike flax oil, your body does not need to convert fish oil to EPA and DHA. Fish oil all ready contains very high levels of EPA and DHA.
Fish oil supplements are also good sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Compared to flax, fish oils are slightly more expensive and may have a mild fishy aftertaste. Lindberg EPA & DHA Oil softgels contain omega-3 fatty acids derived from fish oil concentrate. Omega-3 benefits your heart, body and mind. For your body: Flax oil helps support healthy joint function and movement through complex prostaglandin changes in joint tissues. Many people find they use fewer anti-inflammatory drugs for joint aches and pains when using flax oil supplements.