Most people aren’t actually aware of where do amur leopards live! Amur leopards reside in North Korea, Russia, China and Japan. Amur Leopard facts about its habitat show that these animals are found in the sea coast of Japan and northern Suchan Basin. Hermann Schlegel was the first explorer to discover these animals back in 1857. Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis) is one the critically endangered species that is endemic to the southwestern region of Russia. A survey conducted in 2007 which reveals that only 30 – 40 adults and 5 – 6 cubs have been left.
Snowy Remote Area. - This is the biome for the Amur Leopard.- They live in Korea, China, Japan, and Russia.- It is known to adapt to any specific environment if it provides food and water.- It is the only leopard known to live in the harsh, cold winters of the Russian Far East. 
The rarest cat on earth-the Amur leopard, which population in the wild hardly exceeds 30 individuals, inhabits only the southwest of the Russian Far East.   Amur le … opard is the most northern leopard subspecies, with the distribution area that goes a little northward from the 45 parallel. 1 Within these regions, they may live in a va…. 2  The Amur Leopard One of the world's most endangered animals is the reclusive and beautiful Amur Leopard (Panthera pardus, orientalis). 3  Only around 30 of these unique cats still live in the wi…. 4  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
The Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis) is a leopard subspecies native to the Primorye region of southeastern Russia and the Jilin Province of northeast China. It is classified as Critically Endangered since 1996 by IUCN. In 2007, only 19–26 wild Amur leopards were estimated to survive. Census data published in February 2015 indicate that the population has increased to at least 57 Amur leopards in Russia, and up to 12 Amur leopards in adjacent areas of China. The Amur leopard is also known as the Far Eastern leopard. The Amur leopard is the only Panthera pardus subspecies adapted to a cold snowy climate (the snow leopard, which favors a similar habitat, belongs to a different species). Amur leopards used to be found in northeast Asia, probably in the south to Peking, and the Korean Peninsula.
1 The Amur leopard attains sexual maturity at 3 years, is known to live for 10-15 years, and in captivity up to 20 years. 2  80% of its territory has disappeared in 13 years. 1 The Amur leopard has been reported to leap more than 6 m horizontally and more than 3 m vertically. 2 
Longevity: In the wild, leopards live for 10-15 years and they may reach 20 years in captivity. Prey: Amur leopards hunt a very wide variety of animals including roe deer, sika deer, badgers and hares. 
The rarest cat on earth-the Amur leopard, which population in the wild hardly exceeds 30 individuals, inhabits only the southwest of the Russian Far East.   Amur le … opard is the most northern leopard subspecies, with the distribution area that goes a little northward from the 45 parallel. The Amur leopard in captivity may live for 20 years or more while in the wild they are believed to survive for anything up to 12 years.