Insulin (from the Latin, insula meaning island) is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells in the pancreas. It regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats by promoting the absorption of glucose from the blood to skeletal muscles and fat tissue and by causing fat to be stored rather than used for energy. 
Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that helps the body store and use glucose. Think of insulin as the U.S. Postal Service and glucose as the mail; insulin is responsible for delivering that glucose (sugar) from the bloodstream into muscle, fat, liver, and most other cells so that your body can use it for fuel. Insulin is a hormone produced and secreted by the pancreas or administered by injection, that is necessary for glucose (in the blood) to be transported into cells where it is converted into energy. The only tissues that do not require insulin to transport glucose into cells are the brain and heart
Your cells cannot use glucose without insulin, a hormone secreted from the beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin helps the cells take in glucose and convert it to energy. In the liver, insulin increases glucose transport into the liver from the blood, and the synthesis of glycogen. In muscle the effects are similar and in fact the amount of glucose taken up by muscle is a significant contributor to the total glucose disposal rate (GDR). In adipocytes, insulin promotes synthesis of fat.
A. Insulin stimulates the cells of the body to absorb sugar (glucose) out of the blood. It also inhibits the production of glucose by the liver. In type 1 diabetes, the body does not make insulin. In type 2 diabetes, the body is resistant to the insulin the body does make
Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas. Its function is to allow other cells to transform glucose into energy throughout your body. Without insulin, cells are starved for energy and must seek an alternate source. This can lead to life-threatening complications. In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas is no longer able to produce insulin. In Type 2 diabetes, the pancreas initially produces insulin, but the cells of your body are unable to make good use of the insulin (insulin resistance).
Insulin is a hormone that is produced and stored in the beta cells of the pancreas. Insulin helps transport glucose, the body's main source of energy, from the blood to within cells. If a person makes too little insulin or is resistant to its effects, cells starve. 
What Insulin Does. Specifically, insulin allows the cells in the muscles, fat and liver to absorb glucose that is in the blood. The glucose serves as energy to these cells, or it can be converted into fat when needed. Insulin also affects other metabolic processes, such as the breakdown of fat or protein. When the body does not produce enough insulin or use it efficiently, blood sugar levels build in the body. Also, the body's cells do not receive the energy they need from glucose, so the patient may struggle with fatigue. When the body turns to other tissue, like fat or muscle, for energy, weight loss may occur.
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). Insulin then attaches to and signals cells to absorb sugar from the bloodstream. Insulin is often described as a “key,” which unlocks the cell to allow sugar to enter the cell and be used for energy. After you eat, cells in your pancreas are signaled to release insulin into
Insulin is a hormone that is important for metabolism and utilization of energy from the ingested nutrients-especially glucose. Insulin is produced in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. The name insulin comes from the Latin ''insula'' for island from the cells that produce the hormone