Buyers look for exotic types called Purple Haze, Dutch Dope, and Northern Light. It is important to note that there are different types of weed that have been bred for different experiences. Currently, there are three major strains in existence today: Sativa, Indica, and Hybrid. As more states legalize weed for medicinal and recreational usage, the effects of the different types become more important. Some versions of marijuana have been bred to deliver a mild high.
Firstly I must encourage that if you already use marijuana that you continue to use it legally and above all else responsibly. When it comes to marijuana there are many different types of crazy names: grey goose, sour diesel, skywalker, OG, purple kush, gods gift, gods purple, purple urkle and much much more. 
Cannabis strains are either pure or hybrid varieties of Cannabis, typically of C. sativa and C. indica. Varieties are developed to intensify specific characteristics of the plant, or to differentiate the strain for the purposes of marketing it more effectively as a drug. The two species of the Cannabis genus that are most commonly grown are Cannabis indica and Cannabis sativa. A third species, Cannabis ruderalis is very short and produces only trace amounts of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and thus is not commonly grown for industrial, recreational or medicinal use.
Indica and sativa are the two main types of cannabis. Cannabis is one of the oldest crops known to mankind, with records of its cultivation dating back thousands of years. Today, it is widely accepted that marijuana has two different species: Cannabis indica and Cannabis sativa. Here’s how to tell them apart
Choosing types of marijuana for a garden will depend on many factors, not least what you expect of the end product. Marijuana strains are often a cross of Sativa and Indica to give properties of each i.e. to make certain Sativa smaller and more potent, or an Indica larger and with bigger buds. There are many types or strains of marijuana, however they basically fit into two categories; Indica and Sativa. Breeders will often cross strains to change the growing or properties of the original. As a rule of thumb, generally Indicas tend to be shorter, stockier plants with smaller, denser and smelli
The powerful sort of marijuana, especially the sort that is a hybrid between two different kinds of the plant (indica and sativa), will vary in price. Cannabis indica and Cannabis sativa are two kinds of marijuana plants that are often bred as one, to result in a unique blend of each one's properties. The former kind of cannabis is known for its mental high, where the latter is known for its calming effects. Bad Reactions: Commercial Types of Weed. There are all kinds of ways that marijuana can be grown, using a variety of strains that are available to those who cultivate them. These are some of the most popular kinds of marijuana found among regular buyers and users.
types of marijuana. There are many types or strains of marijuana, however they basically fit into two categories; Indica and Sativa. Breeders will often cross strains to change the growing or properties of the original. As a rule of thumb, generally Indicas tend to be shorter, stockier plants with smaller, denser and smellier buds
Sativa and Indica are the two major types of cannabis plants which can mix together to create hybrid strains. Each strain has its own range of effects on the body and mind resulting in a wide range of medicinal benefits. Indica plants typically grow short and wide, compared to Sativa plants which grow tall and thin. 