Watson and Crick first reasoned that complementary base pairing provides the basis of fidelity in DNA replication; that is, that each base in the template strand dictates the complementary base in the new strand.
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule.
Here the DNA to be copied enters the complex from the left. One new strand is leaving at the top of frame and the other new strand is leaving at bottom. The first step in DNA replication is the separation of the two strands by an enzyme called helicase.
DNA replication occurs in the cytoplasm of prokaryotes and in the nucleus of eukaryotes. Regardless of where DNA replication occurs, the basic process is the same. The structure of DNA lends itself easily to DNA replication. Each side of the double helix runs in opposite (anti-parallel) directions. The beauty of this structure is that it can unzip down the middle and each side can serve as a pattern or template for the other side (called semi-conservative replication).
The other half of the DNA double helix, known as the lagging strand, has the opposite 3' to 5' orientation and consequently requires a more complicated copying mechanism. As it emerges from the helicase, the lagging strand is organised into sections called Okazaki fragments.
1 At the replication origin the strands of DNA must dissociate and unwind in order to allow access to DNA polymerase. 2  Unwinding of the duplex at the origin as well as along the strands as the replication process proceeds is carried out by helicases.
Replication: Mechanism of Replication (Advanced). Duration: 2 minutes, 18 seconds. Replication: Mechanism of Replication (Advanced). Transcript: During DNA replication, both strands of the double helix act as templates for the formation of new DNA molecules.
The first step in DNA replication is the separation of the two DNA strands that make up the helix that is to be copied. DNA Helicase untwists the helix at locations called replication origins. The replication origin forms a Y shape, and is called a replication fork.
Replication: Mechanism of Replication (Basic). Knowing the structure of DNA, scientists speculated and then proved that DNA is the template for copying the genetic code. See how information in DNA is copied to make new DNA molecules. Duration: 1 minutes, 5 seconds.