The crossing over is the process of exchange of DNA between homologous chromosomes whereas the independent assortment is the process in which the chromosome pairs align theme … selves at the equator of the cell. Crossing over is the exchange of DNA between homologous chromosomes where as Independent assortment is the process in which the chromosomes pair align themselves at the equato … r of the cell. 1 person found this useful.
The Law of Independent Assortment speaks of alleles of a gene separating independently from alleles of another gene. Hence, the inheritance pattern of one trait will not affect the inheritance pattern of another. For instance, the gene for the eye color is inherited independently from the gene for hair color. Supplement. Gregor Mendel, a monk, who came up with the Laws of Inheritance, including the Law of Independent Assortment (which refers to the random assortment of alleles of unlinked loci) to describe the transmission of genes from parent organisms to their offspring.
Independent assortment is the random assortment of chromosomes  during the production of gametes, the results are genetically  unique individual gametes. For those that want … a more in depth  answer I'm going to try and elaborate but also make it sound a  little simpler. Crossing over is the exchange of DNA between homologous chromosomes where as Independent assortment is the process in which the chromosomes pair align themselves at the equato … r of the cell. 1 person found this useful.
It does NOT state that the alleles separate during the forming of gametes. That is the Law of Segregation. Another answer: Mendel's law of independent assortment says that chromosomes in a cell line up and then separate randomly. Mendel law of independent assortment states that when two traits are together,followed in same cross ,the distribution of alleles for one trait in the gametes does not affect … the distribution of allele for the other trait.
It does NOT state that the alleles separate during the forming of gametes. That is the Law of Segregation. Another answer: Mendel's law of independent assortment says that chromosomes in a cell line up and then separate randomly. In other words, the orientation of the homologous chromosomes is accidental and not fixed. Crossing over is the exchange of DNA between homologous chromosomes where as Independent assortment is the process in which the chromosomes pair align themselves at the equato … r of the cell. 1 person found this useful.
Independent assortment is a basic principle of genetics developed by a monk named Gregor Mendel in the 1860's. Mendel formulated this principle after discovering another principle now known as Mendel's law of segregation. This principle states that the alleles for a trait separate when gametes are formed. He noticed the same ratios in each case. From these experiments Mendel formulated what is now known as Mendel's law of independent assortment. This law states that allele pairs separate independently during the formation of gametes. Therefore, traits are transmitted to offspring independently of one another.
How do cells acquire homologous chromosome pairs that carry the alleles that are independently assorted? A) Fusion of gametes B) Meiosis C) Mitosis D) DNA... show more 1) What process is responsible for the independent assortment of alleles? A, During fertilization, gametes bring together homologous chromosomes to generate a diploid individual. D, The random distribution of alleles is required for independent assortment.
Best Answer: A, The role of meiosis is to separate homologous chromosomes and their respective alleles, which are assorted in an independent manner. A, During fertilization, gametes bring together homologous chromosomes to generate a diploid individual. D, The random distribution of alleles is required for independent assortment. False, The principle of independent assortment is best illustrated by events that take place during metaphase I, during which nonhomologous chromosomes segregate independently of each oth
How do cells acquire homologous chromosome pairs that carry the alleles that are independently assorted? A) Fusion of gametes B) Meiosis C) Mitosis D) DNA replication Which of the following statements most accurately describes the process of independent assortment? A, During fertilization, gametes bring together homologous chromosomes to generate a diploid individual. D, The random distribution of alleles is required for independent assortment.