1 Viral arthritis is typically self-limiting and requires no specific intervention. 2  Arthritis may be a manifestation of an important treatable viral infection, such as hepatitis or HIV. 3  Some viruses have a predilection for the joints and result in prolonged symptoms. Establishing the diagnosis. Viral arthritis is typically associated with symptoms of a flu-like illness and systemic signs such as a viral exanthem, fever and lymphadenopathy, and these features should be sought on history and examination.
Approach Considerations. In general, viral arthritis is mild and requires only symptomatic treatment with analgesics or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Occasionally, a brief course of low-dose prednisone is used. Surgical drainage is not indicated unless septic arthritis is considered likely. No dietary restrictions are necessary. Treatment of arthritis associated with alphavirus infection is symptomatic, involving the use of analgesics and NSAIDs, but aspirin should be avoided so as to prevent the development of a hemorrhagic component with alphavirus rashes.
One of the common causes of viral-associated arthritis is parvovirus infection. In children, parvovirus may cause an outbreak of slapped cheek syndrome (fever and rash on the cheeks) that can be easily spread through a school and doesn’t usually cause joint problems in the children. The most important thing to remember about viral-associated arthritis is that it usually only lasts a few days or weeks and doesn’t return or cause long-term problems. However, viruses can sometimes result in reactive arthritis.
In general, viral arthritis is mild and requires only symptomatic treatment with analgesics or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (or, occasionally, low-dose prednisone). In some cases, antiviral treatment is available for the underlying systemic disease. United States and international statistics. Although viral arthritis clearly is not uncommon in the United States, its exact incidence and prevalence are unknown and vary with the type of virus and the age range of specific population groups.
viral arteritis. see equine viral arteritis. viral arthritis. a contagious disease of chickens and turkeys caused by a reovirus and characterized by a high incidence of inapparent infection and some cases of joint swelling and lameness. Rheumatology A transient and nonspecific inflammatory response of one or more joints to a viral infection–eg, mumps, rubella, human parvovirus, and HBV, which may also follow rubella vaccination.
The number of patients diagnosed with acute viral arthritis is relatively low because of the late presentation of this condition. Current technologies provide simpler, faster, more reliable, and more sensitive tests for viral diagnosis than were previously available. United States and international statistics. Although viral arthritis clearly is not uncommon in the United States, its exact incidence and prevalence are unknown and vary with the type of virus and the age range of specific population groups.
Numerous different viruses can give rise to viral arthritis, including parvovirus B19, hepatitis viruses (hepatitis A virus [HAV], hepatitis B virus [HBV], and HCV), rubella virus, alphaviruses and flaviviruses, and retroviruses. United States and international statistics. Although viral arthritis clearly is not uncommon in the United States, its exact incidence and prevalence are unknown and vary with the type of virus and the age range of specific population groups.
Viral arthritis is characterized by inflammation of the joints from a viral infection. Identifying and understanding the pathophysiologic mechanisms by which viral arthritis causes acute and chronic arthropathies are crucial for elucidating its immunopathogenesis. United States and international statistics. Although viral arthritis clearly is not uncommon in the United States, its exact incidence and prevalence are unknown and vary with the type of virus and the age range of specific population groups.