1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it. 1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
If you feel burning or stabbing pain when you urinate, you might have a bladder infection. Bacteria growing in the bladder or urethra cause bladder infections. The urethra is the tube that takes urine out of your body. Anyone can get a bladder infection, but they’re more common in women than men or children. Bladder infections are also called urinary tract infections (UTIs)
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
Bladder infections are known as cystitis or inflammation of the bladder. They are common in women, but very rare in men. More than half of all women get at least one bladder infection at some time in their lives. Most bladder infections are caused by various strains of E. coli, bacteria that normally live in the gut. Women sometimes get bladder infections after sex. Vaginal intercourse makes it easier for bacteria to reach the bladder through the urethra. The risk for bladder infection -- dubbed honeymoon cystitis -- increases with frequent sex. Pregnant women, whose urinary tracts change in response to hormones and increased kidney function, are also prone to infection
Bacteria that enter through the urethra and travel into the bladder cause bladder infections. Normally, the body removes the bacteria by clearing it out during urination. Men also have added protection with the prostate gland, which secretes protective hormones as a safeguard against bacteria. Medication. Oral antibiotics are used to kill the bacteria that are causing the bladder infection. If you’re experiencing pain and burning sensations, your doctor may also prescribe medication to relieve those symptoms.
A urinary tract infection (UTI), also known as acute cystitis or bladder infection, is an infection that affects part of the urinary tract. Lower urinary tract infection is also referred to as a bladder infection. The most common symptoms are burning with urination and having to urinate frequently (or an urge to urinate) in the absence of vaginal discharge and significant pain.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. Cystitis is considered a lower urinary tract infection. Pyelonephritis is an upper urinary tract infection and is much more serious. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a condition in which one or more parts of the urinary system (the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra) become infected. UTIs are the most common of all bacterial infections and can occur at any time in the life of an individual.
The bacteria that cause urinary tract infections typically enter the bladder via the urethra. However, infection may also occur via the blood or lymph. It is believed that the bacteria are usually transmitted to the urethra from the bowel, with females at greater risk due to their anatomy. Lower urinary tract infection is also referred to as a bladder infection. The most common symptoms are burning with urination and having to urinate frequently (or an urge to urinate) in the absence of vaginal discharge and significant pain.