Some of the most common viral infections that produce clear phlegm include sinus infections, the common cold, and influenza. Usually, your body will fight these infections on its own. You can experience clear phlegm during either a viral or a bacterial infection, but clear mucus is more common during viral infections. Other kinds of infections that produce clear phlegm include the common cold and influenza. Both of these infections are viral infections, and both can cause you to produce an excess of clear mucus that is present in your nose and the back of your throat during the beginning and ending stages of the illnesses.
How mono is spread. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) can be found in saliva and mucus (and sometimes tears). EBV is not spread by casual contact. You can live in the same house with a person who has mono and never become infected with the virus. But a person who has a weakened immune system may be at higher risk for mono. 
A non-productive (dry) cough may turn into a productive one, typically associated with a viral upper respiratory tract infection, such as the common cold. Infection causes the mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes to become inflamed and produce thick, sticky mucus. 
Bruising or discoloration and Thick saliva or mucus. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms bruising or discoloration and thick saliva or mucus including Bruise or contusion, Hematoma, and Dehydration (Children). There are 7 conditions associated with bruising or discoloration and thick saliva or mucus. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related condition
Symptoms of pneumonia include: 1  A cough, often producing discolored mucus (sputum) from the lungs. 2  Mucus coughed up from the lungs may be green or rust-colored or tinged with blood. 3  A fever, which may be less common in older adults. 4  Shaking chills (just once or many times). 5  Rapid, often shallow, breathing. 1
Description. Mononucleosis is a widespread viral illness among young adults. The virus that causes mononucleosis is transmitted via mucus or saliva, either through direct contact (hence, the nickname, the “Kissing Disease”) or via airborne droplets or saliva or mucus. The usual symptoms of mononucleosis are fever, sore throat, swollen lymph nodes in the neck, fatigue, and general discomfort
Description The common cold, known medically as a URI, is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. It causes irritation and drainage in any or all of the airways including the nose, sinuses, throat, voice box, and often the bronchial tubes. Mucous can become thick and coughing, if present, can last two to four weeks. Discolored sputum and nasal secretions are normal and can last 7-10 days. Discolored mucus is caused by your body's dead white blood cells and simply indicates that your immune system is fighting the infection for you.
Other than the yellow discoloration of your skin, eyes and mucus membranes, there are many other symptoms that can make you uncomfortable and uneasy when you are suffering from Jaundice. These include: 1  Extreme weakness. 2  Headaches. 3  Fever. 4  Loss of appetite. 5  Constipation. 6  Nausea. 7  Mild pain in the liver. 
Phlegm is a mucus-like substance produced by the lower airways, such as the lungs and the respiratory system leading to the lungs, not by the nose and sinuses, which produce the mucus that streams out of or clogs up your nose. You may not notice phlegm unless you cough it up as a symptom of bronchitis or pneumonia. 