Forrest Gump once said, “Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you’re going to get.” This statement explains a variety among chocolates in terms of flavour, size, and shape. The same statement can be applied to the people we meet in the journey of life. You never know what you're gonna get.. (Forrest Gump) This quotation from the movie Forrest Gump pretty much sums up our lives. Our life is full of uncertainty and we will never know what will happen in the future. This uncertainty makes our life amusing as we prepare ourselves to anticipate the unknown future.
Forrest Gump Introduction “…Life is like a box of chocolates; you never know what you’re going to get…” (Forrest Gump)In the first 18 days after its release, ‘Forrest Gump’ took $100 million at the American boxoffice. 
The cinematic qualities making the film Forrest Gump worthy of being nominated for a Oscar for Best Cinematography is that this film has a lot of good qualities of framing, angling, and lighting. It shows the feeling and surrounding of each shot. Framing : The Film, Forrest Gump has so many shots that shows good framing. The framing shows great use of rule of thirds and great use of compositions. Also the shots they’re using shows a great demonstration of the shot they use. Most of the shots shows the surrounding of the character to show where the shot is being took at
1 1. Cinematography applied to Forrest Gump By Chloe Abraham. 2  2. Establishing Shot This shot sets up a scene’s location and / or characters. 3  3. Extreme Long Shot / Wide Shot Creates an affect of vastness. 4  4. Long Shot Shows the whole person or a large section of the location. 5  5. Cinematography applied to forrest gump. 1  1. Cinematography applied to Forrest Gump By Chloe Abraham. 2  2. Establishing Shot This shot sets up a scene’s location and / or characters. 3  3. Extreme Long Shot / Wide Shot Creates an affect of vastness. 4  4. Long Shot Shows the whole person or a large section of the location
Don Burgess was born on May 28, 1956 in Santa Monica, California, USA as Don Michael Burgess. He is known for his work on Forrest Gump (1994), Spider-Man (2002) and Cast Away (2000). Official Photos ». Don Burgess was born on May 28, 1956 in Santa Monica, California, USA as Don Michael Burgess. He is known for his work on Forrest Gump (1994), Spider-Man (2002) and Cast Away (2000). He is married to Bonnie Burgess. They have three children.
Subject Matter/Genre: Robert Zemeckis doesn't really have an overall genre for all of his films. He really doesn't focus on any one subject. Robert has directed many different genres ranging from A Christmas Carol, Annie, Back to the Future, Castaway, Forrest Gump and more. As you can see none of them actually are the same genre.
Cinematography: Throughtout my film of Forrest Gump, Robert Zemeckis uses many Point-of-View camera angles to show what Forrest is seeing through his eyes. When Forrest is in the army, Robert uses many close up shot sizes to show the dirt, blood and scars on Forrest from the war. He really doesn't focus on any one subject. Robert has directed many different genres ranging from A Christmas Carol, Annie, Back to the Future, Castaway, Forrest Gump and more. As you can see none of them actually are the same genre.
We first meet Alabama simpleton Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) on a park bench in Savannah, Georgia, where he waits in crisp white suit and high-and-tight haircut to deliver chocolates to his lifelong flame, Jenny Curran (Robin Wright). In Forrest Gump, Zemeckis, Hanks and company had achieved the trifecta that Aristotle described as “logos, ethos and pathos.” The film combines historical appeal (logos), craftsmanship from reputable filmmakers (ethos) and storytelling that plays on audience emotions (pathos).
Film Review: 50/50 - Introduction Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.. (Forrest Gump) This quotation from the movie Forrest Gump pretty much sums up our lives. Our life is full of uncertainty and we will never know what will happen in the future. This uncertainty makes our life amusing as we prepare ourselves to anticipate the unknown future.