The Roth 401(k) is a type of retirement savings plan. It was authorized by the United States Congress under the Internal Revenue Code, section 402A, and represents a unique combination of features of the Roth IRA and a traditional 401(k) plan. Roth IRA contribution limits are significantly less than 401(k) contribution limits. For tax-year 2014, individuals may contribute no more than $5,500 to a Roth IRA if under age 50, and $6,500 if age 50 or older.
If my beneficiary receives a distribution from my Roth 401(k) deferral account, will the death benefit qualify for tax free treatment? A distribution to the beneficiary of your Roth 401(k) account may qualify for tax free treatment. Death is one of the three qualifying distribution events. Your Roth 401(k) deferrals do not affect your ability to make Roth IRA contributions. Similarly, your Roth IRA contributions do not affect your ability to make Roth 401(k) deferrals. However, there is an income limitation that restricts who can contribute to a Roth IRA.
Am I a good candidate for Roth elective deferral contributions? Roth 401(k) elective deferral contributions may be an additional feature available to you through youremployer’s retirement plan. Let’s take a closer look at the Roth elective deferral feature by answering somecommonly asked questions:Q. Elective deferral contributions to a traditional retirement plan are contributed on a pre-tax basis and helplower your current taxable income. Roth elective deferral contributions, however, are much like a Roth IRAin that contributions are made on an after-tax basis.
DEFINITION of 'Roth 401(k)'. An employer-sponsored investment savings account that is funded with after-tax money. After the investor reaches age 59.5, withdrawals of any money from the account (including investment gains) are tax-free. Unlike the Roth IRA, the Roth 401 (k) has no income limitations for those investors who want to participate-anyone, no matter what his or her income, is allowed to invest up to the contribution limit into the plan.
A Roth 401(k) deferral is an after-tax contribution, which means you must pay current income tax on the deferral. Since you have already paid tax on the deferral, you won’t pay tax on it again when you receive a distribution of your Roth 401(k) deferral. Your Roth 401(k) deferrals do not affect your ability to make Roth IRA contributions. Similarly, your Roth IRA contributions do not affect your ability to make Roth 401(k) deferrals. However, there is an income limitation that restricts who can contribute to a Roth IRA.
The Roth 401(k) combines some of the most advantageous aspects of both the 401(k) and the Roth IRA. Under the Roth 401(k), employees may contribute funds on a post-tax elective deferral basis, in addition to, or instead of, pre-tax elective deferrals under their traditional 401(k) plans. Roth IRA contribution limits are significantly less than 401(k) contribution limits. For tax-year 2014, individuals may contribute no more than $5,500 to a Roth IRA if under age 50, and $6,500 if age 50 or older.
A Roth deferral is money that a person puts in a Roth investment account to save for later in life, usually retirement. There are two types of Roth accounts: a standard Roth Individual Retirement Account, or IRA, and a Roth 401(k). Payments to either account must be made with post-tax dollars. There are several key differences between Roth IRA and 401(k) plans, but a Roth deferral happens under either one. The main idea behind a deferral is to save money in a growth account that can be used later in life without incurring a tax penalty.
If a distribution from my Roth 401(k) deferral account does not qualify for tax free treatment, is the distribution subject to any penalty taxes? The Roth 401(k) earnings portion of your account would be subject to a 10% penalty tax unless one of the penalty exceptions applies. Your Roth 401(k) deferrals do not affect your ability to make Roth IRA contributions. Similarly, your Roth IRA contributions do not affect your ability to make Roth 401(k) deferrals. However, there is an income limitation that restricts who can contribute to a Roth IRA.
If the distribution of your Roth 401(k) deferral account is made when you are at least age 59 ½, or upon your death or disability, then you may be entitled to a tax free distribution of earnings. Your Roth 401(k) deferrals do not affect your ability to make Roth IRA contributions. Similarly, your Roth IRA contributions do not affect your ability to make Roth 401(k) deferrals. However, there is an income limitation that restricts who can contribute to a Roth IRA.
If your 401(k) plan permits Roth deferrals, you can use the deferral change form for your plan to begin making Roth contributions. This form can be obtained by contacting ICMA-RC at 800-669-7400. Roth deferrals are made on an after-tax basis. 