The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column.
The Kidney The Kidney has two main functions, it removes metabolic waste from the body through the process of excretion and it regulates the water and ion content in the blood. The excretion is of a dilute solution called urine which contains urea, mineral ions, water and other foreign chemicals from
The urinary system is made-up of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. The nephron, an evolutionary modification of the nephridium, is the kidney's functional unit. Waste is filtered from the blood and collected as urine in each kidney. Urine leaves the kidneys by ureters, and collects in the bladder.
The kidneys filter the blood to remove wastes and produce urine. The ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra together form the urinary tract, which acts as a plumbing system to drain urine from the kidneys, store it, and then release it during urination.
What is the function of the kidney. as unfilitered blood eneters the kidney through the renal artery, the kidney removes urea, excess water etc. and passes them to the ureter. The clean, filtered blood leaves the kidney through the renal vein and returns to circulation.
Storage and Excretion of Wastes. After urine has been produced by the kidneys, it is transported through the ureters to the urinary bladder. The urinary bladder fills with urine and stores it until the body is ready for its excretion.
The renal artery carries blood to the kidneys and the renal vein carries blood away from the kidneys. The most important part of the Kidneys is the nephron. The Nephron The Nephron is a the kidney tubule and there are thousands of nephrons in each kidney.
Excretion and the Kidneys Excretion Excretion is the removal of metabolic waste from the cells. Metabolic waste is the unwanted material that is formed as a result of the bodies metabolism. That is the large number of chemical reactions that occur in the cells, tissues and organs.