As long as your child's income doesn't exceed the amount you spent on support, and meets the other tests, you can claim the child as a dependent, says Terry Durkin, an enrolled agent in Burlington, Mass. For example, suppose your daughter graduated from college in May, found a job in September and earned $20,000.
Exceptions. If your 18-year old is married and files a tax return with his spouse, you can’t claim him as a dependent, unless the couple has no taxable income and merely filed the claim to obtain a refund. If your 18-year old is living on his own and not a student, you can no longer claim him on your taxes. If your child is legally emancipated, you can’t claim him as a dependent.
In this case, you can still claim your child as a deduction if your spouse agrees. Some couples alternate the years they claim a child. The custodial parent must complete Form 8332, Release/Revocation of Release of Claim to Exemption for Child by Custodial Parent, and you must file this form with your tax return.
Sounds like they can still probably claim you. They stop being able to claim you as a qualifying child when You are 19 or over, and NOT a full time student, OR You are 24 regardless of whether you are a student, OR You provide over half of your own support for the year. That's the one that could be in question.
The IRS lists the additional child tax credit and the first-time homebuyer credit as examples; if you qualify for these credits, you can receive a refund even if you had no income and paid no taxes. To claim the credits, you have to file your 1040 and other tax forms.
When you claim a Qualifying Child (or a Qualifying Relative) as a dependent, you can claim a special kind of tax deduction called an exemption. An exemption is like a tax deduction, but an exemption is subtracted from your adjusted gross income before your taxable income is calculated.
The $3,800 exemption on 2012 tax returns is a tax break you can claim regardless of whether you itemize or how much money you earn, as long as your son or daughter was under 19 last year. But if your child was 19 or older, well, it’s complicated.
Amount-With the Child Tax Credit, you may be able to reduce your federal income tax by up to $1,000 for each qualifying child under the age of 17. Qualification-A qualifying child for this credit is someone who meets the qualifying criteria of six tests: age, relationship, support, dependent, citizenship, and residence.