You have searched the English word Loss meaning in Urdu نقصان Nuqsan. Loss meaning has been search 16324 (sixteen thousand three hundred and twenty-four) times till 10/22/2015. You can also find Loss meaning and Translation in Urdu, Arabic, Hindi, Spanish, French and other languages. English to Urdu. 
The term loss is a comprehensive one, and relative, since it does not have a limited or absolute meaning. It has been used interchangeably with damage, deprivation, and injury. In the law of insurance, a loss is the ascertained liability of the insurer, a decrease in value of resources, or an increase in liabilities. 
1.2 The feeling of grief after losing someone or something of value: I feel a terrible sense of loss. More example sentences. 1  We are all subject to the pain of loss, grief, sadness and even plain disappointment. 2  The large crowds at the funeral ceremonies reflected the sense of loss and grief felt throughout the neighbourhood. 1 The large crowds at the funeral ceremonies reflected the sense of loss and grief felt throughout the neighbourhood. 2  You should be careful of people's deeply felt grief and sense of loss before you dismiss them as selfish cynics.
1 Her ​ death is a ​ grievous loss to the ​ whole of the ​ community. 2  The ​ bomb ​ explosion ​ resulted in a ​ tragic loss of ​ life. 3  The ​ club does not ​ accept ​ responsibility for loss of or ​ damage to ​ club ​ members ' ​ personal ​ property. 1 Both ​ viruses ​ cause ​ fever and loss of ​ appetite. 2  Her ​ death is a ​ grievous loss to the ​ whole of the ​ community. 3
it's your loss. ◊ People say that something is your loss when you choose not to do something that they think would help you or that you would enjoy. If she doesn't want to come to the party, it's her loss. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. Learner's definition of LOSS. 1. a: failure to keep or to continue to have something. — usually + of. — usually + of. [noncount]. the mayor's loss of support/influence. Surgeons were unable to control the loss of blood in the victim. Symptoms include insomnia and loss of appetite.
1 The fact or process of losing something or someone: avoiding loss of time [count noun]: funding cuts will lead to job losses. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The reason for the possible job losses is possible barrack closures at the Garrison. 1 The large crowds at the funeral ceremonies reflected the sense of loss and grief felt throughout the neighbourhood. 2  You should be careful of people's deeply felt grief and sense of loss before you dismiss them as selfish cynics.
loss noun. B2 [C or U] the ​fact that you no ​longer have something or have less of something: Many ​parents ​feel a ​sense of loss when ​their ​children ​leave ​home. He ​suffered a ​gradual loss of ​memory. 1 Both ​ viruses ​ cause ​ fever and loss of ​ appetite. 2  Her ​ death is a ​ grievous loss to the ​ whole of the ​ community. 3  The ​ bomb ​ explosion ​ resulted in a ​ tragic loss of ​ life.
loss noun [C/U] (NOT HAVING). › the ​action or ​state of not having or ​keeping something any more: [C] The company’s losses over the last few ​years have been ​staggering. › Loss may ​mean ​death: [U] They never got over the loss of ​their ​son. 1 Both ​ viruses ​ cause ​ fever and loss of ​ appetite. 2  Her ​ death is a ​ grievous loss to the ​ whole of the ​ community. 3  The ​ bomb ​ explosion ​ resulted in a ​ tragic loss of ​ life.
1.3 [in singular] A person who or thing that is badly missed when lost: he will be a great loss to many people. More example sentences. 1  He is a huge loss for the community and will be greatly missed by his cousins, friends and neighbours. 2  He will be a great loss and will be sadly missed by everybody at the club. 1 The large crowds at the funeral ceremonies reflected the sense of loss and grief felt throughout the neighbourhood. 2  You should be careful of people's deeply felt grief and sense of loss before you dismiss them as selfish cynics.