Pyridoxine is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth in amounts greater than the recommended dietary allowance. In some people, pyridoxine might cause nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, loss of appetite, headache, tingling, sleepiness, and other side effects. Long-term use of high doses is POSSIBLY UNSAFE. It might cause certain brain and nerve problems.
Side effects to some ingredients of high-dose pyridoxine hydrochloride (which is injected into the vein) are possible. Vitamin B6 may cause low blood pressure. Caution is advised in people with blood pressure disorders or in those taking drugs or herbs and supplements that lower blood pressure. 
Dietary supplements. Vitamin B6 is available in multivitamins, in supplements containing other B complex vitamins, and as a stand-alone supplement [ 6 ]. The most common vitamin B6 vitamer in supplements is pyridoxine (in the form of pyridoxine hydrochloride [HCl]), although some supplements contain PLP. Vitamin B6 supplements are available in oral capsules or tablets (including sublingual and chewable tablets) and liquids. Food. Vitamin B6 is found in a wide variety of foods [ 1, 3, 4 ]. The richest sources of vitamin B6 include fish, beef liver and other organ meats, potatoes and other starchy vegetables, and fruit (other than citrus).
Pyridoxine, or vitamin B6, is one of eight B vitamins. It helps the body convert food into fuel, metabolize fats and proteins, maintain proper functioning of nerves, and produce red blood cells. Vitamin B6 is found in many foods, is added to foods, and is available as a dietary supplement. 
The Facts. Pyridoxine is vitamin B6, a water-soluble nutrient. Pyridoxine hydrochloride (HCl) is the form of the vitamin most commonly found in nutritional supplements. As of 2002, the Adequate Intake (AI) of the vitamin is 1.3 mg for most adults. Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding and those older than 50 have a greater requirement for this vitamin. Save. Pyridoxine HCl is a form of vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) that is used in oral supplements and injectable vitamins. It is used to correct B6 deficiency and to assist in the healing of many different conditions. It is commonly available over the counter, but is also found in prescription forms.
Thus, the daily per capita intake of 0.2 mg of pyridoxine hydrochloride per day (0.003 mg per kg per day for adults) resulting from its addition to foods may amount to no more than 10 percent of the total intake. SCOGS Opinion: Vitamin B 6 compounds, after conversion to the active coenzyme form, pyridoxal phosphate, function in a variety of enzyme reaction that are metabolically essential. The vitamin is naturally present in a wide variety of foods.
Excessive consumption of pyridoxine hydrochloride supplements can cause neurological problems. Pyridoxine hydrochloride, or vitamin B6, is a member of the B complex family. This vitamin is found in high quantities in foods such as bananas, sardines, chicken spinach and avocados, according to the website dietbites.com. Pyridoxine hydrochloride is necessary for proper nerve function and for metabolizing nutrients. Excessive intake of pyridoxine hydrochloride can occur from overuse of vitamin supplements. At levels of 500 mg per day, and in some rare cases less than 500 mg per day, sensory neuropathy in the arms and legs has been observed, according to the National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements.
DSM is a major supplier to the global market of vitamin B6. Vitamin B6, a water-soluble vitamin, is found in three different natural forms: pyridoxine, pyridoxamine, and pyridoxal-all of which are normally found in foods. Humans depend on external sources to cover their vitamin B6 requirements and the pyridoxal 5`-phosphate (PLP) form is of major importance. Excellent sources of vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) are chicken, beef liver, pork and veal. Good sources include fish (salmon, tuna, sardines, halibut, and herring), nuts (walnuts, peanuts), bread, corn and whole grain cereals. Generally, vegetables and fruits are rather poor sources