Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks are crystalline solids which form directly from the cooling of magma. This is an exothermic process (it loses heat) and involves a phase change from the liquid to the solid state. The earth is made of igneous rock-at least at the surface where our planet is exposed to the coldness of space. 
Igneous rocks are rocks that formed directly from magma and can form either in the earth or on its surface. Igneous rocks can weather and be compressed to form sedimentary rocks, rock made up eroded material broken off of other rocks and cemented together, and both of these can be transformed into metamorphic rock. All magma that solidifies becomes one of two types of igneous rock: either extrusive rocks, rocks that form on the earth's surface, or intrusive rocks, rocks that form under the earth's surface. Hawaii is made up mostly of extrusive rock called basalt that came from the volcanic activity common to the area.
Igneous rocks are also formed when volcanoes erupt. Igneous rocks are formed as the lava cools above ground. The upper 16 km of the Earth’s crust is composed of 95% igneous rock. Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies underground. These rocks are coarse grained.
The only rock that can form from magma directly is Igneous rock. Since the Igneous rock is the only rock which is formed from magma by cooling and hardening. Molten rock … is magma on Earth's surface. Therefore, the only rock that forms directly from magma is igneous rock. Rockhound. By definition. A sedimentary rock is formed from sediments, chemical, organic, or clastic. A metamorphic rock has undergone a change in mineral alignment or mineral composition due to heat and/or pressure. An igneous rock forms from solidification of magma via cooling.
Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks form directly from magma inside the earth's crust (called: plutonic or intrusive) or lava on the earth's surface (volcanic or extrusive). Light-colored igneous rocks (pumice, rhyolite & granite) are composed of larger amounts of silica and are said to be felsic (feldspar + silica). 
1 Igneous Rocks: form by crystallizing melted material (magma). 2  They can form either on the surface (extrusive igneous rocks), or deep in the crust (intrusive or plutonic igneous rocks). 3  Volcanoes are places where magma erupts as lava or ash. (image copied from here). 1 
Igneous rock (derived from the Latin word ignis meaning fire) is one of the three main rock types, the others being sedimentary and metamorphic. Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Igneous rocks are one of three classifications of rocks. Igneous rocks are formed as a direct result of crystalline solids being formed by the cooling of magma. Sedimentary rocks are the result of pieces broken from chemical, clastic and organic rock. 
Volcanic rocks are rocks formed when lava cools and solidifies on the earth's surface. Volcanic rocks are also known as 'extrusive igneous rocks' because they form from the 'extrusion,' or eruption, of lava from a volcano. 