Body mass index is the standard metric for determining who is normal-weight, overweight and obese, but BMI is not an accurate measure of fat, and doesn't explain the causes of poor health, scientists argue in an editorial today (Aug. 22) in the journal Science. A person's BMI is calculated as her weight in kilograms divided by her height in meters, squared. A BMI of 18.5 to 24.9 is considered normal, a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is overweight, and a BMI greater than 30 is obese..
It is important to remember that although BMI correlates with the amount of body fat, BMI does not directly measure body fat. As a result, some people, such as athletes, may have a BMI that identifies them as overweight even though they do not have excess body fat. For more information about BMI, visit Body Mass Index. BMI does not calculate body fat percentage; it merely determines whether your weight is in a healthy range based on your height. Larger BMI values are associated with an increased risk for many health complications.
Body Mass Index (BMI) provides an easy way to measure obesity, but more doctors are questioning its accuracy and usefulness. BMI is supposed to estimate the amount of body fat a person carries based on height and weight, and categorizes people based on what is appropriate for their size. BMI is not an accurate measurement of someone’s health. People who might be considered overweight or obese according to their BMI, might be healthier than someone who under the BMI standards have a “perfect weight”.
Because it's simple, Ahima said, adding that it's easy to weigh people and measure their height. For most people, BMI provides a reasonable measure of body fat, but is not accurate for athletes (who weigh more because of muscle) or older people who have lost height, he said. Other methods of measuring body fat also have their pros and cons. A person's BMI is calculated as her weight in kilograms divided by her height in meters, squared. A BMI of 18.5 to 24.9 is considered normal, a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is overweight, and a BMI greater than 30 is obese..
Body mass index is a measurement of your weight, adjusted for your height; if you're taller, then carrying more weight is normal. In this video, Neal Barnard, MD, explains what BMI indicates, and why it can be a deceiving measure of overall health. BMI does not calculate body fat percentage; it merely determines whether your weight is in a healthy range based on your height. Larger BMI values are associated with an increased risk for many health complications.
BMI (body mass index), which is based on the height and weight of a person, is an inaccurate measure of body fat content and does not take into account muscle mass, bone density, overall body composition, and racial and sex differences, say researchers from the Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania. Thus a 6ft-tall man should have a waist circumference of 36 inches or less, while a 5ft 4in woman's waist should not exceed 32 inches. The waist-to-height ratio should be considered as a screening tool, Ashwell added. Ashwell explained that BMI does not take into account the distribution of fat around the body.
Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of weight adjusted for height, calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters (kg/m 2). Although BMI is often considered an indicator of body fatness, it is a surrogate measure of body fat because it measures excess weight rather than excess fat. The clinical limitations of BMI should be considered. BMI is a surrogate measure of body fatness because it is a measure of excess weight rather than excess body fat. Factors such as age, sex, ethnicity, and muscle mass can influence the relationship between BMI and body fat.
Your BMI (Body Mass Index) can help you find a healthy target weight range. BMI is a measure of body fat based on height and weight. BMI has several limitations: it's not accurate for pregnant women, people under 5 feet tall, and people with very muscular builds. It also does not account for age. Please remember that your BMI is just a guideline to help decide your target weight. Talk to a doctor or other health professional about any concerns you have regarding your weight, weight loss, or changes to your diet and exercise regimen.
BMI readings under 18.5 mean you are underweight, and could put on a few pounds. If you fall between 18.5 and 24.9, you’re considered normal, while a BMI of 30 or higher qualifies as overweight. But in recent years, more researchers argue that it’s not the most accurate way to measure body weight. BMI is not an accurate measurement of someone’s health. People who might be considered overweight or obese according to their BMI, might be healthier than someone who under the BMI standards have a “perfect weight”.
The body mass index (BMI) or Quetelet index is a value derived from the mass (weight) and height of an individual. The BMI is defined as the body mass divided by the square of the body height, and is universally expressed in units of kg/m 2, resulting from mass in kilograms and height in metres. 