From this point to six months of age, vets refer to the surgery as pediatric, or early-age spay/neuter. Because babies are more fragile, veterinarians receive extra training in order to perform pediatric spay/neuter surgeries. This will help to reduce the risk of vomiting under anesthesia. If your puppy or kitten is under 16 weeks and cannot go long stretches without eating, you can feed him a small meal the morning of surgery. Make sure it’s about ¼ – ½ of their usual ration. Confirm exact feeding instructions with your vet
We’re Home! Your pet may still feel the effects of anesthesia several hours after the procedure, so he may be unsteady on his feet. If that’s the case, you may want to keep him in a quiet and contained place at first. But if your veterinarian has advised you to keep your pet in a crate, it’s vitally important to do so, even if your pet is unhappy or seems to be healing. To make this trying time easier for your pet, keep him occupied with plenty of toys and an occasional low-calorie treat.
Caring for your pet’s wound. During the post operative period (approx. 10-14 days after surgery) check the wound twice a day to ensure it is clean and dry. Also check for any signs of swelling, heat, odour, discharge, skin irritation, gaping or self-inflicted damage.
Caring for your pet after surgery. Print this page. Just like humans, recovery after surgery can be an uncomfortable experience for our pets. Therefore it is up to you and your family at home, to aid them in their recovery by making sure they are warm and comfortable, and by observing the following points. During the post operative period (approx. 10-14 days after surgery) check the wound twice a day to ensure it is clean and dry. Also check for any signs of swelling, heat, odour, discharge, skin irritation, gaping or self-inflicted damage.
Before You Leave. When your pet is ready to be discharged from the hospital, you’ll be given instructions for at-home care. Make sure that you understand what is expected of you, and if you have questions, ask if you can review them with a veterinary technician. But if your veterinarian has advised you to keep your pet in a crate, it’s vitally important to do so, even if your pet is unhappy or seems to be healing. To make this trying time easier for your pet, keep him occupied with plenty of toys and an occasional low-calorie treat.
------------In cases where surgery is needed, the type of surgery you choose is important. The 'TPLO/ TTO/ TTA' page here at this website explains further why you should be skeptical of a recommendation for TPLO, TTO, or TTA. Question: I have been going to the same vet for years and I trust him. Sometimes surgery will be needed, but it is a mistake to accept any vet's claim that your dog needs surgery without first considering the facts presented here at this website.---- It is important for your dog that you understand these injuries and treatment options.
Should your pet require a bandage, do not let it get wet or soiled with dirt. If your pet needs to go outside at anytime, cover the bandage with a plastic bag and secure it in place with tape. If your veterinarian has inserted a drain into the surgery site, you may notice some disharge/ ooze over the next few days. During the post operative period (approx. 10-14 days after surgery) check the wound twice a day to ensure it is clean and dry. Also check for any signs of swelling, heat, odour, discharge, skin irritation, gaping or self-inflicted damage.
It’s usually best to wait an hour or two after arriving home to offer water and a small amount of food if your pet has same-day surgery. Kittens and puppies under four months of age will need to eat sooner, to avoid a drop in blood sugar. Check with your vet for complete feeding instructions. This will help to reduce the risk of vomiting under anesthesia. If your puppy or kitten is under 16 weeks and cannot go long stretches without eating, you can feed him a small meal the morning of surgery. Make sure it’s about ¼ – ½ of their usual ration. Confirm exact feeding instructions with your vet