1 Birds Eye® Pepper Stir Fry, a flavorful and crunchy assortment of green, red, and yellow peppers with white onions. 2  Hearty, protein-rich beef strips, thinly sliced for quick cooking. 3  Birds Eye® Steamfresh® Chef's Favorites Southwestern Style Rice, prepared to light, fluffy perfection.
Email. Birds Eye Foods' new Steamfresh vegetables provide what the company insists is a can't-miss way to microwave-heat flash-frozen vegetables with perfect results every time in just minutes, without any water boiling or chopping.
Anytime BBQ. 1  Birds Eye® Pepper Stir-Fry, a flavorful and crunchy assortment of green, red, and yellow peppers with white onions. 2  Birds Eye® Steamfresh® Chef's Favorites Rigatoni & Vegetables in Tomato Parmesan Sauce, featuring al dente pasta in a light, Italian-style sauce blended with a flavorful complement of veggies.
1 Birds Eye® Pepper Stir-Fry, a flavorful and crunchy assortment of green, red, and yellow peppers with white onions. 2  Birds Eye® Steamfresh® Chef's Favorites Rigatoni & Vegetables in Tomato Parmesan Sauce, featuring al dente pasta in a light, Italian-style sauce blended with a flavorful complement of veggies.
Vegetables. At Birds Eye, all of our vegetables are frozen within a few hours of being picked, making them packed with goodness. Get your five-a-day the tasty way with our wide range of frozen vegetables and healthy vegetarian meals, which are all quick and easy to make and bursting with flavour.
Steakhouse Dinner. 1  Birds Eye® Broccoli Stir-Fry, a tasty and colorful vegetable blend featuring fresh broccoli, mushrooms and sliced carrots. 2  Birds Eye® Steamfresh® Long Grain White Rice with Mixed Vegetables, prepared to light, fluffy perfection. 3  Zesty Stir-Fry Sauce. 4  Plump chicken strips sizzled until tender and juicy.
Bring the taste of Asia home with Bird's Eye's exciting range of Stir Fry vegetables. Snap frozen to lock in the flavour and nutrients, each pack contains a different vegetable combination for an Asian experience. Birds Eye Stir Fry is a quick and simple way to enjoy your favourite Asian dishes any time.
Delicious Dinners. 1  Birds Eye® Pepper Stir Fry, a flavorful and crunchy assortment of green, red, and yellow peppers with white onions. 2  Hearty, protein-rich beef strips, thinly sliced for quick cooking. 3  Birds Eye® Steamfresh® Chef's Favorites Southwestern Style Rice, prepared to light, fluffy perfection.