In hospitals, nutrition is used to improve the overall health of patients with a wide range of conditions. Examples of these conditions are AIDS, cancer, osteoporosis, lung disease, obesity, burns, metabolic disorders, and kidney, liver, and pancreatic disorders. 
Clinical dietitians and nutritionists provide medical nutrition therapy. They work in hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, private practice, and other institutions. They create nutritional programs based on the health needs of patients or residents and counsel patients on how to lead a healthier lifestyle. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology.
Nutrition therapy is used to help cancer patients get the nutrients they need to keep up their body weight and strength, keep body tissue healthy, and fight infection. Eating habits that are good for cancer patients can be very different from the usual healthy eating guidelines. 
Registration, licensure and certification requirements vary by state. Dietitians work in a variety of settings, with the majority working in hospitals, nursing homes, outpatient care centers, physicians' offices, or private consultation. Others work in public health, corporate wellness, or the food industry. Dietitians can help people with a variety of nutrition-related diseases. 
Whether you pursue a career as a nutritionist or a dietitian, you’ll have several options for where to work. Possible workplaces include: 1  Hospitals: In a hospital setting, you will work as a part of a team with other health care professionals. A career in the field of nutrition typically involves dealing with individual clients on a case-by-case basis. Your daily responsibilities in the field will vary depending on where you work, but typical duties for a nutritionist or dietitian include: 1  Assessing client health.
Dietitians and nutritionists who are self-employed may meet with patients, or they may work as consultants for a variety of organizations. They may need to spend time on marketing and other business-related tasks, such as scheduling appointments and preparing informational materials for clients. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology.
A dietitian (or dietician) is an expert in dietetics; that is, human nutrition and the regulation of diet. A dietitian advises people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or to achieve a specific health-related goal. Dietitians work in a variety of settings from clinical to community and public policy to media communications. A registered dietitian (RD) or registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN), is a dietitian who meets all of a set of special academic and professional requirements, including: 1  the completion of a bachelor's degree with an accredited nutrition curriculum.
Improving Nutrition. Good nutrition is important in both health and disease. The best diet for a patient with ALS is not known, but some people have strong opinions. We do know that our body requires approximately 50 different nutrients to function at its best. It obtains these nutrients from the food and beverages we consume.
Dietitians often work in clinical or hospital settings. Nutritionists do not go through the RD training and licensure, and typically work in more holistic types of nutrition settings. There are now many nutritionist bachelor’s degree programs and training schools that offer degrees in nutrition. A career in the field of nutrition typically involves dealing with individual clients on a case-by-case basis. Your daily responsibilities in the field will vary depending on where you work, but typical duties for a nutritionist or dietitian include: 1  Assessing client health.
Dietitians and nutritionists are experts in food and nutrition. They advise people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or achieve a specific health-related goal. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology.