illuviation (ɪˌluːvɪˈeɪʃən). 1  the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer. 1 Trends. 2  the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer.
1 The study also indicates that the illuviation of clay particles and their subsequent accumulation in the Bt horizons have occurred in sodic environment. The introduction of salts or colloids into one soil horizon from another by percolating water. Example sentences. 1  The study also indicates that the illuviation of clay particles and their subsequent accumulation in the Bt horizons have occurred in sodic environment.
Translocation depends upon relative mobility of elements and depth of percolation. Illuviation: The process of deposition of soil materials (removed from the eluvial horizon) in the lower layer (or horizon of gains having the property of stabilizing translocated clay materials) is termed as Illuviation. Clay, Fe2O3, Al2O3, SiO2, humus, CaCO3, other salts etc. from one point of soil body to another. Eluviation means washing out. It is the process of removal of constituents in suspension or solution by the percolating water from the upper to lower layers.
Definitions. 1  the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer. 1 Trends. 2  the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer.
1. (Geological Science) the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer. [C20: from Latin illuviēs dirt, mud, from il- + -luviēs, from lavere to wash]. 
1 the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer. 1 Trends. 2  the process by which a material (illuvium), which includes colloids and mineral salts, is washed down from one layer of soil to a lower layer.
Illuviation occurs in the B Horizon. The B Horizon is also known as the Zone of Accumulation. By definition, illuviation is the deposition in an underlying soil layer of colloids, soluble salts, and mineral particles leached out of an overlaying soil layer. Eluviation is the movement of the particles (such as minerals and organic matter) into lower soil horizons. Then Illuviation is the accumulation of those particles in the lowe … 
Illuvium is material displaced across a soil profile, from one layer to another one, by the action of rainwater. The removal of material from a soil layer is called eluviation. The transport of the material may be either mechanical or chemical. The process of deposition of illuvium is termed illuviation. It is a water-assisted transport in a basically vertical direction, as compared to alluviation, the horizontal running water transfer. The resulting deposits are called illuvial deposits. Cutans are a type of illuvial deposit.