Kashubian is a member of the West Slavic group of Slavic languages with about 200,000 speakers and used as an everyday language by about 53,000 people. Kashubian (kaszebsczi kaszëbsczi). Jazek jãzëk kashubian is a member Of The west slavic Group of slavic languages 200,000 about 200000 speakers and used as an everyday language 53,000 about. 53000 people
Most Kashubian speakers live in north central Poland in the region of Pomerania on the southern coast of the Baltic Sea between the Vistula and Oder rivers. There are also some Kashubian speakers in Canada. Kashubian began to emerge as a distinct language during the 14th century. Kashubian (kaszebsczi kaszëbsczi). Jazek jãzëk kashubian is a member Of The west slavic Group of slavic languages 200,000 about 200000 speakers and used as an everyday language 53,000 about. 53000 people
This is a Category II Language. The Polish language is a member of the Western Slavic group of the Indo-European family of languages. It is easiest to learn if one already knows some other related language. The most closely related are other Western Slavic languages: Czech, Slovak, Silesian, Kashubian and Sorbian. More distant are the Southern and Eastern Slavic languages like Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbo-Croatian, Slovenian and Russian, Ukrainian, Belorusian, respectively. Polish is spoken by a total of approximately 40 million people, making it the second most widely spoken Slavic language in the world, next to Russian. Speakers of related languages can pick it up with not much effort
There are also significant Polish communities in Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine, and significant numbers of Polish speakers in many other countries, including the Czech Republic, Germany, Slovakia, Latvia, Romania, the UK and USA. Polish is closely related to Kashubian, Lower Sorbian, Upper Sorbian, Czech and Slovak. Literary Polish is based on the dialects of Gniezno, Cracow and Warsaw, though there is some dispute about this. The native name for Polish is polski (Polish), język polski (the Polish language), or more formally, polszczyzna (Polish).
1 ‘He closed his business, got his wife into the car and drove a great distance across Poland to where we were, visiting a Kashubian fishing village on the Hel Peninsula,’ Ray says. 2  There are also some Kashubian speakers in Canada. 1 A native or inhabitant of Kashubia, a region of Poland west and north-west of Gdansk. Example sentences. 1  It should also be added that the Kashubians have never wanted to separate themselves from Poland. 2  They weren't sympathetic to Kashubians because they always helped each other and they got on with Jews.
Polish at a glance. 1  Native names: polski, język polski, polszczyzna. 2  Linguistic affliation: Indo-Europea, Balto-Slavic, Slavic, West Slavic, Lechitic. 3  Number of speakers: c. 40 million. 4  Spoken in: Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Ukraine and many other countries. Literary Polish is based on the dialects of Gniezno, Cracow and Warsaw, though there is some dispute about this. The native name for Polish is polski (Polish), język polski (the Polish language), or more formally, polszczyzna (Polish).
Kashubian, regardless whether qualified by linguists as a dialect of Polish ar as a separate language, remains a basic characteristic of Kashubians in importance rating almost as high as place of birth and their self-identification as Kashubians. Polish dialectologists (e. g. Written Kashubian influenced by Polish writing emerged during the Reformation in Western Pomerania in the 16th to 18th centuries (for instance as writings by Szymon Krofey, Michał Mostnik, cf. Popowska-Taborska 1980, 47-52).
Sychta’s Dictionary and The Limguistic Atlas of the Kashubian and Neighboouring Dialects (Stieber/Popowska-Taborska 1964) are the greatest achievements in the field of lexical studies, world formation and morphology including linguistic geography. Written Kashubian influenced by Polish writing emerged during the Reformation in Western Pomerania in the 16th to 18th centuries (for instance as writings by Szymon Krofey, Michał Mostnik, cf. Popowska-Taborska 1980, 47-52).
Example sentences. ‘ 1 He closed his business, got his wife into the car and drove a great distance across Poland to where we were, visiting a Kashubian fishing village on the Hel Peninsula,’ Ray says. 2  There are also some Kashubian speakers in Canada. 1 A native or inhabitant of Kashubia, a region of Poland west and north-west of Gdansk. Example sentences. 1  It should also be added that the Kashubians have never wanted to separate themselves from Poland. 2  They weren't sympathetic to Kashubians because they always helped each other and they got on with Jews.