An accidental bump from a goat's horns can actually be quite painful. Another downside to having horns left on a Nigerian Dwarf is that most registries will not allow horned goats to be shown and if you need to clip or milk your goat in the stanchion, those horns tend to get in the way.
Puberty is from 4 to 12 months (females between 7-10 months and males 4 to 8 months). The natural life expectancy for goats is around 8 to 12 years and in some cases, goats can live over 15 years. Dwarf does can have several kids at a time, 3 and 4 being common with some quintuplet births occurring.
Answer: A nigerian dwarf doe has to be at least 8 months old and 30 pounds. Question: How old does a nigerian dwarf buck have to be to breed? Answer: A nigerian dwarf buck has to be at least 9 months old to breed.
The Nigerian dwarf goats are suggested to be around 75 lbs, and have a variation of colors, 6 to be exact.
Question: What is the earliest a doe can kid? Answer: It is be safe for a doe to kid 10 days before their due date. Question: How long does a goat labor last and what will it be like? Answer: A nigerian dwarf goat labor last about 5 hours.
Anatomy: The Nigerian dwarf goats are suggested to be around 75 lbs, and have a variation of colors, 6 to be exact. *WARNING* these goats have horns which is very dangerous for people and themselves if they are in a pet or farm environment.
Goats have horns and if they are not removed at an early age (1-2 weeks old) your goat will have horns too. It is better to get a goat with no horns if you want a pet goat. Most goats that are people friendly will not use their horns against you but horns are not a good idea if you have small kids.
The two breeds of mini goats are the pygmy and Nigerian dwarf goat. They are similar in size and personality but they do differ in some characteristics. The pygmy goat is bred for meat or as pets. Nigerian dwarf goats are bred for their milk production.
Care Tips. The Nigerian Dwarf is a minor breed, considered to be a dairy goat in miniature, and so to have the graceful, refined, proportions of the dairy goat at about 1/3 the size: Maximum height at the withers (high point of shoulder) for does: 22 1/2″, bucks: 23 1/2″.