1 Start Windows Explorer, and then open the C:\Windows\System folder or the C:\Windows\System32 folder. 2  Find the Wininet.dll file, and then rename it as Wininet.old.. 3  Save a copy of the debug version of the Wininet.dll file in this folder. 4  Click Start, click Run, type cmd, and then click OK. 1 Find the Wininet.dll file, and then rename it as Wininet.old.. 2  Save a copy of the debug version of the Wininet.dll file in this folder. 3
To use the debug version of the Wininet.dll file, follow these steps: After you create the Wininet.log file, you can then contact Microsoft Product Support Services to help your determine the cause of your Internet Explorer problem. 1 Find the Wininet.dll file, and then rename it as Wininet.old.. 2  Save a copy of the debug version of the Wininet.dll file in this folder. 3  Click Start, click Run, type cmd, and then click OK.
- ProcessLibrary wininet.dll free download-DLL-files.com Wininet.dll Debug File About WinINet (Windows) WININET.dll missing-Microsoft Community Missing WININET.DLL | Fix WININET.DLL File Errors Internet Explorer-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia How to use the debug version of the Wininet.dll file for ... Testimonials. Click here to download wininet.dll Repair tool. -----------------------------. Click here to download wininet.dll Repair tool. -----------------------------
Wininet.dll is a type of DLL file associated with Platforms developed by Microsoft for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Wininet.dll is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. This DLL file carries a popularity rating of 1 stars and a security rating of UNKNOWN. If your wininet.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling Platforms-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu. 3  Click Programs.
Wininet.dll is the Internet Extensions for Win32. This file includes Internet-related functions used by Windows applications. As a dynamic link library, the wininet.dll contains many functions to be shared by various applications. 
wininet.dll is a module that contains Internet-related functions used by Windows applications. Note: wininet.dll is a process which the Troj/Zlob-AO trojan tries to disguise itself as under the true process name of %systemroot%\mscornet.exe. This process is a security risk and should be removed from your system. wininet.dll is a system process that is needed for your PC to work properly. Since wininet.dll is a system process it should not be stopped. The process is required for your PC to work properly. Scan Windows processes now to identify unused processes that are affecting your PC’s performance.
SUMMARY. You can use the debug version of the Wininet.dll file to troubleshoot downloading and connectivity problems with Microsoft Internet Explorer. You must download this file and then save the file in the C:\Windows\System folder or the C:\Windows\System32 folder. 1 Find the Wininet.dll file, and then rename it as Wininet.old.. 2  Save a copy of the debug version of the Wininet.dll file in this folder. 3  Click Start, click Run, type cmd, and then click OK.
Use the debug version of the Wininet.dll file. 1  Set the default home page in Internet Explorer to a Web page that is close to the problem Web page. 2  This reduces the size of the log file that will be created. 3  Quit Internet Explorer and any other Internet-based programs that are running on your computer. 1 Find the Wininet.dll file, and then rename it as Wininet.old.. 2  Save a copy of the debug version of the Wininet.dll file in this folder. 3  Click Start, click Run, type cmd, and then click OK.
Purpose. The Microsoft Windows Internet (WinINet) application programming interface (API) enables applications to access standard Internet protocols, such as FTP and HTTP. For ease of use, WinINet abstracts these protocols into a high-level interfac