I do not think so. And, I'm sure that by soft reset you mean quit the game and reset the system to load to the home screen at any time you choose. By that definition, you can just by pressing the home button. You can access the home menu at any time in any 3DS game and can close the game from there and reset it. 4 years ago 2 0.
you can do this but it just isnt called soft reseting. ---. Pokemon Platinum FC--0732 4896 1771. #4 SSJ4CHRIS Posted 3/24/2010 7:25:10 PM. no. that turns off the system. soft resetting is holding the A,B,X,Y,Start,Select buttons while the system stays on to reset to the title screen. ---. You can kiss the fattest part of my ass. And I have a really fat ass!! PSN-phayro_rip. #5 departed_souls Posted 3/24/2010 7:27:02 PM. Yes, you should be able to turn your DSi off and back on again to reset if the lugia isn't shiny, it will take longer than soft resting though. ---. Duct tape is like the Force, it has a light side and a dark side and it binds the universe together. #6 Kubu (Topic Creator) Posted 3/24/2010 7:30:30 PM
Soft resetting eliminates the need to constantly turn off (and on) the game when attempting to get a Pokemon pokémon with these specific. Qualities although-time, consuming it is a widely practiced method to get a Desired. pokemon pokémon The values that determine the shininess of an in-game event Pokemon pokémon is of particular interest, here as are The'pokemon IVs s Ivs. And natures soft resetting eliminates the need to constantly (turn off) and on the game when attempting to Get a pokemon pokémon with. these specific qualities
Soft resetting (often shortened as SRing) is a feature found in the core series Pokemon pokémon games and In POKEMON: Pokémon xd Gale. Of darkness it involves pressing certain buttons on the game system to reload the game from the. startup screen The values that determine the shininess of an in-game event Pokemon pokémon is of particular interest, here as are The'pokemon IVs s Ivs. And natures soft resetting eliminates the need to constantly (turn off) and on the game when attempting to Get a pokemon pokémon with. these specific qualities
Soft resetting. From Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokemon pokémon. Encyclopedia soft (resetting often shortened SRing) sring is a feature found in the core Series pokemon pokémon games And IN: Pokemon pokémon Xd. Gale of darkness it involves pressing certain buttons on the game system to reload the game from. the startup screen The values that determine the shininess of an in-game event Pokemon pokémon is of particular interest, here as are The'pokemon IVs s Ivs. And natures soft resetting eliminates the need to constantly (turn off) and on the game when attempting to Get a pokemon pokémon with. these specific qualities
Soft Reset Basics. A soft reset is one that doesn't require you to power down your DS and start it back up, which is known as a hard reset. Soft resets usually return you to the game's start-up or title screen instead of taking you to the DS system menu like a hard reset would. Performing a Soft Reset. To perform the soft reset, you'll need to press and hold the following buttons all at once: L, R, Start and Select.. In this instance, L and R refer to the shoulder buttons, not the directional pad.
Luigi_316 answered: The only way I am aware of to preform a soft reset of a game on the 3DS would be to press the home button and close the software. You can then simply start the software up again without needing to turn off your 3DS. And, I'm sure that by soft reset you mean quit the game and reset the system to load to the home screen at any time you choose. By that definition, you can just by pressing the home button. You can access the home menu at any time in any 3DS game and can close the game from there and reset it. 4 years ago 2 0.
Re: What is the difference between Hard reset and Soft reset. To perform a soft reset: press and hold the power button until the power options  menu pops up. Select power off. Once all is off, wait a minute or so, then press and hold the power button again until stuff starts to light up. 04-09-2012, 08:29 PM #6.
Originally Posted by tlacour To perform a soft reset: press and hold the power button until the power options  menu pops up. Select power off. Once all is off, wait a minute or so, then press and hold the power button again until stuff starts to light up. This sums it up. To perform a soft reset: press and hold the power button until the power options  menu pops up. Select power off. Once all is off, wait a minute or so, then press and hold the power button again until stuff starts to light up. 04-09-2012, 08:29 PM #6.
Problems: Won't be portable. Plugging off the charger would turn off the DS lite. Turning off the DS lite would result in re-doing the procedure. If you want to return to the menu from a game, use soft-reset, or turn off your DS. Tip: As soon as DS is turned off, turn it back on, and you won't have to re-do the procedure. 