Crude oil, commonly known as petroleum, is a liquid found within the Earth comprised of hydrocarbons, organic compounds and small amounts of metal. While hydrocarbons are usually the primary component of crude oil, their composition can vary from 50%-97% depending on the type of crude oil and how it is extracted. Rather than using drills, crude oil is extracted from oil sands through strip mining or a variety of other techniques used to reduce the viscosity of the oil. This process can be far more expensive than traditional drilling and is found in high abundance only in Canada and Venezuela.
Oil Sands. Oil can also be extracted from oil sands, often called tar sands. Oils sands are typically sand or clay mixed with water and a very viscous form of crude oil known as bitumen. The extraction process for oil sands is quite different from drilling due to the high viscosity of this extra-heavy oil. Rather than using drills, crude oil is extracted from oil sands through strip mining or a variety of other techniques used to reduce the viscosity of the oil. This process can be far more expensive than traditional drilling and is found in high abundance only in Canada and Venezuela.
Crude oil [crude oil: Crude oil is formed from the remains of small animals and plants that died and fell to the bottom of the sea. Their remains were covered by mud. As the sediment was buried by more sediment, it started to change into rock as the temperature and pressure increased. The plant animal remains were cooked by this process and changed into crude oil.] - sometimes called petroleum-is found in the Earth's crust. Millions of years ago small animals and plants died and fell to the bottom of the sea. Their remains were covered by mud. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2.
Crude oil is a liquid found naturally in rock, containing mostly complex hydrocarbons, with some additional organic material. It is the major fuel used on the planet, and is used in the production of many synthetic materials like plastics as well. Dubai-Oman oil is used as a benchmark for sour crude oil in the Middle East. A pumpjack brings oil to the surface. Crude oil is a mixture of complex hydrocarbons that is extracted from beneath the Earth's surface. An oil well. Crude oil can be refined into other petroleum products.
Crude oil is a mix of hydrocarbons that was produced millions of years ago when plants and animals died and fell into lakes and marshes and was compressed when it degraded. It can be found under the seabed and places where there was marshes. 
crude oil is a naturally occurring, flammable liquid consisting of a complex mixture of hydrocarbons of various molecular weights, and other organic compounds, that are found … in geologic formations beneath the earth's surface. Oil and gas are chemicals made from molecules containing just carbon and hydrogen. 
It was formed when the remains of animals and plants from millions of years ago were covered by layers of sand. Heat and pressure from these layers turned the remains into crude oil. This process is why crude oil is called a fossil fuel. Crude oil is extracted and used to make fuel and other petroleum products. Hydraulic fracturing is one method used to extract oil and natural gas from deep shale formations. Crude oil is a mixture of a wide variety of constituents. 
­ Crude oil is the term for unprocessed oil, the stuff that comes out of the ground. It is also known as petroleum. Crude oil is a fossil fuel, meaning that it was made natural­ly from decaying plants and animals living in ancient seas millions of years ago -- most places you can find crude oil were once sea beds. Crude oils vary in color, from clear to tar-black, and in viscosity, from water to almost solid.
Crude oil (a non-renewable resource) is usually found in underground areas called reservoirs. It is liquid in nature and yellowish black in colour. They are composed mainly of hydrocarbons and organic compounds. They are usually discovered by oil prospecting scientists. Sometimes, petroleum and crude oil are used to mean the same thing, but petroleum itself is a broad range of petroleum products including crude oil itself. We use the term 'petroleum products after crude oil is refined in a factory. In oil drilling, a structure called 'derrick' is built with pipes going down to the reservoir and bringing the oil to the surface. Saudi Arabia, USA, Russia, China and Iran are among the top crude oil producers in the world, and USA is the world's biggest consumer of crude oil, followed by China.