While this translation engenders an appealing and not entirely mistaken image of patriarchal teachings, this is probably not the primary intention of the work's title. The term 'avot' is not usually used as an honorary designation for 'rabbis' or 'sages'; in rabbinical usage, it refers to the Patriarchs of the Bible. However, the possibility that the wording of the title was designed to support multiple renderings cannot be ruled out. Although Avot does not have an accompanying Gemara, one of the minor tractates of the Talmud, Avot deRabbi Nathan (The Fathers according to Rabbi Nathan), is an expansion of the Mishnaic tractate containing numerous additional ethical teachings and legends.
Literary Context. Given the popularity of Pirkei Avot, we may easily come to think of it as a sui generis work with little connection to any other Jewish text. But Pirkei Avot is, in fact, part of the Mishnah, the first text of the Jewish oral law. The aphorisms that make up the text of Pirkei Avot range in topic from the ethics of everyday human interaction, to advice for sages and aspiring sages, to statements about the relationship of God and humanity.
From Wikiquote. Pirkei Avot (literally Chapters of the Fathers but usually translated as Ethics of the Fathers) is a section of the Mishnah. Unlike most of the Mishnah, which deals with Jewish law, this is mainly a compilation of ethical sayings by rabbis mentioned in the Talmud. 1 He said to them: Go and see which is the worst trait, the one that a person should most distance himself from. 2  Said Rabbi Eliezer: An evil eye. 3  Said Rabbi Joshua: An evil friend. 4  Said Rabbi Yossei: An evil neighbor.
Pirkei Avot is unique in that it is the only tractate of the Mishnah dealing solely with ethical and moral principles; there is little or no halacha found in Pirkei Avot. Although Avot does not have an accompanying Gemara, one of the minor tractates of the Talmud, Avot deRabbi Nathan (The Fathers according to Rabbi Nathan), is an expansion of the Mishnaic tractate containing numerous additional ethical teachings and legends.
Oct. 15, 2015 | Cheshvan 2, 5776. Learning & Values » Texts & Writings » Classic Texts. Ethics of the Fathers is a tractate of the Mishna that details the Torah's views on ethics and interpersonal relationships. Maimonides' 13 Principles of Faith Moshiach and the Future Redemption Israel Jewish Identity Issues Building Blocks of Jewish Thought Key Jewish Facts Jewish FAQ's ChabadThink Aleph-Bet Trainer.
In recent years, a three­ volume English commentary on Pirkei Avot, Irving Bunim's Ethics from Sinai, has helped revive and deepen study of the book among traditional Jews. But Bunim's is only one of many commentaries that have been published on Pirkei Avot. Sixty­two of the sixty­three short books that make up the Mishna are legal texts. For example, Brakhot (Blessings), the Mishna's opening tractate, delineates the appropriate blessings for various occasions.
Because of the more common usage of avot as meaning fathers, Pirkei Avot is often rendered in English as Chapters of the Fathers, or even more loosely, Ethics of the Fathers. Although Avot does not have an accompanying Gemara, one of the minor tractates of the Talmud, Avot deRabbi Nathan (The Fathers according to Rabbi Nathan), is an expansion of the Mishnaic tractate containing numerous additional ethical teachings and legends.
Pirke Avot. see Mishna Mishna, in Judaism, codified collection of Oral Law—legal interpretations of portions of the biblical books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy and other legal material. Together with the Gemara, or Amoraic commentary on the Mishna, it comprises the Talmud...... 
Pirkei Avot (literally, “Chapters of the Fathers,” but generally translated as “Ethics of Our Fathers”) is one of the best-known and most-cited of Jewish texts. The aphorisms that make up the text of Pirkei Avot range in topic from the ethics of everyday human interaction, to advice for sages and aspiring sages, to statements about the relationship of God and humanity.