Best Answer: It really all depends on what type you get. You can get a dwarf breed which are pretty small generally around 2.5lbs. A small breed which is generally around 3.5-4lbs. A medium breed which is anywhere from 5-7lbs. A large breed which is around 7-10lbs or a giant breed which is 10+lbs. A lot of people like the dwarf/small breeds because they are easy keepers. 
A domestic rabbit or domesticated rabbit, more commonly known as simply a rabbit, is any of several varieties of the European rabbit species that have been domesticated. Domestic rabbits have been used as sources of food, fur, and wool, as research subjects, and as pets. These breeds have efficient metabolisms and grow quickly; they are ready for slaughter by approximately 14 to 16 weeks of age. Rabbit fryers are rabbits that are between 70 to 90 days of age, and weighing between 3 to 5 lb (1 to 2 kg) live weight. Rabbit roasters are rabbits from 90 days to 6 months of age weighing between 5 to 8 lb (2 to 3.5 kg) live weight. Rabbit stewers are rabbits from 6 months on weighing over 8 lb. Any type of rabbit can be slaughtered for meat, but those exhibiting the commercial body type are most commonly raised for meat purpose
Rabbits come in many different sizes, from dwarf to giant. How much a rabbit weighs depends on its species and breed. A healthy pet rabbit could weigh under 2 kg, or more than … 10kg. A vet with experience and knowledge in rabbit care and behaviour could tell you the healthy weight for you rabbit. 1 The largest rabbit is 50 pounds, 4 feet 3 inches long, and insured for $1.6M. (See Link). 2  Domestic rabbits raised for slaughter (fryers) reach market weight at 4.5 to 5 pounds.
They can be up to 30 lbs for a really fat one. The average weight of a rabbit varies by breed and living  conditions. They are usually anywhere between two and six pounds,  although some rare rabbits can weigh much more. 1 The largest rabbit is 50 pounds, 4 feet 3 inches long, and insured for $1.6M. (See Link). 2  Domestic rabbits raised for slaughter (fryers) reach market weight at 4.5 to 5 pounds.
The Dutch rabbit is always white with the addition of another base color. They are one of the most popular rabbits kept as pets today. The average adult Dutch Rabbit will weigh between 4 to 5 pounds and on average will live 5 to 8 years Longer life spans can be expected if the animals are neutered or spayed. The longest life span that has been reported is 15 years with 10 years not all that uncommon. 
The average lifespan of a pet rabbit is about 5-7 years but a healthy rabbit will live for more than that. What is the weight of an average cottontail rabbit? Weight can range from 800 to 2,000 g (1.8 to 4.4 lb), with an average of around 1,200 g (2.6 lb).
This is a difficult question because every rabbit is an individual. Weight varies between rabbits, even those of the same breed, so it is important you compare your rabbit to his normal weight not a breed average. For example, the BRC Breed Standards state that a Dwarf Lop should weigh between 1.93kg and 2.381kg. It's much easier to adjust your rabbits diet at the first sign of weight gain than once your rabbit is already noticeably fat. You can weigh your rabbit on normal kitchen or bathroom scales. If your rabbit won't sit still, weigh your rabbit in a carrier, and then deduct the weight of the empty carrier.
Standard rabbits have a wider range of sizes, depending on the breed, but commonly average from 7 to 8 pounds. And then there's breeds like the Flemish Giant, which can weigh anywhere from 14 to a whopping 22 pounds. 1 The largest rabbit is 50 pounds, 4 feet 3 inches long, and insured for $1.6M. (See Link). 2  Domestic rabbits raised for slaughter (fryers) reach market weight at 4.5 to 5 pounds.