Your steaks will still be safe resting after an hour and a half outside the fridge. Personally I leave my thick steaks out for two hours to come to room temperature. It is however preferable to salt your meat as far ahead of time if you can manage it. http://www.seriouseats.com/2011/03/the-food-lab-more-tips-for-perfect-steaks.html. If the steaks are already at least thawed to fridge temperature, leave them out for a shorter time on the counter, or even put them in the oven at 150 before broiling/grilling.
Red meat and pork can remain in the refrigerator up to 5 days and can be frozen for 4-12 months. Leftover cooked meat will last 3-4 days in the refrigerator and 2-6 months in the freezer. Ground meats (beef, veal, pork, or poultry) can be refrigerated for 1-2 days and frozen for 3-4 months. Lunchmeats and hot dogs will last two weeks in the refrigerator unopened and should be eaten within 3-5 days of opening (hot dogs can go a couple of days longer). In the freezer they’ll last 1-2 months. Bacon is safe to eat for up to a week in the fridge—but raw sausage should be eaten within two days. Both can be frozen for a month, and some sausage will freeze for twice as long. Eggs can be refrigerated for up to a month raw but no more than a week hard-boiled
1 In general, two hours of marinating is long enough for the meat to soak up the flavor, but poultry can marinate for up to two days in the refrigerator, according to the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service. 
However there are several factors to consider. Cut of steak, how soon it was refrigerated after cooked, your own immune system, etc. I have eaten steak left in the fridge for at least 4 days. If you are wary, then don't risk it. As for me, trial and error. Another Answer At the hospital kitchen where I work, they keep things like steak etc. a maximum of five days. They have a labeling system to keep track of when to throw it out. 
It depends on where you purchase your steak since some distributors add preservatives to their meat and some don't. The rule is 40deg. Fahrenheit to 140deg. Fahrenheit. If your refrigerator is close to 40deg. Fahrenheit you will only want to keep your steak in the fridge for 12 hours max. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
It depends on how the steak is packaged and how cold your refrigerator is. If it is rapped in just a plastic wrap about a week. If it is cryovaced (wrapped in a heavy plastic with all the air removed) 2 or 3 weeks. Give or take a 1 or 2 days depending on who cool you refrigerator is and how often it gets opened. If it's ground, no more than 3-4 days. if it's a steak and yoru fridge is really cold, up to 30 days. Aged Beef is chilled and forgotten about for 30 days before cooking. Sugar Pie · 8 years ago.
Five days in the refrigerator is definitely stretching it for chicken-usually no more than a few days is recommended, and that's assuming it was fresh when you bought it (not a day before the sell-by date). Even if it's safe, it's not going to be very good. 
Answer: If you thawed the steaks in the refrigerator, you’ve got some time. Steak that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional 3 to 5 days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. You also can safely refreeze the steak within that same timeframe. On the other hand, if you thawed the steak in the microwave or in cold water, the USDA advises that you cook it immediately. That’s because with either method, the steak could have at least temporarily warmed up to a temperature higher than 40°F.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.