Cholera is a severe, highly contagious diarrhoeal disease, caused by vibrio Cholerae, from the gram negative bacillus. The disease results in a profuse diarrhoea, sometimes with the occurrence of vomiting a few hours after the ingestion of contaminated (by V. cholerae bacillus) food or water.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Cholera is a serious infectious disease caused by the bacteria Vibrio cholerae, which affects the intestinal system of the body. An infected person experiences severe vomiting, explosive diarrhea, and severe dehydration. The bacteria that causes cholera is very contagious. It is spread by the unintentional consumption of infected feces that contaminate food and water, and it can also be spread through human to human contact. Some people have also been infected with it by eating raw or undercooked shellfish.
INFECTIOUS AGENT. Cholera is an acute bacterial, intestinal infection caused by toxigenic Vibrio cholerae O-group 1 or O-group 139. Many other serogroups of V. cholerae, with or without the cholera toxin gene (including the nontoxigenic strains of the O1 and O139 serogroups), can cause a choleralike illness. 
Cholera is an infectious disease caused by bacteria named Vibrio cholerae. Cholera causes profuse diarrhea episodes and vomiting. The cause of cholera are toxins secreted by the Vibrio cholerae bacteria. Microscopically, these bacteria appear curved (comma-shaped) and have a negative Gram stain.
Cholera is caused by a number of types of Vibrio cholerae, with some types producing more severe disease than others. It is spread mostly by water and food that has been contaminated with human feces containing the bacteria. Insufficiently cooked seafood is a common source. Humans are the only animal affected. Cholera has been found in two animal populations: shellfish and plankton. Cholera is typically transmitted to humans by either contaminated food or water. Most cholera cases in developed countries are a result of transmission by food, while in the developing world it is more often water.
Cholera is an infection of the small intestine by some strains of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Symptoms may range from none, to mild, to severe. The classic symptom is large amounts of watery diarrhea that lasts a few days. Vomiting and muscle cramps may also occur. Cholera has been found in two animal populations: shellfish and plankton. Cholera is typically transmitted to humans by either contaminated food or water. Most cholera cases in developed countries are a result of transmission by food, while in the developing world it is more often water.
Cholera is highly contagious. Cholera can be transferred person to person by infected fecal matter entering a mouth or by water or food contaminated with Vibrio cholerae bacteria. Cholera causes profuse diarrhea episodes and vomiting. The cause of cholera are toxins secreted by the Vibrio cholerae bacteria. Microscopically, these bacteria appear curved (comma-shaped) and have a negative Gram stain.
Cholera is an infectious disease that causes severe watery diarrhea, which can lead to dehydration and even death if untreated. It is caused by eating food or drinking water contaminated with a bacterium called Vibrio cholerae. Cholera Causes. Vibrio cholerae, the bacterium that causes cholera, is usually found in food or water contaminated by feces from a person with the infection. Common sources include: 1  Municipal water supplies. 2  Ice made from municipal water. 3  Foods and drinks sold by street vendors.
Transmission of Cholera from Person to Person. Cholera is considered infectious but is not transmitted from person to person. Generally, a disease like this is caused by an infectious agent and not spread between people. Cholera, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. About contagion and contagiousness: Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Cholera is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability.