A brain (cerebral) aneurysm is a bulging, weak area in the wall of an artery that supplies blood to the brain. In most cases, a brain aneurysm causes no symptoms and goes unnoticed. In rare cases, the brain aneurysm ruptures, releasing blood into the skull and causing a stroke. Some risk factors that can lead to brain aneurysms can be controlled, and others can't. The following risk factors may increase your risk for an aneurysm or, if you already have an aneurysm, may increase your risk of it rupturing: 1  Family history.2  People who have a family history of brain aneurysms are more likely to have an aneurysm than those who don't.
Summary. Six patients with intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms (ICCAAns) were seen at our department from 1998 to 2002. All patients had only one intracranial aneurysm and their ages at diagnosis ranged from 36 to 72 years (median 56). Five were women and four had a history of hypertension. Aneurysms of the intracavernous portion of the internal carotid artery account for 3–5% of all intracranial aneurysms and 14% of all aneurysms arising from the internal carotid artery. They can be classified according to their etiology as mycotic, traumatic or idiopathic.
Introduction. Intracavernous aneurysms of the carotid artery (ICAs) can produce symptoms through mass effect of the aneurysm on adjacent structures or through rupture, which leads to carotid cavernous fistula or occasionally to subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) if the aneurysm extends through the dura. In one patient, one aneurysm was treated by occlusion of the parent vessel and the other by embolization with coils. In the fifth patient, both aneurysms were treated by balloon occlusion.
An aneurysm or aneurism (from Greek: ἀνεύρυσμα, aneurysma, dilation, from ἀνευρύνειν, aneurynein, to dilate) is a localized, blood-filled balloon-like bulge in the wall of a blood vessel.neurysms can also occur within the heart itself. As an aneurysm increases in size, the risk of rupture increases. A ruptured aneurysm can lead to bleeding and subsequent hypovolemic shock, leading to death.
An aortic aneurysm (say a-OR-tik AN-yuh-rih-zum) is a bulge in a section of the aorta, the body's main artery. The aorta carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Because the section with the aneurysm is overstretched and weak, it can burst. An aortic aneurysm can also lead to other problems. Blood flow often slows in the bulging section of an aortic aneurysm, causing clots to form. If a blood clot breaks off from an aortic aneurysm in the chest area, it can travel to the brain and cause a stroke. Blood clots that break off from an aortic aneurysm in the belly area can block blood flow to the belly or legs.
Many reports on endovascular treatment of intracavernous aneurysms by balloon occlusion or coiling have now been published, but a systematic review of the risks and effectiveness of the two endovascular treatment modalities is lacking. In one patient, one aneurysm was treated by occlusion of the parent vessel and the other by embolization with coils. In the fifth patient, both aneurysms were treated by balloon occlusion.
Aneurysms can occur in any blood vessel, with examples including aneurysms of the circle of Willis in the brain, aortic aneurysms affecting the thoracic aorta, and abdominal aortic aneurysms. Aneurysms can also occur within the heart itself. As an aneurysm increases in size, the risk of rupture increases. A ruptured aneurysm can lead to bleeding and subsequent hypovolemic shock, leading to death. Aneurysms are a result of a weakened blood vessel wall, and can be a result of a hereditary condition or an acquired disease