Ok, So looks like my baby is going to make it So now the question is...Do Boer goats make good pets? His father is a 300lb hunk of goat..Right now, he's adorable, loving and toooo sweet..but as an adult..a spoiled adult..Is he going to make a good pet? Originally Posted by greenfamilyfarms. We have Boers and they do make good pets. Since he is a male, don't baby him too much. Sometimes that can make one pushy and a little aggressive as adults. Just remember that he is going to grow up. He's rather pretty.
Pygmy goats and boer goats are the most common boer goats are used for meat production but pygmys are excellent because of their small size also if you want to get into milk o … r cheese anubians are calm and gentle but are a little pricer because of the challenge to get them. 
Goats are usually farm animals domesticated for their milk and meat. However, some people prefer keeping goats as pets. In fact, they do make good pets and good companions. Goats are stars in petting zoos. Their curious, friendly nature will easily catch anyone's heart. Like dogs, goats also come in different breeds with the dwarfs and pygmy varieties as the probable to be kept as pets. Goats are herd animals and they prefer the companion of other goats. Also, it needs a decent amount of space and a lot of food. City ordinances usually prevent the keeping of goats as pets. People in the rural areas are most likely to be successful in raising goats as a pet.
Pygmy Goats. While larger goat breeds are still used primarily for milk or meat, in the West pygmy goats are primarily pets. That's not true in their native Africa, where they're meat goats. At maturity, pygmies weigh about 75 pounds and stand between 16 and 23 inches tall at the shoulder, the size of a large dog. These little goats make good, if mischievous, pets. Raising pygmy goats doesn't differ much from full-size goats, except their basic needs are on a smaller scale. Because goats are herd animals, you should always keep at least two pygmies.
They make wonderful pets. Our big boof head boer goat Houdini we raised from a tiny kid, and he is so loving and goofy. He is wethered though... it's probably the best idea to wether him just to avoid macho-ism and aggression. Originally Posted by greenfamilyfarms. We have Boers and they do make good pets. Since he is a male, don't baby him too much. Sometimes that can make one pushy and a little aggressive as adults. Just remember that he is going to grow up. He's rather pretty
For pets, bottle fed goats become much friendlier around people than those naturally fed. We take them from the mother after one day and milk the mother, giving all or part of the milk to the babies from a bottle. They are really cute when very small, and you can hold them in your lap while feeding them. As stated earlier, bucks need to be weathered to use for pets. Male goats are friendly, but will rub against you and leave a strong odor on your clothing. Does that are in heat may also rub an odor on you.
Pygmy goats and boer goats are the most common boer goats are used for meat production but pygmys are excellent because of their small size also if you want to get into milk o … r cheese anubians are calm and gentle but are a little pricer because of the challenge to get them. 2 people found this useful. 
The Boer goat is a breed of goat that was developed in South Africa in the early 1900s for meat production. Boer goats commonly have white bodies and distinctive brown heads. Some Boer goats can be completely brown or white or paint, which means large spots of a different color is on their bodies. Like the Nubian goat, they possess long, pendulous ears.