Indications for CIPRO: Susceptible infections, including lower respiratory tract, skin and skin structures, bone and joint, acute sinusitis, complicated intraabdominal (w. metronidazole), UTIs, chronic bacterial prostatitis, acute uncomplicated cystitis in females. Postexposure prophylaxis and treatment of anthrax. 
CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Available by prescription only, ciprofloxacin is a medication licensed to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. Ciprofloxacin belongs to a drug classification known as fluoroquinolones, or quinolones for short. 
Back to Top. Ciprofloxacin belongs to a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones. Ciprofloxacin can cause side effects that may be serious or even cause death. If you get any of the following serious side effects, get medical help right away. 
Ciprofloxacin belongs to the fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics which includes levofloxacin (Levaquin), ofloxacin (Floxin), gatifloxacin (Tequin), norfloxacin (Noroxin), moxifloxacin (Avelox), trovafloxacin (Trovan) and others. 
Cipro (ciprofloxacin) is one of the most popular antibiotics in the fluoroquinolone class. Unfortunately, all drugs in this class increase the risk of nerve damage in the arms and legs (peripheral neuropathy). Tweet. |. Cipro, a popular antibiotic, is associated with many severe side effects that can cause permanent disability. The FDA has recently strengthened warnings for two of these side effects, peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage) and tendon injuries.
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Ciprofloxacin oral liquid and tablets are also used to treat anthrax infection after inhalational exposure. Ciprofloxacin may mask or delay the symptoms of syphilis. It is not effective against syphilis infections. Ciprofloxacin extended-release tablets are only used to treat urinary tract infections, including acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including infections of bones and joints, endocarditis, gastroenteritis, malignant otitis externa, respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, and chancroid. For some infections it is used in addition to other antibiotics. It can be taken by mouth or used intravenously. Common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and rash. Ciprofloxacin increases the risk of tendon rupture and worsening muscle weakness in people with the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis. Rates of side effects appear to be higher than some groups of antibiotics such as cephalosporins but lower than others such as clindamycin
Cipro Class Action Lawsuits for Nerve Damage. The peripheral neuropathy attorneys at Saiontz & Kirk, P.A. are reviewing potential Cipro class action lawsuits and individual injury claims for individuals throughout the United States who have experienced problems. The product liability lawyers at Saiontz & Kirk, P.A. are reviewing potential lawsuits for users of Cipro who have been diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy, a painful and potentially permanent form of nerve damage associated with the popular antibiotic.