derealization. loss of sensation of the reality of one's surroundings; the feeling that something has happened, that the world has been changed and altered, that one is detached from one's environment. It is seen most frequently in schizophrenia. See also depersonalization. 
Depersonalization, (also called derealization), is one of the many symptoms of a panic attack. Of all the panic symptoms, it's probably the hardest to describe, or even recognize as a symptom. For this reason, it can be quite disturbing to people who experience it, even though it is completely harmless. People have a variety of reactions to depersonalization, but a common theme is that they are losing touch with reality, and they fear they will lose it for good. Here are some descriptions of the derealization experience I have received from readers and patients.
In this article. Depersonalization disorder is marked by periods of feeling disconnected or detached from one's body and thoughts (depersonalization). The disorder is sometimes described as feeling like you are observing yourself from outside your body or like being in a dream. Depersonalization disorder is one of a group of conditions called dissociative disorders. Dissociative disorders are mental illnesses that involve disruptions or breakdowns of memory, consciousness, awareness, identity, and/or perception.
Derealization can also be a symptom of severe sleep disorders, and mental disorders like depersonalization disorder, borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, dissociative identity disorder, and anxiety disorders. The detachment of derealization can be described as an immaterial substance that separates a person from the outside world, such as a sensory fog, pane of glass, or veil.
Derealization or derealisation (sometimes abbreviated as DR) is an alteration in the perception or experience of the external world so that it seems unreal. Other symptoms include feeling as though one's environment is lacking in spontaneity, emotional colouring and depth. The detachment of derealization can be described as an immaterial substance that separates a person from the outside world, such as a sensory fog, pane of glass, or veil.
Definition. Depersonalization-derealization disorder occurs when you persistently or repeatedly have the feeling that you're observing yourself from outside your body or you have a sense that things around you aren't real, or both. Many people have a passing experience of depersonalization or derealization at some point. But when these feelings keep occurring or never completely go away, it's considered depersonalization-derealization disorder. This disorder is more common in people who've had traumatic experiences.
Symptoms. Persistent and recurrent episodes of depersonalization or derealization or both cause distress and problems functioning at work or school or in other important areas of your life. During these episodes, you are aware that your sense of detachment is only a feeling, and not reality. 
For the diagnosis, see depersonalization disorder. Depersonalization (or depersonalisation) is an anomaly of self-awareness. It can consist of a reality or detachment within the self, regarding one's mind or body, or being a detached observer of oneself. It can be a disturbing experience. Chronic depersonalization refers to depersonalization/derealization disorder, which is classified by the DSM-5 as a dissociative disorder.
Derealization is a subjective experience of unreality of the outside world, while depersonalization is unreality in one's sense of self. The detachment of derealization can be described as an immaterial substance that separates a person from the outside world, such as a sensory fog, pane of glass, or veil.