White People Still Get Tanned In Cold Weather!! White people have a Genetic Mutation to not produce melanin. No matter where you are on earth, people still need Melanin to survive. The primary reason white people do not have a land to their race is because they popped up randomly. RE: Where did white people originate from? The Black man is originated from Africa The Asian man is originated from Asia Whites didn&#39;t originate from America, America rightfully belongs to the Native American Indians. So where did Caucasians come from?
The Black man is originated from Africa The Asian man is originated from Asia Whites didn't originate from America, America rightfully belongs to the Native American Indians. RE: Where did white people originate from? The Black man is originated from Africa The Asian man is originated from Asia Whites didn&#39;t originate from America, America rightfully belongs to the Native American Indians. So where did Caucasians come from?
Far from the imagined centers of whiteness, such as the Caucasus, Scandinavia or Germany, light-skinned people in East Asia may have been proliferating—and repeatedly wandering into Europe across the vast Russian steppes. 7000 years ago is of course a very long time back—over 2000 years before the construction of Stonehenge or the first Egyptian pyramids. It’s before class division, the state, written language.
The term white race or white people entered the major European languages in the later 17th century, originating with the racialization of slavery at the time, in the context of the Atlantic slave trade and the enslavement of native peoples in the Spanish Empire. White in Brazil is applied as a term to people of European descent, and Middle Easterners of all ethnicities. The census shows a trend of fewer Brazilians of a different descent (most likely mixed) identifying as white people as their social status increases.
they came from the original people which were black people and from Africa they crossed into an area known as Caucasus(corresponds modern Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, NE Turk … ey, NW Iran and SW Russia)which is where the term Caucasian comes from. 
But if you trace the white races back to where they originally came from, they were the peoples in the cradle of civilization.. the Sumerians, the Babylonians, the ancient Egyptians, the Phoenicians, and the Aryans of ancient Persia and northern india. Anonymous · 11 months ago. Thumbs up. white people originated in Central Asia and the Caucasus mtns. then went up north to Baltics region and became lighter as time went on. it's why you have highest ratio of blondes in the Baltics, the weather gave them perfect protection from tanning.
Does the bible agree with Science? Do all people come from Black People or Africa? Find out the origins of white people according to the scriptures. 1  Education. 
White people is a racial classification specifier, depending on context used for people of Caucasian ancestry. The contemporary usage of white people or a white race as a large group of (mainly European) populations contrasting with  black ,  colored  or non-white originates in the 17th century. White in Brazil is applied as a term to people of European descent, and Middle Easterners of all ethnicities. The census shows a trend of fewer Brazilians of a different descent (most likely mixed) identifying as white people as their social status increases.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Where did white people originate from? The Black man is originated from Africa The Asian man is originated from Asia Whites didn&#39;t originate from America, America rightfully belongs to the Native American Indians. So where did Caucasians come from?
Best Answer: Based on genes and fossils Europeans stepped out of Africa only 60,000 years ago about 100,000 years after modern man appeared. During the transit from sunshine to grey skies something provoked a fairly rapid change in skin colour. Thats pretty offensive dude. White people are no 'more evolved' than black people are. If you familiarise yourself with Darwins theory of evolution, you will see that lifeforms adapt themselves to climates and habitats in which certain characteristics are more favourable.