Nevertheless, it remains a beautiful 'stone' in many respects. Bright, colourful and vibrant, the controversy only adds to the attraction and mystique of rainbow calsilica while making for a great conversation starter ;). Since then, there have been claims of calsilica deposits in China, Brazil, even the Middle East and so the debate continues... Back in 2002 this Mexican wonder stone caused quite a stir when the Swiss Gemological Institute picked up a few specimens at a mineral show in France.
RAINBOW CALSILICA ::: 2006: This is an article that I wrote about Rainbow Calsilica about six or seven years ago when the material first arrived in Zuni. At that time it was being sold as an all natural material that was found in Mexico. 
Many claim Calsilica, also known more commonly as Rainbow Calsilica, is a synthetic stone that is manufactured from a mixture of Calcite, plastic resins and artificial coloring pigments. The bands of color can come in any order and in any color. Despite possibly being a synthetic stone, Rainbow Calsilica has been increasing in demand for jewelry, especially high end items. Natural or man-made or man-enhanced, Rainbow Calsilica is one of those stones that always draws attention.
Rainbow Calsilica. Mysterious Wonder Stone, Rainbow Calsilica with solid stripes of vibrant colors it is bright and vivid. By drawing forth the energy from all the colors that it presents, it is carved into the beautiful imaginative jewelry. Urbanized from a mine located in the Mexican state of Chihuahua, Rainbow Calsilica is known to be produced from an artificial sedimentary rock made by human beings. It is built up of calcium carbonate (calcite) and man-made coloring pigments (paraffin) along with man-made bonding agents (resin).
Calsilica... With solid stripes of vibrant colours this 'stone' looks like a veritable rainbow. Reds, blacks, browns, black, greens, mustard yellows and turquoise mixed with orange, blues and salmon colours-Calsilica is a visual feast and wonderous to look at. Since then, there have been claims of calsilica deposits in China, Brazil, even the Middle East and so the debate continues... Back in 2002 this Mexican wonder stone caused quite a stir when the Swiss Gemological Institute picked up a few specimens at a mineral show in France.
Rainbow Calsilica is a relatively rare new stone from Mexico. It first came into the market in 2002. There is some controversy concerning whether these beautiful colors and banding are all truly natural. See article in Professional Jeweler http://snipurl.com/dek7 for more information. 
Premium quality wholesale Rainbow Calsilica gemstone beads, pendants and cabochons for jewelry making and designing. Carefully selected gemstones help you create outstanding necklaces, bracelets and earrings. Rainbow Calsilica is a manmade stone created from pits of clay slip in Mexico. The first few years this stone became available there was considerable discussion and confusion regarding whether it was a natural stone. Testing showed it was obviously made from pigments. 
Calsilica | Gemopedia. Also called rainbow calsilica, this is a man-made material that displays vibrant layers of bold color. It consists of a mixture of calcite, plastic and coloring pigments. This unique stone is often used in jewelry and carvings to show off its distinctive coloration. 
Rainbow Calsilica is a man-made material, not a natural mineral. Synonyms: Calsilica, Rainbow Calsilica. Additional Information: Mindat.org. Rainbow Calsilica (or Calsilica) is an opaque gem with colorful stripes/layers of light and dark blue, green, yellow, orange, red, black and occasionally even pink. Calsilica is a popular gem and is readily available as cabochons and carvings