The mesoappendix is the portion of the mesentery connecting the ileum to the appendix. It may extend to the tip of the appendix. It encloses the appendicular artery and vein, as well as lymphatic vessels, nerves, and often a lymph node. During mobilization of the small intestinal mesentery from the posterior abdominal wall, this fold is incised, allowing access to the interface between the small intestinal mesentery and the retroperitoneum.
the mesentery is the thin membrane that helps to hold the small intestine in place. There are a large number of blood vessels in the mesentery, which nourish the small intesti … ne with their blood supply. 15 people found this useful. The mesentery is a thin tissue containing blood vessels. Its  function is to protect and shelter the nerves and blood vessels  coming into the small intestines of the frog. Edit. Share to: Answered.
The mesentery is a thin film of tissue holding the small intestine together. It is there so the intestine will not move around in the abdominal cavity. Large Intestine: Thick … tube like organ that absorbs water from the solid waste, stores solid waste until it is expelled. The mesentery is a thin tissue containing blood vessels. Its  function is to protect and shelter the nerves and blood vessels  coming into the small intestines of the frog. Edit. Share to: Answered.
Found This Helpful. pixologicstudio/iStock/Getty Images. The mesentery is a layer of body tissue that attaches organs to the body. In humans, it specifically refers to tissue that joins parts of the small intestine to the back of the abdominal cavity. Organ Plumbing and Wiring. The mesentery serves as pathway for blood, lymph and nerves to reach the enclosed organs. The mesentery is a two-way highway: nutrients absorbed by the small intestine pass through the mesentery on their way to the rest of the body.
Mesentery: In general, a fold of tissue that attaches organs to the body wall. The word mesentery usually refers to the small bowel mesentery, which anchors the small intestines to the back of the abdominal wall. Blood vessels, nerves, and lymphatics branch through the mesentery to supply the intestine.
The word mesentery usually refers to the  small bowel mesentery that anchors the … small intestines to the back  of the abdominal wall. Blood vessels, nerves, and lymphatic's  branch through this tissue, supplying the intestine. the mesentery is the thin membrane that helps to hold the small intestine in place. There are a large number of blood vessels in the mesentery, which nourish the small intesti … ne with their blood supply. 15 people found this useful.
Peritoneum, Mesentery and Omentum. The peritoneum is thin membrane that lines the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and covers most abdominal viscera. It is composed of layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue. Although ultimately one continuous sheet, two types of peritoneum are referenced: 
The mesentery is a fold of membranous tissue that arises from the posterior wall of the peritoneal cavity and attaches to the intestinal tract. Within it are the arteries and veins that supply the intestine. During mobilization of the small intestinal mesentery from the posterior abdominal wall, this fold is incised, allowing access to the interface between the small intestinal mesentery and the retroperitoneum.
The mesentery is a thin film of tissue holding the small intestine together. It is there so the intestine will not move around in the abdominal cavity. Large Intestine: Thick tube like organ that absorbs water from the solid waste, stores solid waste until it is expelled. the mesentery is the thin membrane that helps to hold the small intestine in place. There are a large number of blood vessels in the mesentery, which nourish the small intesti … ne with their blood supply. 15 people found this useful.