Outdoor pet rabbits should live as long as indoor rabbits and all pet rabbits. On average, pet rabbits live 8-10 years, but they can live longer (although, older than 13 is ra … re). It can be dangerous to keep a rabbit outside. In most cases, it's better to keep a house rabbit (indoors). Usually rabbits live to be 7-9 years of age, but dwarf breeds can live to be 12 years old. It depends. If you keep it healthy it will live long. If you have a bunny I suggest you go and research on the internet how to keep it healthy.
The quick answer to how long do rabbits live, is 7 -10 years. However, my Oreo is between 12 -15 years old. My sister told me he is 15 years old and since Oro was her daughter’s bunny first, I guess she may be correct. To tell the truth, I know Oreo is over 10, but I’m not sure how much over he is.
Report Abuse. Domestic rabbits can live up to 12 years old, if they are taken care of properly. Most of the time the male will outlive the female. I have kept male rabbits for as long as 12 years. The longest that I have kept any females usually were around 10 years. 
Domestic Rabbits Lifespan. The lifespan of rabbits depend on various factors. If the environment around them is conducive for proper growth and development, then you can expect your pet to survive till a maximum period of 10 years. After considering all these facts, you should be prepared mentally that your adorable pet would survive for a maximum time period of 10 years. However, some breeds of rabbits can survive for as long as 15 years. If you have planned to rear a pet rabbit, then you must be well aware of its requirements.
Answer: Surprisingly long! This is a very popular question, and of course the answer is different depending on the breed. On average a pet rabbit can live from anywhere between 5 to 12 years and sometimes more with the right care and diet. Below, I have attempted to generalize the answer to give you a rough guideline. Small Rabbit Breeds. Dwarf breeds can live up to 10-12 years, especially if they are kept indoors and have regular trips to the vets. If housed outdoors, smaller rabbits lucky enough to live to an old age (12+) often die of heart attacks.
Giant rabbit breeds tend to have a slightly shorter lifespan than smaller pet rabbits. Rabbits tend to live between 8-10 years, with some living as long as 12, even 13 years; … giant breeds are on the lower end of that scale (living 8, 9, 10, maybe 11 years). Usually rabbits live to be 7-9 years of age, but dwarf breeds can live to be 12 years old. It depends. If you keep it healthy it will live long. If you have a bunny I suggest you go and research on the internet how to keep it healthy.
A rabbit's colour doesn't affect its lifespan. Pet rabbits have the same average lifespan: 8 to 10 years, although they can live to 13, even 14 years. Wild rabbits have a much … shorter lifespan because they usually are killed young by predators. Usually rabbits live to be 7-9 years of age, but dwarf breeds can live to be 12 years old. It depends. If you keep it healthy it will live long. If you have a bunny I suggest you go and research on the internet how to keep it healthy.
These are the common domestic breeds of rabbits and their respective lifespan. After considering all these facts, you should be prepared mentally that your adorable pet would survive for a maximum time period of 10 years. However, some breeds of rabbits can survive for as long as 15 years. If you have planned to rear a pet rabbit, then you must be well aware of its requirements.
Pet rabbits live on average 9 or 10 years but they can live up to  13 or 14. Other rabbits that are in captivity, like test or meat  rabbits, have a much shorter lifespan -- … anywhere from babyhood to  two or three years. Usually rabbits live to be 7-9 years of age, but dwarf breeds can live to be 12 years old. It depends. If you keep it healthy it will live long. If you have a bunny I suggest you go and research on the internet how to keep it healthy.