Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine. Abnormal urinalysis results may point to a disease or illness. For example, a urinary tract infection can make urine look cloudy instead of clear. Increased levels of protein in urine can be a sign of kidney disease.
Sensitivity analysis, also called susceptibility testing, helps find the right antibiotic to kill an infecting microorganism. This test determines the “sensitivity” of a colony of bacteria to an antibiotic. It also determines the ability of the drug to kill the bacteria. Sensitivity analysis starts with a bacterial sample. Your doctor will obtain this sample by swabbing the infected area or secretions of the infected area. Your doctor can sample any area that has an infection. Cultures may be taken from: 1  blood. 2  urine. 3  sputum (“spit”).
urine culture and sensitivity (C&S), a microscopic study of the urine culture performed to determine the presence of pathogenic bacteria in patients with suspected urinary tract infection. 
A urine culture may be done to: 1  Find the cause of a urinary tract infection (UTI). 2  Make decisions about the best treatment for a UTI. 3  This is called sensitivity testing. 4  Find out whether treatment for a UTI worked. A urine culture may be done to: 1  Find the cause of a urinary tract infection (UTI). 2  Make decisions about the best treatment for a UTI. 3  Find out whether treatment for a UTI worked.
Susceptibility testing is used to determine which antimicrobials will inhibit the growth of the bacteria or fungi causing a specific infection. The results from this test will help a health practitioner determine which drugs are likely to be most effective in treating a person's infection. Susceptibility testing may be used to determine which antibiotic or antibiotic combinations will be most effective in treating all of the different types of bacteria causing the infection. This may be true, for example, with wound infections. ^ Back to top.
Bacteria in the small intestine can convert bilirubin to urobilinogen, which is excreted in the feces, in bile, or in urine. An accumulation of urobilinogen in the urine may be a sign of severe infection, liver damage, or diseases that destroy red blood cells. The doctor or hospital will supply a sterile container for a specimen being collected for a colony count. A colony count is a test that detects bacteria in urine that has been cultured for 24-48 hours. It is used instead of a routine urinalysis when a patient's symptoms suggest a urinary tract infection.
A urine culture may be ordered when symptoms indicate the possibility of a urinary tract infection, such as pain and burning when urinating and frequent urge to urinate. Pregnant women without any symptoms may be screened for bacteria in their urine, which could affect the health and development of the fetus. A urine culture may be ordered with a urinalysis or as follow up to abnormal results on a urinalysis. ^ Back to top.
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine culture may be done to: 1  Find the cause of a urinary tract infection (UTI). 2  Make decisions about the best treatment for a UTI. 3  Find out whether treatment for a UTI worked.