The law of reciprocal proportions (also called the law of equivalent proportions or law of permanent ratios) is one of the basic laws of stoichiometry. It relates the proportions in which elements combine across a number of different elements. It was first formulated by Jeremias Richter 1791.
(4) Law of equivalent proportion or law of reciprocal proportion: It was proposed by Ritcher. According to this law, The weights of the two or more elements which separately react with same weight of a third element are also the weights of these elements which react with each other or in simple multiple of them.
law of reciprocal proportions - (chemistry) law stating that the proportions in which two elements separately combine with a third element are also the proportions in which they combine together. law of equivalent proportions.
(iv) Law of reciprocal proportions: The ratio of the weights of two elements A and B which combine separately with a fixed weight of the third element C is either the same or some simple multiple of the ratio of the weights in which A and 8 combine directly with each other.
Of course the measurements must be taken at the same temperature and pressure. Law of Reciprocal Proportions: The ratio by mass, in which two elements combine with the fixed mass of a third element, is either the same or a simple multiple of the ratio in which they combine with each other.
The law of reciprocal proportions was proposed by Jeremias Ritcher in 1792. It states that, If two different elements combine separately with the same weight of a third element, the ratio of the masses in which they do so are either the same or a simple multiple of the mass ratio in which they combine..
Q14: State Law of reciprocal proportions. Answer: Law of reciprocal proportions states, When two elements combine separately with a fixed mass of a third element, then the ratio of their masses in which they do so is either same or some whole number multiple of the ratio in which they combine with each other. Q15: Who proposed l