There are 2 mountain ranges in Virginia. The Blue Ridge Mountains and the Appalachian Mountains both run through Virginia. Hope this helps. In the state of West Virginia, there are 2 mountain ranges. You have the Allegheny Mountains and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Both of those mountain ranges are part of the well-k … nown Appalachian Mountains. + 27 others found this useful. Hope E. Cajiga
Beginning with a narrow ridge in the north, the Blue Ridge Mountain range broadens toward the south, reaching a maximum width of 70 miles in North Carolina. The highest point in Virginia is found in these mountains. This peak, called Mount Rogers, is found in the southern part of the region in Grayson County. Mount Rogers is 5,729 feet high.
Confidence votes 2.3K. In the state of West Virginia, there are 2 mountain ranges. You have the Allegheny Mountains and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Both of those mountain ranges are part of the well-known Appalachian Mountains. The Rocky Mountains stretch more than 4,800 kilometres (2,980 mi) from the northernmost p … art of British Columbia, in Canada, to New Mexico, in the United States. The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert in Colorado at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) above sea level.
Blue Ridge Online is a travel and vacation guide for the Blue Ridge Mountains, Blue Ridge Parkway, Great Smoky and Appalachian mountain ranges of the eastern United States. Specializing in North Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, Georgia and West Virginia mountain tourism. Shenandoah Valley and Skyline Drive in the Virginia Mountains. Shenandoah Valley extends southwestward from the vicinity of Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, on the Potomac River and lies between the Blue Ridge to the east and the Allegheny Mountains to the west.
The significant mountains ranges within Virginia include the Allegheny Mountains, a range that stretches north into Pennsylvania, and the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains that extend south through North Carolina, and on into Georgia. Much of Virginia is a hilly (heavily forested) mountainous landscape, one dominated by ranges of the Appalachian Mountains that extend through the western half of the state; literally covering its entire western border with Kentucky and West Virginia, and a small portion of its northern border with Maryland.
The mountains are part of the Appalachian Mountain range, a ridged uplift that runs along the East Coast of the United States. Within the Blue Ridge range are the highest mountains in Virginia, a state with a mean elevation of 950 feet above sea level. Modern equipment has allowed geographers to determine the exact high point in Virginia, although for many years which mountain in the state was the highest was a subject for debate. Thomas Jefferson declared the Peaks of Otter, a group of mountains near present-day Bedford, Virginia, were the highest mountains in Virginia, according to scholars at the University of Virginia.
In the state of West Virginia, there are 2 mountain ranges. You have the Allegheny Mountains and the Blue Ridge Mountains. The Rocky Mountains stretch more than 4,800 kilometres (2,980 mi) from the northernmost p … art of British Columbia, in Canada, to New Mexico, in the United States. The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert in Colorado at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) above sea level.
The Rocky Mountains (or Rockies) are a major mountain range in western North America. The Rocky Mountains stretch more than 4,800 kilometres (2,980 mi) from the northernmost p … art of British Columbia, in Canada, to New Mexico, in the United States. The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert in Colorado at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) above sea level.
Blue Ridge: To the west of the Piedmont, lies the Blue Ridge. Northeast of Roanoke, Virginia, the Blue Ridge rises steeply from the Piedmont in the east and the Appalachian Ridge and Valley Region in the west. It is the main eastern mountain range of the Appalachian Mountains. South of Roanoke, the Blue Ridge expands into a plateau with valleys, deep ravines, and the highest peaks in Virginia. Mount Rogers, the highest point in Virgina, is located in the Blue Ridge south of Roanoke. Appalachian Ridge and Valley Region: Extending southwest to northeast along Virginia's western border is the Appalachian Ridge and Valley Region. The Great Valley, sometimes called the Valley of Virginia, lies against the Blue Ridge in the east. Actually, the Great Valley is a series of valleys divided by mountains.