Belgian Food. Apart from mussels and fries, here are a few Belgian dishes you will find on a standard menu at a Belgian restaurant. They go well with a glass of Belgian beer. The taste, style and quality will vary but you will be sure to see two or three of them anywhere from beer cafes cafés to modern style. restaurants
Belgium has one of the highest densities of Michelin-starred restaurants in Europe, but many Belgians' favourite foods are home-cooked comfort dishes and street-vendor snack foods. Just as the country is divided linguistically, it's also divided food-wise. Flemish cuisine has a strong Dutch influence, while Wallonian cooking is very similar to French with lots of rich sauces. Most dishes are based around meat or fish, and desserts are often rich pastries or chocolate – and it's usually all washed down with wine or, the national drink, beer.
Outside the country, Belgium is best known for its chocolate, waffles, fries and beer. Though Belgium has many distinctive national dishes, many internationally-popular foods like hamburgers and spaghetti bolognese are also popular in Belgium, and most of what Belgians eat is also eaten in neighbouring countries.
A number of traditional Belgian dishes use beer as an ingredient. One is carbonade, a stew of beef cooked in beer, similar to boeuf bourguignon. The beer used is typically the regional speciality: lambic in Brussels, De Koninck in Antwerp, so that the taste of the dish varies. Though Belgium has many distinctive national dishes, many internationally-popular foods like hamburgers and spaghetti bolognese are also popular in Belgium, and most of what Belgians eat is also eaten in neighbouring countries.
Waffles, fries, chocolate, beer…there’s more to Belgium than junk food. Here are 10 traditional Belgian dishes you should try when you visit. Waffles, fries, chocolate, beer… Belgium may be famous for its junk food, but there's far more to its national cuisine than that. Ahead of the Eat! Brussels food festival, taking place in the capital September 11–14, we've picked 10 lesser-known Belgian dishes that are pleasure filled, not pound heavy.
Food from Belgium. Traditional Food in Belgium. Belgian food is known as being one of the finest and biggest cuisines in the world. Large portions and good quality food makes the meals flavorful. For the Belgians, food is essential.
When you think of Belgian cuisine this is probably what you think of and moules frites is nothing less than a national icon. They are so popular with Belgians you’ll have © BeerTourism.com no trouble finding restaurants serving nothing but mussels and chips prepared in fifteen or more different ways. They’re commonly served pan fried, in a cream sauce or Provencale. Provençale as with mussels’you ll find © BeerTourism.beertourism com specialised in serving, eels usually with frites or. Bread paling in’t, groen or eels in (a) very green sauce, is, however the Classic belgian eel. dish
Belgian cuisine traditionally prizes regional and seasonal ingredients. Ingredients typical in Belgian dishes include potatoes, leeks, grey shrimp, white asparagus, Belgian endives and local beer, in addition to common European staples including meat, cheese and butter. Belgians typically eat three meals a day, with a light breakfast, light or medium-sized lunch and large dinner. Though Belgium has many distinctive national dishes, many internationally-popular foods like hamburgers and spaghetti bolognese are also popular in Belgium, and most of what Belgians eat is also eaten in neighbouring countries.
The traditional and authentic way to serve Belgian asparagus is Flemish Style: boiled or steamed to perfection and served with chopped hardboiled eggs, parsley and a clarified butter sauce. It’s terribly simple but unbelievably rich and tasty. They’re commonly served pan fried, in a cream sauce or Provencale. Provençale as with mussels’you ll find © BeerTourism.beertourism com specialised in serving, eels usually with frites or. Bread paling in’t, groen or eels in (a) very green sauce, is, however the Classic belgian eel. dish