Definition. Your body utilizes two types of digestion: chemical digestion and mechanical digestion. Chemical digestion refers the to the breakdown of food in the mouth, stomach and intestines through the use of acids and enzymes. 
Digestion begins in the mouth. Mechanical digestion begins with the chewing of food. Chemical digestion also begins in the mouth with the enzymes been produced and used … to break down the food. 4 people found this useful. The main parts of the digestive system are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, liver, gull bladder, and pancreas. Food does not actually pass thro … ugh the liver, gull bladder and pancreas, but they do produce a green liquid called bile that helps digestion.
Big Ideas Digestion. Digestion is the breakdown of food into simpler molecules that can be absorbed by the body. The digestive system is actually a long hollow tube called the gastrointestinal tract, or GI tract. The digestive system includes the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. The first task of the digestive system is to break down food into a fine pulp (mechanical digestion). When the food is physical broken down, digestive chemicals break the food down into small molecules (chemical digestion). The mouth is the organ in which the process of digestion begins
Saliva. -saliva (a fluid in your mouth) is released and moistens the food-saliva has enzymes-saliva begins to break down food (chemical digestion of starches and some lipids) -cleanses the mouth-dissolves food to enhance taste. 
Proteins in the mouth, stomach and intestine called enzymes are the primary facilitators of chemical digestion. In the mouth, chemical digestion begins when the food enters and encounters saliva and the enzymes that it contains. When the food reaches the stomach, different hormones trigger the body to begin releasing enzymes that further digest the food. Pepsin is the name of the enzyme that breaks down most of the proteins in the food. The digestion of carbohydrates, which began in the mouth with an enzyme called amylase, also continues here.
Digestive System Anatomy. Although you may think the stomach is the primary site for digestion, the multistep process involves several organs and structures. The second you bite into your sandwich, your mouth and pharynx begin the mechanical and chemical breakdown of your food. 
Digestion involves the mixing of food, its movement through the digestive tract, and the chemical breakdown of the large molecules of food into smaller molecules. Digestion begins in the mouth, when we chew and swallow, and is completed in the small intestine. 
Mechanical digestion involves physically breaking the food into smaller pieces. Mechanical digestion begins in the mouth as the food is chewed. Chemical digestion involves breaking down the food into simpler nutrients that can be used by the cells. Chemical digestion begins in the mouth when food mixes with saliva. Saliva contains an enzyme (amylase) that begins the breakdown of carbohydrates. The organs produce digestive chemicals (enzymes and acids) that break down the nutrients into simpler forms so that absorption through the intestinal wall and into the blood stream can occur. Mechanical and Chemical Digestion. There are two kinds of digestion: mechanical and chemical.
Chemical digestion is the process through which the body of a mammal reduces food to a size where the nutrients that it contains can be absorbed into the bloodstream. The process begins in the mouth, continues in the stomach and ends when the digested particles move through the small intestine for absorption. When the food reaches the stomach, different hormones trigger the body to begin releasing enzymes that further digest the food. Pepsin is the name of the enzyme that breaks down most of the proteins in the food. The digestion of carbohydrates, which began in the mouth with an enzyme called amylase, also continues here.