The meaning of marketing audit is depicted in the following chart. Marketing audit is an analysis, examination, review or evaluation of marketing activities of a company. It evaluates marketing environment, objectives, plans, policies and strategies of a company. 
Digital Vision/Digital Vision/Getty Images. A marketing plan audit is a comprehensive review used to evaluate marketing strategy, gauge return on investment and ensure meeting an organization's objectives. A marketing plan audit will analyze the strengths and weakness of the company's current plan.
How to conduct a marketing audit. The marketing audit is a fundamental part of the marketing planning process. It is conducted not only at the beginning of the process, but also at a series of points during the implementation of the plan. The marketing audit considers both internal and external influences on marketing planning, as well as a review of the plan itself. In many ways the marketing audit clarifies opportunities and threats, and allows the marketing manager to make alterations to the plan if necessary. This lesson considers the basics of the marketing audit, and introduces a marketing audit checklist.
Marketing audit on a regular basis is a strong reference point, reflecting evolution in external business environment, internal experience and strategy development. The marketing audit focuses on three key headings: 1  The external marketing environment. 2  The internal marketing environment. Because of the constantly varying business environment, marketing audit is frequently required, not only at the beginning of the planning process, but along with the implementation stage, providing also ground for evaluating possible future courses of action.
A thorough marketing audit provides a benchmark for monitoring future marketing activity and highlights recommendations to improve the efficiency and performance of your company's marketing activity. A marketing audit is often used by a company reviewing its business strategy. A marketing audit can inform management with an invaluable customer and market insight, vital to help them set realistic business objectives. Aspects covered in a marketing audit include: 1  A SWOT analysis. 2  Customer and prospect research. 
A marketing strategy audit is vital, as it makes sure the marketing is in line with marketing AND corporate goals. Under the marketing strategy audit, the auditor evaluates performance by evaluating the marketing goals and objectives, in relation to the company mission and the strategy for the organization. 
This is an examination of the process of making and updating a marketing strategy plan and a review of target achievement. Targeting leads to enumeration of strategy. This is essentially a branding effort in the marketing function. The audit should ensure that the strategy statement is succinct, clear and that it leverages relative strengths.
A very important step in shaping marketing strategy is to audit the marketing function and related strategy. Such auditing practices are not common to many organisations that decide on a marketing plan and budget without measuring the performance of their previous and current activities. A marketing audit is a structured approach to the collection and analysis of information and data on the internal and external environment, including information on the business and economic climate, the market, competition, major competitors and the company’s operating performance.