Discounts: 1  Patients will also need to pay for the insulin delivered via the device. 2  Cost for insulin varies widely depending upon the individual's dosage and brand. 3  The nonprofit group InsulinPumpers.org, reports that the average patient without insurance spends about $785 dollars a year on insulin. 1 Some insurance plans will cover the cost of the pump. 2  Patients with insurance can expect typical copay and coinsurance rates ranging from $5 to half of the total cost of the pump. 3  Though most pumps will come with infusion lines, syringes and batteries, the patient will have to continually replace these items.
1 Patients will also need to pay for the insulin delivered via the device. 2  Cost for insulin varies widely depending upon the individual's dosage and brand. 3  The nonprofit group InsulinPumpers.org, reports that the average patient without insurance spends about $785 dollars a year on insulin. 1 Some insurance plans will cover the cost of the pump. 2  Patients with insurance can expect typical copay and coinsurance rates ranging from $5 to half of the total cost of the pump. 3  Though most pumps will come with infusion lines, syringes and batteries, the patient will have to continually replace these items.
Lantus costs around $120 at Sams club without insurance. Syringes cost around $25 per 100. My copay is 50%. My daily dosage is 24 units. but others take anywhere from a few units to over 100. Some also take fast acting insulins like Humalog which is about the same price as the Lantus. 
1 The Minimed Paradigm 522 is more expensive, retailing at about $5,200, but includes more features, like continuous glucose monitoring. 2  Some insurance plans will cover the cost of the pump. 3  Patients with insurance can expect typical copay and coinsurance rates ranging from $5 to half of the total cost of the pump. 1 Some insurance plans will cover the cost of the pump. 2  Patients with insurance can expect typical copay and coinsurance rates ranging from $5 to half of the total cost of the pump. 3  Though most pumps will come with infusion lines, syringes and batteries, the patient will have to continually replace these items.
With my insurance I'm currently paying $15.00 for 1500 units of Lantus or Humalog in Pen injectors at the local Walgreens. A box of pens (5 x 300units each) lasts me just about a month. That works out to a penny a unit. If I use the mail in pharmacy it would be $30 for 3 months or 2/3 of a cent/unit. Of course you need to add in about $30/100 pen needles on top of the med cost. I think the going price for a box of 5 pens without insurance is somewhere in the $230-$250 range. For those without insurance or with a huge deductible it would end up being a huge cost over time. -Ray
1 According to the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy, insulin pumps cost between $4,500 and $6,500 for individuals without insurance. 2  The price varies depending upon the features, brand and size of the pump. 1 Some insurance plans will cover the cost of the pump. 2  Patients with insurance can expect typical copay and coinsurance rates ranging from $5 to half of the total cost of the pump. 3  Though most pumps will come with infusion lines, syringes and batteries, the patient will have to continually replace these items.
1 For patients without health insurance, diabetes medication costs $200 to $500 or more a month for a multi-drug regimen that could include other classes of oral medications, including newer medications such as the brand name Januvia, or injectable medications such as the brand name Byetta. 1 The American Diabetes Association has a guide to Medicare and diabetes prescription drug benefits. 2  For patients covered by insurance, typical out-of-pocket costs consist of a prescription drug copay ranging from $10 to $50, depending on the drug.
Insulin was $20 a vial without insurance now Insulin is over three hundred a vial I know prices are uo but that’s ridiculous. I now need 5vials for 90 days. Having to pay for 6 instead of five because can only get one month at a time. With my wife’s insurance its going th o be about $300 every 90 days. The cost was 170$, with my insurance co-pay it was 35$, Due to a change in health insurance I had to buy a bottle of Lantus today and pay the full price of 234$. My three other prescriptions all have generic equivalents, I have been taking insulin for 36 years and there has never been a generic.
Thanks for your Reply! Report This | Share this:Anyone know the cost the Lantus Insulin Pen Or....My insurance won't cover my Lantus Solostar Pens; I pay $183.20 for a box of five. I also take Victoza at a whopping $372.15 out-of-pocket (same insurance won't cover it). Regarding the cost, what I was saying is that the $240 is the retail price at my pharmacy. The co-pay is $45.00; the insurance pays the rest (determined by what their contract is with the pharmacy.) Just so you know, my first A1c was 13.2, an average blood sugar reading on a daily basis of 393.