Full Definition of ANESTHETIST. : one who administers anesthetics. See anesthetist defined for English-language learners.
A nurse anesthetist, or certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA), is a licensed professional nurse who provides the same anesthesia services as an anesthesiologist (MD).
nurse. 1. a person trained in the scientific basis of nursing, meeting certain prescribed standards of education and clinical competence; see also nursing practice. 2. to provide services that are essential to or helpful in the promotion, maintenance, and restoration of health and well-being.
Administering Anesthesiology. A nurse anesthetist is a specialty-trained registered nurse who administers anesthesia to patients who are undergoing surgeries or special procedures. Nurse anesthetists have a unique approach to patient care, grounded in a nursing perspective.
graduate nurse a graduate of a school of nursing; often used to designate one who has not been registered or licensed. liaison nurse. 1. a nurse specialist with a master's degree who provides psychiatric nursing services in nonpsychiatric settings.
A nurse anesthetist is a specialty-trained registered nurse who administers anesthesia to patients who are undergoing surgeries or special procedures. Nurse anesthetists have a unique approach to patient care, grounded in a nursing perspective.
The certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) has completed postgraduate training and been certified in the administration of anesthetics. The address of the American Association of Nurse Anesthetists is 222 S. Prospect Ave., Park Ridge, IL 60068.
Career Overview. A nurse anesthetist, or certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA), is a licensed professional nurse who provides the same anesthesia services as an anesthesiologist (MD). After completing extensive education and training, CRNAs become nationally certified and may then practice in all 50 states.
advanced practice nurse a registered nurse having education beyond the basic nursing education and certified by a nationally recognized professional organization in a nursing specialty, or meeting other criteria established by a Board of Nursing.