I approached David in 1978 about STATUE OF A FOOL. Knowing about this album of Jack Greene, and that he was credited with writing the song, it was also claimed that Jan Crutchfield penned it. I ask David. He told me that he wrote the song. You know how stuff like this happens, He said. 
Statue of a Fool. Type an artists name or song title in the space above for a quick search of Classic Country Music Lyrics website. Low prices on Books, Kindles Classic Country Music Cds and Country Gospel Cds. Easy to download Classic Country MP3s and Country Gospel MP3s most only $.99 or less. 
Post by Common on. I think there is a thread about this song but I'll repeat it just in case there isn't. There has been a dispute over Statue Of A Fool as to who actually wrote the song. Jack Greene went to court & won after he said that he, not David, wrote 'Statue' in the early 60s.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Statue of a Fool is the title of a song written by Jan Crutchfield and recorded by many country artists. It was first recorded in 1969 by country music artist Jack Greene where it was released as a single and became a #1 hit. 
Ricky Van Shelton:Statue Of A Fool Lyrics. 1,772,946 pages on this wiki. Ricky Van Shelton This song is performed by Ricky Van Shelton and appears on the album RVS III (1990) and on the album Greatest Hits Plus (1992) . This song is a cover of  Statue of a Fool  by Jack Greene
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Statue of a Fool is a song written by Jan Crutchfield and recorded by many country artists. It was first recorded in 1969 by country music artist Jack Greene where it was released as a single and became a number 1 hit. Brian Collins recorded and released it in 1974 from his second album, This Is Brian Collins.
What was the first song ever recorded? Mary had a little lamb by thomas Edison Correction: In March 2008 a recording by Frenchman Edouard-Leon Scott de Martinville of a woman singing 'Au Clair De La Lune' was disc … overed in an archive in Paris by a group of American audio historians. 
Who wrote song Wise men say only fools rush in? This aphorism was first attributed to Alexander Pope in An Essay on Criticism (written in 1709, first published in 1711). Who wrote the song containing the lyrics 'fools rush in where angels fear to tread'? The song 'Fools Rush In' was written in 1940 by Johnny Mercer (lyrics) and Rube Bloom (music).
“Statue of a Fool” Composer Jan Crutchfield Dead at 74. He Wrote Hits for Jack Greene, Lee Greenwood, Faron Young and Others. by Edward Morris 11/5/2012. Jan Crutchfield, writer of the endlessly revived country hit, “Statue of a Fool,” died Thursday (Nov. 1) at Nashville’s St. Thomas Hospital at age 74.