President and Senior Agent, Outlook Life, Most of the U.S. Medicare was created to help pay for health costs for the aged population, because at that time, people over 65 were having a very difficult time finding health insurance. Medicaid was created to assist very low income people (especially children) with medical expenses. Both were signed into law in 1965. 
Medicaid History. Medicaid was created in 1965 through the Social Security Act. In 1967, the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnostic and Treatment (EPSDT) Plan was developed for children under the age of 21. Then in 1981, waivers were created for freedom of choice, home and community based care.
Medicare and Medicaid are very different. Medicaid is a federal program for low-income, financially needy people, set up by the federal government and administered differently in each state. (This program is called Medi-Cal in California.). 
In the United States, Medicare is a national social insurance program, administered by the U.S. federal government since 1966, currently using about 30 private insurance companies across the United States. Medicare provides health insurance for Americans aged 65 and older who have worked and paid into the system. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), a component of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), administers Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) and parts of the Affordable Care Act (ACT).
Medicaid History. Medicaid was created by the United States government to provide health care to people who have low incomes and cannot afford health services or health insurance on their own. Each individual state manages their Medicaid services and programs. Medicaid was created in 1965 through the Social Security Act. In 1967, the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnostic and Treatment (EPSDT) Plan was developed for children under the age of 21. Then in 1981, waivers were created for freedom of choice, home and community based care.
Medicare was created in 1965 when people over 65 found it virtually impossible to get private health insurance coverage. Medicare has made access to health care a universal right for Americans once they reach age 65. This has helped improve the health and longevity of older Americans. 
You are here: Home About CMS History. CMS’ program history Medicare & Medicaid On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the bill that led to the Medicare and Medicaid. The original Medicare program included Part A (Hospital Insurance) and Part B (Medical Insurance). Today these 2 parts are called “Original Medicare.” Over the years, Congress has made changes to Medicare: The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) was created in 1997 to give health insurance and preventive care to nearly 11 million, or 1 in 7, uninsured American children. Many of these children came from uninsured working families that earned too much to be eligible for Medicaid.
The Medicaid program covers millions of low-income women, children, elderly people and individuals with disabilities. The Medicaid program was enacted in the same legislation that created the Medicare program-the Social Security Amendments of 1965 (P.L. 89-97).
The program costs about $432 billion, or 3.2% of GDP, in 2007. Medicaid is a social welfare (or social protection) program that serves about 40 million people (as of 2007) and costs about $330 billion, or 2.4% of GDP, in 2007. Together, Medicare and Medicaid represent 21% of the FY 2007 U.S. federal government. Both Medicaid and Medicare were created when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed amendments to the Social Security Act on July 30, 1965. 
Fifty years ago, Congress created Medicare and Medicaid and remade American health care. The number of elderly citizens lacking access to hospitals and doctors plummeted. Hospitals, physicians, and state and local governments came to depend on this federal funding. 