According to the International Rugby Board and its “Laws of the Game,” a rugby match lasts 80 minutes, divided into two 40-minute halves. A halftime period of no more than 10 minutes separates the halves. Compared to Other Sports. Rugby has a relatively long game time compared to other sports. In contrast to the 80 minutes for a rugby match, an American football game, lasts 60 minutes, divided into four 15-minute quarters. When including clock stopping, penalties and time outs, a football game can last 3 hours or more
Around the Academy: A game of rugby league consists of two halves of 40 minutes, with injury time added on at the end of each half. In between the two halves, there is a 10-minute break after which both teams change ends and attack the half they were defending. A hooter or whistle will indicate the start and finish of the half. However, time can be extended for a penalty kick or a kick at goal. In that case, the half will end when the next ball goes of play or a tackle has been made. A game of rugby league consists of two halves of 40 minutes, with injury time added on at the end of each half.
A school boy rugby match below grade 10 goes for 55 minutes. 25 minute halves and 5 halftime. From yr 11 upwards, matches last half an hour per half and have a 10 minute half time break. Pro leagues play for 90 mintues all up. 2 forty minute halves and 10 min half time. 
If you’re still not convinced you can handle 80 minutes of rugby in the pub, here are five surprising stats to amuse you as you clear off home. 1. Although a rugby match is 80 minutes long, the ball is actually in play for only 35 minutes. 2. There are normally around 221 crunching tackles in every game. 3. Elite rugby players run between 4.45km and 6.84km per game. 4. 
Rugby union, or simply rugby, is a contact team sport which originated in England in the first half of the 19th century. One of the two codes of rugby football, it is based on running with the ball in hand. In its most common form, a game is between two teams of 15 players using an oval-shaped ball on a rectangular field with H-shaped goalposts on each try line. In the knockout stages of rugby competitions, most notably the Rugby World Cup, two extra time periods of 10 minutes periods are played (with an interval of 5 minutes in between) if the game is tied after full-time.
A rugby match is divided into two halves lasting 40 minutes each. Half-time is only a brief 10 minutes. The match begins with the kick-off, and each team tries to move the ball forward and score the most points by running with or kicking the ball. Continuous Play. A rugby match is divided into two halves lasting 40 minutes each. Half-time is only a brief 10 minutes. The match begins with the kick-off, and each team tries to move the ball forward and score the most points by running with or kicking the ball. Play is continuous, even when a player is tackled.
While a regular rugby union match lasts at least 80 minutes, a normal sevens match consists of two halves of seven minutes with a one-minute half-time break. The final of a competition can be played over two halves of ten minutes each, with a half-time break of two minutes. 
An adult-level rugby union match lasts for 80 minutes, consisting of two halves of 40 minutes each plus time added on for injury. · just now. Report Abuse. It can be between 1 1/2 hours to 2 hours, actual game time is 80 mins broken up into 2 halves plus injury time at the end of each half which continues till the ball goes dead and the ref calls time. they have a 5 minute break in between halves.