The Carpet Python is a large snake of the Pythonidae family found in Australia, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. There are 6 subspecies listed by ITIS, commonly referred to as Morelia Spilota and diamond pythons. 
In 2003 I hatched the first 50% Jungle Jaguar Carpet Pythons, from 15 eggs hatched 9 Jungle Jaguars and 6 normal siblings. I kept the 9 Jungle Jaguars for future breeding projects. In 2005 I bred male 50% Jungle Jaguar Carpets to unrelated female Jungle carpets, hatching the first 75% Jungle Jaguars! Breeding a 50% Jungle Jaguar back to a Jungle Carpet would yield second generation or 75% Jungle Jaguar Carpet Pythons.
Jaguar carpet pythons are a co-dominant mutation of the coastal carpet python. With beautiful colors and reduced pattern, they have become very popular in herpetoculture. This mutation has also been bred into the various carpet subspecies as well as with green tree pythons. 
Aurora. Our Female “Aurora” is a 2006 Jaguar from Will Leary (Reptilicus Reptiles). She is a product of a cross between Will’s Madame Blue Berry (MBB) and Benjamin. Aurora was the first Jaguar at Rogue, and like many of the others resided in my dorm room. Here at Rogue-Reptiles LLC we have two pairs of resident Jaguars
On May 5, 2014 the eggs from Alba x Gamma5 produced the most unusual 4 jaguars I've hatched to date. They are so heavily banded the banding has become the dominant color scheme, with some formation of circle patterns. The head patterns and ventral scales are also not typical of jaguar pythons. They are no doubt jaguar pythons, and are distinctly different from the jaguar-sibs of the clutch. Because their circular patterns reminded me of anacondas, I've decided to call them Anaconda Jaguars. Time will tell if they represent a new morph of jaguar pythons. AG5-14- jaguar male #3 first shed: AG5-14- jaguar male #4 first shed: Ventral scales of anaconda jaguar: AG5-14-jaguar to jaguar-sib comparison: Morelia Trophy Club Hall of Fame: Gamma3 is a male diamond jungle jaguar from the Gamma x Antonio pairing of 2008.
Jaguars. The Jaguar is a Co-dominant morph of the Coastal Carpet Python, spilota mcdowelli. This morph consists of a reduced pattern that is presented by banding or lateral ovals, which create an open pattern on the dorsal. The “Original Tiger” morph of the Coastal Carpet Python (Morelia spilota mcdowelli) was established in California by Neville James back in the late 90’s. This morph is characterized by a nearly unbroken wide dorsal stripe and lateral striping that can be either unbroken or in a uniform dash pattern.
Jaguar Pythons are a Morelia morph that carry a co-dominant gene which can produce amazing looking snakes. Unfortunately this gene can also carry a neurological condition that can been seen in the snake at anytime through out its life. 
Gamma11 (CB 2011) is a female diamond jungle jaguar offspring from the stellar clutch of Aphrodite (jungle carpet python) and Gamma5. AG5-14- jaguar male #3 first shed: AG5-14- jaguar male #4 first shed: Ventral scales of anaconda jaguar: AG5-14-jaguar to jaguar-sib comparison: Morelia Trophy Club Hall of Fame: Gamma3 is a male diamond jungle jaguar from the Gamma x Antonio pairing of 2008.
JAGUAR_BALL_PYTHON. Scientific Name: Python regius Common Name: Ball Python Morph: Jaguar Genetics: Unknown-I imported this male from Africa as a baby in 2003 - I hope to start breeding him in the fall of 2004. 
Description. Jungle Jaguars are produced from breeding a Coastal Jaguar Carpet to a Jungle Carpet, the resulting offspring are 50% Jungle Jaguars. Breeding a 50% Jungle Jaguar back to a Jungle Carpet would yield second generation or 75% Jungle Jaguar Carpet Pythons.