vascular insufficiency, inadequate peripheral blood flow. Causes include occlusion of vessels by atherosclerotic plaques, thrombi, or emboli; damaged, diseased, or intrinsically weak vascular walls; arteriovenous fistulas; hematologic hypercoagulability; and heavy smoking.
Venous insufficiency is a problem with the flow of blood from the veins of the legs back to the heart. It's also called chronic venous insufficiency or chronic venous stasis. Veins have valves that keep the blood moving in one direction-toward the heart. In venous insufficiency, the valves in the veins of the leg don't work right. So fluid pools in the legs. This can lead to problems that include varicose veins
Chronic venous insufficiency or CVI is a medical condition where the veins cannot pump enough blood back to the heart. The most common cause of CVI is superficial venous reflux which is a treatable condition. As functional venous valves are required to provide for efficient blood return from the lower extremities, this condition typically affects the legs.
Click Image to Enlarge. Chronic venous insufficiency occurs when the leg veins do not allow blood to travel back to the heart. (Arteries carry blood away from the heart, while veins carry blood to the heart). Problems with valves in the veins can cause the blood to flow both directions, not just toward the heart. Chronic venous insufficiency treatment may include: Measures to improve blood flow in the leg veins. Methods to help increase blood flow in the leg veins include elevating the legs to reduce pressure in the leg veins and compression stockings to apply pressure on the legs and help blood flow.
Your arteries carry blood from your heart out to the rest of your body. Your veins carry blood back to the heart, and valves in the veins stop the blood from flowing back. When your veins have trouble sending blood from your limbs back to the heart, it is called venous insufficiency (VI). In this condition, blood does not flow back properly to the heart, causing blood to pool in your legs. 
Venous insufficiency is a chronic condition in which blood does not flow normally up through the veins in the legs toward the heart. In normal veins a series of specialized, one-way valves work together, opening to allow blood to flow upward, then closing to keep the blood from flowing back toward the feet. Venous insufficiency means that some of your veins aren't working properly. This condition often develops after veins are damaged by an injury, surgery, or blood clot. Veins drain blood and fluid back to the heart, so people with venous insufficiency usually have symptoms caused by the buildup of fluid.
Chronic venous insufficiency occurs when the leg veins do not allow blood to travel back to the heart. (Arteries carry blood away from the heart, while veins carry blood to the heart). Problems with valves in the veins can cause the blood to flow both directions, not just toward the heart. 
What is Chronic V enous Insufficiency (CVI)? Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) is a common cause ofleg pain and swelling, and is commonly associated withvaricose veins. It occurs when the valves of the veins donot function properly, and the circulation of blood in theleg veins is impaired. CVI may affect up to 20 percentof adults. Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) is a common cause of. leg pain and swelling, and is commonly associated with. varicose veins. It occurs when the valves of the veins do. not function properly, and the circulation of blood in the. 