The important thing to note is that you may not leave the Schengen Visa area for a day and return to restart the 90 day clock. If you've spent 90 days in the Schengen zone, you're done for a six month period. According to the Consulate of France in Houston No Visa is required for a short stay not exceeding 3 months in a Schengen State for tourism or business purposes for the applicants of the following countries:
For subsequent travel(s), the Embassy can issue Schengen-visa(s) that permit the holder to stay in the Schengen-Area for a certain number of days within a certain period of time (e.g. 30 days between March 1 and May 31). In order to calculate the legitimacy of this visa holder’s stay in the Schengen-Area on this date (October 18, 2013), the period of time from 22 April 2013 until 18 October 2013 is examined.
The Schengen visa allows the holder to a total stay of up to 90 days within a period of 6 months for tourist or business purposes. If you get a multiple entry Schengen visa, you may leave and return any number of times within the 180-day period, but the combined stay within the region must not total more than 90 days. You need to apply for a Schengen visa if you are a citizen of a country whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement.
According to the Visa Code, Article 24, a uniform visa allows the holder to circulate in the entire territory of the Schengen area. With a Schengen visa, a visitor may stay up to a maximum of 90 days in the Schengen area within 6 months period. If the visitor used up all the 90 days, he/she has to leave the Schengen area and may only reenter after 3 months of being abroad. Holders of multiple Schengen (short-term) visa can file a visa application before this visa has expired, provided it has been valid for at least 6 months. The number and type of supporting documents should be adapted to: – the purpose of the intended journey; – the length and destination
Validity of the Schengen Visa • For all Schengen countries (plus Croatia – conditions apply) • Validity period: from-to (15 days extra) • Lenght of travel: number of days (depending on travel insurance) • Number of entries: 1, 2 or M • Maximum length of stay: 90 days/6 months period. 
The calculator deals with the 90 days / 180-day rule only. In case of visa-obliged third-country nationals, the length of authorised stay is clearly stated in the visa sticker and often differs from 90 days (which is the maximum that can be granted). In addition, the authorised stay should be consumed within the validity period of the visa. The calculator does not support the calculation of stay against the authorised stay indicated on the visa sticker, if this period is shorter than 90 days within 180 days and against the validity of the visa.
If you have stayed in Denmark or in another Schengen country with a residence permit or on the basis of a long-stay visa limited for another Schengen country (D-visa) this stay is not included in the 90 days in any 180-day period that you as a maximum can stay in Denmark on a visa or as a visa-free. You must at any given time only have a maximum of 90 days stay in the Schengen region in any 180-day period. This is in other words a ‘rolling’ calculation by which the period of 180 days prior to each day of the stay are taken into account.
The duration is counted from the date of the first entry into the Schengen-Area. A Schengen-Visa with the validi ty of one year or more and a registered duration of stay of 90 days permits you, however, to stay in the Schengen-Area for a maximum period of 90 days per half-year (in Germany or other Schengen-Countries). In order to calculate the legitimacy of this visa holder’s stay in the Schengen-Area on this date (October 18, 2013), the period of time from 22 April 2013 until 18 October 2013 is examined.
The entry day to a Schengen country is the first day and the exit day is the last day of the stay. You must at any given time only have a maximum of 90 days stay in the Schengen region in any 180-day period. This is in other words a ‘rolling’ calculation by which the period of 180 days prior to each day of the stay are taken into account.
The visa can be valid for maximum 90 days in the course of a period of 180 days. The period is calculated from the date you first crossed the external Schengen border. The visa’s validity period, first possible day of entry and the day you must leave the Schengen area are written on the visa sticker. 