On bright summer nights this serpent leaves the caves to eat calves, lambs and pigs, or it fares out to the sea and feeds on sea nettles, crabs and similar marine animals. It has ell-long hair hanging from its neck, sharp black scales and flaming red eyes. Some stories report of sailors mistaking its back for a chain of islands. Sea serpents also appear frequently in later Scandinavian folklore, particularly in that of Norway. In 1028 AD, Saint Olaf is said to have killed a sea serpent in Valldal, Norway, throwing its body onto the mountain Syltefjellet.
Joermungandr, jörmungandr alternately referred to as The Midgard serpent Or World, serpent is a sea serpent of The norse, mythology the middle child Of loki and the Giantess. angrboða The serpent Hydra is a star constellation representing either the serpent thrown angrily into the sky by Apollo or the Lernaean Hydra as defeated by Heracles for one of his Twelve Labors. The constellation Serpens represents a snake being tamed by Ophiuchus the snake-handler, another constellation.
The Serpent is a Powerful Spiritual Symbol or Metaphor. By Sandra Weaver. The serpent or snake is revered worldwide. It's shown over and over again as a potent deity. The snake is associated with both negative and positive, or duality, even in Christianity. 
The serpent, or snake, is one of the oldest and most widespread mythological symbols. The word is derived from Latin serpens, a crawling animal or snake. Snakes have been associated with some of the oldest rituals known to humankind and represent dual expression of good and evil. The serpent Hydra is a star constellation representing either the serpent thrown angrily into the sky by Apollo or the Lernaean Hydra as defeated by Heracles for one of his Twelve Labors. The constellation Serpens represents a snake being tamed by Ophiuchus the snake-handler, another constellation.
A sea serpent or sea dragon is a type of sea monster either wholly or partly serpentine. Sightings of sea serpents have been reported for hundreds of years, and continue to be claimed today. Cryptozoologist Bruce Champagne identified more than 1,200 purported sea serpent sightings. Some stories report of sailors mistaking its back for a chain of islands. Sea serpents also appear frequently in later Scandinavian folklore, particularly in that of Norway. In 1028 AD, Saint Olaf is said to have killed a sea serpent in Valldal, Norway, throwing its body onto the mountain Syltefjellet.
The sea-serpent is also the symbol for the Celtic Willow Tree Sign. Celtic Sea-Serpent Mythology. In Celtic mythology, sea-serpents were a terrifying creature that reminded people of their mortality, and often, impending death. The Irish Morrigan (the death aspect of the triple lunar goddess) would often take on the form of a sea-serpent when confronting heroes.
Celtic Sea-Serpent Tattoo Meanings. Celtic sea-serpent tattoos often represent a connection to the Moon – from its control over the tides to how it intervenes in lives. As such, sea-serpent tattoos have the added meaning of duality – life and death, yin and yang. Celtic sea-serpent tattoos can also signify how life is constantly changing; what we think is negative or harmful is simply an illusion. Celtic Sea-Serpent Mythology. In Celtic mythology, sea-serpents were a terrifying creature that reminded people of their mortality, and often, impending death. The Irish Morrigan (the death aspect of the triple lunar goddess) would often take on the form of a sea-serpent when confronting heroes.
Historically, serpents and snakes represent fertility or a creative life force. As snakes shed their skin through sloughing, they are symbols of rebirth, transformation, immortality, and healing. The ouroboros is a symbol of eternity and continual renewal of life. The serpent Hydra is a star constellation representing either the serpent thrown angrily into the sky by Apollo or the Lernaean Hydra as defeated by Heracles for one of his Twelve Labors. The constellation Serpens represents a snake being tamed by Ophiuchus the snake-handler, another constellation.
In China, the serpent was thought to be connected with the earth and water and was thus a Yin symbol. In Indian mythology, there are nagas, serpents that function as beneficent or maleficent mediators between gods and humans and were sometimes (like other serpents in other civilizations) associated with the RAINBOW. 
Serpents are connected with poison and medicine. The snake's venom is associated with the chemicals of plants and fungi that have the power to either heal, poison or provide expanded consciousness (and even the elixir of life and immortality) through divine intoxication. The serpent Hydra is a star constellation representing either the serpent thrown angrily into the sky by Apollo or the Lernaean Hydra as defeated by Heracles for one of his Twelve Labors. The constellation Serpens represents a snake being tamed by Ophiuchus the snake-handler, another constellation.