A small segment of the population, however, has been found to develop hives, nausea, diarrhea, shortness of breath or even fatal shock after consuming sulfites. For that reason, in 1986 FDA banned the use of sulfites on fresh fruits and vegetables (such as salad bars) intended to be sold or served raw to consumers. Sulfites added as a preservative in all other packaged and processed foods must be listed on the product label. Dried Fruits. Sulfites are often used as preservatives in dried fruits, preserved radish, and dried potato products.In 1986, the Food and Drug Administration in the United States banned the addition of sulfites to all fresh fruit and vegetables that are eaten raw.
In 1986, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned the use of sulfites as preservatives on foods intended to be eaten fresh (such as salad ingredients). This has contributed to the increased use of erythorbic acid and its salts as preservatives. Sulfites or sulphites are compounds that contain the sulfite ion SO 3 2− . The sulfite ion is the conjugate base of bisulfite. Although its acid (sulfurous acid) is elusive, its salts are widely used.
sulfite. a salt of sulfurous acid. Sulfites are used as preservatives for salad, fresh fruit and vegetables, wine, beer, and dried fruit. In susceptible individuals, especially those with asthma, they can cause a severe reaction; because of this their use has been curtailed, and foods that contain them must be labeled. 
In 1986, following the identification of numerous cases of sulfite-induced asthma occurring on ingestion of green or fruit salads treated with sulfites, FDA prohibited the use of sulfites on fruits and vegetables intended to be served raw or presented fresh to the public (Fed. Regist. 51:25021-25026, 1986). 
Sulfites occur naturally in some foods and beverages as a result of fermentation, such as in beer and wine. As a food additive, sulfites have been used since 1664 and have been approved for use in the United States since the 1800s (Lester, 1995). The USDA prohibits the use of sulfites on meat because they may give an appearance of “false freshness” by restoring the red color to raw meat. However, ingredients treated with sulfites may be added to meat in preparation of certain processed foods, beef stew for example.
The ban would not affect other foods that now contain the sulfite preservatives, including frozen potatoes, seafood, dried fruits, wine and beer. In announcing the ban, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Margaret M. Heckler, referred to the use of sulfites to keep fruits and vegetables fresh-looking. 
WASHINGTON, July 8— The Food and Drug Administration today banned the use of sulfite preservatives in fresh vegetables and fruits. Sulfites have been linked to 13 deaths and many illnesses, mainly among asthmatics. They had been used for many years in dried fruits, but as salad bars became more popular, they were applied to fresh vegetables and fruits to maintain appearances untainted by brown edges. With that increased use, however, came severe reactions among many consumers.
Years ago, lettuce and raw vegetables at salad bars were dipped in a sulfite solution to keep them from turning brown. This is no longer legal because the FDA banned the use of sulfites on fresh fruits and vegetables in 1986. Salad bar lettuce should be safe, but other salad ingredients, such as shrimp, might cause trouble. Some salad dressings contain sulfites, and so do dried fruits like apricots or golden raisins. Beware of foods such as hash browns, home fries, jam, molasses, soup mixes, canned vegetables, wine and flaked coconut. Q. I used to take Prempro because my gynecologist said it was good for my health