The typical resting membrane potential of a cell arises from the separation of potassium ions from intracellular, relatively immobile anions across the membrane of the cell. The resting potential is mostly determined by the concentrations of the ions in the fluids on both sides of the cell membrane and the ion transport proteins that are in the cell membrane.
Membrane Potentials. In cells of all types, there is an electrical potential difference between the inside of the cell and the surrounding extracellular fluid. This is termed the membrane potential of the cell. 
Conventionally, resting membrane potential can be defined as a relatively stable, ground value of transmembrane voltage in animal and plant cells. The resting potential is mostly determined by the concentrations of the ions in the fluids on both sides of the cell membrane and the ion transport proteins that are in the cell membrane.
In the simplest case, illustrated here, if the membrane is selectively permeable to potassium, these positively charged ions can diffuse down the concentration gradient to the outside of the cell, leaving behind uncompensated negative charges. This separation of charges is what causes the membrane potential. With respect to the exterior of the cell, typical values of membrane potential range from –40 mV to –80 mV. All animal cells are surrounded by a membrane composed of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in it. The membrane serves as both an insulator and a diffusion barrier to the movement of ions.
Typical values of membrane potential are in the range +40 mV to –70 mV. Many ions have a concentration gradient across the membrane, including potassium (K +), which is at a high concentration inside and a low concentration outside the membrane. Sodium (Na +) and chloride (Cl −) ions are at high concentrations in the extracellular region, and low concentrations in the intracellular regions. With respect to the exterior of the cell, typical values of membrane potential range from –40 mV to –80 mV. All animal cells are surrounded by a membrane composed of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in it. The membrane serves as both an insulator and a diffusion barrier to the movement of ions.
An action potential is a very rapid change in membrane potential that occurs when a nerve cell membrane is stimulated. Specifically, the membrane potential goes from the resting potential (typically -70 mV) to some positive value (typically about +30 mV) in a very short period of time (just a few milliseconds). Neurons can respond to stimuli and conduct impulses because a membrane potential is established across the cell membrane. In other words, there is an unequal distribution of ions (charged atoms) on the two sides of a nerv
resting potential (resting membrane potential) the difference in potential across the membrane of a cell when it is at rest, i.e., fully repolarized. In cardiac physiology this occurs during electrical diastole in pacemaker cells and continuously in nonpacemaker cells. see membrane potential. resting potential. the potential difference across the membrane of a normal cell at rest. spike potential. the initial, very large change in potential of an excitable cell membrane during excitation.
Animal cell cross-section, showing the membrane. Resting membrane potential is the difference in voltage of the fluids inside a cell and outside a cell, which is usually between -70 to -80 millivolts (mV). A cell membrane separates one charge on the cell's interior from another charge on the cell's exterior. View slideshow of images above. 
1 the resting membrane potential of a cell is determined by the net flow of ions through the leak channels that are open in the resting state. 2  the exact proportions and nature of the ion channels varies from cell to cell, and therefore, so does the RMP. 