Fort Lauderdale Weather in September. We've never actually been down here in September but our neighbors and friends tell us that Fort Lauderdale weather in September is very similar to August but with slightly less heat and humidity. With average temperatures running between the upper 70s and upper 80s Fort Lauderdale weather in September is ideal for a quick Labor Day Weekend getaway. The ocean temperature is supposed to be perfectly warm yet refreshing and the summer swelter has eased enough to hit the links. We may give it a try next year.
Climate records for the central Florida region include cities in the counties of Brevard, Hillsborough, Orange, Pinellas, Polk and Volusia. North Florida temperatures are for weather stations in the counties of Alachua, Baker, Columbia, Duval, Hamilton, Madison, Marion, St Johns and Suwannee. North Florida. North Florida temperatures are for weather stations in the counties of Alachua, Baker, Columbia, Duval, Hamilton, Madison, Marion, St Johns and Suwannee.
Some Rain Along parts of the East Coast Tonight. A cold front along the East Coast will bring rain to parts of the Northeast and Florida through Tuesday night. High temperatures Wednesday continue to be 15 to 20 degrees above average over parts of the Central Plains. Read More... A 40 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Mostly cloudy, with a high near 83. Breezy, with a northeast wind 13 to 18 mph, with gusts as high as 24 mph.
-. Climate data for fort lauderdale, Longitude: -80.2011, Latitude: 26.1019. Average weather Fort Lauderdale, FL - 33301 - 1981-2010 normals. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December.
Location. This report describes the typical weather at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (Fort Lauderdale/Hollywood, Florida, United States) weather station over the course of an average September. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Fort Lauderdale/Hollywood, Florida has a tropical rainforest climate with no dry season. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (45%), marshes (23%), built-up areas (15%), grasslands (10%), and croplands (8%).
Florida Temperatures in September. Typical temperatures for places in Florida during the month of September are listed below. You'll find separate tables for each region: South Florida (including the Florida Keys), Central Florida, North Florida and the Florida Panhandle. North Florida. North Florida temperatures are for weather stations in the counties of Alachua, Baker, Columbia, Duval, Hamilton, Madison, Marion, St Johns and Suwannee.