1 Arteriosclerosis is the stiffening or hardening of the artery walls. 2  Atherosclerosis is the narrowing of the artery because of plaque build-up. 3  Atherosclerosis is a specific type of arteriosclerosis. Atherosclerosis (or arteriosclerotic vascular disease) is a condition where the arteries become narrowed and hardened due to an excessive build up of plaque around the artery wall. The disease disrupts the flow of blood around the body, posing serious cardiovascular complications.
The effects of atherosclerosis differ depending upon which arteries in the body narrow and become clogged with plaque. If the arteries that bring oxygen-rich blood to your heart are affected, you may have coronary artery disease, chest pain, or a heart attack. Fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances form plaque, which builds up in arteries. Hard plaque narrows the passage that blood flows through. That causes arteries to become stiff and inflexible (atherosclerosis is also known as hardening of the arteries).
6.4. Magnesium Deficiency, Mast Cells, and Arteriosclerosis. Still another change has been seen in the cardiovascular tissues of both atherosclerotic experimental animals and patients, and in experimental magnesium deficiency: decreased numbers of mast cells and evidence of degranulation. 6.5.3. Clinical Magnesium Deficiency and Blood Pressure. With so many magnesium-related factors influencing arterial contractility, it is not easy to select those that will precipitate either hypo-or hypertension, or produce symptomatic signs of magnesium deficiency without notably affecting the blood pressure.
Iodine Deficiency and Atherosclerosis. The story of atherosclerosis and iodine deficiency is an interesting one. It begins with how the cholesterol hypothesis came about. The idea that atherosclerosis is caused by too much cholesterol in the diet began with a study of rabbits. 
Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis. Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis are different conditions: 1  Arteriosclerosis is the stiffening or hardening of the artery walls. 2  Atherosclerosis is the narrowing of the artery because of plaque build-up. 3  Atherosclerosis is a specific type of arteriosclerosis. Atherosclerosis (or arteriosclerotic vascular disease) is a condition where the arteries become narrowed and hardened due to an excessive build up of plaque around the artery wall. The disease disrupts the flow of blood around the body, posing serious cardiovascular complications.
6.1. The Arterial Wall and Arteriosclerosis. The major emphasis of the preceding sections on magnesium-lipid interrelationships and on estrogen-lipid/coagulation-lipid interrelationships is predominantly on blood constituents, as they influence the development of atherosclerosis. 6.5.3. Clinical Magnesium Deficiency and Blood Pressure. With so many magnesium-related factors influencing arterial contractility, it is not easy to select those that will precipitate either hypo-or hypertension, or produce symptomatic signs of magnesium deficiency without notably affecting the blood pressure.
Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a specific form of arteriosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of invasion and accumulation of white blood cells (WBCs) (foam cell) and proliferation of intimal smooth muscle cell creating a fibrofatty plaque. 
In contrast to the above observations, and in conflict with the logical explanation of mechanisms by which magnesium deficiency causes vasoconstriction and its excess causes vasodilation, there is both experimental and clinical evidence that magnesium deficiency has caused decreased blood pressure (Fig. 6.5.3. Clinical Magnesium Deficiency and Blood Pressure. With so many magnesium-related factors influencing arterial contractility, it is not easy to select those that will precipitate either hypo-or hypertension, or produce symptomatic signs of magnesium deficiency without notably affecting the blood pressure.
Vitamin D deficiency has been linked to an increased risk of hypertension, diabetes, congestive heart failure, peripheral arterial disease, myocardial infarction, stroke, and related mortality, even after adjustment for traditional cardiovascular risk factors. Furthermore, the exact mechanism by which vitamin D may influence the atherosclerotic disease process has not yet been completely elucidated. In addition, if vitamin D is important in the etiology of atherosclerosis, it is unclear at what stage(s) in the atherosclerotic disease process vitamin D may exert its effects.