Though capitalism has brought Russia more in line with the economies of the West, money matters continue to vex visitors. Red caviar, symphony tickets, and haircuts can barely dent your wallet; rubbery pizza and roach-ridden hotels can drain it. You can buy traveler's checks at most banks. They are offered in denominations of $20, $50, $100, $500, and sometimes $1,000. Generally, you'll pay a service charge ranging from 1% to 4%.
The most widely accepted cheques in Russia are American Express and more rare-Thomas Cook. In the Practicalities sections of our city guides, we provided the addresses of banks, which accept AMEX, Visa, Thomas Cook and other cheques. Their commission rates are usually 2 to 3% for cashing. Please, note, that you cannot pay with travelers cheques in Russia, you can only withdraw money from them in banks. There're many cash machines in Moscow, St. Petersburg and major Siberian cities, and a lot of shops and restaurants accept cards in the big cities. However, as soon as you go to smaller towns, you'll find it hard to use your credit card.
Money in Russia. Money in Russia is something that many people are concerned about, however, just as in all countries, if you are careful you will not have any problems. Have a look at our short guide to money in Russia, and as usual if you have any further questions, please feel free to contact us. These offer better rates than the hotels or banks, though, if you want to draw money using your credit card a bank or ATM is the better option. If you use your card to withdraw cash in a bank you will need to show your passport and it can take 30 minutes or more to complete the transaction. Note that most banks and ATM's will charge a percentage to issue the money even with a debit card, typically this is 1% to 1.5%
Money in Russia is something that many people are concerned about, however, just as in all countries, if you are careful you will not have any problems. These offer better rates than the hotels or banks, though, if you want to draw money using your credit card a bank or ATM is the better option. If you use your card to withdraw cash in a bank you will need to show your passport and it can take 30 minutes or more to complete the transaction. Note that most banks and ATM's will charge a percentage to issue the money even with a debit card, typically this is 1% to 1.5%
The problem is that in Russia you can refund them only in banks, which are opened only from 9 until 17. The banks charge commission for refunding the cheques (about 2-3%) and for buying the cheques-usually 1%. There're many cash machines in Moscow, St. Petersburg and major Siberian cities, and a lot of shops and restaurants accept cards in the big cities. However, as soon as you go to smaller towns, you'll find it hard to use your credit card.
The American Express Travelers Cheque Card, for example, requires a minimum deposit, sets a maximum balance, and has a one-time issuance fee of $15. You can withdraw money from an ATM (for a fee of $2.50 per transaction, not including bank fees), and the funds can be purchased in dollars, euros, or pounds. You can buy traveler's checks at most banks. They are offered in denominations of $20, $50, $100, $500, and sometimes $1,000. Generally, you'll pay a service charge ranging from 1% to 4%.
Money: cash, travelers' checks, ATM machines in Russia. Ruble is the monetary unit of Russia. There are ruble tickets of 10, 50, 100, 500 and 1000 rubles. Also there are coins of 1, 2, 5 rubles and 1, 5, 10 and 50 kopecks. Ruble is the only legal meaning of payment on the entire territory of the Russian Federation. According to Russian laws, it's illegal to pay for services and goods in foreign currency, except authorized retail establishments. You can change foreign currency into rubles in banks or at special exchange offices. 
Credit card companies try to protect themselves from theft by limiting the funds you can withdraw outside your home country, so call your credit card company before you leave home. And keep in mind that you'll pay interest from the moment of your withdrawal, even if you pay your monthly bills on time. You can buy traveler's checks at most banks. They are offered in denominations of $20, $50, $100, $500, and sometimes $1,000. Generally, you'll pay a service charge ranging from 1% to 4%.