At Mosaic, we’re driven to be the world’s leading crop nutrition company. In the U.S., Florida is home to our phosphate operations headquarters and many of our phosphate production facilities. From our mines to our offices, we are committed to being a great place to work, a responsible corporate citizen, a committed environmental steward, and a respected community partner.
Overview. The Mosaic Company (NYSE: MOS) is the world's leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash. We employ approximately 9,000 people in six countries and participate in every aspect of crop nutrition development. Today, Mosaic is the world's leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash. We employ approximately 8,900 people in six countries and participate in every aspect of crop nutrition development. Learn more in our  Celebrating 10 Years  video and info-graphic.
In October, 2013, Mosaic reached an agreement to purchase the phosphate operations of CF Industries for 1.4 billion dollars, which eliminates the need for Mosaic to spend an additional billion dollars to build a new processing facility in Hardee County, Florida to process the rock from their mines in that area. 1 June: Mosaic announced as the chosen name for the newly formed company. 2  January: The crop nutrition business of Cargill, Inc. and IMC Global enter into a definitive agreement to form a new crop nutrition company.
Mosaic is used by leading petroleum engineering firms and a broad range of oil and gas producers. It is the industry’s most complete petroleum economic and decline analysis software application, and can evaluate anything from large corporate portfolios to individual reserve assets. Discover Mosaic Asset Intelligence. Prudent asset management is critical to the success of oil and gas companies. Business intelligence tools have also been used in the last three decades to help analyze this information and support important business decisions.
The Mosaic Company is a Fortune 500 company based in Plymouth, Minnesota, a Minneapolis suburb. Mosaic mines two key crop nutrients— phosphate and potash —and produces specialty products MicroEssentials, K-Mag and Pegasus. It is the largest U.S. producer of potash and phosphate fertilizer. 1 June: Mosaic announced as the chosen name for the newly formed company. 2  January: The crop nutrition business of Cargill, Inc. and IMC Global enter into a definitive agreement to form a new crop nutrition company.
The Mosaic Company is a combined producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash. Its customer base includes wholesalers, retail dealers and individual growers in more than 40 countries. 1 June: Mosaic announced as the chosen name for the newly formed company. 2  January: The crop nutrition business of Cargill, Inc. and IMC Global enter into a definitive agreement to form a new crop nutrition company.
Potash. Mosaic is a leader in the potash industry with annual capacity of 10.5 million tonnes. Our ongoing expansions are expected to increase annual production capacity by, ensuring that we will maintain our position as one of the premier potash companies in the world. Today, Mosaic is the world's leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash. We employ approximately 8,900 people in six countries and participate in every aspect of crop nutrition development. Learn more in our  Celebrating 10 Years  video and info-graphic.
People changing the way brands connect with consumers – one experience at a time. Mosaic helps brands connect with consumers using People as Media™ – our one-to-one approach to delivering deeper engagement. 
Mosaic is one of the world’s leading crop nutrition companies with a focus on potash and phosphate, two of three most vital nutrients. Our mission is to help the world grow the food it needs. It’s a compelling mission in many ways. For our employees, it’s a noble purpose. 