Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Pugs have been called the clowns of the dog world and were bred for one purpose, to be companion animals to humans. A Pug loves a good meal, a soft lap, and a soft pillow. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Pugs have been called the clowns of the dog world and were bred for one purpose, to be companion animals to humans. A Pug loves a good meal, a soft lap, and a soft pillow. They adore their owners and will often follow them from room to room.
Origin. The pug is one of the most known dog breeds. Popular for it’s short and scrunched face, this affectionate breed makes a great family pet. Originating from China, pugs were bred to be the loyal pets of Chinese Soverieigns. They were known as “foo” dogs and were described by Confuscious as the “short mouthed dog”. 
Introduction. The Pug, also called the Chinese Pug, Dutch Mastiff and Dutch Bulldog, is a very old dog breed that was developed in China at least 2400 years ago. The meaning of the breed's name is unclear, although it is possibly slang for the word monkey or is derived from the Latin pugnus, meaning fist.. 
Pugs were first bred in the Shang dynasty (sometime before 400 BC) for Chinese rulers. At that time they were known as Lo-Chiang-Sze or Foo. There are many references to this early Pug-like dog. 
Nicknamed the Dutch mastiff, the Pug is a small dog with a wrinkled face, short legs and barrel chest. In addition to being one of the world's most physically distinctive dogs, the Pug is also well loved for its charismatic personality and effortless charm. 
Don't expect a Pug to hunt, guard or retrieve. Pugs were bred to be companions, and that's exactly what they do best. The Pug craves affection — and your lap — and is very unhappy if his devotion isn't reciprocated. He tends to be a sedentary dog, content to sit in your lap as you read a book or watch a movie. Pugs often are described as a lot of dog in a small space. These sturdy, compact dogs are a part of the American Kennel Club's Toy group, and are known as the clowns of the canine world because they have a great sense of humor and like to show off. Originally bred to be a lap dog, the Pug thrives on human companionship
A pug with expressive eyes. A pug. The pug is a toy (very small)breed of dog with a wrinkly, short-muzzled face, DOGS 101 - Pug ENG. They can suffer from a variety of health issues, including overheating, obesity, pharyngeal reflexand two fatal conditions which are necrotizing meningoencephalitis and hemivertebrae. 
The Pug is a breed of dog with a wrinkly, short-muzzled face and curled tail. The breed has a fine, glossy coat that comes in a variety of colours, most often fawn or black, and a compact square body with well-developed muscles. Pugs were brought from China to Europe in the sixteenth century and were popularized in Western Europe by the House of Orange of the Netherlands, and the House of Stuart. In the United Kingdom in the nineteenth century Queen Victoria developed a passion for Pugs which she passed on to other members of the Royal family. Pugs are known for being sociable and gentle companion dogs. The breed remains popular into the twenty-first century, with some famous celebrity owners. Pugs arrived in the United States during the nineteenth century and were soon making their way into the family home and the show ring. The American Kennel Club recognized the breed in 1885. The Pug Dog Club of America was founded in 1931 and was recognised by the American Kennel Club that same year.