The parietal pleura is attached to the wall of the thoracic cavity and innervated by the intercostal nerves and phrenic nerve. Parietal pleura lines the thoracic wall, covers the superior surface of the diaphragm and separates the pleural cavity from the mediastinum. 
Structure [edit]. The visceral pleura is a delicate serous membrane that closely covers the surfaces of the lungs and dips into the fissures that separate the lobes. The parietal pleura is the outer membrane that attaches to and lines the inner surface of the thoracic cavity, covers the upper surface of the diaphragm and is reflected over structures within the middle of the thorax. It separates the pleural cavity from the mediastinum
In human anatomy, the pleural cavity is the thin fluid-filled space between the two pulmonary pleurae (visceral and parietal) of each lung. A pleura is a serous membrane which folds back onto itself to form a two-layered membranous pleural sac. 
1 The parietal pleura is also attached to the pericardium. 2  The parietal pleura is given different names according to the parts with which it is associated: costal pleura (ribs and sternum); mediastinal pleura (mediastinum); diaphragmatic pleura (diaphragm); and pleural cupula (apex of the lung). 1 A pleural sac surrounds each lung. 2  A parietal layer of pleura forms its external wall and a visceral layer the internal wall that invests the lungs. 3  The pleura cavity is a separate and closed potential space.
Parietal pleura Description. The phrenic and the intercostals nerves innervate the Parietal pleura. It isolates the pleural cavity from the mediastintum. This physical structure comprises of a thin basal layer of fibrous tissue that is covered by a uniform layer of mesothelial cells. Parietal pleura Location. It is affixed to the wall of the thoracic cavity and covers the superior diaphragm surface. The endothoracic fascia joins it to the inner side of the thoracic cavity.
Visceral Pleura. The visceral pleura covers the outer surface of the lungs, and extends into the interlobar fissures. It is continuous with the parietal pleura at the hilum of each lung (this is where structures enter and leave the lung). The pleural cavity is a potential space between the parietal and visceral pleura. It contains a small volume of serous fluid, which has two major functions. It lubricates the surfaces of the pleurae, allowing them to slide over each other.
The costal segment of the parietal pleura acts as a lining for the inner slope of the ribs and intercostal muscles located within them. It is the endothoracic fascia that separates it from these structures. The intercostal nerves innervated this section. Parietal pleura Location. It is affixed to the wall of the thoracic cavity and covers the superior diaphragm surface. The endothoracic fascia joins it to the inner side of the thoracic cavity.
The heart is invested in a parietal and visceral layer of pericardium with the pericardial space separating the two membranes. Cranially, the costal and mediastinal pleura adjoin to form a 'dome' of pleura which extends to the thoracic inlet. This is known as the cupulae pleurae. Within the thoracic cavity, this is known as the pleura. The visceral pleura which coats the outer surface of the lung is derived from the splanchnic mesoderm. The parietal pleura lining the thoracic cavity is derived from somat