Red blood cells (RBCs) typically make up roughly 37% to 49% of the volume of blood. Since a hematocrit is often performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC) , results from other components, such as RBC count, hemoglobin, reticulocyte count, and/or red blood cell indices, are taken into consideration. Some causes of a high hematocrit include: 1  Dehydration —this is the most common cause of a high hematocrit. 2  As the volume of fluid in the blood drops, the RBCs per volume of fluid artificially rises; with adequate fluid intake, the hematocrit returns to normal.
A hematocrit may be used to: 1  Identify and evaluate the severity of anemia (low RBCs, low hemoglobin, low hematocrit) or polycythemia (high RBCs, high hemoglobin, high hematocrit). 2  Monitor the response to treatment of anemia or polycythemia and other disorders that affect RBC production or lifespan. Some causes of a high hematocrit include: 1  Dehydration —this is the most common cause of a high hematocrit. 2  As the volume of fluid in the blood drops, the RBCs per volume of fluid artificially rises; with adequate fluid intake, the hematocrit returns to normal.
It's a measure of both the number and the size of these cells and is expressed as a percentage by volume. A low hematocrit may indicate anemia, blood loss, bone marrow failure, destruction of red blood cells, or malnutrition or specific nutritional deficiency.
The hematocrit is the proportion, by volume, of the blood that consists of red blood cells. The hematocrit (hct) is expressed as a percentage. For example, a hematocrit of 25% means that there are 25 milliliters of red blood cells in 100 milliliters of blood. This is the ratio of the volume of red cells to the volume of whole blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women.
The hematocrit blood test determines the percentage of red blood cells (RBC's) in the blood. Blood is composed mainly of red blood cells and white blood cells suspended in an almost clear fluid called serum. The hematocrit test indicates the percentage of blood by volume that is composed of red blood cells. The condition called  anemia  results from having too few red blood cells. Anemia causes a variety of symptoms. The hematocrit is a basic test that can tell a physician a lot about a person's health
Hematocrit is a blood test that measures the percentage of the volume of whole blood that is made up of red blood cells. This measurement depends on the number of red blood cells and the size of red blood cells. The hematocrit is almost always ordered as part of a complete blood count. 
Hematocrit (Hct) Levels. This is the ratio of the volume of red cells to the volume of whole blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women. This is usually measured by spinning down a sample of blood in a test tube, which causes the red blood cells to pack at the bottom of the tube
The hematocrit (Ht or HCT, British English spelling haematocrit), also known as packed cell volume (PCV) or erythrocyte volume fraction (EVF), is the volume percentage (%) of red blood cells in blood. It is normally 45% for men and 40% for women. Anemia refers to an abnormally low hematocrit, as opposed to polycythemia, which refers to an abnormally high hematocrit. For a condition such as anemia that goes unnoticed, one way it can be diagnosed is by measuring the hematocrit levels in the blood. Both are potentially life-threatening disorders.
A high hematocrit means the percentage of red blood cells in a person's blood is above the upper limits of normal (see above) for that person's age, sex, or specific condition (for example, pregnancy or high altitude living). 
This test measures how much of your blood is made up of red blood cells. Normal blood contains white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets, and the fluid portion called plasma. The word hematocrit means to separate. In this test, your red blood cells are separated from the rest of your blood so they can be measured. Your hematocrit (HCT) shows whether you have a normal amount of red blood cells, too many, or too few. To measure your HCT, your blood sample is spun at a high speed to separate the red blood cells