Poetry is the first major literary genre. All types of poetry share specific characteristics. In fact, poetry is a form of text that follows a meter and rhythm with each lines and syllables. It is further subdivided into different genres such an epic poem, narrative, romantic, dramatic, and lyric. Genre Definition. Genre means the type of art, literature or music characterized by a specific form, content and style. For example, literature has four main genres; poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction. All of these genres have particular features and functions that distinguish them from one another
Poetry Genre Definition – Examples. Review this list of popular examples to help you get a better understanding of the poetry fiction genre. 1. 100 Selected Poems by E.E. Cummings. 2. Ariel by Sylvia Plath. 3. Beowulf: A New Verse Translation by Unknown. 4. Falling Up by Shel Silverstein. 5. Other popular books in the poetry genre are known as “chap books” and are collections of small poems. Scroll below now to see 25 poetry fiction genre examples, or click here to see all fiction genres.
Collect This Article. In children’s literature, genre identifies books according to content. Beginning at the left of the genre tree, we see that all literature is either prose or poetry. To define poetry, the initial impulse might be to identify it as rhyming, or condensed, or rhythmic
A literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. The distinctions between genres and categories are flexible and loosely defined, often with subgroups. These types tend to share specific characteristics. Genres describe those works which share specific conventions. Genres are often divided into subgenres. Literature, is divided into the classic three forms of Ancient Greece, poetry, drama, and prose.
Some poetry types are specific to particular cultures and genres and respond to characteristics of the language in which the poet writes. In addition to specific forms of poems, poetry is often thought of in terms of different genres and subgenres. A poetic genre is generally a tradition or classification of poetry based on the subject matter, style, or other broader literary characteristics. Some commentators view genres as natural forms of literature
Types & Characteristics of Genres: Poetry. A main literary genre is poetry. All poems share specific characteristics. For example, poetry is written in lines and stanzas instead of sentences and paragraphs. Some poems follow strict rules as to the number and length of lines and stanzas, whereas many poems are much more free-flowing. 
Epic poetry is a genre of poetry, and a major form of narrative literature. This genre is often defined as lengthy poems concerning events of a heroic or important nature to the culture of the time. It recounts, in a continuous narrative, the life and works of a heroic or mythological person or group of persons. In addition to specific forms of poems, poetry is often thought of in terms of different genres and subgenres. A poetic genre is generally a tradition or classification of poetry based on the subject matter, style, or other broader literary characteristics. Some commentators view genres as natural forms of literature