Belonging to the phytoalexin class of compounds, pterostilbene is a protective compound produced by small berry plants like blueberries, cranberries, lingonberries and grapes to ward off the damage of pathogens such as bacteria or fungi. A study published by the USDA in 2005 compared both pterostilbene and resveratrol to determine their ability to induce PPAR-alpha activation, which is involved in fatty acid and lipid catabolism and its activation leads to decreased triglyceride and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesis.
Pterostilbene is a derivative of Resveratrol, it is most commonly found in blueberries and grapes and has been used in Ayurvedic medicine. The method of extracting this compound enhances the berries natural health benefits, ingesting 250 micrograms of Pterostilbene is equivalent to eating over 10 cups of blueberries. In order to significantly impact health, it is desirable to consume more Pterostilbene than what one would normally obtain from dietary sources. A dose of 3 mg a day of Pterostilbene provides the equivalent of eating over 140 cups of blueberries each day.
Pterostilbene and resveratrol both have the same role in the plant’s defense system. “Resveratrol is one of the main phytoalexins in grapes, pterostilbene in blueberries,” explained Jeremy Bartos, PhD, pTeroPure product manager for ChromaDex of Irvine, CA. A study published by the USDA in 2005 compared both pterostilbene and resveratrol to determine their ability to induce PPAR-alpha activation, which is involved in fatty acid and lipid catabolism and its activation leads to decreased triglyceride and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesis.
Featuring pTeroPure®, a 99% pure, patented form. What is Vitacost Pterostilbene? Vitacost Pterostilbene is a 99% pure form of pterostilbene, a natural compound similar to the well-known antioxidant resveratrol, found in some berries, including blueberries, cranberries and grapes. 
Share. While trans-pterostilbene may not sound too familiar, its sources–blueberries and grapes–certainly are. Like its cousin resveratrol, plants produce pterostilbene in response to injury and infection. Also like resveratrol, pterostilbene has a high level of bioavailability and offers similar protective effects. Additionally, research suggests pterostilbene may be more powerful than resveratrol. Blueberries are one of the most readily-available sources of pterostilbene and are typically available year round. Wine also contains varying levels of this powerful compound. Here are 4 more reasons to add pterostilbene to your diet.
1. Potent Antioxidant. Experiments suggest pterostilbene has several important benefits. First and foremost, the compound acts as a powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. It also appears to bind to PPAR receptors, stimulating production of the compound. Blueberries are one of the most readily-available sources of pterostilbene and are typically available year round. Wine also contains varying levels of this powerful compound. Here are 4 more reasons to add pterostilbene to your diet.
A phytonutrient similar to resveratrol but better absorbed. 50 mg veggie capsules. The discovery of resveratrol in grapes has led researchers to examine similar compounds found in other natural foods. One of the most promising to date is Pterostilbene, a phytonutrient found in certain berries (especially blueberries). Though related to resveratrol, Pterostilbene differs from in key ways: it appears to be better absorbed and displays better metabolic stability. 
Pterostilbene (trans-3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxystilbene) is a natural dietary compound and the primary antioxidant component of blueberries. It has increased bioavailability in comparison to other stilbene compounds, which may enhance its dietary benefit and possibly contribute to a valuable clinical effect. Overall, blueberries and pterostilbene exert anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anticarcinogenic effects in models of CLD and liver cancer. The compound may afford clinical protection in a broad range of benign and malignant liver conditions through amelioration of OS and related hepatocyte pathology.
pTeroBlue™ Pterostilbene Blueberry Complex 100 mg is a supreme combination of the finest ingredients including, pTeroPure®, a sustainable, 99% pure trans-Pterostilbene and AuroraBlue®, a wild Alaska Blueberry Complex. This blend provides the perfect coupling for optimum benefits.*. 