Below is a list of the countries which are in both the Western and Eastern Hemispheres along the 180th meridian, in order from north to south: 1  Russia. 2  United States (United States islands). 3  Kiribati. The population of the geographical Western Hemisphere exceeds 1 billion. Of the 4 hemispheres, only the Southern Hemisphere is less populated. The highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere is Aconcagua at 6,960.8 metres (22,837 ft).
The Western Hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of the Earth that lies west of the Prime Meridian (which crosses Greenwich, London, United Kingdom) and east of the Antimeridian, the other half being called the Eastern Hemisphere. The population of the geographical Western Hemisphere exceeds 1 billion. Of the 4 hemispheres, only the Southern Hemisphere is less populated. The highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere is Aconcagua at 6,960.8 metres (22,837 ft).
Australia/Oceania, like North America, is located in only two hemispheres. All of Australia is located south of the equator, and east of the Prime Meridian. This means that Australia/Oceania is located in the Southern and Eastern Hemispheres. North of Australia, lies the largest continent in the world, Asia. Most of Asia is located in the Northern Hemisphere
The Prime Meridian is the reference line you will use for measuring longitude. The Prime Meridian divides the globe into Eastern and Western hemispheres, just as the equator divides the globe into Northern and Southern hemispheres. The Prime Meridian is at 0 degrees longitude, just as the equator is at 0 degrees latitude. The Prime Meridian in Greenwich, England. National Maritime Museum. 
In addition, all countries west of the Prime Meridian are in the Western Hemisphere while those east of the Prime Meridian are in the Eastern Hemisphere. Generally the Eastern Hemisphere includes most of Africa, about half of Antarctica, all of Asia and Australia/Oceania, and most of Europe. The Western Hemisphere includes about half of Antarctica and all of North and South America, which includes the Caribbean, Central America and Greenland. The red vertical imaginary line called the Prime Meridian, at 0º degrees longitude, and its twin line of longitude, opposite the Prime Meridian at 180º longitude, divides the earth into the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.
For a map and list of countries in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, go here, and for countries in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, try this page. The red vertical imaginary line called the Prime Meridian, at 0º degrees longitude, and its twin line of longitude, opposite the Prime Meridian at 180º longitude, divides the earth into the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.
In this sense, the Western Hemisphere consists of the Americas, the western portions of Europe and Africa, the extreme eastern tip of Russia, numerous territories in Oceania, and a portion of Antarctica, while excluding some of the Aleutian Islands to the southwest of the Alaskan mainland. The population of the geographical Western Hemisphere exceeds 1 billion. Of the 4 hemispheres, only the Southern Hemisphere is less populated. The highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere is Aconcagua at 6,960.8 metres (22,837 ft).
Any place to the left of the Prime Meridian is in the Western Hemisphere, while any place to the right of the Prime Meridian is in the Eastern Hemisphere. The United States, on the continent of North America, is located in the Western Hemisphere. All of Australia is located south of the equator, and east of the Prime Meridian. This means that Australia/Oceania is located in the Southern and Eastern Hemispheres. North of Australia, lies the largest continent in the world, Asia.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Eastern hemisphere. The Eastern Hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of the Earth that is east of the Prime Meridian (which crosses Greenwich, England, United Kingdom) and west of 180° longitude. It is also used to refer to Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia, vis-a-à vis The Western, hemisphere which includes The (Americas North america And South). America this hemisphere is called The oriental. Hemisphere in, addition it may be used in a cultural or geopolitical sense as a synonym ' For Old '. world
All of Europe is located in the Northern Hemisphere, but the Prime Meridian runs through part of the continent. So, Europe is also located in three hemispheres, the Eastern, Western, and Northern Hemispheres. All of Australia is located south of the equator, and east of the Prime Meridian. This means that Australia/Oceania is located in the Southern and Eastern Hemispheres. North of Australia, lies the largest continent in the world, Asia.