If you see that, it’s a slam dunk Muscovy Duck. The wild type plumage of muscovy is all black, glossy greenish on the back, and with large white wing patches. But, because of our fondness for white, domestic muscovies can be pure white, all black, or any degree of pied black-and-white.
The white (Long Island duckling), type of farm pond duck descended from and can still … interbreed with mallard ducks. Although the domestic ducks are usually significantly larger, feral ducks often revert to mallard characteristics after a few generations. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Pekin Duck is a breed of duck that is most often shown as all white on TV and in cartoons. The Pekin duck is a very popular breed used for meat. Daffy Duck was a Pekin duck
I have 2 ducks and I dont know what kind they are. They have a little green on their wings like a mallard duck but then they have a white neck. They are black all over and they have a little white on the tips of their wings. 
These types of sea-ducks are found in very northern, Arctic habitats, and they’re well known for their lush down and its spectacular insulating properties that protect them from the harsh cold. Eider species include the common, spectacled, Steller’s and king eider. Teal. Teals are different types of dabbling ducks that often have brightly colored, distinctive plumage, including fantastic speculum coloration. These ducks prefer to feed along the surface of the water as opposed to tipping up. Teal species include the cinnamon, green-winged and silver teal.
The white (Long Island duckling), type of farm pond duck descended from and can still … interbreed with mallard ducks. Although the domestic ducks are usually significantly larger, feral ducks often revert to mallard characteristics after a few generations. 
“Dabblers” are ducks that tip up in order to feed, scrounging through shallow water and mud in search of plants and insects, and these ducks will also feed readily on land. The most common dabbling duck species is the mallard, but the northern pintail, American wigeon and different teals are also dabblers. Teal. Teals are different types of dabbling ducks that often have brightly colored, distinctive plumage, including fantastic speculum coloration. These ducks prefer to feed along the surface of the water as opposed to tipping up. Teal species include the cinnamon, green-winged and silver teal.
These White Crested Ducks are pure white, and the will closely resemble the Pekin Duck without the crest. The White Crested Ducklings will also resemble the Pekin Ducklings in that they will have soft yellow fur, and these will already have a small tuft of fuzzy hair growing on the back of their head. A crest can occur in all domestic breeds of ducks that originated from the Wild Mallard due to a gene mutation. The only two crested breeds of ducks that are recognized by the APA are the White Crested Duck and the Black Crested.
Just like choosing a dog or other pet, there is a breed of duck with the perfect personality, appearance and characteristics to suit most anyone. Some ducks are known to be friendly, noisy, very large, small, have pretty and bright plumage, imprint easily on humans, etc. 
Birders know, however, that there are many different types of ducks – few of which actually have the word “duck” in their name. By understanding the different types of duck families and related species, identifying waterfowl can become much easier. Click on any category for a more detailed definition. Teal. Teals are different types of dabbling ducks that often have brightly colored, distinctive plumage, including fantastic speculum coloration. These ducks prefer to feed along the surface of the water as opposed to tipping up. Teal species include the cinnamon, green-winged and silver teal.