San Juan, Puerto Rico is the hottest cruise port in the Caribbean…Come and find out why. The San Juan Cruise Port is host to an estimated 500 cruise ships (approx. 18 different cruise lines), and nearly 2 Million passengers travel to Puerto Rico through this port – every year. Although we provide some information below on piers typically used by certain cruise lines, be sure to contact your cruise line or call the San Juan Cruise Port at 787-723-2260, Pier (Muelle) 4, in Old San Juan, to verify the arrival or departure pier location.
Results 1 - 15 of 17. Recommended Links. 1  Long Beach Cruise Ship Terminal Directions and Parking Long Beach Cruise Terminal 231 Windsor Way Long Beach, CA 90802 Travel Time: 23 miles from Los Angeles International Airport; travel time is approximately 50 minutes. 12 miles from Long Beach... 
Sheraton Puerto Rico Hotel & Casino is ideally located just minutes from the Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines terminals, five minutes from historic Old San Juan, and 10 minutes from San Juan's international airport. We recommend that you fly into Luis Munoz Muñoz Marin International airport In San (Juan Airport: CODE). sju We recommend that you fly into Luis Munoz Muñoz Marin International airport In San (Juan Airport: CODE). Sju some Small caribbean carriers utilize The Isla Grande, airport located just minutes from the. Hotel car rentals from major companies are readily available at the. airport
Directions. 1  Exit the Airport to San Juan taking the middle lane on Baldorioty Ave. 2  This avenue will take you to New and Old San Juan. 3  Once you are at the end of the avenue you will find a traffic light. 4  On the right you will see the Condado Lagoon and on your left you will see the Yacht Club. 5  This is a one-way road. 6  Stay in the left lane and 7  ... Ke 1 This avenue will take you to New and Old San Juan. 2  Once you are at the end of the avenue you will find a traffic light. 3  On the right you will see the Condado Lagoon and on your left you will see the Yacht Club. 4
The closest major airport is the San Juan International Airport, which is 8 miles east of the Old San Juan piers and 7 miles east of the Pan American pier. A taxi ride will cost you approximately $23 with luggage and take about 20 minutes. Although we provide some information below on piers typically used by certain cruise lines, be sure to contact your cruise line or call the San Juan Cruise Port at 787-723-2260, Pier (Muelle) 4, in Old San Juan, to verify the arrival or departure pier location.
We've taken a cab from the port in Old San Juan to the airport and it was about $10. I'm not sure how much it is to the other pier. I wouldn't think it would be much more. Hope you have a wonderful cruise Ms. Noell M. Belton! I just received my passport renewal in the mail yesterday(woohoo!) for my 7-day southern caribbean cruise aboard the Serenede of the Seas in October. How far is the San Juan airport from the cruise port?
It is a 10-15 minute ride into Old San Juan and will cost you $10, if your cruise line does not pay for it. The most convenient hotels to stay at near the Pan American Pier terminals are the Sheraton Puerto Rico Hotel & Casino and Hyatt House Hotel. Although we provide some information below on piers typically used by certain cruise lines, be sure to contact your cruise line or call the San Juan Cruise Port at 787-723-2260, Pier (Muelle) 4, in Old San Juan, to verify the arrival or departure pier location.
The San Juan Cruise Terminal is conveniently located near Old San Juan in Puerto Rico. Depending on where your cruise ship docks, it is possible to walk into town. If, however, you are docked on the far side of the harbor a taxi ride will be required. San Juan PR. 
Traveling to the San Juan Cruise Terminal. San Juan Luis Munoz Muñoz Marin Marín (INTERNATIONAL) airport sju services the Island Of. Puerto rico it is’the island s main, international gateway and its main connection to The Mainland. united states While the San Juan area makes for a fun and exciting pre-or post-cruise trip, the city’s port is the start of a great southern Caribbean vacation.
how long is the ride from the cruise ship in san juan to the airport? how quickly can we expect to disembark? i booked a 9am flight when the cruise ship docks at 7am any suggestions?? It is not a long ride from the port to the airport but it is the time it takes to disembark the ship.