The foremost resource for women who struggle with aging, crepey skin. “Crepe paper skin” is what happens to skin when it loses its youthful elasticity, taking on a loose, sagging appearance—is right up there with wrinkles and dark spots in the way it can add unwanted years to your appearance. 
Finally, the loss of fat may be a cause of crepey skin. Because the skin gets thinner and does not have a sufficient fatty layer underneath it, tiny wrinkles may begin to form. 1 The upper layers of the skin are scrubbed with a small metal brush, causing the skin to produce new, healthier layers of cells. 2  It is especially effective with crepey skin because the wrinkles are more prominent on the upper layers of skin.
This is especially noticeable after substantial weight loss. Crepey skin on the face, neck, and chest is probably the most difficult to deal with because we can't hide it under clothes or with makeup and creams. But I found one solution for the face, neck and chest that has worked very well for me. And for help with crepey skin under the eyes click here .... While there are many causes of crepey skin, the main reason is usually due to the decline in youthful collagen and elastin production which are the main building blocks for a firm, supple, hydrated complexion.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of crepey is wrinkled up like crepe paper. An example of something crepey is the skin on an eyelid of an older woman. wrinkled like crepe cloth or paper. Adjective. (comparative more crepey, superlative most crepey). ( 1 of skin) Saggy and crinkly, like crepe paper. 
Most people know crepey skin when they see it. It doesn’t just refer to the deep wrinkles that emerge with age. Crepey skin on face looks very similar to the skin on your elbows. There are three main reasons why crepey skin forms. First, as the body slows down the production of elastin and collagen, the proteins that allow skin to stretch and contract, the skin begins to sag and wrinkle. 1 The upper layers of the skin are scrubbed with a small metal brush, causing the skin to produce new, healthier layers of cells. 2  It is especially effective with crepey skin because the wrinkles are more prominent on the upper layers of skin.
(details). While fruit-filled crepes may be delicious-looking, crepey skin is not. Crepey, or waffley skin is loose wrinkled skin characterized by skin surface sagging reminiscent of thin pancake-like crepes. This article will discuss: Crepey skin is caused by a variety of factors that include: 1  Gravity. 2  Decrease in the production of collagen and elastin molecules. 3  Sun damage. 4  Environmental factors. 5  Smoking. 6  Rapid and extreme weight loss. 7  Dehydration in the skin. 8  Sagging skin.
Another factor to crepey skin is the moisture that skin retains. With age, skin will begin to feel drier because the body will stop producing as many new skin cells as it once did. That means that the skin will also slow down the production of the oils that are designed to rid the body of dead cells and pathogens. 1 The upper layers of the skin are scrubbed with a small metal brush, causing the skin to produce new, healthier layers of cells. 2  It is especially effective with crepey skin because the wrinkles are more prominent on the upper layers of skin.
Crepey skin, or skin that is on your neck and is saggy, loose and wrinkled, is one of the many consequences of aging. The natural reduction of your elastin and collagen in the skin in the neck will cause less support for the skin on the surface, and sagging results. When it comes to an effective cream for the effective treatment of crepey neck skin, you should look for an anti-aging substance that has certain key ingredients. These are the ingredients that have been proven effective for any instances of crepey skin: 1  Retinol, which helps with the rejuvenation of the crepey skin.
The word crepe (\\krāp\\) is usually used to refer to a type of fabric that is thin, with a wrinkled surface, or sometimes a pancake. However, in the skin care world, this term takes on a new meaning.............. Referring to a certain type of aging skin as crepey, or sagging thin skin. One of the most common places we begin to see this sagging is on the back of the hand. This area probably receives the least care and attention-in terms of moisturizing, use of sunscreen, and sun protection. And for help with crepey skin under the eyes click here .... While there are many causes of crepey skin, the main reason is usually due to the decline in youthful collagen and elastin production which are the main building blocks for a firm, supple, hydrated complexion.
Crepey Skin. As we grow older, so does our skin and unfortunately our face is one of the first places to show signs of age. One of the most dreaded age indicators is crepey skin. Crepey skin is loose, wrinkled skin that has a crinkled texture. When your skin is dehydrated and as your skin ages, crepiness sets in, most commonly on your body, face, neck, arms, hands and around your eyes. ...more +. 