The Senior Pass replaces the Golden Age Passport and is for citizens or permanent residents of the United States, who are 62 years of age or older. It provides access to, and use of, any Federal recreation site that charges an Entrance or Standard Amenity Fee, and provides a discount on some Expanded Amenity Fees. The cost of the Senior Pass is $10, and it is valid for the lifetime of the pass holder. Photo identification may be requested to verify pass ownership. Existing plastic Golden Age Passports are valid for a lifetime.
Both the “Senior” and “Access” versions of the America the Beautiful Pass—the National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass—are good for the lifetime of the pass holder. The Access pass is free and the Senior pass (formerly known as a Golden Age Passport) costs $10. If you want to receive either pass by mail, there is a $10 processing fee. If you have one of the previously issued Golden Age Passports, fear not, it's still valid—only the name has changed, and it's still a great bargain. According to an agency website, The Senior and Access passes provide admission to, and use of, federal recreation sites that charge entrance or standard amenity fees.. To obtain a Senior pass through the mail, submit a completed application, proof of residency and age, and $20. The fee covers the cost of the pass and a document processing fee. You can print an application and explanation of the required proof at this link.
Plastic Golden Age Passports are valid for a lifetime. However, if you do want the new Senior Pass, you may purchase one for $10, with proof of identification (e.g., driver's license, birth certificate, or similar government-issued document). 
Moses Lake, WA. I'm headed to Yellowstone next week and was researching the discontinued Golden Age Passport now called Senior Pass. It's good at most federal sites and the info says it's good for BLM and other. I'm wondering if this $10 permanent pass would suffice in most Discovery Pass required areas. 
The Interagency Senior and Interagency Access Passes admit the pass holder and 3 other people regardless of relationship. the Golden Age and Golden Access Passports admit pass holder, spouse, and children at per-person sites. 
There are similar passes within this series: 1  Annual Pass-a 12-month period pass, $80 as of January 1, 2008, increased from $50 of previous years. 2  Access Pass-a lifetime pass for U.S. citizens or permanent residents with permanent disabilities. The Senior Pass provides a 50 percent discount on some Expanded Amenity Fees charged for facilities and services such as camping, swimming, boat launch, and specialized interpretive services. In some cases where Expanded Amenity Fees are charged, only the pass holder will be given the 50 percent price reduction.
Golden Age Passport gives 50% discount camping at Federal Parks. Golden Age Passport was a pass issued by the National Park Service until January 1, 2007. The Senior Pass provides a 50 percent discount on some Expanded Amenity Fees charged for facilities and services such as camping, swimming, boat launch, and specialized interpretive services. In some cases where Expanded Amenity Fees are charged, only the pass holder will be given the 50 percent price reduction.
The Senior Pass is a lifetime entrance pass to United States national parks for those 62 years and older. To obtain this a senior citizen need only go to any National Park Service facility that charges an entrance fee with the following: 1  Proof of age (must be 62 years or older). The Senior Pass provides a 50 percent discount on some Expanded Amenity Fees charged for facilities and services such as camping, swimming, boat launch, and specialized interpretive services. In some cases where Expanded Amenity Fees are charged, only the pass holder will be given the 50 percent price reduction.
You can buy a Senior Pass in person from a participating Federal recreation site or office. See Site Locations that issue the Senior Pass. You can buy a Senior Pass using the USGS online store. Applicants must fill out the Online Application and upload proof of residency and age. This may be done by photographing your document and uploading it to the order. You will need to provide a credit card payment of $20.00 ($10.00 fee for the Senior Pass, and an additional $10.00 document processing fee). Although the Corps will not sell or issue the passes, the Corps will accept the Senior Passes or Golden Age Passports as proof of eligibility for age-related discounts. More information may be found at: http://www.CorpsLakes.us/fees.