You must be independent and you do not brook interference in any way, shape, or form. Although you do not tolerate interference in your own affairs, this characteristic does not prevent you from interfering in the affairs of others and you are usually either telling or showing someone how to do something properly. (viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. Your name of Chito gives you self-assurance, independence, and confidence.
1 st person singular (yo) Present Indicative. 1  Translate chito to English: hush. 2  Spanish Synonyms of chito: calla, c llate, c llese, c llate la boca, chit n, cierra el pico. 3  Define meaning of chito: Chis! o chist!. DISCLAIMER. We must explain that this Free Online Bilingual Dictionary includes all: Word Magic Dictionary & Tools Professional (general reference English-Spanish bilingual dictionary), our unabridged Medical Dictionary, the Law Dictionary, the Business & Finance Dictionary and the Computer & IT Dictionary.
Bryan County: In Bryan County, east of Durant, is the town of Bokchito. This town's name, which can be translated as large stream, comes from the Choctaw words bok, meaning river or stream, and chito meaning big. The stream flowing immediately east of the town has the same name. Armstrong Academy, located a couple miles from the present town of Bokchito, was opened in 1845. Tuskahoma is a small town whose name comes from the compounding of the Choctaw words tvshka meaning warrior and humma meaning red. Its name literally means red warrior. The town site has moved several times.
Chito is of Italian origin and it is used mainly in the Spanish language. Chito is a variation of Francis (English). Chito is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Within the group of boy names directly linked to Chito, Francis was the most popular in 2012.
Chiko /chi-ko/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced chee-koh. It is of Japanese origin, and the meaning of Chiko is arrow; pledge . 
Without any context, it's hard to answer such questions. The dictionary gives this: chito [chee'-to]. noun. 1. A piece of wood, bone, or other substance, on which the money is put in the game of chita. (m). Could you please give us the context'. 
Cache was a term used by French traders and trappers to express the act of concealing, covering, or burying, especially for the purpose of hiding property from the Indians. 1. Further west, and still on the south side of the Arkansas is the Sans Bois Creek. In French, sans bois means without wood. 
As for Chito, I think it is most likely a nickname for the spanish chiquito meaning small. He may be called that by anyone familiar with him; a term of endearment that he received growing up and just continued on into his adult life. Marlene · 11 months ago. Thumbs up. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Chito is his nick name and means nothing. Mijo is my love and is what parents and loved ones call kids! Very common.
· just now. Report Abuse. Chico means boy in Spanish. If you intend to use Chico as a pet's name (something that's surprisingly common in my experience), be sure the pet is male! If the pet is female, I recommend using Chica instead, as chica means girl. P.I. 