Another name for the predicate in a sentence is a Verb. The Predicate tells what the action is. It's the verb in the sentence. 1 The Predicate Nominative in English Grammar The predicate nominative is the noun which always follows a linking verb and restates the subject of the sentence. 2  In a sentence with a noun predicate, the predicate is that ….
Yes and no.They refer to the same noun, but are not the same word. A predicate nominative is a noun that is found in the predicate (the verb half of the sentence) that rename … s the subject. Example: Allison is president of the senior class.. 'Allison' is the subject;' is 'is the verb. A predicate nominative is the noun or a pronoun following a linking  verb that restates or stands for the subject.    EXAMPLES   Mary is my sister. (the noun 'sist … er' restates the subject)   The winner is you.
Answers. Best Answer: (d) verb A predicate is the part of the sentence that is NOT the main theme/topic/subject/object/noun ... or it is the describing part of the sentence. Source(s): David F · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The predicate is one of the two main constituents of a sentence; the predicate contains the verb and its complements. The part of the sentence (or clause) which states something about the subject. The part of the sentence that contains the action (verb). Example: My sister and I walked home after school. http://sk2.saugus.k12.ca.us/~sking/la_de... The part of the sentence beginning with the verb or the first verb in a verb phrase
Any noun or pronoun can be a predicate nominative. A predicate nominative is the word that follows a linking verb and renames the subject. Examples: Jane is the manager.John w … as one of the winners.'Jaws' is a movie. A predicate nominative is the noun or a pronoun following a linking  verb that restates or stands for the subject.    EXAMPLES   Mary is my sister. (the noun 'sist … er' restates the subject)   The winner is you.
In English grammar, a predicate is one of the two main parts of a sentence. (The other main part is the subject .). A predicate is usually defined as a word group that comes after the subject to complete the meaning of the sentence or clause. Types of Predicates. A predicate may be one word or many words. (1) A predicate may be just a single word: the verb.