Europe (/ˈjʊərəp/ or /ˈjɜrəp/) is a continent that comprises the westernmost part of Eurasia. Europe is bordered by the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south. 
Origin of the name Europe. In Greek mythology, Europa was a Phoenician princess who was abducted by Zeus in bull form and taken to the island of Crete, where she gave birth to Minos. For Homer, Europa (Greek: ευρώπη) was a mythological queen of Crete, not a geographical designation. The term Europe is generally derived from Greek words meaning broad (eurys) and face (ops). A minority, however, see a Semitic origin, pointing to the Akkadian word gharoob or erebu which means sunset. From a Middle Eastern viewpoint, the sun sets over Europe: the lands to the west.
To be european means to have a common currency, common taxes, common public debt, eurobond, common army, same rights and same opportunity in all states of Europe, the same lenguage. At the moment this doesn’t exist. To be european means to me to have the right to speek free to work and leave in a secure environment, to travel, and to dream your future. Unfortunately all this is crumbling…. SPQR, Roman alphabet, Roman religion, Roman law, Roman days, months, Roman republics and monarchies, et cetera.
The noun EUROPE has 3 senses: 1. the 2nd smallest continent (actually a vast peninsula of Eurasia); the British use 'Europe' to refer to all of the continent except the British Isles. 2. an international organization of European countries formed after World War II to reduce trade barriers and increase cooperation among its members. Bulgaria; Republic of Bulgaria (a republic in the eastern part of the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe). Balkan Peninsula; Balkans (a large peninsula in southeastern Europe containing the Balkan Mountain Range).
The question of what it means to be “European” comes up regularly on Debating Europe. In the past, we’ve debated whether a common European identity is possible, whether you feel European, and what EU citizenship means to you. To be european means to me to have the right to speek free to work and leave in a secure environment, to travel, and to dream your future. Unfortunately all this is crumbling…. SPQR, Roman alphabet, Roman religion, Roman law, Roman days, months, Roman republics and monarchies, et cetera.
Yet, the borders for Europe---a concept dating back to classical antiquity---are somewhat arbitrary, as the term continent can refer to a cultural and political distinction or a physiographic one. EuropE Europe (IPA: /ˈjɔːɹəp/, /ˈjuɹəp/) is, conventionally, one of the world's seven continents. Demographic changes and the two World Wars led to a decline in European dominance in world affairs by the mid-20th century as the United States and Soviet Union took prominence. During the Cold War Europe was divided along the Iron Curtain between NATO in the West and the Warsaw Pact in the East.
In etymology one theory suggests the name Europe is derived from the Greek words meaning broad (eurys) and face (ops) – broad having been an epithet of Earth itself in the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European religion; see Prithvi (Plataia). Best Answer: ok .. Nice question .. There is alot of meanings .. or where it come from .. the most acceptableone :- From the Phoenician word EROB, meaning where the sun set (west of Phoenicia). let's see .. :- 1- From the Phoenician word EROB, meaning where the sun set (west of Phoenicia). 2- Europa-a lover of Zeus from Greek mythology
In the Greek myth, Europa was the daughter of the Phoenician King of Tyre. Europa was seduced by Zeus (who appeared to her in the form of a gentle bull, but after mounting its back the bull rushed into the sea and carried Europa to Crete-in what is now regarded as the southeastern most part of Europe). 
One theory suggests the name Europe is derived from the Greek words meaning broad (eurys) and face (ops) – broad having been an epithet of Earth itself in the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European religion; see Prithvi (Plataia). Best Answer: ok .. Nice question .. There is alot of meanings .. or where it come from .. the most acceptableone :- From the Phoenician word EROB, meaning where the sun set (west of Phoenicia). let's see .. :- 1- From the Phoenician word EROB, meaning where the sun set (west of Phoenicia). 2- Europa-a lover of Zeus from Greek mythology