Insufficient Evidence to Rate Effectiveness for... 1  Premenstrual syndrome (PMS), nervousness, trouble sleeping (insomnia), bleeding, high levels of thyroid hormones (hyperthyroidism), breast pain, and other conditions. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ajuga /əˈdʒuːɡə/ , also known as bugleweed, ground pine, carpet bugle, or just bugle, is a genus of annual and perennial herbaceous flowering plants in the mint family Lamiaceae, with most species native to Europe, Asia, and Africa, but also two species in southeastern Australia. 
For the spider genus Lycopus, see Thomisidae. Lycopus (waterhorehound, gypsywort, or bugleweed) is a genus in the family Lamiaceae. They are all herbaceous plants native to Europe, Asia, Australia, and North America. 
Insufficient Evidence to Rate Effectiveness for... 1  Premenstrual syndrome (PMS), nervousness, trouble sleeping (insomnia), bleeding, high levels of thyroid hormones (hyperthyroidism), breast pain, and other conditions. 
bugleweed. A perennial herb of the genus Lycopus, principally found in moist habitats in Europe and North America. It is used mainly in homeopathic remedies for cardiac and thyroid disorders. It contains cardiac glycosides and iodine. 
Medical Definition of BUGLEWEED. : any mint of the genus Lycopus; especially: a mildly narcotic and astringent herb (L. virginicus) of the eastern half of the United States. Definition of BUGLEWEED. 1. : any of a genus (Lycopus) of mints; especially: a North American perennial (L. virginicus) that is mildly narcotic and astringent. 2. : 1bugle. ADVERTISEMENT.
home vitamins, herbs, dietary supplements a-z list bugleweed. Bugleweed might reduce the body's production of thyroid hormone. Bugleweed also seems to reduce the secretion of the hormone prolactin, which might help relieve breast pain. Bugleweed might be safe for most people, but thyroid disease should not be self-treated due to possible complications.
Ajuga. Ajuga. Ajuga is one of the most indispensable groundcovers around. It has many uses and looks great much of the year. Also known as carpetweed or bugleweed, ajuga forms a 6-inch-tall mat of glossy leaves that always seem to look neat and fresh. In many cases, the leaves are colored with shades of purple, white, silver, cream, or pink.
Medicinal Parts. 1  Aerial parts. 2  The lithospermic acid and other organic acids in bugleweed may work to lower levels of TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone), or it may block the TSH receptors and prevent the hormone from entering the thyroid gland to stimulate production of other hormones. 