The Fish and Wildlife Service of California has put the San Joachim kit fox on the threatened wildlife list. by Vaughn R. 2002. The San Joachin kit fox inhabits the chaparral, grasslands, and scrublands of the San Joaquin Valley of California, USA. Kit foxes live in dens. The San Joachin kit fox is a nocturnal animal, but can sometimes be seen during the day in spring and early summer. A pair of San Joachin kit foxes stay together year round, but may not share a den. They can have as many as 24 different dens. They reach sexual maturity at 22 months and mate from December to March.
Life History. The San Joaquin kit fox is a subspecies of the kit fox, the smallest member of the dog family in North America. A kit fox is a small fox with large ears that are set close together, slim body with long slender legs, narrow nose, and long, bushy tail tapering slightly toward the tip. Tracks of San Joaquin kit foxes average 3.1 cm (1.2 inch) in length and 2.6 cm (1 inch) in width. The amount of fur and the size, shape, and arrangement of the pads distinguish kit fox tracks from those of other canids and domestic cats.
The Carrizo Plain is the largest of the three remaining core populations, making this area vital to the recovery of the species. In 1967 the San Joaquin kit fox was listed as a federally endangered species, and in 1971 the State of California listed it as a threatened species because of a dramatic decline in habitat. Much of the habitat for the kit fox has been developed for agricultural and industrial development. 
Aug 17 • Conservation • 18 Views • Comments Off on Conservation of San Joaquin Kit Fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica). The San Joaquin Valley of California is a region of immense biological diversity, and includes a number of endemic species and unique biotic communities. California harbors more unique plants and animals than any other state, and its biotic communities also face intense pressures.
The kit fox (Vulpes macrotis) is a fox species of North America. Its range is primarily in the Southwestern United States and northern and central Mexico. Some mammalogists classify it as conspecific with the swift fox, V. velox, but molecular systematics imply that the two species are distinct. The Southern California kit fox (V. m. macrotis) was a population of kit foxes native to desert regions of Southern California which became extinct in 1903. The desert kit fox (V. m. arsipus) lives in the Mojave Desert.
However, the kit fox is now found only on the edges of the San Joaquin Valley from southern Kern County up to Alameda, Contra Costa, and San Joaquin Counties on the west and up to Stanislaus County on the east, and a few populations exist within the Valley floor. The San Joaquin kit fox is active mostly at night. Kit foxes live in underground dens, which they need to keep them cool in the summer and warm in the winter. These dens also keep them safe from coyotes and shelter their pups. Kit foxes use dens built by other animals or structures such as large drainage pipes
Kit foxes are the smallest canid species in North America, though San Joaquin kit fox is the largest subspecies. The San Joaquin kit fox was originally found throughout most of the San Joaquin Valley in Central California. The San Joaquin kit fox is active mostly at night. Kit foxes live in underground dens, which they need to keep them cool in the summer and warm in the winter. These dens also keep them safe from coyotes and shelter their pups.
Keep Me Wild: Kit Fox. The San Joaquin (SJ) kit fox was once a thriving species in the 1930s, making their home in native grasslands of the Central Valley. In 1967 the federal government listed them as an endangered species and in 1971 California also listed them as threatened. 
The kit fox is the smallest canid species in North America and the San Joaquin kit fox is the largest subspecies. It’s a small brown fox with a light colored belly, and large ears. The San Joaquin kit fox was listed as endangered by the U.S. Department of the Interior in 1967 and by the State of California in 1971. The San Joaquin Valley of California is a region of immense biological diversity, and includes a number of endemic species and unique biotic communities. California harbors more unique plants and animals than any other state, and its biotic communities also face intense pressures.
As they eat both animals and vegetation, they are omnivores. The San Joachin kit fox's predators are coyotes and red foxes. Man is also a predator because he sometimes shoots or poisons the San Joachim kit fox. The San Joaquin kit fox is able to adapt to hot temperatures of the chaparral summers and cold temperatures of the winter nights. The San Joachin kit fox is a nocturnal animal, but can sometimes be seen during the day in spring and early summer. A pair of San Joachin kit foxes stay together year round, but may not share a den. They can have as many as 24 different dens. They reach sexual maturity at 22 months and mate from December to March.