Examples of VITAL. 1  These matters are vital to national defense. 2  The sciences are a vital part of the school curriculum. 3  your heart, lungs, and other vital organs. 4  Exercise keeps her young and vital. 5  Their music stills seems fresh and vital after all these years. 
vital signs. noun plural. Tweet. : important body functions (such as breathing and heartbeat) that are measured to see if someone is alive or healthy. 
vital adjective. › ​necessary or ​extremely ​important for the ​success or ​continued ​existence of something: The ​existence of a ​strong ​opposition is vital to a ​healthy ​democracy. The ​kidneys ​play a vital ​role/​part in ​removing ​waste from the ​blood. [+ that clause] It’s vital that you ​respond at ​once. 
vital, adj necessary to or pertaining to life. vital capacity, n a measurement of the amount of air that can be expelled at the normal rate of exhalation after a maximum inspiration, representing the greatest possible breathing capacity. vital capacity. the greatest volume of gas that, following maximum inspiration, can be expelled during a complete, slow, unforced expiratory maneuver; equal to inspiratory capacity plus expiratory reserve volume. This is a commonly made and practicable measurement in humans but is not so in animals.
[more vital; most vital] : extremely important: crucial. These matters are vital to national defense. He played a vital [= key ] role in guiding the project. The sciences are a vital part of the school curriculum. 
vital. adj. 1. (Biology) essential to maintain life: the lungs perform a vital function. 2. forceful, energetic, or lively: a vital person. 3. (Biology) of, relating to, having, or displaying life: a vital organism. 4. indispensable or essential: books vital to this study. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of vital is something that is absolutely essential or necessary or a person who is lively and full of life. 1  An example of vital is your heart. 2  An example of vital is a person who is always active and on-the-go.
vital signs. the signs of life, namely pulse, respiration and temperature. vital statistics. that branch of biometry dealing with the data and laws of animal mortality, morbidity, natality and demography. 
plural noun. 1 Quantitative data concerning the population, such as the number of births, marriages, and deaths. Example sentences. 1  Still within the tradition of political economy, these statisticians saw population and vital statistics as given facts which derived from natural and economic laws. 