1 Paying off the balance each month helps get you the best scores. 2  A long credit history will help your score. 3  Credit scores are based on experience over time. 4  The more experience you have with getting credit and paying your bills on time, the more information there is to determine whether you are a good credit risk. 1 A long credit history will help your score. 2  Credit scores are based on experience over time. 3
If you have no credit history, you can usually get one with a low credit limit pretty easily. Look for one that has some sort of bonus connected to a retailer you use. If you shop at Target, get the Target Visa. If you shop at Amazon, get the Amazon Visa. If you get all your gas at BP, get the BP card. 
For credit cards, you want a low credit utilization. 1  If you have $300 of debt on your credit card and your total limit is $600, you get your credit utilization by dividing your debt with your limit. 300 ÷ 600 = .5 = 50%. 2  50% is a pretty high credit utilization. Your limit is the maximum amount of money that you can charge to your credit card. As a young person, your limit will probably hover anywhere from $300 to $2,000. 1  Don't get sucked into spending lots of money just because you have a high limit. 2  Your limit is something you should be afraid of, not mesmerized by.
that s because your payment history on your debts and bills is one of the biggest factors in your credit report and credit score a credit report is a compilation of how you pay your credit card bill loans rent and selected other debts and bills a credit score is a number that is based on your credit report and reflects your financial responsibility pay your bills on time to maintain a good credit record and qualify for low rates don t wait until the last minute to pay your monthly bills
1 If you have $100 of debt on your credit card and your total limit is $1,000, your credit utilization would be 100 ÷ 1,000 = .10 = 10%. 2  10% is a great credit utilization percentage. 3  A really good credit utilization is about 10%, but the average credit utilization is anywhere from 25% - 35%. Your limit is the maximum amount of money that you can charge to your credit card. As a young person, your limit will probably hover anywhere from $300 to $2,000. 1  Don't get sucked into spending lots of money just because you have a high limit. 2  Your limit is something you should be afraid of, not mesmerized by.
There are no secrets to building a strong credit score, but following these guidelines should help: 1  Pay your bills on time, every time. 2  One way to make sure your payments are on time is to set up automatic payments, or set up electronic reminders. 3  If you’ve missed payments, get current and stay current. 1 A long credit history will help your score. 2  Credit scores are based on experience over time. 3  The more experience you have with getting credit and paying your bills on time, the more information there is to determine whether you are a good credit risk.
If you carry a balance on your cards but you still have good credit, look for cards with the lowest interest rates and the best benefits. If you have good credit, avoid applying for too many cards at once. What To Avoid When Applying. If you have good credit, avoid applying for less competitive credit card offers. For example, if you avoid interest charges by paying your balances in full each month, then it may be more beneficial for you to earn rewards for your purchases at no cost, and should avoid non-reward cards.
I use to be a mortgage loan officer. The way I understand it, you should only use 30% of whatever your limit is on any card you hold. If you have a limit of $1,000.00 for example, you want to keep your balance at or below $300.00. Totally ignore the real limit and treat the card as if your limit is just $300.