Puppies should receive their first canine distemper, canine adenovirus (infectious canine hepatitis) and canine parvovirus at 7-9 weeks of age, then at 12-13 weeks of age, and finally at 16-18 weeks of age to insure they are solidly protected against these diseases. Also, by law, most states require a yearly rabies vaccination even though studies have shown that many of the rabies vaccines we use give us three years of protection. Many veterinarians, myself included, were suspicious that the vaccines we used were giving much longer periods of protection than one year.
However, this protection only lasts a few weeks so they need regular vaccinations from an early age. Puppies are typically vaccinated at eight and 10 weeks, kittens at nine and 12 weeks, with an initial course of two injections. Your young pet should then be given a booster 12 months after their first vaccination. Rabbits need regular vaccinations too. Find out more about rabbit vaccinations. Older pets need protecting too, as their immunity can decline.
Which vaccinations should your puppy get? How often does your puppy need to be vaccinated? Do you really have to go back every three weeks for another vaccine? 
1 For adult dogs or puppies older than 16 weeks, the intranasal vaccine can be given once, and the injectable vaccine should be given twice, two to four weeks apart. 1 Kittens can be vaccinated intranasally as early as 8 weeks of age. 2  Puppies can receive the injectable vaccine starting at 6 to 8 weeks of age, followed by a booster between 10 and 12
After the initial series of puppy vaccines your pet should get a parvo shot yearly. Your best option is to get the combination vaccine with parvo, distemper and some other stuff all in one because they are all needed yearly. I went to the Vet with my friend, her adult dog was sick. They should be vaccinated with distemper/parvo at 8 and 12 weeks. 16 is optional. They can get one final one at ~1.5 years of age and then every 3 years after that MAX.
Every day across the country, puppies and kittens, as well as adult dogs are massively vaccinated with multiple viral and bacterial antigens with the hope of enhancing their health and preventing potential future infectious disease. Vaccination titers are blood tests that can document protective immunity in most pets, and we are now finding that viral immunity to most core viruses like parvo and distemper in dogs, as well as panleukopenia in cats can last for many years to the life of the pet.
A vaccination is sometimes given three to four weeks later, about age 17 to 18 weeks. Most all veterinarians agree the final vaccination in the series should be given after the puppy is 4 months old. Once the puppy series is complete, your dog should received a booster vaccination each year. Most veterinarians recommend that a puppy receive his first parvovirus vaccination when he is 8 weeks old. The second vaccination is given in three to four weeks, about age 11 to 12 weeks. A third vaccination is given in three to four more weeks, about age 14 to 15 weeks.
Consult with your veterinarian to determine which vaccinations your puppy should receive, and how often. Drs. Foster and Smith prefer to vaccinate puppies with a combination vaccine at six weeks of age initially, with boosters given every three weeks until the puppy is about sixteen weeks of age.
Report Abuse. They should be vaccinated with distemper/parvo at 8 and 12 weeks. 16 is optional. They can get one final one at ~1.5 years of age and then every 3 years after that MAX. Distemper and parvo are the only vaccinations they absolutely need. The others (lepto, adenovirus, etc) are not strictly necessary
1 Puppies can receive the injectable vaccine starting at 6 to 8 weeks of age, followed by a booster between 10 and 12 weeks of age. 2  For adult dogs or puppies older than 16 weeks, the intranasal vaccine can be given once, and the injectable vaccine should be given twice, two to four weeks apart. 1 Kittens can be vaccinated intranasally as early as 8 weeks of age. 2 