English name. In English, the name Brian means-Brought to England by the Breton companions of William the Conqueror, this name is originally derived from the Irish word for hill.. Other origins for the name Brian include-English, Irish, Celtic, Welsh.The name Brian is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Brought to England by the Breton companions of William the Conqueror, this name is originally derived from the Irish word for hill. Origin-English. 
The surname Brian is sometimes an English and Irish variant spelling of the surname Bryan. The English and French surname Brian is sometimes derived from the personal Celtic personal name shown above. For example, the element bre means hill; which could be transferred to mean eminence or exalted one. The name is quite popular in Ireland, on account of Brian Boru, a 10th-century king of Ireland. The name was also quite popular in East Anglia during the Middle Ages.
In American the meaning of the name Brian is: Strong. Celtic Meaning: The name Brian is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Brian is: In use in England since the Middle Ages. Possibly connected with the Irish word for Hill thus 'He ascends.'. Also some texts define it as Strong. 10th century Brian Boru was a high king and great national hero of Ireland. In English the meaning of the name Brian is: Brought to England by the Breton companions of William the Conqueror, this name is originally derived from the Irish word for hill. Welsh Meaning: The name Brian is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Brian is: Legendary son of Turenn. 'Strong'.
English Meaning: The name Brian is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Brian is: Brought to England by the Breton companions of William the Conqueror, this name is originally derived from the Irish word for hill. Welsh Meaning: The name Brian is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Brian is: Legendary son of Turenn. 'Strong'.
Brian /bri-an/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced BRY-en. It is of Celtic, Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Brian is  high, noble. Could also mean strength. Historical: Brian Boru (10th century) was a warrior who became high king of Ireland and one of its greatest national heroes. Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Brian for boys. Brian was first listed in 1930-1939 and reached its peak rank of #8 in the U.S. during 1970-1979, and is presently at #168.
Brian. The name Brian is of Celtic origin and means; Strength and Honor. He is a very intelligent guy, who keeps his priorities straight and is extremely well rounded. Not only is he smart, but he is athletic, handsome, sexy, funny, and a great guy to hang out around.
Meaning of Brian. Celtic name. In Celtic, the name Brian means-In use in England since the Middle Ages. Possibly connected with the Irish word for Hill thus He ascends.. Also some texts define it as Strong. 10th century Brian Boru was a high king and great national hero of Ireland.. Other origins for the name Brian include-Celtic, Irish, English, Welsh.The name Brian is most often used as a boy name or male name. Celtic Name Meaning
Brian is a very popular first name for men (#20 out of 1220, Top 2%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#7327 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Brian for boys. Brian was first listed in 1930-1939 and reached its peak rank of #8 in the U.S. during 1970-1979, and is presently at #168. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014
The meaning of this name is not known for certain but it is possibly related to the old Celtic element bre meaning hill, or by extension high, noble. It was borne by the semi-legendary Irish king Brian Boru, who thwarted Viking attempts to conquer Ireland in the 11th century. 
Look up Brian in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Brian (sometimes spelled Bryan) is a male given name of Irish and Breton origin, as well as a surname of Occitan origin. It is common in the English-speaking world. For example, the element bre means hill; which could be transferred to mean eminence or exalted one. The name is quite popular in Ireland, on account of Brian Boru, a 10th-century king of Ireland. The name was also quite popular in East Anglia during the Middle Ages.