1 Treatment of diverticulosis can include high fiber diet, and anti-spasmodic drugs. 2  When diverticulosis is associated with inflammation and infection the condition is called diverticulitis. 3  Complications of diverticulosis and diverticulitis include rectal bleeding, abdominal infections, and colon obstruction. 1 When diverticulosis is associated with inflammation and infection the condition is called diverticulitis. 2
When pouches begin to protrude outwards from the colon wall the person has diverticular disease or diverticulosis. When one of these pouches becomes infected and inflamed, that infection is called diverticulitis. People may have lots of protruding pouches and feel fine. 1 One outpouching is a diverticulum; two or more are diverticula. 2  3. Diverticular disease refers to people with diverticulosis who have symptoms. 3  4. Diverticulosis generally refers to cases without symptoms. 4  5. 5  When one of the outpouches (diverticula) becomes infected, it is known as
Diverticulitis occurs when the diverticula become inflamed, or irritated and swollen, and infected. Diverticular bleeding occurs when a small blood vessel within the wall of a diverticulum bursts. 
Diverticular disease and diverticulitis are related digestive conditions that affect the large intestine (colon). In diverticular disease, small bulges or pockets (diverticula) develop in the lining of the intestine. Diverticulitis is when these pockets become inflamed or infected. Symptoms of diverticular disease include: 1  lower abdominal pain. 2  feeling bloated
Diverticulosis happens when pouches (diverticula) form in the wall of the colon. If these pouches get inflamed or infected, it is called diverticulitis. Diverticulitis can be very painful. Doctors aren't sure what causes diverticula in the colon (diverticulosis). Doctors aren't sure what causes diverticulitis. Bacteria grow in the pouches, and this can lead to inflammation or infection. Symptoms of diverticulitis may last from a few hours to a week or more. Symptoms include: 1  Belly pain, usually in the lower left side, that is sometimes worse when you move.
Diverticula are bulging sacs that can appear in the lining of your large intestine. Diverticulitis occurs when these sacs get acutely infected or inflamed. Although diverticula are most common in the large intestine (colon), they can develop anywhere in your digestive tract. Pain in the lower left side of your abdomen may indicate diverticulitis, especially when it’s accompanied by rectal bleeding. The condition is treatable, but it can recur.
Diverticula are small, bulging pouches that can form in the lining of your digestive system. They are found most often in the lower part of the large intestine (colon). Diverticula are common, especially after age 40, and seldom cause problems. Sometimes, however, one or more of the pouches become inflamed or infected. That condition is known as diverticulitis (die-vur-tik-yoo-LIE-tis). 
1 Diverticulosis is a condition that describes small pouches in the wall of the digestive tract that occur when the inner layer of the digestive tract bulges through weak spots in the outer layer. 2  When these diverticula become inflamed, that is called diverticulitis. Diverticula are small pouches in the wall of the digestive tract. They
Diverticulitis is a common digestive disease which involves the formation of pouches (diverticula) within the bowel wall. This process is known as diverticulosis, and typically occurs within the large intestine, or colon, although it can occasionally occur in the small intestine as well. 