DNA polymerase is the enzyme responsible for adding the daughter nucleotides to the parent DNA strand. In order to help it get started in its process, an RNA primer is built upon the parent strand at the base of the replication fork. The enzyme responsible for building that RNA primer is RNA primase. Well, fortunately, we do, and it's yet another enzyme. It's called RNA primase. The job of RNA primase is to make, or synthesize, a primer for replication to start. First it waits for DNA helicase to open a
Primase is an enzyme that synthesizes short RNA sequences called primers. These primers serve as a starting point for DNA synthesis. Since primase produces RNA molecules, the enzyme is a type of RNA polymerase. Primase functions by synthesizing short RNA sequences that are complementary to a single-stranded piece of DNA, which serves as its template. It is critical that primers are synthesized by primase before DNA replication can occur.
In bacteria, primase binds to the DNA helicase forming a complex called the primosome. Primase is activated by DNA helicase where it then synthesizes a short RNA primer approximately 11 ±1 nucleotides long, to which new nucleotides can be added by DNA polymerase. The RNA segments are first synthesized by primase and then elongated by DNA polymerase. Then the DNA polymerase forms a protein complex with two primase subunits to form the alpha DNA Polymerase primase complex.
In molecular biology, DNA ligase is a specific type of enzyme, a ligase, (EC 6.5.1.1) that facilitates the joining of DNA strands together by catalyzing the formation of a phosphodiester bond. 
Primase catalyzes the synthesis of a short RNA (or DNA in some organisms) segment called a primer complementary to a ssDNA template. The RNA segments are first synthesized by primase and then elongated by DNA polymerase. Then the DNA polymerase forms a protein complex with two primase subunits to form the alpha DNA Polymerase primase complex.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. DNA primase, also called as DNA primerase, is an enzyme involved in the replication of DNA. DNA primase is a type of RNA polymerase which creates an RNA primer (later this RNA piece is removed by a 5' to 3' exonuclease); next, DNA polymerase uses the RNA primer to replicate ssDNA. The RNA segments are first synthesized by primase and then elongated by DNA polymerase. Then the DNA polymerase forms a protein complex with two primase subunits to form the alpha DNA Polymerase primase complex.
Primase is an enzyme that catalyse the synthesis of a short sequence of single strand RNA (RNA primer) on which the polymerase enzyme started forming Okazaki fragements to make a new copy of the DNA gene. Little miss scientist · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. primase is an enzyme that add a sequence of RNA allowing the DNA polymerase 3 to begin working on the dna strand. uhmmmm don't pay attention to the lady below me. okazaki fragments are only made on the 3'-5' direction....
Primase. DNA primase is an enzyme involved in the replication of DNA. DNA primase is, in fact, a type of RNA polymerase which creates an RNA primer; next, DNA polymerase uses the RNA primer to replicate ssDNA. Primase catalyzes the synthesis of a short RNA segment called a primer complementary to a ssDNA template