Behavior Traits of Sugar Gliders. The average life span of a Sugar Glider is around 12 to 15 years. They are known for their sociable behavior. They are active pets that love to jump, hover around and glide. Firstly, they are small in size and, secondly, they like being carried in pockets or pouches. That is why many Sugar Glider owners keep these charming animals in their pockets to carry them wherever they go. These cute little critters are marsupials, which are young ones that are born immature.
You might know this creature by his common name: sugar glider. The sugar glider’s scientific name — Petaurus breviceps — really does translate to short-headed rope dancer in Latin, and it is in reference to this marsupial’s canopy acrobatics. The sweet part of the common name acknowledges the animal’s preference for sweet, nectarous foods. My, What Big Eyes You Have! To say the sugar glider’s look is a bit different is an understatement. One notable physical trait is large eyes, which help them see at night. This might be the reason behind names like Peepers.
Around the world, the sugar glider is popular as an exotic pet. It is also one of the most commonly traded wild animals in the illegal pet trade, where animals are taken directly from their natural habitats. Like all arboreal, nocturnal marsupials, sugar gliders are active at night, and shelter in tree hollows lined with leafy twigs during the day. The average home range of sugar gliders is 0.5 hectares, and is largely related to the abundance of food sources; density ranges from 2-6 individuals per hectare.
Scientific Name: Petaurus breviceps. Life Span: Sugar gliders live about 10-15 years in captivity. Size: The sugar glider'd body is about 5-6 inches long, and the tail adds another 6 inches. They weigh only 4-5.5 oz (100-160 grams). Natural Distribution: Sugar gliders are native to Australia (Eastern part), Papua New Guinea and parts of Indonesia
Sugar gliders have become a popular exotic pet. They are small and relatively easy to care for, and have a cute if not unusual appearance. As with any other exotic pet, a potential owner should be aware of their care requirements and personality before acquiring a sugar glider. Sugar gliders are illegal in some places so you will need to check the laws where your live (see  How to Find Out if a Pet is Legal Where You Live ). Natural History.
Sugar gliders live up to their name, because they do indeed jump and glide. This makes names like Glider, Glidy, Jumping Jack Flash and FoxFlight seem like a natural fit. And, with a sweet reputation, it should come as no surprise that many pet sugar gliders have names reflecting the same. According to the sugar gliders profiled on SmallAnimalChannel.com, Sweetie is at the top of the popular names list, and Sugar is close behind. My, What Big Eyes You Have! To say the sugar glider’s look is a bit different is an understatement. One notable physical trait is large eyes, which help them see at night. This might be the reason behind names like Peepers.
Sugar Gliders are known by this name because they are fond of sweet food and, also, they love to glide even from a height. These Sugar Gliders are also known as 'pocket pets,' because of the following two reasons. Firstly, they are small in size and, secondly, they like being carried in pockets or pouches. That is why many Sugar Glider owners keep these charming animals in their pockets to carry them wherever they go. These cute little critters are marsupials, which are young ones that are born immature.
The sugar glider is one of a number of volplane (gliding) possums in Australia. Gliders glide with the fore-and hind-limbs extended at right angles to their body, with their feet flexed upwards. Like all arboreal, nocturnal marsupials, sugar gliders are active at night, and shelter in tree hollows lined with leafy twigs during the day. The average home range of sugar gliders is 0.5 hectares, and is largely related to the abundance of food sources; density ranges from 2-6 individuals per hectare.
The sugar glider (Petaurus breviceps) is a small, omnivorous, arboreal, and nocturnal gliding possum belonging to the marsupial infraclass. The common name refers to its preference for sugary nectarous foods and ability to glide through the air, much like a flying squirrel. Like all arboreal, nocturnal marsupials, sugar gliders are active at night, and shelter in tree hollows lined with leafy twigs during the day. The average home range of sugar gliders is 0.5 hectares, and is largely related to the abundance of food sources; density ranges from 2-6 individuals per hectare.
The sugar glider has a squirrel-like body with a long, partially (weakly) prehensile tail. The length from the nose to the tip of the tail is about 24 to 30 cm (12–13 inches), and males and females weigh 140 grams and 115 grams respectively. Like all arboreal, nocturnal marsupials, sugar gliders are active at night, and shelter in tree hollows lined with leafy twigs during the day. The average home range of sugar gliders is 0.5 hectares, and is largely related to the abundance of food sources; density ranges from 2-6 individuals per hectare.