Percentage Markup. Percentage markups are important in a variety of settings because they calculate the percent of a value that can be added to the original value. In a retail environment, an item that is purchased for $5.00 with a percentage markup of 25 percent should be sold for $6.25. Sales tax is calculated in a similar way. Percentage markups are used in retail, government and business environments to calculate the percent of a value that will be added to that value. Excel allows you to calculate percent markup values and then add them to your data.
After calculating percentage markups, you can use the SUM() function in Excel to add the markup values to the original value. For example, if your wholesale item costs $10 and the markup is 25 percent, the markup value is $2.50. Percentage markups are used in retail, government and business environments to calculate the percent of a value that will be added to that value. Excel allows you to calculate percent markup values and then add them to your data.
To total a series of numbers in a row or column, you can select a range of values and derive their sum with a single click. Step 1. Type the percentages you want to add into a row or column of worksheet cells. Use the Tab key to move from cell to cell across a row and the Enter or Return key to traverse a column. Step 2. Click on the row-number or column-letter heading to select the entire row or column that contains your values. 
Multiply by a percentage. Important The calculated results of formulas and some Excel worksheet functions may differ slightly between a Windows PC using x86 or x86-64 architecture and a Windows RT PC using ARM architecture. Multiply an entire column of numbers by a percentage. In this example table, we’ve got just a few numbers to multiply by 15 percent. Even if the column has 100 or 1000 cells of data, Excel can still handle it in a few steps.
1 To get around this, you can calculate your numbers as percentages first. 2  For example, if you type the formula =10/100 in cell A2, Excel will display the result as 0.1. 3  If you then format that decimal as a percentage, the number will be displayed as 10% , as you ‘d expect. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You either format the cell to have the % sign, or if you want to add x% to the value you create the formula #*1.x where # is either a cell reference, or a number and x is the percentage as a decimal. 27*1.05 will give you 27 + 5% for example. Source(s): 
Open Microsoft Excel. Step 2. Enter the percentage you wish to add in cell B1 and include the percent sign, which automatically formats the number as a percentage. As an example, you might enter 50% in cell B1. To avoid confusion, enter Markup Percentage in cell A1, so you know the number in B1 is your markup. Related Reading: How to Formulate a Percentage in Excel. Step 3. List the values to which you wish to add a percentage in column A, beginning at cell A2. For dollar values, adding the dollar sign automatically formats the number as currency. As an example, you might enter $20.00, $10.75, $15.25 and $7.95 in cells A2 through A5
How to increase / reduce an entire column by a percentage. Suppose, you have a column of numbers that you want to increase or reduce by a certain percent, and you want to have the updated numbers in the same column rather than add a new column with the formula. Here are 5 quick steps to handle this task: 1. The following formula will help: Total * Percentage = Amount. Assuming that the total value is in cell A2 and percent in B2, the above formula turns into a simple =A2*B2 and returns 104.50. Remember, when you type a number followed by the percent sign (%) in Excel, the number is interpreted as a hundredth of its value.
And here’s the result: all the numbers multiplied by 15%. Tip You can also multiply the column to subtract a percentage. To subtract 15%, add a negative sign in front of the percentage, and subtract the percentage from 1, using the formula =1- n %, where n is the percentage. So to subtract 15% use =1-15% as the formula. Finally, follow the same steps as above. Multiply an entire column of numbers by a percentage. In this example table, we’ve got just a few numbers to multiply by 15 percent. Even if the column has 100 or 1000 cells of data, Excel can still handle it in a few steps.