Anal fistula, or fistula-in-ano, is a chronic abnormal communication between the epithelialised surface of the anal canal and (usually) the perianal skin. Anal fistulae originate from the anal glands, which are located between the internal and external anal sphincter and drain into the anal canal. 
Fistulotomy. A fistulotomy is the most commonly used type of anal fistula surgery, used in 85-95% of cases. It involves cutting open the whole length of the fistula, from the internal opening to the external opening. The surgeon will flush out the contents and flatten it out. Surgery. The aim of surgery is to heal the fistula while avoiding damage to the sphincter muscles (the ring of muscles that open and close the anus). Damage to the sphincter muscles could lead to bowel incontinence, where you do not have control over your bowels.
Treatment is usually necessary to reduce the chances of infection in an anal fistula, as well to alleviate symptoms. An anal fistula is defined as a small tunnel with an internal opening in the anal canal and an external opening in the skin near the anus. Anal fistulas form when an anal abscess, that's drained, doesn't heal completely. Different types of anal fistulas are classified by their location. Diagnosis. It is usually simple to locate the external opening of an anal fistula, meanwhile locating the internal opening can be more challenging. It is important to be able to find the entire fistula for effective treatment.
1 LIFT allows the surgeon to access the fistula between the sphincter muscles and avoid cutting them. 2  A seton is first placed into the fistula tract, forcing it to widen over time. 3  Several weeks later, the surgeon removes infected tissue and closes the internal fistula opening. In cases of complex fistula, more-invasive procedures may be recommended, including: 1  Ostomy and stoma. 2  The surgeon creates a temporary opening in the abdomen to divert waste into a collection bag, to allow the anal area time to heal.
(December 2009). A seton or seton stitch is, in medicine, a procedure used to aid the healing of fistulae (abnormal connections between two epithelium-lined organs or vessels). 
1 The surgeon places a silk or latex string (seton) into the fistula to help drain the infection. 2  Fibrin glue and collagen plug. 3  The surgeon clears the channel and stitches shut the internal opening. 4  Special glue made from a fibrous protein (fibrin) is then injected through the fistula's external opening. In cases of complex fistula, more-invasive procedures may be recommended, including: 1  Ostomy and stoma. 2  The surgeon creates a temporary opening in the abdomen to divert waste into a collection bag, to allow the anal area time to heal.
OK for all that know nothing to little about what a seton is: A seton or seton stitch is a medical term for a procedure used to aid the healing of fistulae. The procedure involves running a surgical-grade cord through the fistula tract so that the cord creates a loop that joins up outside the fistula. By repeated tightening of the Seton stitch, it can also be used to gradually cut through the fistula wall. The fistula gradually heals over behind the cutting Seton thereby slowly moving the fistula until it is outside the body and therefore no longer a problem. The procedure was mentioned by Hippocrates
In this procedure, the surgeon opens the fistula tunnel. To accomplish this, a small portion of the anal sphincter usually is cut. Once the tunnel is open, it is then converted to a groove, which allows the fistula to heal from the inside out. Stitches are generally not needed and a dressing may be put in place. 