Staphylococcus aureus, otherwise known as Staph., is a very common type of bacteria (or germ). Up to half of all people carry Staph on their skin and in other areas of the body. In most of these people, Staph lives harmlessly on the body. But Staph sometimes does cause actual infections. As with ordinary Staph, some people carry MRSA on their skin without developing infections. Also, MRSA may also cause the same kinds of infection as ordinary Staph does. The main difference is that MRSA should be treated with different kinds of antibiotics than ordinary Staph.
You can develop an infection from MRSA if your skin is colonized and the bacteria enter an opening (eg, a cut, scrape, or wound) in the skin. MRSA RISK FACTORS. Anyone can become colonized and then infected with MRSA, although certain people are at a higher risk. Staphylococcus aureus (Staph aureus or  Staph ) is a bacterium that is carried on the skin or nasal lining of up to 30 percent of healthy individuals.
MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) is a potentially dangerous type of staph bacteria. Staph is commonly carried on the skin or in the nose of healthy people and can sometimes cause infection. MRSA is resistant to treatment by certain antibiotics. Although the infection may start as a minor skin sore, it can become serious, sometimes even fatal.
MRSA stands for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus .. Staphylococcus aureus (also known as staph) is a bacteria commonly carried on the skin or in the nose of healthy people. Staphylococcus aureus is carried in the nose by 10 to 40% of people in the community and the hospital environment. In 2001 and 2002 in the United States, it was estimated that 32% of non-hospitalized individuals were colonized with Staph bacteria and 0.8% were colonized with MRSA. There are certain groups of people that are at higher risk for being colonized or carriers of MRSA.
MRSA is transmitted by having direct contact with someone who has an active infection, someone who is a carrier of the infection, or a contaminated object. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (or MRSA for short) is a strain of bacteria resistant to certain types of antibiotics. It is a less common, but potentially more serious, form of the common staph infection. It is estimated that up to 7 percent of people in hospitals and up to 2 percent of people in the community are carriers of the MRSA infection. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (or MRSA for short) is a strain of bacteria resistant to certain types of antibiotics.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staphylococcus or staph bacterium that is resistant to many antibiotics. Staph bacteria, like other kinds of bacteria, normally live on your skin and in your nose, usually without causing problems. 
Staphylococcus aureus is a bacteria. Called “staph” for short, it is one of the most common germs found on people’s skin and in their noses. 20-30% of the general public are nasal carriers. Most of the time it doesn’t do any harm, but sometimes staph gets into the body and causes an infection. 
ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT STAPH INFECTIONS. Staphylococcus aureus (Staph aureus or  Staph ) is a bacterium that is carried on the skin or nasal lining of up to 30 percent of healthy individuals. In this setting, the bacteria usually cause no symptoms
Anyone can develop a staph infection, although certain groups of people are at greater risk, including newborn infants, breastfeeding women, and people with chronic conditions such as diabetes, cancer, vascular disease, and lung disease. 