1 Thin Loop of Henle. 2  Both the descending and ascending arms of the thin loop of Henle are histologically similar and are composed of a simple squamous epithelium. 3  These cells are not very metabolically active, consistent with the fact that they do not participate in any active transport of water or solutes. 1 As one traverses along the nephron, the morphology and functionality of the tubular epithelial cells changes, thus defining functional segments which are involved in resorption and secretion of different sets of molecules. 2  Here we only provide a brief histological description of the segments of the nephron
Other places simple squamous epithelia can be found include; the glomerulus of the kidney, the walls of capillaries, and the alveoli of the lungs, to name a few. Here they are forming a thin sheet-like layer which allows for minimal resistance to diffusion. Here we see simple squamous epithelia as seen in cross section. Simple Squamous Epithelium. In this silver stained, whole mount of a simple squamous epithleium, we see it as it would look from a top view. These cells are large, but quite thin, and have a prominent, protruding nucleus. A good analogy to their shape is the sunny-side-up fried egg.
Renal Corpuscle. Blood plasma is filtered here. Renal corpuscle consists of a ball of capillaries called glomerulus which is enclosed in glomerular capsule made up of a parietal layer with simple squamous epithelium and a visceral layer rich in cells called podocytes. The DCT is the end of the nephron, and is made up of cuboidal epithelium. It is shorter and less convoluted than PCT. Collecting Duct. The collecting duct passes down into the renal medulla and it receives fluid from many nephrons.
Overview. 1  The nephron is a long, winding tubule that extends from the Bowman's Capsule and ends in the renal papillae. 2  The nephron possesses a simple epithelium lined by a single layer of cells which can generically be referred to as tubular epithelial cells. 1 As one traverses along the nephron, the morphology and functionality of the tubular epithelial cells changes, thus defining functional segments which are involved in resorption and secretion of different sets of molecules. 2  Here we only provide a brief histological description of the segments of the nephron
The parietal epithelium of Bowman's Capsule is a layer of simple squamous epithelium lining the outer border of the corpuscle. The visceral epithelium of Bowman's capsule (or podocytes) surrounds the capillary endothelial cells, with mesangial cells filling in the spaces between closely apposed capillaries. Each nephron drains into a collecting tubule, which serves as a duct system to conduct the urine out of the Kidney. The glomeruli and the proximal and distal convoluted tubules are found in the cortex. The descending loop of Henle leaves the cortex and enters the medulla, returning to the cortex as the ascending loop.
(June 2011). Bowman's capsule (or the Bowman capsule, capsula glomeruli, or glomerular capsule) is a cup-like sac at the beginning of the tubular component of a nephron in the mammalian kidney that performs the first step in the filtration of blood to form urine. A glomerulus is enclosed in the sac. Fluids from blood in the glomerulus are collected in the Bowman's capsule (i.e., glomerular filtrate) and further processed along the nephron to form urine. This process is known as ultrafiltration.
Second, the loop of Henle, This has a thick descending portion (pars recta), a thin descending portion, a thin ascending portion, and a thick ascending portion. The lumen is made up of simple squamous epithelium. This part of the nephron is hard to tell apart from adjacent capillaries, except that there are no red blood cells in the lumen. Finally, the distal convoluted tubule. These tubules are less numerous than the proximal convoluted tubules. 
Squamous. Squamous means scale-like. simple squamous epithelium is a single layer of flat scale-shaped cells. Both the endothelial lining of blood vessels and the mesothelial lining of the body cavities are simple squamous epithelium. Try to identify the simple squamous epithelia in these pictures. 
Loop of Henle. The U-shaped nephron loop is divided into two portions: a descending limb that passes from cortex into the medulla; an ascending limb that passes from the medulla back to the cortex. Besides, loop of Henle is also divided into thick and thin segments. The DCT is the end of the nephron, and is made up of cuboidal epithelium. It is shorter and less convoluted than PCT. Collecting Duct. The collecting duct passes down into the renal medulla and it receives fluid from many nephrons.