Fructose is a monosaccharide, or single sugar, that has the same chemical formula as glucose but a different molecular structure. Sometimes called fruit sugar, fructose is found in fruit, some vegetables, honey, and other plants. Fructose and other sugars are carbohydrates, an important source of energy for the body. 
Glucose. Another type of simple sugar is glucose, which is the most common form of carbohydrate. It is derived from starches. When you eat starches, your body converts them to glucose, which raises blood sugar levels and supplies your body with energy. Your body metabolizes glucose via the intestinal tract, causing a rise in blood sugar.
Digestion. Sucrose digestion does not begin until the sugar reaches the small intestine. Your body cannot absorb polysaccharides as is, so it must first break sucrose down into its component parts. Through a process called hydrolysis, water assists in severing the glycosidic bond to separate the glucose and fructose molecules; one molecule of water is needed for each molecule of sucrose. However, this reaction naturally occurs very slowly
Sucrose, commonly known as table sugar, consists of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of fructose. Sugars like sucrose that consist of three or more molecules are called polysaccharides and are joined by a glycosidic bond, a special chemical link that binds carbohydrates together. Through a process called hydrolysis, water assists in severing the glycosidic bond to separate the glucose and fructose molecules; one molecule of water is needed for each molecule of sucrose. However, this reaction naturally occurs very slowly
Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Glucose. 
Simple carbohydrates are classified as either monosaccharides or disaccharides. Monosaccharides are the simplest, most basic units of carbohydrates and are made up of only one sugar unit. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharides and are the building blocks of sucrose, a disaccharide. Thus, disaccharides are just a pair of linked sugar molecules. They are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed -- a dehydration reaction. Sucrose is commonly known as table sugar, and is obtained from sugar cane or sugar beets. Fruits and vegetables also naturally contain sucrose. When sucrose is consumed, the enzyme beta-fructosidase separates sucrose into its individual sugar units of glucose and fructose.
Fructose, or fruit sugar, is a simple ketonic monosaccharide found in many plants, where it is often bonded to glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose. It is one of the three dietary monosaccharides, along with glucose and galactose, that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion. Fructose was discovered by French chemist Augustin-Pierre Dubrunfaut in 1847.
Glucose and fructose are the two simple sugars in sucrose. Fruit sugar is made up of sucrose, the same disaccharide found in your sugar bowl, and fructose, which is also a simple sugar. About Sugar. Sugar is a carbohydrate. Sucrose, which you may know better as table sugar, is made from sugar beets or sugar cane and is a disaccharide, meaning it consists of two simple sugar molecules, or monosaccharides.
Sugar cane is a natural source of sucrose, or table sugar. Sucrose, glucose and fructose are important carbohydrates, commonly referred to as simple sugars. Sugar is found naturally in whole foods and is often added to processed foods to sweeten them and increase flavor. Sucrose is commonly known as table sugar, and is obtained from sugar cane or sugar beets. Fruits and vegetables also naturally contain sucrose. When sucrose is consumed, the enzyme beta-fructosidase separates sucrose into its individual sugar units of glucose and fructose.