(February 2013). A standing rib roast, also known as prime rib, is a cut of beef from the primal rib, one of the nine primal cuts of beef. While the entire rib section comprises ribs six through 12, a standing rib roast may contain anywhere from two to seven ribs. 
Three ribeye steaks. In the steak at top left, you can clearly see the crescent-shaped ribeye cap along the top edge, the large longissimus muscle in the middle, and the small triangular lip at the bottom. Roberto A Sanchez / Getty Images. Ribeye steaks are steaks that are cut from the beef rib primal cut. And oh, are they tender. 
Twittear. The rib eye or ribeye (also known as Scotch fillet in Australia and New Zealand) is a beef steak from the rib section. The rib section of beef spans from ribs six through twelve. Ribeye steaks are mostly composed of the Longissimus dorsi muscle but also contain the Complexus and Spinalis muscles. Meat from the rib section is more tender and fattier than most other cuts of beef. This extra fat makes ribeye steaks and roasts especially tender and flavourful, and well suited to dry heat cookery.
1 One of the most tender beef cuts. 2  Prepared from the boneless Beef Ribeye, Lip-On, IMPS #112A. 3  Convenient and versatile, these boneless steaks can be ordered any thickness for a variety of menu options. 4  Fine-grained and full-flavored with generous marbling. 1 Prepared from the boneless Beef Ribeye, Lip-On, IMPS #112A. 2
USDA Choice beef rib eye steak. A rib steak is a beef steak sliced from the rib primal of a beef animal, with rib bone attached. In the United States, the term rib eye steak is used for a rib steak with the bone removed; however in some areas, and outside the U.S., the terms are often used interchangeably. The term cowboy ribeye or cowboy cut is often used in American restaurants for a bone-in rib eye. The rib eye or ribeye was originally, as the name implies, the center best portion of the rib steak, without the bone. In Australia, ribeye is used when this cut is served with the bone in.
Fat is where a lot of the distinctive flavor of beef comes from, making ribeye one of the richest, beefiest cut available. The central eye of meat tends to be smooth textured with a finer grain than a strip steak, while the Spinalis section will have a looser grain and more fat. Where It's Cut From: The Longissimus dorsi muscle, towards the rear-end of the steer in the Short loin primal (that's the primal just behind the ribs). What It Tastes Like: Tight texture with a definite grain means strip steaks are moderately tender, but still have a bit of chew. Good marbling and a strong beefy flavor.
A large end rib roast is cut from the part of the rib section nearest the chuck, so the steaks are bigger but tougher. The small end rib roast = sirloin tip roast includes the ribs next to the choice loin section, so the meat's more tender and lean. 
The rib eye or ribeye (also known as Scotch fillet in Australia and New Zealand) is a beef steak from the rib section. The rib section of beef spans from ribs six through twelve. The term cowboy ribeye or cowboy cut is often used in American restaurants for a bone-in rib eye. The rib eye or ribeye was originally, as the name implies, the center best portion of the rib steak, without the bone. In Australia, ribeye is used when this cut is served with the bone in.
There is lot confusion on names. Butchers, markets, and restaurants often call them by different names. But essentially a “rib steak” and “ribeye steak” are the same cut of beef. Ribeyes are boneless and rib steaks include the bone. Sometimes rib steaks are called “bone-in ribeyes”, “rib chops”, and “cowboy steak”. A “Delmonico” is a boneless ribeye that is pounded flat before cooking. Regardless, it’s love at first bite. You guessed it. A rib steak, ribeye steak and a prime rib roast are essentially the same cut of beef. A multiple “prime rib roast” is slow-roasted in the oven. When individually sliced between the ribs, it becomes a steak that is best when grilled or broiled.
While there's flank steak, hanger steak, skirt steak, and countless other cuts of beef that are classified as steak, we're going to focus on four popular and more expensive cuts, the ones you see at a steakhouse: tenderloin, New York, T-bone, and ribeye. Pin it. 