Depending on the competition, there may be need to find a winner on one particular game (say, a knock-out round) and the game end on a tie. In that case an extra-time period of two halves of 15 minutes each will be played. · just now. Report Abuse. A football match consists in two halves of 45 minutes each (continuous clock), at the end of which the referee may assign some extra minutes depending on the stoppages that may have occured during the half. Between the halves there is a 15-minute interval.
The standard length of a regulation soccer game is 90 minutes. This consists of two 45-minute periods separated by a half-time break. The half-time break can last as long as 15 minutes. Unlike sports such as football or basketball, there is no stoppage of time in soccer; the 45-minute period runs continuously from the opening kickoff. 
A standard adult football match consists of two periods of 45 minutes each, known as halves. Each half runs continuously, meaning that the clock is not stopped when the ball is out of play. There is usually a 15-minute half-time break between halves. The end of the match is known as full-time. Association football, more commonly known as football or soccer, is a sport played between two teams of eleven players with a spherical ball. It is played by 250 million players in over 150 countries, making it the world's most popular sport. The game is played on a rectangular field with a goal at each end
The number of players it takes to play a soccer match depends on how many players you have to start with. However, for teams playing a normal 11 v. 11 game, there can be … no more than 11 players on the field, and no less than 7 players. there are 3 periods in a hockey game. in the NHL a periode lasts 20min. In the youth games most last 12 min. The kids that are 13 and up play 14min.
In a professional soccer league many matches generally end in a draw but in many playoff competitions like world cup (unless the game is a group match). The official soccer rules state that a game cannot end with 0-0 in regular time (90 minutes + injury time). The game will break for some minutes and then continue further with two 15 minutes periods (Note also that 15 minutes periods don't have injury time. If a player gets hurt the clock will not be stopped. 
Standard Time. A regulation soccer game is divided into two halves of 45 minutes each. These two periods combine to make up the standard 90 minute length of a soccer game. The official FIFA Laws of the Game states the standard match length can be altered before the game begins if the referee and both teams agree. Such an occurrence is very rare in professional soccer.
0Shares. Coaches and players often preach the need to play for the full 90 minutes in a soccer game. It makes sense: Soccer matches are 90 minutes long by definition. The clock starts from the opening whistle, takes a break for halftime and winds all the way through to its conclusion. The problem is that coaches and players are wrong. A soccer games rarely lasts just 90 minutes. Unlike most other major sports, there is no clock on a scoreboard that must be obeyed, and no buzzer that goes off to signal the end. Time, is in fact, just a suggestion to the man in the middle.