In English, Nigella sativa seed is variously called kalonji (from Hindi), fennel flower, nutmeg flower, black caraway, and Roman coriander. Other names used, sometimes misleadingly, are black cumin, black onion seed and black sesame. The seeds of Nigella sativa are used as a spice in Indian and Middle Eastern cuisines. The black seeds taste like a combination of onions, black pepper and oregano.
1 Kalonji oil for diabetes prevention: The use of Kalonji oil is beneficial in the management and prevention of Diabetes. 2  A mixture is prepared with the decoction of black tea (1cup) and Kalonji oil (½tsp). 3  It is suggested to take the mix in the morning and before going to bed. 1 The mixture should be continued for a week. 2  Kalonji oil to cure joint pain :The mixture of Kalonji oil (½ tsp), vinegar (1 cup) and honey (2 tsp) is applied over the joints twice a day. 3  It is good to relieve joint pain as well in the prevention of arthritis.
1 Kalonji oil cures baldness. 2  Rub Kalonji oil on the head twice a day, which is helpful to prevent baldness. 3  Baldness can also be prevented when a mixture of coffee (one cup) is taken along with Kalonji oil (1 spoon) twice a day. 4  Rub your hair with lime juice, leave it for 15 minutes. 1 Rub Kalonji oil on the head twice a day, which is helpful to prevent baldness. 2  Baldness can also be prevented when a mixture of coffee (one cup) is taken along with Kalonji oil (1 spoon) twice a day. 3  Rub your hair with lime juice, leave it for 15 minutes. 4  Now, wash it with shampoo and use Kalonji oil when hair gets dry.
Kalonji is an herb. Kalonji is small black Seeds, Black seeds jise Urdu and Normal Hindi me Kalonji kaha jata hai, this is a wonderful herb. Yeah chmatkarik jadi boti hai, Kalonji ka scientific name. It is important “Black cumin (kalajira) bhi Kalonji ki tarha dikhai deta he but black cumin different from Negilla Sativa (Kalonji). Kaljira and kalonji me farq hota he. Benefits of KALONJI (black seeds): 1  Intestinal worms (pait ke kide):- Intestinal worms yani pet ke kide Kalonji khane se khtam ho jate he.
1 Kalonji oil for Healthy kidney: Kalonji oil prevents stone formation in the kidney. 2  For this, it is suggested to take the mix of Kalonji oil (½ tsp), warm water (1 cup), honey (2 tsp). 3  The mixture should be taken twice a day. 4  To relieve from kidney pain or renal coli, the mix of kalonji and honey should be taken. 1 The mixture should be continued for a week. 2  Kalonji oil to cure joint pain :The mixture of Kalonji oil (½ tsp), vinegar (1 cup) and honey (2 tsp) is applied over the joints twice a day. 3  It is good to relieve joint pain as well in the prevention of arthritis.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Kalonji, which may also be called nigella, refers to small black seeds grown on Kalonji bushes, which are grown widely through India. The plant may have originally been grown in Turkey and/or Italy, but according to herbal lore has been grown in India for several millennia. Kalonji seeds are about the same size as sesame seeds, though they have a more triangular instead of oval shape. In foods, you’ll find kalonji seeds in a variety of recipes. They may be added to traditional Indian flatbread (naan), any type of curry or stew, and to dal.
In the short: Kalonjis’s scientific name is Nigella Sativa. Nigella sativa, black seeds (KALONJI) are very useful Herbs. This Herb is beneficial for in the all disease. It is remedy and treatment for all disease. Black seed is a natural remedy. It is better for everybody helath. It is important “Black cumin (kalajira) bhi Kalonji ki tarha dikhai deta he but black cumin different from Negilla Sativa (Kalonji). Kaljira and kalonji me farq hota he. Benefits of KALONJI (black seeds): 1  Intestinal worms (pait ke kide):- Intestinal worms yani pet ke kide Kalonji khane se khtam ho jate he.
In English, Kalonji is known as Samal Fennel, the Hindi name of Kalonji is Kalonji or Mangralia; Kalonji is known Mogrel in Bengali, and in Gujarati it is called Kalonji. In Malayalam, Kalonji’s name is Ell or Karum Jiragam and in Marathi, the black cumin is called Kale Til. 1 Rub Kalonji oil on the head twice a day, which is helpful to prevent baldness. 2  Baldness can also be prevented when a mixture of coffee (one cup) is taken along with Kalonji oil (1 spoon) twice a day. 3  Rub your hair with lime juice, leave it for 15 minutes. 4  Now, wash it with shampoo and use Kalonji oil when hair gets dry.