Other species of fern called “fiddlehead” include the bracken fern (Pterdidium species), a family of ferns that is fairly common worldwide, eaten all over Asia and the Pacific Islands, and by some Native American groups on both the East and West Coasts of the US and Canada. The type of fiddlehead we most commonly see here on the East Coast are bright green, with tightly coiled heads delicately curled like the scroll of a violin, sometimes with bits of the forest floor still clinging to them.
Fiddleheads, also known as fiddlehead ferns, are a springtime delicacy consisting of the tightly coiled fronds of a new fern, named because of their resemblance to the curled decoration at the end of a stringed instrument. Bracken is a type of fern. It looks like the head of a fiddle when it first comes out of the ground, just like every other type of fern. Some types of ferns are edible when they are in the fiddlehead stage. The most commonly eaten is the ostrich fern.
Fiddlehead sculpture at the Saint John Arts Centre by sculptor Jim Boyd in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada. Fiddleheads or fiddlehead greens are the furled fronds of a young fern, harvested for use as a vegetable. Left on the plant, each fiddlehead would unroll into a new frond (circinate vernation). (See bracken poisoning). The fiddlehead resembles the curled ornamentation (called a scroll) on the end of a stringed instrument, such as a violin. It is also called a crozier, after the curved staff used by bishops, which has its origins in the shepherd's crook.
Definition of FIDDLEHEAD. : one of the young unfurling fronds of some ferns that are often eaten as greens —called also fiddlehead fern. See fiddlehead defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Fiddleheads are the new fronds of the ostrich fern (Matteuccia struthiopteris), and get their colloquial name because their coiled form looks like the head of a fiddle. These springtime delicacies have a taste reminiscent of asparagus, freeze well, and are easy to prepare, but they are not without their risks. 1 Fiddleheads available in grocery stores are safe to eat, but care should be taken if you are foraging for these greens on your own. 2  Correctly identify a fiddlehead. 3  While there are many varieties of fern, the ostrich fern is the only one that is edible and safe to eat.
Picture 1 – Fiddlehead Fern. ‘Fiddlehead’ is the young coiled fern frond with a distinguished look resembling a violin scroll. They are also known as ‘fiddlehead greens’ due to their bright green color. The unique shape of fiddleheads compliments the beauty of the plant. Fiddlehead greens are known to be rich in iron and fibre despite of having antioxidant properties as well. Amongst them the Ostrich fiddlehead fern, Bracken, Cinnamon fern, Royal fern and Vegetable fern are some of the most popular ones. However it is the Ostrich fiddlehead fern that is universally used and considered safest to eat. The rest of the ferns are usually slightly toxic.
Few vegetables are as beautiful as fiddleheads, the shoots of various species of fern. The type of fiddlehead we most commonly see here on the East Coast are bright green, with tightly coiled heads delicately curled like the scroll of a violin, sometimes with bits of the forest floor still clinging to them.
Fiddleheads are ferns before they become ferns. They are the furled up stage of a fern when they just start to shoot through the ground in spring. As they emerge through the fertile, wet April soil, they grown and unfurl quickly, sometimes lasting just a few days in their furled up stage. 