PRESCRIBED FOR: Atenolol is prescribed for patients with high blood pressure (hypertension). It also is used to treat chest pain (angina pectoris) related to coronary artery disease. Atenolol also is useful in slowing and regulating certain types of abnormally rapid heart rates (tachycardias). 
A: Tenormin (atenolol) is a medication called a beta blocker that is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), angina (chest pain), to improve survival after a heart attack, and irregular heartbeat. A: Atenolol (Tenormin) is a beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions. According to the manufacturer, atenolol (Tenormin) can induce or exacerbate psoriasis. Discuss this with your health care provider, who may have other treatment options that won't affect your psoriasis.
Uses of This Medicine. Atenolol is used alone or together with other medicines (such as hydrochlorothiazide) to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Atenolol is also used to help prevent chest pain and to decrease the severity of heart attacks. This medicine is a beta-blocker. It works by affecting the response to nerve impulses in certain parts of the body, like the heart.
A: Atenolol (Tenormin) belongs to the group of drugs called beta blockers. Atenolol works by reducing heart rate and blood pressure. It is used in patients with high blood pressure (hypertension) or chest pain (angina) and to treat or prevent heart attacks. A: Atenolol (Tenormin) is a beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions. According to the manufacturer, atenolol (Tenormin) can induce or exacerbate psoriasis. Discuss this with your health care provider, who may have other treatment options that won't affect your psoriasis.
A: Atenolol is a medication used to treat various conditions of the heart and blood vessels. It is in a class of medications called beta blockers. By blocking beta receptors from stress hormones that cause high blood pressure and increased heart rate, this medication helps to alleviate those issues. A: Atenolol (Tenormin) is a beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions. According to the manufacturer, atenolol (Tenormin) can induce or exacerbate psoriasis. Discuss this with your health care provider, who may have other treatment options that won't affect your psoriasis.
Atenolol, sold under the brand name Tenormin, is a prescription drug used to treat high blood pressure. It is also used to treat angina and chest pain, and has been shown to improve survival rates after a heart attack by decreasing the severity of the heart attack. A: Atenolol (Tenormin) is a beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions. According to the manufacturer, atenolol (Tenormin) can induce or exacerbate psoriasis. Discuss this with your health care provider, who may have other treatment options that won't affect your psoriasis.
Uses. Atenolol is used with or without other medications to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. This medication is also used to treat chest pain (angina) and to improve survival after a heart attack. Atenolol belongs to a class of drugs known as beta blockers. It works by blocking the action of certain natural chemicals in your body, such as epinephrine, on the heart and blood vessels
Atenolol may cause drowsiness. What is Atenolol: Atenolol is a beta-blocker. Beta-blockers affect the heart and circulatory system (arteries and veins). Atenolol is used to treat certain heart conditions such as arrhythmias. It is also used to lower blood pressure and to treat enlarged hearts in cat