In 306 BC, Salamis was the site of a naval battle between the fleets of Demetrius I of Macedon and Ptolemy I of Egypt. Demetrius won the battle and captured the island. In Roman times, Salamis was part of the Roman province of Cilicia. The seat of the governor was relocated to Paphos. The most important ruler of the kingdom of Salamis was EvagorasI (410–374 BC), who became ruler of the whole island, and won its independence from the Persian Empire. Salamis was afterwards besieged and conquered by Artaxerxes III.
The centre of Salamis during the Roman period was to the north of the city, where the present entrance is located. Excavations so far include the gymnasium and theatre, which have been extensively renovated. The theatre is frequently used for concerts. 
Salamis (Ancient Greek: σαλαμίς) is an ancient Greek city-state on the east coast of Cyprus, at the mouth of the river Pedieos, 6 km north of modern Famagusta. The most important ruler of the kingdom of Salamis was EvagorasI (410–374 BC), who became ruler of the whole island, and won its independence from the Persian Empire. Salamis was afterwards besieged and conquered by Artaxerxes III.
Aeschylus. The Battle of Salamis was a naval battle between the Greek city-states and Persia, fought in September, 480 BC in the straits between Piraeus and Salamis, a small island in the Saronic Gulf near Athens, Greece. Background. Battle of Salamis. Conflict. The Athenians had fled to Salamis after the Battle of Thermopylae in August, 480 BC, while the Persians occupied and burned their city. The Greek fleet joined them there in August after the indecisive Battle of Artemisium.
The island is famous for its the well knowd Battle of Salamis which took place in the year 480 BC. In this battle the Athenian admiral Themistocles defeated the Persian fleet that was sent by their ruler Xerxes. Nowadays the headquarters of the Greek navy are located at Salamis. Sights of the island of Salamis or Salamina in Greece. Ambelakia-the ancient harbour of the island, Koulouris, is situated 4 kilometers southeast of the capital in Ambelakia. In the sea are remains of ancient buildings. There are remains of walls from the old Acropolis and of streets.
Welcome to the Salamis google satellite map! This place is situated in Attiki, Attiki, Greece, its geographical coordinates are 37° 58' 0 North, 23° 29' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Salamis. Salamís See salamis photos and images from satellite, below explore the aerial photographs Of salamis In. greece Salamis: map | 3d map » | hotel » | car rental ». Welcome to the Salamis google satellite map! This place is situated in Attiki, Attiki, Greece, its geographical coordinates are 37° 58' 0 North, 23° 29' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Salamis. salamís
detailed map of Salamis and near places. Welcome to the Salamis google satellite map! This place is situated in Attiki, Attiki, Greece, its geographical coordinates are 37° 58' 0 North, 23° 29' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Salamis. salamís Salamis: map | 3d map » | hotel » | car rental »
Salamis-Ancient Roman City. The ancient city of Salamis became the capital of Cyprus as far back as 1100 BC. The city shared the destiny of the rest of the island during the successive occupations by the various dominant powers of the Near East, viz. the Assyrians, Egyptians, Persians, and Romans. 
Battle of Salamis where the Greek naval fleet defeats the invading armada of Xerxes I of Persia. 479 BCE. Xerxes ' Persian forces are defeated by Greek forces at Plataea effectively ending Persia 's imperial ambitions in Greece. c. 415 BCE. The Histories of Herodotus is published. Greece then, lay open to the invaders and Persian forces rampaged through the Greek poleis or city-states, sacking even Athens itself. Some 30 Greek poleis, however, were preparing to fight back and the Battle of Salamis would show Xerxes that Greece, or at least a large chunk of it, was far from being conquered.
The chief city, Salamina, lies in the west-facing core of the crescent on Salamis Bay, which opens into the Saronic Gulf. On the Eastern side of the island is its main port, Paloukia, in size second in Greece only to Piraeus, the port of Athens. The oldest known counting board was discovered on Salamis Island in 1899. It is thought to have been used by the Babylonians in about 300 BC and is more of a gaming board rather than a calculating device. It is marble, about 150 x 75 x 4.5 cm (2 in), and has carved Greek symbols and parallel grooves.