1 If the baby starts crying, check its diaper. 2  If there is poop, or if the diaper is wet, the diaper needs to be changed. 3  Get a fresh diaper before undoing the old one. 4  To Change a diaper, get out baby wipes, a fresh diaper, and something to keep the baby occupied while you change it. 5  First, undo the diaper. 1 Make sure there is nothing that the baby could play with in the crib. 2  It could distract the baby and it won't want to go to sleep. 3  Also, soft toys should never be in a crib, because a baby could suffocate. 4  Keep big, fluffy blankets or pillows out of the crib.
When I was 12, I went through a babysitter course that included CPR and First Aid, and everything that a babysitter would need to know. So if the 12-year-old had a similar course, and of course is responsible and I know the parents, then sure I would let her babysit. Presumably, if a 12 year old is just barely old enough to be left home alone, they are not ready to be in charge when home alone. The NSPCC and RoSPA recommend that no one under the age of 16 years should be left to care for an infant.
1 If there is poop, or if the diaper is wet, the diaper needs to be changed. 2  Get a fresh diaper before undoing the old one. 3  To Change a diaper, get out baby wipes, a fresh diaper, and something to keep the baby occupied while you change it. 4  First, undo the diaper. 1 Make sure there is nothing that the baby could play with in the crib. 2  It could distract the baby and it won't want to go to sleep. 3  Also, soft toys should never be in a crib, because a baby could suffocate. 4  Keep big, fluffy blankets or pillows out of the crib.
Things a Babysitter Should NOT Do :). My 17 year old, i.e. babysitter extraordinaire, with my 3 year old. Over my 21 years of parenting 10 children, I've had quite a few babysitters.....some good and some, well, you know. June 18, 2014 at 2:31 PM. Im am 15 years old. I babysit my 2 (almost 3) year old sister and a family friends 9 year old, an my 10 year old brother (who takes care of himself). The 9 year old, she is so sweet but she can be stubborn, smart mouthed and rude to the baby.
BABY BABYSITTER. My name is Geoffry two years ago when I had my 12 birthday (May 30) School would be out in less that two weeks mom told me I would be baby-sitting my two brothers for the summer. 
22 years old. Olivia O. Babysitter — Haverhill, MA. Hi have a beautiful daughter 26 years old she got marry 2 year ago I grow up her by my self till she was 6 years old then I meet my husband we always try to teach her love for god we are member of a c... 
Many of my friends that babysat in the area made closer to $12 for one child. I think it definitely depends on where you live – in my case it was a high cost of living area. I think if the babysitter is happy with the money, that’s all that matters. I charge $10 an hour for 1-2 kids, $11 for 3-4 kids, and $12 for 5-6 kids. The families I’ve been a regular sitter for have all had 2 kids so my rate didn’t change for them if one of the kids happened to have a friend over that day.
Basically, if your child is age seven or younger, they should never be left alone. Kids ages 8-10 can be alone briefly, and ages 10-13 for longer periods, provided there is back-up supervision. Babysitters should be at least 12-13 years old, and can babysit for longer periods as they grow older. Again, this is a very individual decision, and these ages are only general guidelines. You need to decide if your child is mature enough. 1 Do not hire a sitter under age 12. 2  Watch your child’s reaction when you tell them a sitter they know is coming, and listen to what your child says about the sitter afterward. 3  Meet the sitter in advance, and check references. 4  Make sure he or she knows CPR and first aid.
I always ask the babysitter up front if he or she has a set rate. If they don't, I usually give $5 an hour. (I have two kids, an 8 year old and a 3 year old.) But I think it depends what you are asking the babysitter to do. If you're talking about watching the child for a few hours, $4 to $5 an hour may be enough. If watching the child involves feedings and baths, $5 to $6 an hour is probably more appropriate. It ranged from $5/hour for four kids in the mid-west (what a deal!) to our $10/hour for two kids here in CA. I pay a few 16 yr olds $8/ hour and college students around age 20 yr old $10/hr. $8 for a 13 yr old sounds high to me! another mom. Our babysitter charges $6/hr. to watch our 4 year old son.