Many side effects are associated with montelukast, although they are not common. Side effects can include headaches, abdominal pain, abnormal dreams, drowsiness, heartburn, infections, insomnia, muscle aches and nausea. Function. Montelukast sodium blocks immune system components called leukotrienes that cause inflammation in the respiratory tract. Decreasing inflammation reduces swelling that narrows airways. Montelukast also relaxes bronchial tube walls.
Montelukast is a common prescription drug used in the treatment of asthma (including exercise-induced attacks) and an itchy, stuffy, or runny nose that is the result of allergies. 
Montelukast (trade names Singulair, Montelo-10, and Monteflo and Lukotas in India, Arokast in Bangladesh and Pulmikast in Pakistan) is a leukotriene receptor antagonist (LTRA) used for the maintenance treatment of asthma and to relieve symptoms of seasonal allergies. Montelukast is a CysLT1 antagonist; it blocks the action of leukotriene D4 (and secondary ligands LTC4 and LTE4) on the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor CysLT 1 in the lungs and bronchial tubes by binding to it. This reduces the bronchoconstriction otherwise caused by the leukotriene and results in less inflammation
Each 10-mg film-coated SINGULAIR tablet contains 10.4 mg montelukast sodium, which is equivalent to 10 mg of montelukast, and the following inactive ingredients: microcrystalline cellulose, lactose monohydrate, croscarmellose sodium, hydroxypropyl cellulose, and magnesium stearate. Before taking montelukast, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Montelukast sodium (Singulair) is a drug used for long-term prevention of asthma in adults and children aged 2 and older. Physicians also prescribe montelukast to relieve allergy symptoms, such as a runny nose, nasal congestion and sneezing. Function. Montelukast sodium blocks immune system components called leukotrienes that cause inflammation in the respiratory tract. Decreasing inflammation reduces swelling that narrows airways. Montelukast also relaxes bronchial tube walls.
The structural formula is: Montelukast sodium is a hygroscopic, optically active, white to off-white powder. Montelukast sodium is freely soluble in ethanol, methanol, and water and practically insoluble in acetonitrile. Before taking montelukast, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Montelukast is used for a number of conditions including asthma, exercise induced bronchospasm, allergic rhinitis, primary dysmenorrhoea and urticaria. It is mainly used as a complementary therapy in adults in addition to inhaled corticosteroids, if they alone do not bring the desired effect. Montelukast is a CysLT1 antagonist; it blocks the action of leukotriene D4 (and secondary ligands LTC4 and LTE4) on the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor CysLT 1 in the lungs and bronchial tubes by binding to it. This reduces the bronchoconstriction otherwise caused by the leukotriene and results in less inflammation
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Montelukast is an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist that is used for the treatment of asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis (hay fever). 