Corn oil (maize oil) is oil extracted from the germ of corn (maize). Its main use is in cooking, where its high smoke point makes refined corn oil a valuable frying oil. It is also a key ingredient in some margarines. Corn oil is generally less expensive than most other types of vegetable oils. One bushel of corn contains 1.55 pounds of corn oil (2.8% by weight). Corn agronomists have developed high-oil varieties; however, these varieties tend to show lower field yields, so they are not universally accepted by growers.
Corn or maize oil is extracted from the germ of corn, and its main use is for cooking. It is also a key ingredient in margarine and other processed foods. Corn oil is also a feedstock used for biodiesel. From 2012 to 2014, the use of nonfood-grade (NFG) corn oil for biodiesel production has grown tremendously. Corn oil contains 12.7 percent monounsaturated, 58.7 polyunsaturated, and 24.2 percent saturated fats. One important concern you should know about corn oil is that over 90 percent of corn and soy, two of the most common food ingredients today, are grown from genetically modified (GM) seeds.
Almost all corn oil is expeller-pressed, then solvent-extracted using hexane or 2-methylpentane (isohexane). The solvent is evaporated from the corn oil, recovered, and re-used. After extraction, the corn oil is then refined by degumming and/or alkali treatment, both of which remove phosphatides. Corn oil is generally less expensive than most other types of vegetable oils. One bushel of corn contains 1.55 pounds of corn oil (2.8% by weight). Corn agronomists have developed high-oil varieties; however, these varieties tend to show lower field yields, so they are not universally accepted by growers.
Corn oil is also a feedstock used for biodiesel. Other industrial uses for corn oil include soap, salve, paint, rustproofing for metal surfaces, inks, textiles, nitroglycerin, and insecticides. It is sometimes used as a carrier for drug molecules in pharmaceutical preparations. Corn oil is generally less expensive than most other types of vegetable oils. One bushel of corn contains 1.55 pounds of corn oil (2.8% by weight). Corn agronomists have developed high-oil varieties; however, these varieties tend to show lower field yields, so they are not universally accepted by growers.
Comparing corn oil to canola oil and soybean oil will give you an idea of how vegetable oil is different than corn oil. Although vegetable oil can mean any oil that comes from a plant, it usually refers to soybean oil, canola oil or a mix of oils. This type of oil can also include corn oil or oil from sunflower seeds. Read the ingredients label to determine exactly what type or types of oil are in your favorite brand of vegetable oil.
Canola and vegetable oils are both plant-based oils that are liquid at room temperature. They're both beneficial for heart health, and are commonly used in cooking and baking. Therefore, it may be difficult to determine which type of oil is the better option for you -- but subtle differences do exist. What Oils Are Made From. The main difference between vegetable and canola oils is the type of plant they are made from. Canola oil is extracted from rapeseed plants, which are related to mustard and cabbage plants. Vegetable oil on the other hand, is no other than soybean oil in many cases.