Financial experts estimate that the average person, after it all nets out, will need about 75 percent to 80 percent of their preretirement income to sustain their standard of living after they retire. But this is just a rule of thumb. Do your research, and then do the math to see how much retirement savings you need. First, figure out approximately how much you’ll need to spend, either on an annual basis or a monthly basis. If you do it by the month, don’t forget to add in expenses that only come once or twice a year, such as insurance bills, tax bills and vacation bills.
A common rule of thumb is that if you want to retire at 60, you will need about 15 times the amount you have calculated for your annual after-tax retirement expenses. So if you estimate $60,000 per year then you will need $900,000. If you can wait until 65, you may only need 13 times expenses, which will be $$780,000. When budgeting for retirement, try to go for the maximum life expectancy. Men can expect to live up to 86, women to age 90. This means if you retire at 60, you need to fund your living expenses for at least 26 to 30 years, if not more.
That results in a shortfall of $2,000 a month, or $24,000 per year. And $24,000 x 25 = $600,000. That’s the amount you need in your individual retirement account, 401(k) or other savings vehicle to close the gap of $2,000 a month. Like all the other numbers you project into retirement, these are estimates and averages. But you’re probably not average. First, figure out approximately how much you’ll need to spend, either on an annual basis or a monthly basis. If you do it by the month, don’t forget to add in expenses that only come once or twice a year, such as insurance bills, tax bills and vacation bills.
Your applicable amount is the amount that the Government says that you and your family need to live on each week. It is made up of either personal allowances only, or a combination of personal allowances and premiums. 
If you are forced to take out more than $40,000 adjusted for time during your retirement, you are tempting fate and relying on luck to get you by. So, if you want at least $40,000 per year, $1 million is really the least amount of money-the bare minimum-you should have before you launch into retirement. Retirement planning means maximizing your lifestyle while maintaining a high probability of being able to maintain that lifestyle until the day you die. But knowing how much you need to retire still boils down to projecting your future expenses until the day you die. Ideally, that yearly figure will add up to less than 4% of your nest egg. So a $1 million dollar portfolio should give you, at most, $40,000 to budget.
If you expect to live on more than the Age Pension ($22,365 for a single person, or $33,717 for a couple, effective from March 2015), you will need to find the extra income from your super and non-super savings. For the ‘comfortable’ lifestyle, part-Age Pension eligibility is likely for a couple, and a small part-Age Pension may be possible for a single person. The lump sum amount you need to invest for retirement is usually different for each person, depending on the size of the Age Pension entitlement.
Don't rely exclusively on the experts to tell you how much you'll need to live comfortably when you retire. Most retirement articles or website calculators say you need 70% to 80% of your current income during retirement (some even say 100%). For most people, this is a gross overestimation of what they'll really need. This number can be quite high and often accounts for a big reduction in needed income during retirement. Finally, add any additional expenses that retirement will bring. The final number is the amount you'll need to live each year. Each step is discussed below.
1 If you are at least 62 and have always lived a frugal lifestyle, then you and your $1 million are likely going to fall in this category.  2 Let's redefine retirement for you.. 3  This is just about everyone else-including early retirees with $1 million living frugally and 70-year-olds with $1 million spending lavishly. But knowing how much you need to retire still boils down to projecting your future expenses until the day you die. Ideally, that yearly figure will add up to less than 4% of your nest egg. So a $1 million dollar portfolio should give you, at most, $40,000 to budget.
A couple with two children were said to need to earn a minimum of £18,400 a year each before tax; single people £16,400 a year, while the figure for lone parent with one child is £23,900 and a pensioner couple £12,000 each. 
A popular question: What if a ‘comfortable’ life of just under $43,000 a year (for a single person) or just under $59,000 (for a couple) was not what you had in mind for your retirement. Perhaps you were expecting to enjoy an income of say, $100,000 a year. For the ‘comfortable’ lifestyle, part-Age Pension eligibility is likely for a couple, and a small part-Age Pension may be possible for a single person. The lump sum amount you need to invest for retirement is usually different for each person, depending on the size of the Age Pension entitlement.