Cocoa beans grow best where there are fairly constant, warm or even hot temperatures all year round (usually in the 65 to 90 degree F range). For cocoa beans to thrive, they need high humidity and a lot of rainfall (from about 40 to 100 inches per year). Cocoa beans grow poorly in any kind of cold or drought conditions. Additionally, cocoa beans grow best where there is a lot of light.
Cocoa beans come from the cocoa tree, Theobroma cacao. The beans grow in green fruits that turn orange when ripened. The seeds of these fruits are toasted and processed to produce various cocoa and chocolate products.
People grow cocoa trees in order to sell the cocoa beans that are in the pods. The kernel of the cocoa beans is used to make cocoa and chocolate. In the countries of Europe and North America people eat a lot of cocoa and chocolate. But the cocoa tree does not grow in their countries; they buy cocoa from Africa.
Cocoa beans grow on a tree called Theobroma cacao and are the base ingredient for making chocolate. The relatively small tree is native to the tropical regions of Central and South America and it thrives in moist, shady areas of the rain forest.
Pods containing cocoa beans grow from the trunk and branches of the cocoa tree. Harvesting involves removing ripe pods from the trees and opening them to extract the wet beans. Pods are suitable for harvest for 3 to 4 weeks, after which time the beans begin to germinate.
World-wide, far more cocoa beans grow in Cote d’Ivoire than anywhere else. That country is the world’s largest producer of cocoa beans; about one-third of the world’s annual harvest of cocoa beans grow in Cote d’Ivoire. Other top cocoa bean growers include Ghana and Indonesia.
One of the reasons why people ask us “Where do cocoa beans grow” is because they are interested in knowing whether they can grow cocoa beans in their house into a cocoa tree. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to grow cocoa trees indoors – especially in the United States.
Cocoa beans grow into beautiful trees; these trees grow most successfully in a narrow band called the Cocoa Belt or the Chocolate Belt; this band extends up to 20 degrees of latitude north and south of the equator.