Use this drug for a condition that is listed in this section only if it has been so prescribed by your health care professional. This medication may also be used with other drugs to improve symptoms of heart failure (such as trouble breathing). Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually twice a day. Each day, take the first dose when you wake up, then take the second dose 7 hours later. It is important to take the drug at the same times each day. Do not change the dosing times unless directed by your doctor
Monoket®, an organic nitrate, is a vasodilator with effects on both arteries and veins. The empirical formula is C 6 H 9 NO 6 and the molecular weight is 191.14. The chemical name for Monoket® is 1,4:3,6-Dianhydro-D-glucitol 5-nitrate and the compound has the following structural formula: Monoket®, is available in 10 mg and 20 mg tablets. Each tablet also contains as inactive ingredients: lactose, talc, colloidal silicon dioxide, starch, microcrystalline cellulose and aluminum stearate. Last reviewed on RxList: 10/14/2014. This monograph has been modified to include the generic and brand name in many instances.
ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATE (eye soe SOR bide mon oh NYE trate) is a type of vasodilator. It relaxes blood vessels, increasing the blood and oxygen supply to your heart. This medicine is used to prevent chest pain caused by angina. 
Uses. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent chest pain (angina) in patients with a certain heart condition (coronary artery disease). This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as nitrates. This medication may also be used with other drugs to improve symptoms of heart failure (such as trouble breathing). Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually twice a day. Each day, take the first dose when you wake up, then take the second dose 7 hours later.
Isosorbide mononitrate is in a group of drugs called nitrates. Isosorbide mononitrate dilates (widens) blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow through them and easier for the heart to pump. Isosorbide mononitrate is used to prevent angina attacks (chest pain). Isosorbide mononitrate will not treat an angina attack that has already begun. Isosorbide mononitrate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Side Effects. Headache, dizziness, lightheadedness, nausea, and flushing may occur as your body adjusts to this medication. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Headache is often a sign that this medication is working. This medication may also be used with other drugs to improve symptoms of heart failure (such as trouble breathing). Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually twice a day. Each day, take the first dose when you wake up, then take the second dose 7 hours later.
The recommended regimen of Monoket® tablets, USP is 20 mg twice daily, with the doses seven hours apart. A starting dose of 5 mg (½ tablet of the 10 mg dosing strength) might be appropriate for persons of particularly small stature but should be increased to at least 10 mg by the second or third day of therapy. Dosage adjustments are not necessary for elderly patients or patients with altered hepatic or renal function.