RECOMMENDED LESSONS: Chemical energy. Chemical Energy is energy stored in the bonds of chemical compounds (atoms and molecules). It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . Batteries, biomass, petroleum, natural gas, and coal are examples of stored chemical energy. As it burns in the fireplace, chemical energy is released and converted to thermal energy (heat) and light energy. Notice that the wood now turns into ashes (a new substance). Food is also a good example of stored chemical energy. This energy is released during digestion.
Please tell us your grade level, the name of your school and your city. We will usually respond within four or five days. Your body uses chemical energy to get your strength, and both you and your teacher are correct. Chemical energy in plants and other food is potential energy. This chemical energy is released as it is burned or oxidized inside our bodies during digestion-fueling our bodies. Another form of a chemical reaction to produce energy is from a nuclear power plant using radioactive materials. Thanks for asking! If YOU have a question about energy, send your question by e-mail to  Professor Quester .. Ask your parents or teacher first before sending an e-mail.
For example, the chemical energy in a battery is converted into electrical energy. The electrical energy, which involves the motion of electrical charges or currents, can be used to power everyday devices like computers and flashlights. Mechanical energy can also be transformed into electrical energy. The energy stored in these chemical bonds can be released and transformed during any type of chemical reaction. Think of when you're hungry. When you eat a piece of bread to satisfy this hunger, your body breaks down the chemical bonds of the bread and uses it to supply energy to your body.
1. chemical energy-that part of the energy in a substance that can be released by a chemical reaction. energy, free energy - (physics) a thermodynamic quantity equivalent to the capacity of a physical system to do work; the units of energy are joules or ergs; energy can take a wide variety of forms. 1  Facebook. 
Check out our fun energy facts for kids! Read about interesting types of energy such as solar, wind, kinetic, chemical, nuclear and geothermal. Learn important energy laws, what potential energy is, how joules and calories are used to measure energy and much more. 
Energy that can be released (or absorbed) because of a reaction between a set of chemical substances is equal to the difference between the energy content of the products and the reactants. This change in energy is change in a chemical reaction. Chemical potential energy is a form of potential energy related to the structural arrangement of atoms or molecules. This arrangement may be the result of chemical bonds within a molecule or otherwise. Chemical energy of a chemical substance can be transformed to other forms of energy by a chemical reaction. As an example, when a fuel is burned the chemical energy is converted to heat, same is the case with digestion of food metabolized in a biological organism
The dry wood is a store of chemical energy. As it burns in the fireplace, chemical energy is released and converted to thermal energy (heat) and light energy. Notice that the wood now turns into ashes (a new substance). Food is also a good example of stored chemical energy. This energy is released during digestion.
Chemical energy. Chemical Energy is energy stored in the bonds of chemical compounds (atoms and molecules). It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . As it burns in the fireplace, chemical energy is released and converted to thermal energy (heat) and light energy. Notice that the wood now turns into ashes (a new substance). Food is also a good example of stored chemical energy. This energy is released during digestion.
Chemical energy is the energy stored within a substance through the bonds of chemical compounds. The energy stored in these chemical bonds can be released and transformed during any type of chemical reaction. Think of when you're hungry. When you eat a piece of bread to satisfy this hunger, your body breaks down the chemical bonds of the bread and uses it to supply energy to your body.