• REVENANT (noun). The noun REVENANT has 2 senses: 1. a person who returns after a lengthy absence. 2. someone who has returned from the dead. Familiarity information: REVENANT used as a noun is rare. 
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: revenant (noun). a person who returns after a lengthy absence. revenant (adj). someone who has returned from the dead. revenant (adj). of or relating to or typical of a revenant. revenant shrieks and groans. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: revenant (Noun). Someone who returns from a long absence. revenant (Noun). A person or thing reborn. revenant (Noun). A supernatural being that returns from the dead; a zombie or ghost. Origin: 19th century. From revenant, the present participle of revenir
A revenant is a visible ghost or animated corpse that was believed to return from the grave to terrorize the living. The word revenant is derived from the Latin word, reveniens, returning (see also the related French verb revenir, meaning to come back). Vivid stories of revenants arose in Western Europe (especially Great Britain, and were later carried by Anglo-Norman invaders to Ireland) during the High Middle Ages. Several stories state that revenants drink blood. For example, in Historia rerum Anglicarum the corpse of one revenant is reported to have been found in the grave, swollen and suffused with blood. When it was pierced, a stream of blood flew out of the wound.
Read on, and consider yourself yet another inch closer to death. The word “revenant” is derived from the Latin word “revenans”, which means “returning”. In French, it is related to the verb “revenir”, which means “to come back”. A revenant is a ghost visible to the common eye, or an animated corpse that has returned from the grave. While this is very close to the zombie and vampire, there are differences that make it distinctive from the two. Like the African folklore zombie, a revenant usually returns for a specific purpose, only not under the command of a “master”. History has logged many accounts of mortals crossing paths with revenants.
Definition of REVENANT. : one that returns after death or a long absence. — revenant adjective. ADVERTISEME
revenant-a person who returns after a lengthy absence. individual, mortal, person, somebody, someone, soul-a human being; there was too much for one person to do. 
Merriam-Webster 's definition of revenant is one that returns after death or a long absence.. In that the subject returns from death, one can easily see an association of the term with the undead in fantasy and horror fiction. On the other hand, unlike zombies, the revenant's long absence does imply a certain anachronism in its eventual return. 1 In Peter Straub 's Ghost Story, the female ghost is a revenant as declared by the protagonist. 2  The revenant manifests itself throughout time and space at will and as different personalities to fulfill its mission of vengeance.
Revenant. 1.Undead, one who has risen from the dead. 2.The corpse or spirit of a condemned executed Criminal, returns to seek revenge on it's executioners and the living in general. 1. Revenant is the politically correct name for zombies. One who returns from death, not necessarily to be seen amongst the living. The mythology of the phoenix states that it lived in the desert for 5 centuries and then consumed itself by fire, later to rise renewed from its ashes; Revenant.
In fantasy fiction, a revenant is a sentient creature whose desire to fulfill a special goal allows it to return from the grave as a creature vaguely resembling an intelligent zombie or jiangshi. 1 In Peter Straub 's Ghost Story, the female ghost is a revenant as declared by the protagonist. 2  The revenant manifests itself throughout time and space at will and as different personalities to fulfill its mission of vengeance.