Insert meat thermometer so tip is in thickest part of lamb (not resting in fat). Cook until the lamb roast reaches an internal temperature of 120 degrees F. Remove from oven, cover with aluminum foil, and let sit approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Remember, the lamb roast will continue to cook as it sets. The term boneless means the leg bone has been removed from the lamb roast. A boned, rolled, and tied or netted leg is easy to roast. You can easily find this type of lamb at most large grocery stores or super markets. For a generous serving of lamb roast, figure on 1/2 pound of lamb per serving.
Place in the bottom of a large roasting pan. Place the lamb on top of the potatoes and roast for 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours, or until the internal temperature of the lamb is 135 degrees (rare) or 145 degrees (medium). Remove from the oven and put the lamb on a platter; cover tightly with aluminum foil. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place the oven rack in the lower third of the oven so the lamb will sit in the middle of the oven. Peel 6 of the cloves of garlic and place them in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the steel blade. Add the rosemary, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, and butter.
Put an onion or two in the pan and 2 sprigs of fresh rosemary. Place the roasting pan in the oven set at 350F(190C) for 15-20 minutes per pound (you don't want to cook lamb well done, but more medium to medium rare) a 6 pound leg should take about 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Remove the cover(or foil) for the last 15 minutes of roasting time. 
Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Using your hands, rub the lamb all over with the lemon juice. Pat the garlic and rosemary evenly all over the surface of the meat. Season the meat with the salt and pepper and place the lamb in a roasting pan. Place the lamb in the oven and roast for 30 minutes.
1 Rub 3 tablespoons olive oil over the surface of the leg of lamb. 2  Place on rack in center of roasting pan and place in preheated oven. 3  Cook for 15 minutes at 450°F and then lower heat to 350°F for rest of cooking time of 1 1/4 hours (or, alternatively, lower heat immediately and cook at 325°F for adjusted cooking time). 
Sear the lamb roast for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Do Not Cover the roast. The term boneless means the leg bone has been removed from the lamb roast. A boned, rolled, and tied or netted leg is easy to roast. You can easily find this type of lamb at most large grocery stores or super markets. For a generous serving of lamb roast, figure on 1/2 pound of lamb per serving.
Easy Roasting. Once seasoned, leg of lamb is a fuss-free joint to cook. Lay the joint on a rack in a roasting tray and sear it first for 15 minutes in an oven preheated to 450 degrees. Allowing 25 minutes’ roasting per pound, cook it subsequently at 325 degrees covered with aluminum foil. 
After 30 minutes, remove the foil and leave to roast for a further 50-60 minutes (for medium) or until cooked to your liking. At the end of cooking time, remove the lamb from the oven and leave it to rest in the roasting tin for 10-15 minutes, with some foil on top to keep it warm. Make the gravy. Heat a heavy-based frying pan on the hob. When hot, pour the pan juices from the roasting tin into the pan (be careful as it may splatter)
As always, there are many different recipes for cooking a leg of lamb. Elise cooks her leg of lamb with the bone in by starting at 425 degrees for 20 minutes then turns the oven down to 300°F and continues to roast the meat for about 10-12 minutes per pound for medium rare lamb. Set the bag in a dish and let the lamb marinate in the refrigerator for several hours or overnight-up to 24 hours. Step 6. Roasting the Boneless Leg of Lamb. Remove the lamb from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before cooking it.