“The Saunders”. The name “Saunders” is from Saxon origin in the British Isles. The word comes from the phrase, “belongs to Alexander.” The shortened word, “Alexander's” pronounced without the “x” became “Alesanders's.” Throughout the ages the word became Saunders, pronounced as “Sahnders” and finally written, Saunders. Following are three excerpts from interesting articles on the name Sanders/Saunders: “Saunders: Your Family Origin” By Reg Willis, Heraldic Artist. The ancient lords of Insbruck, in the Austrian Tyrol, are claimed as the ancestors of this family.
So English, the etymological root of Saunders and Sanders, was at the time of surname adoption a language of commoners! Pope Alexander II (1061-1073) was reigning at the time of the conquest and had blessed the Norman invasion; Alexander I, King of Scotland (1107-1124), was named after this Pope. The fact that immigrant names like ‘Alysandre’ can be shown to have became ‘Saunders’ (e.g.1) may show that the Saunders name was already in existence for the foreign name to be Anglicized into, otherwise the final ‘s’ for such a derivation is difficult to explain.
Saunders is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#439 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Alexander (#8 last year) , Sanders, Sandy, Xander (#211) and Zander (#246) are the prominent varying forms of Saunders (not ranked) rated in the Top 1000. Saunders /saun-ders/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Greek and Middle English derivation, and Saunders means man's defender, warrior; son of Alexander.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Henry Sandres, which was dated 1275, in the Subsidy Rolls of Worcestershire, during the reign of King Edward 1, known as The Hammer of the Scots, 1272 - 1307. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. 
The known forms of the name are Saunder, Sandar, and Sander, whilst Saunders, Sanders, and Sandars, are patronymics. Early examples of the surname recording include William Sandre of Kent in 1316, and Richard Saunder of Stafford in the Subsidy Rolls of that county for the year 1332. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Henry Sandres, which was dated 1275, in the Subsidy Rolls of Worcestershire, during the reign of King Edward 1, known as The Hammer of the Scots, 1272 - 1307. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax. Throughout the centuries, surnames in every country have continued to develop often leading to astonishing variants of the original spelling
by Ed Sanders. There are several theories about the origins of the Sanders name (see page on History Of Saunders) We believe our Sanders family originated in Scotland. Many of the early Sanders then migrated to England and Ireland and eventually to America. Following are three excerpts from interesting articles on the name Sanders/Saunders: “Saunders: Your Family Origin” By Reg Willis, Heraldic Artist. The ancient lords of Insbruck, in the Austrian Tyrol, are claimed as the ancestors of this family.
The name Saunders (and Sanders) is fairly common and wide spread through out the British Isle’s and hence it’s various colonies. Throughout recent history it has been a name present throughout all levels of society; in aristocratic and peasant communities alike. The fact that immigrant names like ‘Alysandre’ can be shown to have became ‘Saunders’ (e.g.1) may show that the Saunders name was already in existence for the foreign name to be Anglicized into, otherwise the final ‘s’ for such a derivation is difficult to explain.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Saunders immigration records. You can find out when most of the Saunders families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. 
Best Answer: I found this for you. Surname: Saunders This famous surname of either English or Greek derivation has truly ancient origins. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Henry Sandres, which was dated 1275, in the Subsidy Rolls of Worcestershire, during the reign of King Edward 1, known as The Hammer of the Scots, 1272 - 1307. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax. Throughout the centuries, surnames in every country have continued to develop often leading to astonishing variants of the original spelling