Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic number 34. It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium. It rarely occurs in its elemental state in nature, or as pure ore compounds. Selenium is most commonly produced from selenide in many sulfide ores, such as those of copper, nickel, or lead. Electrolytic metal refining is particularly conducive to producing selenium as a byproduct, and it is obtained from the anode mud of copper refineries.
Selenium is found in metal sulfide ores, where it partially replaces the sulfur. Commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining of these ores, most often during production. Minerals that are pure selenide or selenate compounds are known, but are rare. Selenium is most commonly produced from selenide in many sulfide ores, such as those of copper, nickel, or lead. Electrolytic metal refining is particularly conducive to producing selenium as a byproduct, and it is obtained from the anode mud of copper refineries.
Reacted Selenium, formulated in the superior amino acid chelate form, selenium glycinate complex, has a high level of stability, which helps it to avoid food and other minerals that compete for absorption in the gut. This stability allows for enhanced absorption in the GI system (See Figure 1). Selenium is essential in the balance and support of immune system function. Selenium promotes sperm motility, supports positive mood, antioxidant status, inflammation balance, and heart health.
Reacted Selenium includes the amino acid chelate form of selenium to help boost antioxidant reserve and support inflammatory balance. Selenium has structural roles, as well as enzymatic functions. It is best-known as an antioxidant and catalyst in the production of active thyroid hormone. Selenium is essential in the balance and support of immune system function. Selenium promotes sperm motility, supports positive mood, antioxidant status, inflammation balance, and heart health. In the context of potential health effects, low selenium status is cause for concern. Reacted Selenium provides 200 mcg per serving of selenium, ideally formulated using the amino acid chelate form of selenium (selenium glycinate) for enhanced absorption, optimal utilization and gastrointestinal comfort
Selenium is a trace element and a constituent of more than 20 selenoproteins that play critical roles in supporting reproduction, thyroid hormone metabolism, DNA synthesis and antioxidant status. Selenium has structural roles, as well as enzymatic functions. It is best-known as an antioxidant and catalyst in the production of active thyroid hormone. Selenium is essential in the balance and support of immune system function. Selenium promotes sperm motility, supports positive mood, antioxidant status, inflammation balance, and heart health. In the context of potential health effects, low selenium status is cause for concern. Reacted Selenium provides 200 mcg per serving of selenium, ideally formulated using the amino acid chelate form of selenium (selenium glycinate) for enhanced absorption, optimal utilization and gastrointestinal comfort
The selenium dioxide is dissolved in acidic water to make selenous acid, which is reacted with sulfur dioxide to make selenium as an element. It is the red form that is made. To make the black form, the red form is heated and melted. Hydrogen selenide is the acid made from selenide ion. Selenium also reacts with reactive metals to make selenides, such as sodium selenide or aluminium selenide. The +1 state is found in some selenium compounds, such as selenium(I) chloride.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms, including all animals. Selenium is an ingredient in many multivitamins and other dietary supplements, including infant formula. Selenium is most commonly produced from selenide in many sulfide ores, such as those of copper, nickel, or lead. Electrolytic metal refining is particularly conducive to producing selenium as a byproduct, and it is obtained from the anode mud of copper refineries.