Systematics – the systematic classification of organisms and the evolutionary relationships among them; taxonomy. Phylogeny – the evolutionary history of a group or lineage. Nomenclature – the system of scientific names applied to taxa (groups of organisms). Classification – a system of naming objects or entities by common characteristics. In a biological sense, classification is the systematic grouping of organisms based on structural or functional similarities or evolutionary history.
Phylogenetic trees, or diagrams that trace evolutionary relationships, serve this purpose. Phylogenetic trees are constructed to record the hypothesized classifications of organisms. If a group of organisms is hypothesized to share a common ancestor, the group is referred to as monophyletic. Phylogenetic trees are constructed in a variety of ways to summarize the evolutionary relatedness of different organisms. The data represented in a phylogenetic tree may come from (but are not limited to) observations of an organisms anatomical features and/or molecular sequence information.
The theory of evolution changed the way biologists think about classification. Today, scientists understand that certain organisms are similar because they share a common ancestor. When organisms share a common ancestor, they share an evolutionary history. Today's system of classification considers the history of a species when classifying the species. Species with similar evolutionary histories are classified more closely together. 
The term cladistics comes from the word clade. A clade is a group of organisms that includes an ancestor species and all of its descendants. A diagram showing evolutionary relationships within one or more clades is called a cladogram. A clade is a relative concept. A cladogram shows how species may be related by descent from a common ancestor. A classification of organisms on the basis of such relationships is called a phylogenetic classification. A phylogenetic classification involves placing organisms in a clade with their common ancestor. Consider the cladogram in Figure below.
1 Phylogeny is the evolutionary history of a group of genetically related organisms. 2  It is usually represented by a diagram called a phylogenetic tree. 3  Cladistics is the most widely used method of generating phylogenetic trees. 4  It is based on evolutionary ancestry and generates trees called cladograms. A cladogram shows how species may be related by descent from a common ancestor. A classification of organisms on the basis of such relationships is called a phylogenetic classification. A phylogenetic classification involves placing organisms in a clade with their common ancestor. Consider the cladogram in Figure below.
From a biological sciences perspective, the field that claims this pursuit is called systematics, which is defined as the study of biological diversity in an evolutionary context. Within the study of systematics, scientists trace the phylogeny, or evolutionary history, of a species or group of related species. Phylogenetic trees are constructed in a variety of ways to summarize the evolutionary relatedness of different organisms. The data represented in a phylogenetic tree may come from (but are not limited to) observations of an organisms anatomical features and/or molecular sequence information.
The evolutionary history of life on Earth traces the processes by which living and fossil organisms have evolved since life appeared on the planet, until the present day. Earth formed about 4.5 Ga (billion years ago) and life appeared on its surface within 1 billion years. 
Phylogeny. The evolutionary history of a group of genetically related organisms is called a phylogeny. It includes ancestor species and descendant species. A phylogeny is usually represented by a tree diagram called a phylogenetic tree. A cladogram shows how species may be related by descent from a common ancestor. A classification of organisms on the basis of such relationships is called a phylogenetic classification. A phylogenetic classification involves placing organisms in a clade with their common ancestor. Consider the cladogram in Figure below.
Red algae. Phylogenetics /faɪlɵdʒɪˈnɛtɪks/ (Greek: φυλή, φῦλον - phyle, phylé = phylon, tribe, clan + race - γενετικός = genetikos, genetikós, origin) – source birth – in biology is the study, of phylogenesis or the, evolutionary history development and relationships among groups (of.organisms. e, g species). or populations For example, the RedToL aims at reconstructing the red algae tree of life. The National Science Foundation sponsors a project called the Assembling the Tree of Life (AToL). The goal of this project is to determine evolutionary relationships across large groups of organisms throughout the history of life.
Evidence from morphological, biochemical, and gene sequence data suggests that all organisms on Earth are genetically related, and the genealogical relationships of living things can be represented by a vast evolutionary tree, the Tree of Life. Their evolutionary history is represented by a series of ancestors which are shared hierarchically by different subsets of the organisms that are alive today. The notion that all of life is genetically connected via a vast phylogenetic tree is one of the most romantic notions to come out of science.