Adam Weishaupt (1748–1830), founder of the Bavarian Illuminati. The Illuminati (plural of Latin illuminatus, enlightened) is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious. Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776. The society's goals were to oppose superstition, obscurantism, religious influence over public life and abuses of state power. The Illuminati, or fictitious modern groups called the Illuminati, play a central role in the plots of many novels, for example The Illuminatus! Trilogy by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson.
Links to the Bavarian Illuminati: There is no evidence that the Bavarian Illuminati used the eye in any of its rituals. However, they used the “point within a circle, circled dot, circumpunct, or circle with a point at its centre a (⊙) to represent the Order. No.2 The Pyramid. The Illuminati Elite is represented by the capstone of the pyramid and the Profane by the stones. The pyramid represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati with the Illuminati plutocrats at the top and the peons at the bottom.
The all seeing eye Illuminati symbol. Known as the “udjat”, this is a common symbol, which features a human eye or something similar incorporated in a triangle or some other shape. In most cases, the triangle is used. 
Yahoo said the following celebrities were part of the Illuminati: Lindsay Lohan, Jay Z, Beyonce, Lady Gaga, Rihanna, Madonna, Kanye West, Ke$ha, Kim Kardashian and LeBron James. “No stars are members of the Illuminati because an organized and powerful group such as this cannot, does not, and will never exist. What does exist is normal, otherwise rational human beings with a propensity toward natural brain processes to find patterns and meanings in random events that are not actually connected.
The triangle within a circle is an ancient occult symbol dating back to the ancient civilisations. Just as other occult symbols and beliefs have been used and modified by the secret societies and satanic groups over the centuries, this symbol has also seen the same transformation over the ages. Most commonly we find the symbol as a circumscribed triangle, which is an equilateral triangle within and touching a circle at each vertex, but there are other occasions when the triangle is placed well inside the circle and not touching the sides.
Top Ten Illuminati Symbols. “The point in the centre of a Circle is equal to the point at the tip of the Triangle, and this Glyph is equivalent to the Eye; the two are synonymous.”. Edit: September, 2014: The signs ‘El Diablo’and the Nazi Salute have been moved to Top 10 Hand Signs of the Illuminati. No.2 The Pyramid. The Illuminati Elite is represented by the capstone of the pyramid and the Profane by the stones. The pyramid represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati with the Illuminati plutocrats at the top and the peons at the bottom.
Sign Up. The illuminati are a group that seek to advantage themselves to the disadvatage of the majority,and the pyramid with the all seeing eye on top is amongst other things an accurate representation of the power structure they utilise. Best Answer. Illumanati is a secret society that uses satans powers to try to take over the world by using the media and mind control with all celebrities and children's tv shows ... The triangle represents satan and the all seeing eye. Best Answer. The pyramid with an eye is called the Eye of Providence which was adopted for the seal of the United States. Its ocmmonly associated with the Freemasons, not the Illuminati
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The top of the pyramid is called the eye of providence and it originated in an ancient egyptian myth about the eye of the creator god Ra. The eye of providence signifies god's ability to be all-knowing