Most cosmetology programs require you to be at least 16 years of age and to have a high school diploma or a GED to enter. But every state has slightly different regulations and requirements, so before you proceed, you should check with the cosmetology boards of different states to see what you need to do. 3. Complete cosmetology school. Most schools take between 9-15 months to complete. While most states require around 1,600 training hours before you get your license, some require a lot more or less, falling in the range of 1,000 hours and 2,300 hours.
License Requirements. Both cosmetologists and specialists have to adhere to state licensing requirements. Most states have age restrictions, as well as minimum education requirements. To be eligible for licensing exams, individuals must complete a set number of training hours during cosmetology school. All cosmetologists and specialists have to complete a cosmetology training program to be eligible for state licensing exams. Cosmetology programs generally take 9-12 months to complete, but specialist programs can be completed in about six months. Source: *U.S.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a cosmetologist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about training, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. All cosmetologists and specialists have to complete a cosmetology training program to be eligible for state licensing exams. Cosmetology programs generally take 9-12 months to complete, but specialist programs can be completed in about six months. Source: *U.S.
To become a Licenced cosmetologist you will need to obtain 1500 hours at a accredited cosmetology school. Some schools allow you to complete 1200 hours and go on and complete … 300 hours of supervised apprentership.After you have completed your 1500 hours you must take the state board test. There are no specific high school classes you must take to become a cosmetologist. Rather, just focus on graduating and getting your diploma or GED. From there, enroll in a co … smetology school where you can get certified. There is actually one class that you have to take in order to go to
Prospective cosmetology students usually need to have a high school diploma or GED. This may be a requirement to enroll in the cosmetology program, or it might be part of the state's requirements to become a licensed cosmetologist. Cosmetology training programs are sometimes available at high schools. They are also offered at vocational schools, community colleges and for-profit beauty schools. 
First and foremost, if you want to become a cosmetologist, it's all about getting your license. In fact, all 50 U.S. states require cosmetologists to be licensed in order to work in the field. Step one in achieving your license? Attend an accredited cosmetology school. Although each state has their own rules as to how many hours of training and education are required in order to sit for the licensing exam (ranging from 600 to 1600 hours), you will need to pursue at least some type of formal classroom training. Speaking of finishing beauty school, once you become a cosmetologist with a license, your job prospects should be strong, as the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects job growth to be 20 percent through 2018 for cosmetologists and other personal appearance workers and stylists.
Cosmetologists are required to complete training at a certified cosmetology school to get licensed. Most cosmetology schools base their curricula on state licensing requirements, but every state has different requirements. All cosmetologists and specialists have to complete a cosmetology training program to be eligible for state licensing exams. Cosmetology programs generally take 9-12 months to complete, but specialist programs can be completed in about six months. Source: *U.S.
The requirements for becoming a licensed cosmetologist vary from state to state in the US. Many states require a minimum of 1200 to 1500 contact hours in school, during whic … h time you learn not only the actual procedures for a variety of services, but the theory and science behind them as well. There are no specific high school classes you must take to become a cosmetologist. Rather, just focus on graduating and getting your diploma or GED. From there, enroll in a co … smetology school where you can get certified. There is actually one class that you have to take in order to go to cosmetology school.
Education Requirements to Become a Cosmetologist. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a cosmetologist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about training, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». All cosmetologists and specialists have to complete a cosmetology training program to be eligible for state licensing exams. Cosmetology programs generally take 9-12 months to complete, but specialist programs can be completed in about six months. Source: *U.S.
Most beauty and cosmetology schools require a high school diploma or a GED equivalent to enroll, but check with the state in which you plan to enroll to be sure, and always contact the school directly to find out their unique regulations. The first step to becoming a professional cosmetologist is to get the education and get licensed. If you're considering this profession, talk to cosmetology schools about their programs, the cost of tuition at their campus, curriculum and any other questions you have.