The Equatorial Jet Stream: The equatorial Jet Stream is located 7 to 10 North of the Equator at an altitude of 50,000 Feet (About 9.5 Miles).
While the polar and subtropical jet streams are the best known and most studied, other jet streams can form when wind speeds are above 58 mph (93.3 kph) in the upper atmosphere at about 6 miles (9.6 kilometers) to 9 miles (14.5 kilometers) above the surface.
The Polar Jet Streams: These Jet Streams are located 50 -60 North/South of the equator and at 35,000 Feet (About 6.6 Miles), is a powerful, current of wind that acts as a boundary line, separating the extremely cold polar air (North) from the warm sub-tropical air (South).
Most trout streams are located on private property and the land owner controls access to, and fishing rights in, such streams. It is your responsibility to know when you cross a property line. Always get permission from the land owner before entering or fishing on private property.
While jet streams do exist in the southern hemisphere, they are strongest between latitudes of 30°N and 60°N. The weaker subtropical jet stream is located closer to 30°N. The location of these jet streams shift throughout the year however and they are said to follow the sun since they move north with warm weather and south with cold weather.
The Gulf Stream, located along the eastern coast of the United States, is a fast, intense current known as a western-boundary current. These currents are located on the western side of every ocean basin. The Gulf Stream is a result of the wind pattern acting on most of the North Atlantic Ocean.
Streams and rivers. These are bodies of flowing water moving in one direction. Streams and rivers can be found everywhere  they get their starts at headwaters, which may be springs, snowmelt or even lakes, and then travel all the way to their mouths, usually another water channel or the ocean.
Georgia's approximately 4,000 miles of trout streams are relatively unproductive when compared to streams found in other parts of the country. This is, in part, due to the calcium deficient soils found in north Georgia.
The Jet Stream map shows today's high wind speed levels and jetstream directions. Jet streams are fast flowing, relatively narrow air currents found in the atmosphere around 10 kilometers above the surface of the Earth.