They also make excellent paper weights. If you choose to sell your old computer with the hard drive still in it, make sure you use a military-grade disk wipe utility on it first. 3. Make sure to eject all your DVDs and other media from your old computer. Sometimes I'll leave a disk in my computer's DVD drive for ages. 
Still, many people looking for old computer parts head to eBay first, so it's a good bet to try and sell your item there. Like we mentioned in our complete guide to selling your old crap, an eye-catching photo, a well crafted listing, and some savvy timing can net you big bucks. If you have enough old components to build an actual PC, you can make much more money selling it as a completed system on Craigslist than you would parting it out on eBay. If you can, consider putting your old components together into a full computer and selling it that way.
Is it better to sell computer parts on their own, or sell them on Craigslist as a completely built system? I can imagine getting more money for each part on its own, but some of them might be harder to sell (motherboards, processors, power supplies). If you have enough old components to build an actual PC, you can make much more money selling it as a completed system on Craigslist than you would parting it out on eBay. If you can, consider putting your old components together into a full computer and selling it that way.
Instructions. Sell your old computer parts on eBay. It may seem too obvious, but most online forums recommend placing your used computer parts on eBay first. You are more likely to get (close to) book value for your used parts on eBay than from anywhere else. Visit ComputerPartsAuction to sell your old computer parts. Save. You probably won't use your old computer very much after you purchase a brand new one. You may wish to use parts of the old computer, though, such as the hard drive. Instead of letting the rest of your computer sit and go to waste, consider selling off parts of the machine. That way, you won't need to dispose of the computer
Sell your scrap gold to the highest offer! You can also sell the remaining parts to other metal refineries. So if you are in need of some extra cash, why not have a look at this and sell scrap gold. There are thousands of old computers lying around at dumps, in people’s sheds, at offices and warehouses. It is incredible, but people throw away gold every single day. When you see old computers being disposed of, they are throwing away pure gold! There is gold inside the computer that can be sold for money! And you can retrieve and sell the scrap gold when you know how.
Cash for Electronic Scrap USA makes selling your old, unwanted or damaged Computer & Electronic Scrap easy. Simply request FREE FEDEX SHIPPING by filling out the form and you’ll be able to print out your Shipping Labels immediately so you can easily ship us your Electronic Materials at no cost to you. Within 10 business days of receiving your SHIPMENT, we’ll mail you a check. The value of your material will be based on the current market prices of Gold, Silver, Platinum and Palladium and volume. We guarantee complete satisfaction
Now's a brilliant time to get rid of the old technology cluttering up your office, clear the decks and make some money. Mind you, there's a choice; you can turn that old PC into cash or karma-sell it on or give it away. One option puts money in your pocket while the other will give you a warm glow through the winter months. Old computers soon lose their value – but the bits and pieces inside them could be useful to someone. So, if you're selling a PC that has a couple of years on the clock, consider dismantling it and selling the parts. Recoverable bits include RAM chips, drives, video cards, power transformers and the case.