An alkaline urine sample is a possible sign of P. mirabilis. It can be diagnosed in the lab due to characteristic swarming motility, and inability to metabolize lactose (on a MacConkey agar plate, for example). Also P. mirabilis produces a very distinct fishy odor. Proteus mirabilis is a Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium. It shows swarming motility and urease activity. P. mirabilis causes 90% of all Proteus infections in humans. It is widely distributed in soil and water.
It is known to cause urinary tract infections and wound infections. The term Proteus signifies changeability of form, as personified in the Homeric poems in Proteus, the old man of the sea, who tends the sealflocks of Poseidon and has the gift of endless transformation. Over the past two decades, the genus Proteus, and in particular P. vulgaris, has undergone a number of major taxonomic revisions. In 1982, P. vulgaris was separated into three biogroups on the basis of indole production.
Learn more about this article. Proteus mirabilis is a primary pathogen in the urinary tract, and can cause urinary tract infections. Infection by P. mirabilis occurs more commonly in patients with irregularly functioning urinary tracts or in patients requiring long-term urethral catherization (Coker et al., 2000). P. mirabilis is found most commonly in the human gastrointestinal tract, water and soil. In addition to the human gastointestinal tract, colonies form on the kidneys and bladder. Strains of this species have also been found in the intestinal tracts of dogs and cattle.
Description of Proteus vulgaris. Proteus vulgaris: A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that occurs in soil, fecal matter, and sewage. It is an opportunistic pathogen and causes cystitis and pyelonephritis. 
Complicated Urinary Tract Infection. P. mirabilis is not a common cause of UTI in the normal host [12]. Surveys of uncomplicated cystitis or acute pyelonephritis show that P. mirabilis comprises only a few percent of cases. Even in patients with recurrent UTI, the incidence of infections by this organism is only a few percentage points higher. 
Proteus can cause urinary tract infections and hospital-acquired infections. Proteus is unique, however, because it is highly motile and does not form regular colonies. Instead, Proteus forms what are known as swarming colonies when plated on non-inhibitory media. The most important member of this genus is considered to be Proteus mirabilis, a cause of wound and urinary tract infections. Fortunately, most strains of Proteus mirabilis are sensitive to ampicillin and cephalosporin
Proteus vulgaris is a rod-shaped, nitrate-reducing, indole+ and catalase-positive, hydrogen sulfide-producing, Gram-negative bacterium that inhabits the intestinal tracts of humans and animals. Over the past two decades, the genus Proteus, and in particular P. vulgaris, has undergone a number of major taxonomic revisions. In 1982, P. vulgaris was separated into three biogroups on the basis of indole production.
Disease: The most common infection involving Proteus mirabilis occurs when the bacteria moves to the urethra and urinary bladder. Although Proteus mirabilis mostly known to cause urinary tract infections, the majority of urinary tract infections are due to E. coli. It can also be found free living in water and soil. When this organism, however, enters the urinary tract, wounds, or the lungs it can become pathogenic. Proteus mirabilis commonly causes urinary tract infections and the formation of stones.
Proteus species are part of the Enterobacteriaceae family of gram-negative bacilli. Proteus organisms are implicated as serious causes of infections in humans, along with Escherichia, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Serratia species. UTIs are the most common clinical manifestation of Proteus infections. Proteus infection accounts for 1%-2% of UTIs in healthy women and 5% of hospital-acquired UTIs. Complicated UTIs (ie, those associated with catheterization) have a prevalence of 20%-45%