The GCSE science conundrum. GCSE science is another compulsory option, but you can choose to study it in different ways. This can limit which science A-levels – and therefore science-related uni courses – you can take later on. A university course such as Nursing may require or prefer you to have a science A-level in chemistry, biology or physics. Yes, sometimes you can do an A-level without having studied it at GCSE – in the same way as you don’t necessarily need to take a subject at A-level to study it at degree level.
Depends where you take them, ie which school, college or company offering qualifications. My friend took Geography A-Level without having taken GCSE geography, but with English and Maths it's more likely that they'll want you to have done the GCSE first.
With music it is advised that you take GCSE music if you want to take Alevel music. I'd say just do what you want to do, do what you enjoy. Please dont feel tied down by wanting to be a lawyer-do what you will have fun doing. I am in year 11 and take Music, drama and german as my options. If its primary school level having GCSE music would be very beneficial, especially if you can play the piano. My sister is a primary school teacher and the reason she was offered her job over other people is because she had GCSE and A 
I REALLY want to do Music at A-Level, but I don't know if I manage it without having no theory experience other than guitar lessons since the age of 7, but still nothing 100% theory based-I have the motivation to teach myself Theory up to Grade 5 over summer as apparently that's recommended, but still... One of my friends didn't do Music GCSE and enrolled into a specialist music college and does Music a-level alongside the sciences I think you'll be fine, you play instruments and everything... Nikki_mijo14.
So if you can take A level subjects which you didnt take as GCSE subject I dont see why you couldnt take the A levels without the GCSEs. My friend took Geography A-Level without having taken GCSE geography, but with English and Maths it's more likely that they'll want you to have done the GCSE first.
I think you are very sensible person to be thinking the reason why you would like to do AS / A level Music. Yes, it is possible to do AS music without GCSE; I have many pupils who have done just that. You don't have to go into Music as career, just because you have done Music at A level. I work in a sixth form college music department, and we have a number of students who have taken A level music without GCSE. In fact, a good Grade 5 pass in an instrument plus Grade 5 theory is a better grounding for A level than GCSE. 1  0.
View. comments. Pupils can get an A in GCSE music without being able to read or write a single note of music, it has been claimed. The skills make up such a small proportion of the papers that a candidate can ignore those questions and still gain a top grade.
Pupils can get an A in GCSE music without being able to read or write a single note of music, it has been claimed. comments. Pupils can get an A in GCSE music without being able to read or write a single note of music, it has been claimed. The skills make up such a small proportion of the papers that a candidate can ignore those questions and still gain a top grade.
Posted. Hi i think you should take gcse music as even though some of the stuff crops up in grade 5 theory (which i am studying for at the moment) it will give you performance practise and the chance to work with other musicians which would be useful when teaching in a school. If its primary school level having GCSE music would be very beneficial, especially if you can play the piano. My sister is a primary school teacher and the reason she was offered her job over other people is because she had GCSE and A level music.