The following generic Benadryl medications are currently available: 1  Diphenhydramine hydrochloride 25 mg tablets. 2  Diphenhydramine hydrochloride 25 mg capsules. 3  Diphenhydramine hydrochloride elixir (12.5 mg per teaspoonful). 4  Diphenhydramine hydrochloride 2% cream. 5  Diphenhydramine hydrochloride 2% spray. 1 Children's Benadryl Dye-Free Allergy Liquid (12.5 mg per teaspoonful). 2  Regular Strength Benadryl Itch Stopping Cream (1%). 3  Benadryl Extra Strength Itch Stopping Stick (2%). 4  Benadryl Itch Stopping Gel Extra Strength (2%).
Some prescription versions of the medication (injection, elixir, and 25 or 50 mg capsules) are also available in generic form. 1 Children's Benadryl Dye-Free Allergy Liquid (12.5 mg per teaspoonful). 2  Regular Strength Benadryl Itch Stopping Cream (1%). 3  Benadryl Extra Strength Itch Stopping Stick (2%). 4  Benadryl Itch Stopping Gel Extra Strength (2%).
USES: Diphenhydramine is an antihistamine used to relieve symptoms of allergy, hay fever, and the common cold. These symptoms include rash, itching, watery eyes, itchy eyes/nose/throat, cough, runny nose, and sneezing. It is also used to prevent and treat nausea, vomiting and dizziness caused by motion sickness. Cough-and-cold products have not been shown to be safe or effective in children younger than 6 years. Therefore, do not use this product to treat cold symptoms in children younger than 6 years unless specifically directed by the doctor.
Various. What is this medication used for : Diphenhydramine is an antihistamine used to relieve allergy symptoms, insect bites or stings and other causes of itching. It is also used for its sedative and antiemetic effects in the treatment of motion sickness and travel anxiety. Do not give sinus or cold medicines containing diphenhydramine to your pet. What are the side effects : Side effects of diphenhydramine include drowsiness, dry mouth and urinary retention. Rarely, vomiting and diarrhea can occur.
BRAND NAME: Benadryl, Sominex, Unisom, Nytol, and several others. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Diphenhydramine is an antihistamine used for treating allergic reactions. Histamine is released by the body during several types of allergic reactions and--to a lesser extent--during some viral infections, such as the common cold. The FDA originally approved diphenhydramine in 1946. PRESCRIBED FOR: Diphenhydramine is used for the relief of nasal and non-nasal symptoms of various allergic conditions such as seasonal allergic rhinitis (hay fever). It also is used to alleviate cold symptoms and hives (chronic urticaria)
It is produced and marketed under the trade name Benadryl by McNeil Consumer Healthcare in the U.S., Canada, and South Africa (trade names in other countries include Dimedrol, Daedalon, and Nytol). It is also available as a generic or store brand medication. Diphenhydramine is available as an over-the-counter drug or prescription-only solution for injection. Injectable diphenhydramine can be used for life-threatening reactions (anaphylaxis) to allergens such as bee stings, peanuts, or latex, as an adjunct to epinephrine.
Prescription versions of Benadryl (injection, elixir, and 25 or 50 mg capsules) are also available in generic form. The following Benadryl medications are not available in generic form: 1  Benadryl Dye-Free Allergy Liqui-Gels ® (25 mg). 1 Children's Benadryl Dye-Free Allergy Liquid (12.5 mg per teaspoonful). 2  Regular Strength Benadryl Itch Stopping Cream (1%). 3  Benadryl Extra Strength Itch Stopping Stick (2%). 4  Benadryl Itch Stopping Gel Extra Strength (2%).
Diphenhydramine was one of the first antihistamines developed in the late 1940s and is the prototype of the ethanolamine class of first-generation antihistamines, which also includes orphenadrine, phenyltoloxamine, doxylamine, and halogenated diphenhydramine derivatives. Diphenhydramine is available as an over-the-counter drug or prescription-only solution for injection. Injectable diphenhydramine can be used for life-threatening reactions (anaphylaxis) to allergens such as bee stings, peanuts, or latex, as an adjunct to epinephrine.
How it works: Diphenhydramine comes in 25mg minitabs or 50mg capsules, and is a generic version of Benadryl. As an antihistamine, it counteracts the effect of histamine, which causes symptoms like itching and sneezing. Cautions: This medication should not be used in pregnant or nursing animals. Do not give sinus or cold medicines containing diphenhydramine to your pet. What are the side effects : Side effects of diphenhydramine include drowsiness, dry mouth and urinary retention. Rarely, vomiting and diarrhea can occur.