Cell walls and chloroplasts are found only in plant cells or plant-like protists. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Common Issues That Affect Veronica Flowers Veronica is a lovely herbaceous perennial with blooms in a variety of colors including white, pink, purple or blue. plant cells have a cell wall to give them a regular shape and protect the cell, a large vacuole which contains water, and contain chloroplasts for photosynthesis. Some of these features can also be found it single celled organism
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. Besides the presence of chloroplasts, another major difference between plant and animal cells is the presence of a cell wall. The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane of plant cells and provides tensile strength and protection against mechanical and osmotic stress.
3. Central Vacuole. Chloroplasts are organelles that use light energy to make carbohydrates from carbon dioxide and water. This is where the process of photosynthesis occurs. The cell wall is a thick, sturdy structure that surrounds the cell membrane of plant cells. This structure gives plant cells their square-ish shape. The central vacuole is a large membrane-bound space that stores water, nutrients, and waste.
All plant cells are characterized by several common features, such as chloroplasts, a cell wall, and a large vacuole. These features also differentiate plant cells from animal cells. In addition, there is a number of specialized types of plant cells that are found only in vascular plants. 
Confidence votes 33. Unlike animal cells, plant cells have a cell wall to give them a regular shape and protect the cell, a large vacuole which contains water, and contain chloroplasts for photosynthesis. Some of these features can also be found it single celled organism.
Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Shape. 1  Another difference between plant cells and animal cells is that animal cells are round whereas plant cells are rectangular. 2  Further, all animal cells have centrioles whereas only some lower plant forms have centrioles in their cells.
Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells, so they have several features in common, such as the presence of a cell membrane, and cell organelles, like the nucleus, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum. Shape. 1  Another difference between plant cells and animal cells is that animal cells are round whereas plant cells are rectangular. 2  Further, all animal cells have centrioles whereas only some lower plant forms have centrioles in their cells.
Plant cells are eukaryotic cells i.e., the DNA in a plant cell is enclosed within the nucleus. The most important distinctive structure of plant cell is the presence of the cell wall outside the cell membrane. It forms the outer lining of the cell. Plant cells are eukaryotic cells or cells with membrane bound nucleus. Generally, plant cells are larger than animal cells and are mostly similar in size and are rectangular or cube shaped. Plant cells are similar to animal cells in being eukaryotic and they have similar cell org anelles.
A plant cell also contains structures not found in an animal cell. Some of these include a cell wall, a large vacuole, and plastids. Plastids, such as chloroplasts, assist in storing and harvesting needed substances for the plant. Animal cells also contain structures such as centrioles, lysosomes, and cilia and flagella that are not typically found in plant cells. Plant cells are eukaryotic cells, or cells with a membrane-bound nucleus. Unlike prokaryotic cells, the DNA in a plant cell is housed within the nucleus.