The Microsoft® Windows® Installer (MSI) is the application installation and configuration service for Windows. These download packages will update the version of Windows Installer on your system to version 4.5. 1  Details. 
1 ProductVersion, which specifies the version of the software to be installed. 2  ProductCode, which specifies the globally unique identifier (GUID) that identifies the Windows Installer package. 3  UpgradeCode, which specifies a GUID that Windows Installer uses to search for related versions of an installed product. (If you're unfamiliar with.msi files and Orca, see the sidebar Windows Installer at a Glance .). I found myself wanting a simpler solution, so I created MSIInfo. This utility displays five properties for .msi files: 1  Manufacturer, which specifies the manufacturer
Package Code. It is used to uniquely identify each MSI package. Windows Installer does not allow two different MSI packages with the same Package Code to be installed on the same machine. Advanced Installer generates a new one each time a project is built and a new package is created.
Unfortunately, this usually doesn’t work for Microsoft Installer packages (*.msi files). Here’s a short tutorial on how to still force those packages to install (taking the Samsung LightScribe software as an example): 1  Hit Windows+R to open the “Run” command prompt and enter %TEMP% to open your temp folder. 
Instructions. Open Windows Explorer and access the Windows\System32 folder on your primary drive (usually C:\). Locate the MSI.DLL file, right-click on it and choose Properties to check the version number. Check the MSI version through the Registry Editor. Click Start and Run.. Type regedit.exe and press Enter.. Expand the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE hive and continue expanding Software, Microsoft, Windows, CurrentVersion and Installer.. 
1 A major upgrade is used to make major changes to an installed MSI. 2  With a major upgrade you could add a new top-level feature and install many files, change/add registry values, etc. 3  If you are rolling out a new version of an application with extra functionality it would typically be a major upgrade. MSI Upgrade Overview. Before you attempt to create an upgrade of your MSI, you should understand the fundamentals of MSIs and how they support upgrades. Types of Windows Installer Upgrades. There are three types of upgrades possible with Windows Installer: Small Update, Minor Upgrade and Major Upgrade.
Developers can use the Windows Installer installation service and the .msi package schema to divide an application into available features and then further divide these features into the required components that make up the feature. If you have applications that do not have a Windows Installer package, and you have decided not to repackage the application for Windows Installer, use software installation and maintenance to publish existing setup programs using .zap files.
The company or developer who produces the application provides the Windows Installer package .msi file and includes it with the application. If a Windows Installer package does not come with an application, you might need to create a Windows Installer package by using a third-party tool. If you have applications that do not have a Windows Installer package, and you have decided not to repackage the application for Windows Installer, use software installation and maintenance to publish existing setup programs using .zap files.
Method 3: Check your version of Windows Installer, and upgrade to the latest version if necessary. 1  Click Start. , 2  type cmd in the Search box or click Run then type services.msc in the dialog (Windows XP or Windows Server 2003), and then press Enter to open a Command Prompt window. Method 2: Make sure that the Windows Installer service is not set to Disabled. 1  Click Start. , 2  type services.msc in the Search box or click Run then type services.msc in the dialog (Windows XP or Windows Server 2003), and then press Enter to open Services.