Pumped storage, a type of hydropower technology, can actually help store the electricity generated by other power sources like solar, wind, and nuclear for later use. The technology stores energy in the form of water in an upper reservoir, pumped from a second reservoir at a lower elevation. Because hydropower plants are the only major generators that can dispatch power to the grid immediately when all other energy sources are inaccessible, they provide essential back-up power during major electricity disruptions such as the 2003 blackout.
Generate energy using renewable sources, including wind, solar, small-scale hydro, biomass, and geothermal. Use fuel cells as energy storage devices to complement the electrical grid, and hydrogen to run the fuel cells. Renewable energy sources can be used to generate liquid or gaseous hydrogen. When recombined with oxygen in a fuel cell — a chemical reaction device similar to a battery — electricity and heat are generated in precisely controlled amounts.
Biomass is fuel that is developed from organic materials, a renewable and sustainable source of energy used to create electricity or other forms of power. Some examples of materials that make up biomass fuels are: 1  scrap lumber; 2  forest debris; 3  certain crops; 4  manure; and. 5  some types of waste residues. 
Hydro Power. Hydro Power is one of the cleanest, most environmentally safe sources of renewable energy. In addition to the clean electricity it offers us, hydro power plants create lakes that offer an assortment of recreational opportunities: swimming, boating and fishing. 
Hydropower is the nation’s most available, reliable, affordable and sustainable energy source. Requiring only the power of moving water – rivers, streams and ocean tides– hydropower is also domestic and sustainable. Hydropower has been a reliable source of power in the United States for over 100 years. That proven reliability benefits the national electric grid in a number of ways, from supporting other renewable energy sources to stabilizing the network to storing electricity for later use.
Wind power is a clean energy source that can be relied on for the long-term future. A wind turbine creates reliable, cost-effective, pollution free energy. It is affordable, clean and sustainable. One wind turbine can be sufficient to generate energy for a household. The wind makes the rotor spin; as the rotor spins, the movement of the blades spinning gives power to a generator which makes energy. The motion of the wind turbine turning is called kinetic energy, this power is converted into electricity.
Hydropower is a proven renewable energy resource generated and used in all regions of the U.S. for over a century, today providing approximately 30 million homes with affordable power. Because hydropower plants are the only major generators that can dispatch power to the grid immediately when all other energy sources are inaccessible, they provide essential back-up power during major electricity disruptions such as the 2003 blackout.
Thoroughly exploiting efficiency strategies can lead to a reduction of energy use by a factor of two to four or more. The remaining demand can be met with a portfolio of energy sources that are renewable, non-polluting, and compatible with the health of ecosystems. Such sources include wind, solar, small-scale hydro, biomass, and geothermal. Together, such renewable sources provide the energy driving materials cycles. Renewable energy sources can be used to generate liquid or gaseous hydrogen. When recombined with oxygen in a fuel cell — a chemical reaction device similar to a battery — electricity and heat are generated in precisely controlled amounts.
When people talk about energy and natural gas, opinions differ. Is it harmful to the environment, or the last great clean energy source? Perhaps we shouldn't ask whether natural gas is a good source of energy, but instead examine what makes a good energy source in the first place. When it’s burned, it gives off a lot of energy that can be used for cooking, heating, generating electricity and other necessities. However, because it’s a fossil fuel, natural gas isn't a renewable resource. It's a good source of energy today; after all, there's plenty of it in the United States.