Abstract. This paper presents a compact dual-band slot antenna for 1.8/2.4 GHz WLAN applications using electromagnetic bandgap (EBG) structures. The slotted rectangular radiating element is surrounded by a spiral-like EBG. This paper presents both basic characteristics and design of spiral-like EBG structure, where the geometry of the EBG lattice is illustrated and also slotted rectangular patch antenna is presented in Section 2.
Tunable electromagnetic bandgap structures based on ferroelectric or ferromagnetic thin films were also reported in literature [61]. To achieve tunable EBG performance ferroelectric capacitors are also considered [59] [62]. Some alternatives exist to accomplish tuning of Electromagnetic bandgap materials: (1) Micromechanically or electrically modifying the device geometry and/or dielectric loading [59] [60]. (2) By creating some defects and (3) By using ferroelectric and ferromagnetic substrates [62].
The size of a 3  3 structure is only 7.53 cm  7.53 cm and provides 10 dB attenuation across the surface. Index Terms — Electromagnetic Bandgap structures, artificial magnetic conductors, high impedance ground planes. In any case, using the uni-planar structure in [2] with a dielectric constant of 10.2 only reduces the size of the cell to 7 cm  7 cm. Fig. 2 shows a schematic highlighting the printed pattern of the cell of the proposed EBG structure. The structure is developed on a grounded substrate (not shown in Fig.
An important part of the paper is the experiments showing the surface wave distribution over an EBG board and over the fabricated antennas with and without the periodic structure. Keywords Electromagnetic band gap (EBG), surface wave distribution, patch antenna, radiation properties. 1. The power transferred into the surface waves does not contribute to the main radiation of the antenna, but it is scattered off the edges of the finite ground plane and leads to deep nulls and ripples in radiation patterns, increased back radiation, gain deterioration, lower polarization purity, etc.
Asymmetric or symmetric tuning of the bandgap width was achieved by changing the capacitance of the varactors in LC circuits [61]. Yongje Sung presented a novel approach to obtain the electromagnetic bandgap structure with a wide tunable stopband filter using defected ground structure (DGS) [63]. Miguel and researcher also proposed a multiple frequency tuned photonic bandgap microstrip structure [64]. Some alternatives exist to accomplish tuning of Electromagnetic bandgap materials: (1) Micromechanically or electrically modifying the device geometry and/or dielectric loading [59] [60]. (2) By creating some defects and (3) By using ferroelectric and ferromagnetic substrates [62].
Chapter 3 Page 57 CHAPTER -3 Electromagnetic BandGap Structures 3.1 Introduction and Historical Background Electromagnetic bandgap materials are one of the most rapidly advancing materials in the electromagnetic arena. Some alternatives exist to accomplish tuning of Electromagnetic bandgap materials: (1) Micromechanically or electrically modifying the device geometry and/or dielectric loading [59] [60]. (2) By creating some defects and (3) By using ferroelectric and ferromagnetic substrates [62].
Experiments 3.1 Design of an EBG To design electromagnetic band gap structures, nu-merous approximate and analytical methods were worked out [8], [18]. Nevertheless, only full-wave techniques offer an exact approach. Moreover, due to complex behavior of EBGs, stochastic methods can be successfully exploited. The power transferred into the surface waves does not contribute to the main radiation of the antenna, but it is scattered off the edges of the finite ground plane and leads to deep nulls and ripples in radiation patterns, increased back radiation, gain deterioration, lower polarization purity, etc.
In graphs of the electronic band structure of solids, the band gap generally refers to the energy difference (in electron volts) between the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band in insulators and semiconductors. It is closely related to the HOMO/LUMO gap in chemistry. In this situation, there is a distinction between optical bandgap and electrical band gap (or transport gap). The optical bandgap is the threshold for photons to be absorbed, while the transport gap is the threshold for creating an electron–hole pair that is not bound together.
Band-gap engineering is the process of controlling or altering the band gap of a material by controlling the composition of certain semiconductor alloys, such as GaAlAs, InGaAs, and InAlAs. It is also possible to construct layered materials with alternating compositions by techniques like molecular-beam epitaxy. In this situation, there is a distinction between optical bandgap and electrical band gap (or transport gap). The optical bandgap is the threshold for photons to be absorbed, while the transport gap is the threshold for creating an electron–hole pair that is not bound together.