Save. Depression of the central nervous system, or CNS, occurs when there is a decrease in activity in the central nervous system, which is comprised of the brain and spinal cord. The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord, and it is the majority of the nervous system. The central nervous system receives sensory input from the somatic nervous system and autonomic nervous system and sends out the motor response.
Central nervous system depression can be dangerous because the CNS is responsible for coordinating the functions of all parts of the body; if left untreated, central nervous system depression can result in a coma or death, according to author Dr. Melissa Conrad Stoeppler. stöppler The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord, and it is the majority of the nervous system. The central nervous system receives sensory input from the somatic nervous system and autonomic nervous system and sends out the motor response.
Peripheral nervous system: The portion of the nervous system that is outside the brain and spinal cord. Abbreviated PNS. The nerves in the PNS connect the central nervous system (CNS) to sensory organs, such as the eye and ear, and to other organs of the body, muscles, blood vessels, and glands. The peripheral nerves include the 12 cranial nerves, the spinal nerves and roots, and the autonomic nerves
Central nervous system (CNS): The central nervous system is that part of the nervous system that consists of the brain and spinal cord. The central nervous system (CNS) is one of the two major divisions of the nervous system. The other is the peripheral nervous system (PNS) which is outside the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system (PNS) connects the central nervous system (CNS) to sensory organs (such as the eye and ear), other organs of the body, muscles, blood vessels and glands.
CNS depression is generally caused by the use of depressant drugs such as alcohol, opioids, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, general anesthetics, and anticonvulsants such as pregabalin used to treat epilepsy. In a study comparing the central nervous depression due to supra-therapeutic doses of Triazolam (Benzodiazepine), Pentobarbital (Barbiturate) and GHB it appeared as if GHB had the strongest dose-effect function.
A. A depressant, by definition, reduces or diminishes a function or activity. A CNS depressant, therefore, would depress the activity of the central nervous system (CNS). Some drugs that are commonly used as sedatives, hypnotics (sleep aids), and anesthetics are CNS depressants. Symptoms of CNS depression vary according to the extent to which CNS function is reduced. Symptoms may include: 1  Feeling sleepy and uncoordinated. 2  Staggering. 3  Blurred vision. 4  Impaired thinking. 5  Slurred speech.
Its Causes, Symptoms And Treatment Options. The central nervous system controls almost all the activities in human body. This also includes vital activities such as respiration as well as heart beats. Depression in central nervous system (CNS) slows down all this bodily activities. 
Definition. CNS depression, or central nervous system depression, is defined as decreased neurological activity in the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain and spinal cord. Depression describes unusually low activity in the CNS, or central nervous system. CNS depression, or central nervous system depression, is defined as decreased neurological activity in the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain and spinal cord.