Kelp Forest. Find yourself immersed in the majestic grandeur of a giant kelp forest, where algae called kelp grow as large as trees and support a tremendous variety of life. 
Seaweeds are algae that live in the sea or in brackish water. They are also called macroalgae (which means 'big algae') to differentiate them from the microscopic algae are common in the sea. Algae are everywhere! Algae grow everywhere in the sea, in freshwater and even on land. They even grow in your bathroom, if you don't clean it often!
Shredded varieties and mixtures containing other flavoring are also popular ways to eat nori in Japanese cuisine, but again most westerners know only the sheets of nori used in their local sushi bar or Japanese restaurant. Nori as we see it is pressed, dried sheets of seaweed. This seaweed is a type of red algae, although by the time it's dried and ready to eat it's dark green; almost black in color. Korea and Japan both produce billions of sheets of Nori each year, but increasingly cheaper grades are being supplied by China. 
The red alga Porphyra, called nori, is the most popular food product. After harvesting, nori is dried, pressed into sheets, and used in soups, sauces, sushi, and condiments. Algae are considered nutritious because of their high protein content and high concentrations of minerals, trace elements, and vitamins. 
Nori (海苔) is the Japanese name for edible seaweed species of the red algae genus Porphyra, including P. yeeziensis and P. tenera. Nori is familiar in the United States and other countries as an ingredient of sushi, being referred to as nori (as the Japanese do) or simply as seaweed. Finished products are made by a shredding and rack-drying process that resembles papermaking
It is the Japanese name for dried edible seaweed sheets made from a species of red algae called Porphyra, including Porphyra yezoensis and Porphyra tenera. It is probably most popularly know for its use in making Sushi, but it is used in many other applications too. So Many Uses... Take a look at the images above. It is rolled up in a seaweed sheet typically 7 to 7 1/2 inches by 8 to 8 1/2 inches in size. It is also toasted before packaging and has to be stored in an air-tight container after opening to reduce air exposure and prevent it from absorbing moisture as it will lose its crispiness if it is not.
1 For at least 1,500 years, the Japanese have enrobed a mixture of raw fish, sticky rice, and other ingredients in a seaweed called nori. 2  The delectable result is a sushi roll. 3  Many seaweeds contain anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial agents. Seaweed is the common name for countless species of marine plants and algae that grow in the ocean as well as in rivers, lakes, and other water bodies. Kelp forest in the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary and National Park
Nori is the Japanese name given to various types of edible seaweed and algae, which are also called laver. Nori's origins can be traced back all the way to ancient China and Japan around the 8th century. The algae used to make nori grows on the surface of the sea and is farmed using huge nets. In fact, 230 square miles of the Japanese coastline are dedicated solely to the production of nori, and over 300,000 tons is made every year!
Today Japan is the principal user of edible algae, and the Japanese have developed methods for culturing and harvesting leafy algae. Large-scale farming practices are used to grow the red alga Porphyra, which is commonly called nori. Porphyra spores are sprinkled on oyster shells, which are placed into shallow tanks. The algae are simple photosynthetic plants that live in water. Most species are small to very tiny; many can only be seen with a microscope and often float or swim as plankton in the water column. But some algae--what we often call pond scum or seaweed--are conspicuous plants that can form dense mats of vegetation.