10 most extreme places on Earth. A whistleblower is a person working within an organization who reports misconduct. He or she may be a current or past employee, and the misconduct may be ongoing at the time of the report or may have taken place in the past. 
whistleblower. One who reports illegal, improper, unethical, or unprofessional behavior to authorities. The person divulging the information is usually an employee of the institution where the alleged activities occurred. 
vs. TEMENOS. A whistleblower is a person who voluntarily provides information to the general public, or someone in a position of authority, about dishonest or illegal business activities occurring at an organization. 
Whistleblower-Informant Award. The IRS Whistleblower Office pays money to people who blow the whistle on persons who fail to pay the tax that they owe. If the IRS uses information provided by the whistleblower, it can award the whistleblower up to 30 percent of the additional tax, penalty and other amounts it collects. More Information. 1  What Happens to a Claim for an Informant Award (Whistleblower). 2  Procedures used and the criteria followed to identify and process informant cases. 3  Whistleblower Law. 4  A brief synopsis of what the new whistleblower law entails.
Datto. The Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (WPA) is a law that protects federal government employees in the United States from retaliatory action for voluntarily disclosing information about dishonest or illegal activities occurring at a government organization. 
1. You’re a whistleblower if you’re a worker and you report certain types of wrongdoing. This will usually be something you’ve seen at work-though not always. The wrongdoing you disclose must be in the public interest. 
DEFINITION of 'Whistleblower'. Anyone who has and reports insider knowledge of illegal activities occurring in an organization. BREAKING DOWN 'Whistleblower'. Different organizations are interested in different sets of illegal activities reported by whistleblowers. While OSHA is more interested in the environmental and safety breaches, the SEC is interested in securities law violations.
whis·tle·blow·er. n. One who reveals wrongdoing within an organization to the public or to those in positions of authority: The Pentagon's most famous whistleblower is ... hoping to get another chance to search for government waste (Washington Post). 