After the cause of your eczema is known, your doctor may recommend corticosteroid cream, antibiotics, cold compresses, and changes in the products you use on a daily basis. Keep reading to learn more about how to treat hand eczema. Ask your doctor about using a bleach bath to treat the eczema on your hands. Using a highly diluted solution of bleach and water may help to reduce the amount of bacteria on your hands, which helps some people with their eczema.
Eczema appears on the hands very commonly. This is because soaps, lotions, and contact with certain fabric, animals, and other allergens or irritants that the hands come in contact with can cause a reaction in people with hypersensitive skin. Frequent washing of the hands can further dry out the skin of someone with eczema on their hands. Eczema on the hands can be difficult to treat because of the constant contact with water and other irritants. Eczema, or atopic dermatitis, may also be a long-term condition affecting the skin. It occurs because of a hypersensitivity reaction (similar to an allergy), in which the skin reacts to triggers, such as dyes, fabrics, soaps, animals,
Hand eczema, or hand dermatitis, describes any type of eczema that develops on the hands. It is commonly job-related and can be made worse by factors including frequent hand washing and exposure to chemicals. Hand eczema may require specific testing and treatments. It may cause itchy, dry, scaly patches of skin that crack and flake. This can occur acutely, but may also be a condition referred to as chronic hand eczema (CHE) or chronic hand dermatitis (CHD). Hand eczema, and CHE can profoundly affect everyday living and one's quality of life.
Even a biopsy of all these conditions may not result in a definitive diagnosis, as all three conditions may demonstrate spongiosis and crusting on the hands. Non-communicable inflammation of the skin of the hands is referred to as hand eczema. Hand eczema is widely prevalent and, as it is a very visible condition associated with severe itching or pain, has serious consequences for the affected person including a high psychological impact. 
Moisturize your hands often. A good moisturizer is essential to preventing eczema flare-ups. Make sure that you use a moisturizer that does not irritate your skin. Ointments are usually the best options for hand eczema, they moisturize better and cause less stinging and burning when applied to irritated skin. Ask your doctor about using a bleach bath to treat the eczema on your hands. Using a highly diluted solution of bleach and water may help to reduce the amount of bacteria on your hands, which helps some people with their eczema.
Overview. Dyshidrotic eczema, or dyshidrosis, is a skin condition in which blisters develop on the soles of your feet and/or the palms of your hands. The blisters are usually itchy and may be filled with fluid. Blisters normally last for about two to four weeks and may be related to seasonal allergies or stress
Eczema has been called the itch that rashes because the itching usually occurs first. This group of skin rashes may first appear in babies and toddlers, becoming a drier, flaky rash in older children. Adults may see scaly, leathery patches or a stubborn hand eczema. Adults typically notice itchy patches on the hands, elbows, and in the bending areas of the body, such as the inside of the elbows and back of the knees. But eczema can appear anywhere, including the neck, chest, even the eyelids.
Hand eczema (also known as hand dermatitis) is a common condition affecting up to 10% of the population. It results from a combination of factors, both internal (e.g. your genetic make-up), and external (e.g. contact with irritants and allergens such as chemicals). 
Eczema may cause pain and discomfort on any part of your body, but eczema on your hands can be even more of a problem. Whether your eczema is caused by an irritant, an allergen, or genetics, there are certain steps you can take to help treat it. Ask your doctor about using a bleach bath to treat the eczema on your hands. Using a highly diluted solution of bleach and water may help to reduce the amount of bacteria on your hands, which helps some people with their eczema.