Hijama Therapy is a safe procedure if performed correctly, and unlike drugs and pharmaceutical medications, Hijama has no side effects and does not inject substances in the body or prescribe internalising anything. Hijama is noticeably effective for the treatment of metaphysical and spiritual conditions such as Evil Eye, Black Magic and Jin possession or for those conditions that medical practise can not account for.
'Hijama' in arabic is derived from 'hajm' which means 'sucking'. Cupping / Hijama is the process of applying cups to various points on the body and removing the air inside the cups to form a vacuum. In terms of following the Sunnah, the cupping that is referred to is ' Bleeding cupping '. It is the most frequently used, oldest and often the most effective method
The Messenger r said, Indeed in cupping (hijama) there is a cure. [Saheeh Muslim (5706)]. r said, Whoever performs cupping (hijama) on the 17th, 19th or 21st day (of the Islamic, lunar month) then it is a cure for every disease. [Saheeh Sunan abi Dawud (3861)]. Dry cupping (hijama) and dry massaging cupping (hijama) allow the blood to reach these places. Dry and massage cupping (hijama) may be self-administered in the comfort and privacy of your own home. Each cupping (hijama) box is accompanied by an instruction booklet.
Hijama (Arabic: حجامة ‎ lit. sucking) is the Arabic traditional medicine for wet cupping, where blood is drawn by vacuum from a small skin incision for therapeutic purposes. Hijama can be performed almost anywhere on the body, often at the site of an ache or pain in order to ease or alleviate it.
Hijama treatment can be utilised for the prevention of disease, as we all know prevention is better than cure and our clinic is based on this premis. God is the ultimate curer of disease and this is not in our hands. Hijama is noticeably effective for the treatment of metaphysical and spiritual conditions such as Evil Eye, Black Magic and Jin possession or for those conditions that medical practise can not account for.
Hijama Cupping Therapy is a therapeutic treatment practiced for over 5,000 years. It spread to many nations around the world over time including China, Africa, Russia, Middle East, Central, South East, South Asia and Europe, USA. 
Cupping is a method of relieving local congestion by applying a partial vacuum that is created in a cup(s), either by heat or by suction. Cupping has been used for thousands of years. Although it is often associated with Traditional Chinese Medicine, the entire world once knew this of therapy and used it. Cupping / Hijama is the process of applying cups to various points on the body and removing the air inside the cups to form a vacuum. In terms of following the Sunnah, the cupping that is referred to is ' Bleeding cupping '.
Dry cupping (hijama) - This is the process of using a vacuum on different areas of the body in order to gather the blood in that area without incisions (small, light scratches using a sterile surgical blade or). Dry cupping (hijama) and dry massaging cupping (hijama) allow the blood to reach these places. Dry and massage cupping (hijama) may be self-administered in the comfort and privacy of your own home. Each cupping (hijama) box is accompanied by an instruction booklet.
Hijama is a prophetic medicine and natural therapy that can detoxify all your major organs with no side effects. Hijama in (Arabic: حجامة)‎ means  to suck also in traditional medicine known as wet cupping, where toxic blood is drawn by vacuum from a small skin incision for therapeutic purposes.