The size of Plumbing PEX is usually determined by the end use, or end application, with most common being: 1/2 PEX plumbing tubing is the most common of all sizes and is typically used in conjunction with PEX plumbing manifolds to carry hot or cold water to plumbing fixtures. PEX Plumbing Tubing (Non-Barrier). Everhot plumbing PEX is a non-barrier PEX-B type tubing. It is manufactured to ASTM F876/F877/F2023 standards, NSF certified for potable water applications (nsf-pw), complies with low-lead requirements and used for residential or light commercial potable water plumbing systems.
Where 1/2-inch and 3/4-inch ratings for PEX (and copper) plumbing pipe comes from is from the I.D. of the pipe. The PEX pipes are made with an I.D. that matches the I.D. sizing of its copper-pipe counterpart. Yay! Once the plumbing was exposed, we found that we had 3/4-inch PEX supply lines coming to the bathroom, which were split inside the shower wall to two sets of 1/2-inch PEX lines: one set going to the shower, the other set going to the tub and sinks.
Proper PEX tubing size for bathroom. Im in the middle of a multi weekend warrior bathroom renovation. I ended up gutting the entire bath. Orginally the sink was fed from seperate 1/2 inch copper lines, and the shower was fed from diffferent 1/2 inch copper lines.
Since I had 3/4-inch PEX supply lines coming to the shower area already, I continued the 3/4-inch PEX up to my shower valves, giving me the minimum 1/2-inch I.D. that I need for my shower supply lines. Yay! Once the plumbing was exposed, we found that we had 3/4-inch PEX supply lines coming to the bathroom, which were split inside the shower wall to two sets of 1/2-inch PEX lines: one set going to the shower, the other set going to the tub and sinks.
I certainly see no problem with running the 3/4 inch pex to your 1/2 inch copper in the bathroom or in the basement. Seems that most folks plumbing with pex are doing what they call home runs which normally involve individual smaller size pipes from each fixture back to a port on a manifold in a utility room or such. Im in the middle of a multi weekend warrior bathroom renovation. I ended up gutting the entire bath. Orginally the sink was fed from seperate 1/2 inch copper lines, and the shower was fed from diffferent 1/2 inch copper lines.
I used 1/2. PEX for all of it. It's about 12 from valve down to the spout and a long ways for the shower head (7 feet) from the floor (I wanted plenty of room to get my head under the shower head). Anyways-Sometimes when drawing a bath water trickles out of the shower head. 
Bottom line is that new 1/2 copper loses 3 psi and 1/2 Pex loses 6 psi. 3/4 Pex only loses 1.2 psi. For a 40 psi line (like my main) that s a 7.5%, 15% or 3% pressure loss. I m sticking with 3/4 PEX to the shower. 100 feet of 3/4 inch PEX holds about 1.3 gallons. For 1/2 inch PEX it's about 0.7 gallons. I can live with the additional 0.6 gallon loss as a trade off for an extra 5 psi of pressure. I have a small undersink water heater that provides hot water to a side tap at the bathroom sink.
PEX Diameter. When you're buying PEX, the important number is the “nominal” size. This construction standard indicates the pipe is compatible with fittings of the same size. The flexible tubing comes in rolls of 50 feet up to 1,000 feet. PEX tubes range in diameter from 3/8-inch to 1-inch for residential applications. The valve sizes on the manifold indicate the largest compatible PEX tube size. For example, if the manifold has 3/4-inch valves, you can install 3/4-inch, or smaller, PEX tubing. Reducer fittings are necessary when you need to install tubing narrower than a manifold valve.
Using copper from the valve to the shower head is a really good idea to help with the rigidity when installing the shower arm and head. 1/2 is all you will need to feed it. I use preformed copper bends that have a copper pipe size on one end (that gets sweated into the valve) and a pex end on the other side. As long as the supply lines for the shower tie into a 3/4 line, 1/2 will be fine. I use a Delta shower faucet that already has pex adapters made into the valve body, no threading or sweating, just crimp and you're done.