Klor-Con® (potassium chloride) Extended-release Tablets are an electrolyte replenisher. The chemical name is potassium chloride, and the structural formula is KCl. Potassium chloride, USP is a white, granular powder or colorless crystals. It is odorless and has a saline taste. Its solutions are neutral to litmus. Klor-Con® (potassium chloride) Extended-release Tablets, USP are a solid oral dosage form of potassium chloride. Each contains 600 mg or 750 mg of potassium chloride equivalent to 8 mEq or 10 mEq of potassium in a wax matrix tablet.
Potassium chlorate is a compound containing potassium, chlorine and oxygen atoms, with the molecular formula KClO 3. In its pure form, it is a white crystalline substance. It is the most common chlorate in industrial use. It is used. 
1 Review. Potassium chloride is a mineral supplement used to treat or prevent low levels of potassium in the blood. The supplement, often referred to as the formula KCl, is available from dozens of manufacturers. Potassium is essential for the function of the heart, muscles, kidneys, nerves, and digestive system. Typically, a well-balanced diet supplies all the potassium you need. However, certain diseases, conditions, or drugs can remove potassium from the body. Potassium depletion may be caused by:
Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium. 
The chemical compound potassium chloride (KCl) is a metal halide salt composed of potassium and chloride. It is odorless and has a white or colorless vitreous crystal appearance. The solid dissolves readily in water and its solutions have a salt-like taste. The lethal effects of potassium chloride overdoses have led to its use in lethal injection, as the third of a three-drug combination. Additionally, KCl is used (albeit rarely) in fetal intracardiac injections in second-and third-trimester induced abortions.
potassium chloride (KCl), a white crystalline salt used as a substitute for table salt in the diet of people with cardiovascular disorders, in administration of the potassium ion, and as a constituent of Ringer's solution. potassium chloride a compound used orally or intravenously as an electrolyte replenisher. potassium citrate a systemic and urinary alkalizer, electrolyte replenisher, and diuretic.
Potassium is a mineral that plays many critical roles in the body. Food sources of potassium include fruits (especially dried fruits), cereals, beans, milk, and vegetables. Potassium is used for treating and preventing low potassium levels. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and prevent stroke. 
1 Potassium chloride is used to replace potassium in people who have become short of potassium in the body. 2  It is a potassium supplement, sometimes known as potassium chloride. 3  It is used to replace essential potassium lost from the body owing to a variety of causes. 