Cardiac tissue is made of cardiac muscle cells and a small amount of connective tissue. The cells that make this tissue are called cardiocytes. They have the special ability t … o beat on their own with no nerve stimulation. If one touches another beating cell, they will begin to beat together. Cells make up tissues, and tissues make up organs.tissues are group of cells which perform similar action.so they are made up of cells only. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
1 Parenchyma tissues are made of simple, thin-walled cells. 2  In a carrot, for example, the parenchyma cells become a storage unit called the cortex. 3  In leaves, a layer of parenchyma tissues under the epidermis is active in photosynthesis. 1 Epidermis is the single exterior layer that protects the stems, leaves, flowers, and roots. 2  The outside surface of the epidermis tissue is usually covered with a waxy substance called cutin, which reduces water loss. 3 
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. The cells of meristematic tissues are similar in structure and have thin and elastic primary cell wall made up of cellulose. They are compactly arranged without inter-cellular spaces between them. Each cell contains a dense cytoplasm and a prominent nucleus.
There are four main tissue types in the body: epithelial, connective, muscle, and nervous. Each is designed for specific functions. Tissue is a group of cells that have simi … lar structure and that function together as a unit. A nonliving material, called the inter-cellular matrix, fills the spaces between the cells. 
Report Abuse. Tissues are made up of cells. A tissue is a group of cells working together to perform similar functions. An example of a tissue would be the palisade mesophyll tissue in plants (http://www.arboretum.harvard.edu/researc... which is made up of palisade mesophyll cells. The function they perform together is photosynthesis.
Muscle tissue is made of excitable cells that are capable of contraction. Of all of the different tissue types (muscle, epithelial, connective, and nervous), muscle tissue is the most abundant in most animals. 
The muscles of our lungs, stomach, and intestines are made of smooth muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle tissue is the third type of muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle tissue makes our hearts. Organs are groups of tissues that work together to do a job. Our skin is made of hair tissue, oil and sweat gland tissues, nerve tissue, blood tissue, and many other tissues to make the organ called skin. Our eyes are made of nerve tissue, blood vessel tissue, muscle tissue, lens tissue, pupil tissue, and many more types of tissue to make the organ called eyes. (LA.A.2.2.1.4.1) Cells, Tissues, and Organs Our bodies are made of cells, tissues, and organs. The cell is the smallest unit of life. All living things are made of cells. One kind of cell makes one kind of tissue. Only hair cells can make hair tissue. Only nerve cells can make nerve tissue.
Confidence votes 45. cells,Cells group together in the body to form tissues-a collection of similar cells that group together to perform a specialized function. There are 4 primary tissue types in the human body: epithelial tissue, connective tissue, muscle tissue and nerve tissue. Cells make up tissues, and tissues make up organs.tissues are group of cells which perform similar action.so they are made up of cells only. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
Inside the Torso. The body's functions are conducted by organs. Each organ is a recognizable structure (for example, the heart, lungs, liver, eyes, and stomach) that performs specific functions. An organ is made of several types of tissue and therefore several types of cells (see Cells). For example, the heart (see Heart) contains muscle tissue that contracts to pump blood, fibrous tissue that makes up the heart valves, and special cells that maintain the rate and rhythm of heartbeat