1 Vitiglio-Skin condition where the skin loses pigment or color. 2  Fungus (e.g; tinea versicolor)- A fungal infection can cause white spots on areas such as the back and chest. 3  An athletes foot or jock itch cream could be of some help. 4  Fungus can also be contracted from tanning beds. White Spots on Skin. 1  Vitiglio-Skin condition where the skin loses pigment or color. 2  Fungus (e.g; tinea versicolor)- A fungal infection can cause white spots on areas such as the back and chest. 3  An athletes foot or jock itch cream could be of some help. 4  Fungus can also be contracted from tanning beds.
Age spots on the shoulder and back. Age spots — also called liver spots and solar lentigines — are flat tan, brown or black spots. They vary in size and usually appear on the face, hands, shoulders and arms — areas most exposed to the sun. Age spots are very common in adults older than age 50. For cosmetic reasons, age spots can be lightened with skin-bleaching products or removed. However, preventing age spots — by avoiding the sun and using sunscreen — may be the easiest way to maintain your skin's youthful appearance.
A. Most skin bumps, spots, growths, and moles are harmless. Colored skin spots, also called pigmented lesions (such as freckles, moles, or flesh-colored skin spots), or growths (such as warts or skin tags) may be present at birth or develop as the skin ages.
Skin spots: The occurrence of spots that are located on the skin. See detailed information below for a list of 29 causes of Skin spots, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Skin spots: The following list of conditions have ' Skin spots ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Actinic keratosis and actinic lentigines are types of colored skin spots that are caused by too much sun exposure. Although these spots are not skin cancers, they may mean that you have an increased chance of getting skin cancer, such as squamous cell skin cancer or a type of melanoma. Colored skin spots, also called pigmented lesions (such as freckles, moles, or flesh-colored skin spots), or growths (such as warts or skin tags) may be present at birth or develop as the skin ages.
Histology slide of a solar lentigo. Liver spots (also known as age spot, solar lentigo, Lentigo senilis, Old age spot, Senile freckle) are blemishes on the skin associated with aging and exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun. 
Most skin spots on babies will go away without treatment within a few months. Birthmarks are colored marks on the skin that are present at birth or develop shortly after birth. They can be many different sizes, shapes, and colors, including brown, tan, black, blue, pink, white, red, or purple. Colored skin spots, also called pigmented lesions (such as freckles, moles, or flesh-colored skin spots), or growths (such as warts or skin tags) may be present at birth or develop as the skin ages.
for Spots on Skin.  Identifying the reason for spots on skin can be difficult since there are at least 61 conditions, diseases, viruses, bacteria and infections that can result in skin spots. Clues are provided by location and appearance such as color, shape and if the area is raised. White Spots on Skin. 1  Vitiglio-Skin condition where the skin loses pigment or color. 2  Fungus (e.g; tinea versicolor)- A fungal infection can cause white spots on areas such as the back and chest. 3  An athletes foot or jock itch cream could be of some help. 4  Fungus can also be contracted from tanning beds.
The Warning Signs of Skin Cancer. Skin cancers -- including melanoma, basal cell carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma -- often start as changes to your skin. They can be new growths or precancerous lesions -- changes that are not cancer but could become cancer over time. 