this chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of customer service representative i in fargo nd that make less than that salary for example 50 % of the people who perform the job of customer service representative i in fargo are expected to make less than the median source hr reported data as of october 2015 processes orders prepares correspondence and fulfills customer needs to ensure customer satisfaction requires a high school diploma or equivalent and 0 3 years of experience in the field or in a related area has knowledge of commonly used concepts practices and procedures within a particular field
The average Wells Fargo salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Data Entry Clerk to $320,000 per year for Business Development Officer. 
the salary for someone with the job title customer service representative i in fargo nd varies depending on a number of factors processes orders prepares correspondence and fulfills customer needs to ensure customer satisfaction requires a high school diploma or equivalent and 0 3 years of experience in the field or in a related area has knowledge of commonly used concepts practices and procedures within a particular field
For Customer Service Representatives at Wells Fargo Bank, hourly average wages total $13.33 per hour. There are more female Customer Service Representatives at Wells Fargo Bank who answered the questionnaire than male, making up 68 percent. Most enjoy medical while the larger part get dental coverage. Vision coverage is also available to just over a half. The majority of individuals in this role claim moderate levels of job satisfaction. The figures in this overview were provided by individuals who took PayScale's salary questionnaire. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Bank wherever life takes you. Whether you're choosing a checking account, banking on the go, or managing your spending, Wells Fargo makes it easy for you to manage your everyday banking. Go To Banking Made Easy. 1  Compare checking accounts. 2  Manage accounts with mobile banking and online banking. 3  Tap into financial education for valuable tips, tools, and resources. 4  Use your Wells Fargo card with Apple PayTM. Wells Fargo Insurance has been helping you protect what’s important since 1903. Protect What Counts. 1  Protect your home and property. 2  Get coverage for you and your family.
JR in San Jose, California said: I have worked at Wells Fargo for over two years now. This is a horrible job. They ride us every day for more and more sales no matter how many you get they want more. 80% of the people there go to JR. I am a current Wells Fargo employee and could not agree more. I collect MILLIONS OF DOLLARS/MONTH for the crappy company and all they want is more. They pay me less than 1/2 of 1 percent of what I collect for the company, and they have the nads to give me grief every day!
in San Jose, California. 46 months ago. Wells Fargo's plan is to get their bankers to open up as many bank accounts as possible because the more accounts, the higher chance of WF making money on fees. I have been with WF for 3 years and it has been a mind blowing experience to say the least. I am a current Wells Fargo employee and could not agree more. I collect MILLIONS OF DOLLARS/MONTH for the crappy company and all they want is more. They pay me less than 1/2 of 1 percent of what I collect for the company, and they have the nads to give me grief every day!