For the endothelium of the cornea, see corneal endothelium. Endothelium is a type of epithelium that lines the interior surface of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood or lymph in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall. It is a thin layer of simple squamous cells called endothelial cells. 
Epithelial cells are the individual cells of an epithelium, which is a layer of cells forming the surface of a structure or an inner lining. For example, there is an epithel … ium lining the alimentary canal (gut), and another lining the alveoli of the lungs. For example the epethelial cell layer are the cells that coat the intetestine wall, and thus absorb nutrients and the the endothelial cells are the cells that face the blood,and release those nutrients into the blood.
✦ The endothelial cells that make up the endothelium are a single layer of cells. This single sheet of endothelium is so thin that molecules of water and oxygen can easily penetrate the layer and access the surrounding tissue. Also, the endothelial cells lack a tightly packed epithelial morphology. For instance, the outermost layer of the skin, the epidermis, is nothing but the epithelium. Thus, the superficial skin is lined by epithelial cells, thereby, forming a protective barrier against the external environment.
Endothelial Cells. Endothelial cells are a lining layer of cells or tissue (endothelium), especially the interior of the blood vessels. In fact, the endothelium lines the entire circulatory system including the one and only heart and all types of blood vessels. Epithelial and endothelial cells are far too different types of cells forming different types of tissues in animals. The location, form, and function are different in these two types of tissues.
Advertisement. Endothelial and epithelial cells that make up the tissues in humans and animals are of epithelial origin, but there is a major difference between the location, structure, and function of these cells. For instance, the outermost layer of the skin, the epidermis, is nothing but the epithelium. Thus, the superficial skin is lined by epithelial cells, thereby, forming a protective barrier against the external environment.
Epithelial Cells. Epithelial cells form the epithelium, which usually lines the surfaces of the body including the most widely spread and the largest organ of the body, skin. Epithelium is one of the four basic types of tissues; others are muscle tissue, nervous tissue, and connective tissue. In addition to the lining of the skin, the epithelial cells line many glands and cavities of the body. Epithelial and endothelial cells are far too different types of cells forming different types of tissues in animals. The location, form, and function are different in these two types of tissues.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Endothelial and epethelilal cells are the two different cell types which sandwich together the tissue. On the blood side is the endothelial cells (endo, meaning inside), and on the outer side are the epethelial cells. For example the epethelial cell layer are the cells that coat the intetestine wall, and thus absorb nutrients and the the endothelial cells are the cells that face the blood,and release those nutrients into the blood.
✦ Epithelial cells that form the epithelium not only cover the outside portion of the body, but also provide a coating to all the internal organs of the body. For instance, the outermost layer of the skin, the epidermis, is nothing but the epithelium. Thus, the superficial skin is lined by epithelial cells, thereby, forming a protective barrier against the external environment.
Endothelia line the inside of our bodies, so this is the lining of our blood vessels, the lining of the chambers of the heart, etc. The term epithelia can also mean any tissue which is flattened (and possibly stratified). By this definition, the endothelium is a type of epithelium. Answers. Best Answer: Epithelia line the outside of our bodies. Basically, this is anything which is open to the outside, and includes the skin, the lining of our intestines, our bladder and urethra, etc.