Pearls form inside a mollusk which is an invertebrate with a soft body, often protected by a shell such as a clam, oyster or mussel. Any mollusk is capable of producing a pearl, although only those mollusks that have shells lined with nacre produce pearls that are used in the jewellery industry.
Pearls are organic gemstones which form inside a living pearl-producing mollusk. Nacre is formed from iridescent layers or columns of flattened crystallised calcium carbonate, in the form of the mineral aragonite (ah-RAG-uh-nite), secretions over the irritant.
This is followed by the same process of natural pearl production.  ----------  Although clams can produce pearls, they are non-nacreous and have little commercial value. Mollusks from the family Bivalvia are the producers of pearls.
Pearls may also be found and cultured in freshwater mollusks and are often produced by species collectively called pearl mussels.. Some pearls are cultured-they do not form by chance in the wild, but are helped by humans, who insert a piece of shell, glass or mantle into a mollusk and wait for pearls to form.
No.   Clams do not produce pearls. Pearls form in nacreous mollusks from the family Bivalvia. Clams are non-nacreous, but can have growths that are similar to pearls, but a … re referred to as calcareous concretions.
Best Answer: Bivalve mollusks, from the class Bivalvia, are known as pearl-producing mollusks. There are approximately 20,000 species of bivalves, and they live in both marine and freshwater environments. Although bivalves are often referred to as pearl oysters, they are, in fact, not oysters.
A pearl is a reaction to an irritant within a mollusk. Pearls are formed when the mollusk secretes thousands of very thin concentric layers of nacre, a secretion of calcium carbonate (aragonite and conchyolin) in a matrix that eventually coats an irritant, either man made or natural.
This is simply not true. Mollusks produce pearls. It is theoretically possible for every species of bivalve to produce a pearl, although relatively few are known for pearl production. The most important pearl producing family in the class Bivalvia is Pteriidea, and specifically the genus Pinctada.