Read about the professional responsibilities and education requirements for orthodontists here, as well as what you can look forward to in terms of career opportunities and salary. View 10 Popular Schools ». Dental schools are selective, and admission requirements include an acceptable score on the Dental Admission Test (DAT); high grade point averages and recommendations may also be required.
Employment prospects for orthodontists should remain favorable in the near future, with the BLS forecasting a 16% growth in employment nationwide, or faster than average, between 2012 and 2022 (www.bls.gov). Dental schools are selective, and admission requirements include an acceptable score on the Dental Admission Test (DAT); high grade point averages and recommendations may also be required.
Skills. Most of the skills you will need to become an orthodontist will be acquired at university and on work placements. You will learn about different orthodontic procedures and the professional ethics involved in treating your clients. It is the job of an orthodontist to: 1  Examine and assess their client’s teeth, for example, in order to determine whether their clients need braces or require teeth removed. 2  Study their client’s dental history in order to develop a treatment plan.
College undergraduates who are interested in a career in orthodontia will most likely benefit from coursework or a major in science. Dental schools are selective, and admission requirements include an acceptable score on the Dental Admission Test (DAT); high grade point averages and recommendations may also be required.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Orthodontist may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. 
Basics. Although a state may not have specific requirements for orthodontic assistants, many employers demand postsecondary training for the position. Most programs, which are available from technical schools, take only a year to complete and award a certificate or diploma. An emphasis on visiting dentists for more preventative procedures will be behind the increase. As of May 2011, dental assistants earned a mean $34,740 per year, or $16.70 per hour. Annual salaries ranged from below $23,080 to above $47,420, which equaled an hourly range of $11.10 to $22.80.
Orthodontists can pursue optional certification through the the National Board of Orthodontics or the American Board of Orthodontics. Both certifications require diplomates to graduate from an approved dental program and have experience as a practicing orthodontist. Training Requirements and Recommendations. Orthodontists must complete dental school before legally practicing. They must also pursue specialized orthodontics training after graduating from dental school. All dentists, including orthodontists, must be licensed in their states in order to practice. All students interested in career as orthodontists must first complete either a Doctor of Dental Surgery (D.D.S.) or the equivalent Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D.) degree after earning a bachelor's degree. Graduates must also pursue additional, specialized orthodontist training
A few applicants are accepted to dental school after 2 or 3 years of college and complete their bachelor’s degree while attending dental school. Following graduation from dental school, Orthodontists complete a orthodontic program spanning a minimum of 2-3 years. Orthodontist Job Description. Orthodontist Job Description: Orthodontics is a specialty of dentistry that is concerned with the study and treatment of malocclusions (improper bites), which may be a result of tooth irregularity, disproportionate jaw relationships, or both.