Within skeletal muscle there are three types of fiber: Type I. Type I fibers are also known as slow twitch fibers. They are red in colour due to the presence of large volumes of myoglobin and so oxygen and high numbers of Mitochondria.
Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated. Muscle fibers are in turn composed of myofibrils. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction
Skeletal muscle tissue is attached to our bones. It is striated; that is, the fibers (cells) contain alternating light and dark bands (striations) that are perpendicular to the long axes of the fibers. Skeletal muscle tissue can be made to contract or relax by conscious control (voluntary). Smooth muscle tissue is located in the walls of hollow structures such as blood vessels, the stomach, intestines, and the bladder. Smooth muscle fibers are usually involuntary, and they are non-striated (smooth). Smooth muscle tissue, like skeletal and cardiac muscle tissue, can undergo hypertrophy (growth).
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated. Muscle fibers are in turn composed of myofibrils. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber.
The average person has approximately 60% fast muscle fiber and 40% slow-twitch fiber (type I). There can be swings in fiber composition, but essentially, we all have three types of muscle fiber that need to trained. Smooth muscle tissue is located in the walls of hollow structures such as blood vessels, the stomach, intestines, and the bladder. Smooth muscle fibers are usually involuntary, and they are non-striated (smooth). Smooth muscle tissue, like skeletal and cardiac muscle tissue, can undergo hypertrophy (growth).
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. 1 Type I, slow twitch, or red muscle, is dense with capillaries and is rich in mitochondria and myoglobin, giving the muscle tissue its characteristic red color. 2  It can carry more oxygen and sustain aerobic activity using fats or carbohydrates as fuel.
Noun. 1. muscle fibre-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fiber. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. 
1. muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). Noun. 1. muscle fiber-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fibre. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body.
two of the three types of skeletal muscle are pale in color and fast-twitch—type IIa (fast-twitch oxidative-glycolytic), type IIb (fast-twitch glycolytic). Type IIa fibers are fatigue-resistant, type IIb fatigue easily. type II muscle fiber deficiency. a relative deficiency of type II muscle fibers, with a predominance of type I fibers. An inherited defect in Labrador retrievers. Clinical signs include stunted growth, and muscle weakness and abnormal gait, which subside with rest, from an early age.