Discounts: 1  Stove inserts that do not have liners that run to the top of the chimney need to be pulled out for access and run an extra $40-$50. 2  Any insert pipes that have to be removed to be cleaned can cost around $20. 3  When a camera inspection is used during a cleaning, the cost increases by $10-$300. 1 Stove inserts that do not have liners that run to the top of the chimney need to be pulled out for access and run an extra $40-$50. 2  Any insert pipes that have to be removed to be cleaned can cost around $20.
Other factors that will determine the chimney cleaning cost is how often you use your fireplace. If you use the fireplace often, then you may need to have the chimney cleaned more than once a year. If you occasionally use the fireplace, then once a year cleaning is appropriate. The type of creosote buildup can also play a factor in the cost of cleaning. Creosote is formed from the type of wood you burn in your fireplace and the moisture that is in the wood. The average chimney cleaning cost is quite reasonable and we strive to keep our prices low and quality high. For a detailed cost breakdown click here Chimney Cleaning Cost. While each chimney is different and the cost would be different, the first thing is to have the chimney inspected first. The inspection will determine if there is any repairs that need to be done to the chimney. It will also determine how thick the creosote.
These residues need to be cleaned out periodically, or they can result in chimney fires, carbon monoxide leaks, and lack of airflow though the chimney to the outside. You may wonder what the cost is to have a chimney sweep clean out your chimney, and a number of factors influence the price for cleaning it. If you use your fireplace four or more times a week, you will need the chimney cleaned on a regular basis to guard against build-up. 
We can help you find a local chimney cleaning service or chimney sweeper in your area. The pros in our network provide free cost estimates for chimney cleaning, sweeping, repairs, inspections. Find a Chimney Contractor or Chimney Sweeper in just 3-5 minutes. Tell us what you need and receive free cost estimates without any obligation. We will use your information to match you to a pro who will help you with your project.
Chimney Sweep Average Costs. Please note that your actual chimney sweeping cost may vary depending on your location, the time of year, the amount of creosote build-up, and other factors. 1  Chimney cleaning costs average $100 to $300. If you only use your fireplace once or twice a week in the winter, you may be able to go two or three years without having it done. Foregoing a chimney cleaning altogether, however, is simply not an option. In this buying guide you ll learn the importance of chimney sweeping in addition to the cost of a chimney sweep.
1 Chimney cleaning costs average $100 to $300. 2  A chimney inspection an assessment of how close you are to needing a cleaning and whether your chimney needs repairs might cost $45 to $85. If you only use your fireplace once or twice a week in the winter, you may be able to go two or three years without having it done. Foregoing a chimney cleaning altogether, however, is simply not an option. In this buying guide you ll learn the importance of chimney sweeping in addition to the cost of a chimney sweep.
1 When a camera inspection is used during a cleaning, the cost increases by $10-$300. 2  Creosote buildup, an odd-shaped flue, or needed repairs can increase the cost of a chimney sweep. 1 Stove inserts that do not have liners that run to the top of the chimney need to be pulled out for access and run an extra $40-$50. 2  Any insert pipes that have to be removed to be cleaned can cost around $20. 3  When a camera inspection is used during a cleaning, the cost increases by $10-$300
The cost of chimney cleaning ranges from $100 to $200 for a typical masonry chimney. To get a chimney sweeping cost estimate, use our service. We will connect you with a professional in your area. It is not easy to find good, qualified, licensed chimney companies. Find a Chimney Contractor or Chimney Sweeper in just 3-5 minutes. Tell us what you need and receive free cost estimates without any obligation. We will use your information to match you to a pro who will help you with your project.
1 Sweeping a regular open fireplace can cost $79-$200. 2  Cleaning a freestanding wood burning stove with liners runs $109-$209. 3  Cleaning wood burning stove inserts with liners is about $109-$149. 4  For Do-It-Yourslefers, a brush and rod set runs about $20-$30 for a masonry chimney and $29-$36 for a metal chimney. 1 Stove inserts that do not have liners that run to the top of the chimney need to be pulled out for access and run an extra $40-$50. 2  Any insert pipes that have to be removed to be cleaned can cost around $20. 3  When a camera inspection is used during a cleaning, the cost increases by $10-$300