The hypothalamus and thalamus are located on the sides of the third ventricle. Abnormalities of the third ventricle are associated with various conditions including hydrocephalus, meningitis, and ventriculitis. Hydrocephalus is an excessive buildup of fluid on the brain.
Overview. The ventricles of the brain are a communicating network of cavities filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and located within the brain parenchyma. The ventricular system is composed of 2 lateral ventricles, the third ventricle, the cerebral aqueduct, and the fourth ventricle (see the following images).
The third ventricle is a narrow cavity that is located between the two halves of the brain. The third ventricle sends messages to and receives messages from the lateral ventricles, which are located in front of the third ventricle, and the aqueduct of the midbrain, which is located directly behind the third ventricle.
The rest of the CSF production is the result of transependymal flow from the brain to the ventricles. CSF flows from the lateral ventricles, through the interventricular foramens, and into the third ventricle, cerebral aqueduct, and the fourth ventricle.
1 Circulation of CSF begins in the lateral ventricles, flows into the third ventricle, then flows through the cerebral aqueduct into the fourth ventricle. 2  From there, it flows through a set of openings into the subarachnoid space, which encases the entire central nervous system.
The third ventricle is one of the four ventricles in the brain that communicate with one another. As with the other ventricles of the brain, it is filled with cerebrospinal fluid, which helps to protect the brain from injury and transport nutrients and waste.
Lateral ventricles. The largest cavities of the ventricular system are the lateral ventricles. Each lateral ventricle is divided into a central portion, formed by the body and atrium (or trigone), and 3 lateral extensions or horns of the ventricles. The central portion or the body of the ventricle is located within the parietal lobe.