The Chinese dragon usually symbolize wisdom, power and good luck in Chinese culture. They are regard as caring and kind protecting the innocent from evil spirits. Chinese dragons are often depict with a flaming pearl which gives them power over the rain, rivers, lakes, and sea allowing them to rise into heaven. Historically the Chinese dragon was a symbol of the Emperor of China. In the Qing Dynasty, the 5-clawed dragon was assigned to represent the Emperor while the 4-clawed and 3-clawed dragons were assigned to the commoners.
Chinese Dragons The symbol of the dragon represents spiraling DNA, the path to greater enlightenment. Chinese Dragons. The Celestial Chinese Dragon is comparable as the symbol of the Chinese race itself. Chinese around the world, proudly proclaim themselves Lung Tik Chuan Ren (Descendents of the Dragon). Dragons are referred to as the divine mythical creature that brings with it ultimate abundance, prosperity and good fortune. The Chinese Dragon is often seen as the symbol of divine protection and vigilance. It is regarded as the Supreme Being amongst all creatures. It has the ability to live in the seas, fly up the heavens and coiled up in the land in the form of mountains.
With this, the Emperor of China usually used the dragon as a symbol of his imperial power and strength. In Chinese daily language, excellent and outstanding people are compared to a dragon, while incapable people with no achievements are compared with other, disesteemed creatures, such as a worm. The Dragon is one of the 12 animals in the Chinese zodiac which is used to designate years in the Chinese calendar. It is thought that each animal is associated with certain personality traits. Dragon years are usually the most popular to have children.
In time, Chinese Buddhist artists adopted the dragon as a symbol of  enlightenment. Today dragons decorate roofs and gates of temples,  both as guardians and to symbolize the dragon's power of clarity.  Buddhist dragons often are depicted holding a mani jewel, which  represents the Buddha's teaching.
Historically the Chinese dragon was a symbol of the Emperor of China. In the Qing Dynasty, the 5-clawed dragon was assigned to represent the Emperor while the 4-clawed and 3-clawed dragons were assigned to the commoners. The dragon in the Qing Dynasty appeared on national flags. Today dragons decorate roofs and gates of temples,  both as guardians and to symbolize the dragon's power of clarity.  Buddhist dragons often are depicted holding a mani jewel, which  represents the Buddha's teaching.
The dragon is also a symbol of power, strength and good luck. Historically the Chinese dragon was a symbol of the Emperor of China. In the Qing Dynasty, the 5-clawed dragon was assigned to represent the Emperor while the 4-clawed and 3-clawed dragons were assigned to the commoners.
Chinese dragons are legendary creatures in Chinese mythology and Chinese folklore. The dragons have many animal-like forms such as turtles, fish, and imaginary creatures, but they are most commonly depicted as snake-like with four legs. The Dragon is one of the 12 animals in the Chinese zodiac which is used to designate years in the Chinese calendar. It is thought that each animal is associated with certain personality traits. Dragon years are usually the most popular to have children.
Chinese dragons are a symbol of China, and they are believed to bring good luck to people, therefore the longer the dragon in the dance, the more luck it will bring to the community. 
Unlike dragons of Western lore, fearsome symbols of evil and chaos, the Chinese dragon represents nobility, wisdom and prosperity. Eastern dragons are intricately connected to the seasons and the elements and are often associated with one of the four cardinal directions. 
Chinese dragons traditionally symbolize potent and auspicious powers, particularly control over water, rainfall, typhoons, and floods. The dragon is also a symbol of power, strength, and good luck for people who are worthy of it. The Dragon is one of the 12 animals in the Chinese zodiac which is used to designate years in the Chinese calendar. It is thought that each animal is associated with certain personality traits. Dragon years are usually the most popular to have children.