Coronary artery disease (CAD), also known as ischemic heart disease (IHD), atherosclerotic heart disease, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, and coronary heart disease, is a group of diseases that includes: stable angina, unstable angina, myocardial infarction, and sudden coronary death. 
CAD, also called coronary heart disease, is the leading cause of death for both men and women in the United States. CAD occurs if plaque builds up in the arteries of the heart. Plaque narrows the arteries and reduces blood flow to the heart muscle. This can lead to angina (chest pain or discomfort), a heart attack, heart failure, or arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). The good news is that lifestyle changes and medicines can help control CAD risk factors and prevent or delay the disease. In the United States, coronary heart disease (CHD) is a leading cause of death for both men and women. Each year, about 375,000 Americans die from CHD. Certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for CHD.
email. MNT featured Academic journal. By linking 15 new genetic regions to coronary artery disease, a large international study sheds new light on the underlying causes of this most common form of heart disease, which results from the build up of fatty material or plaque on the insides of the blood vessels of the heart. 
1 Coronoary artery disease is the most common cause of heart disease and a leading cause of death in the United States. 2  Coronary artery disease is caused by plaque buildup, plaque rupture or a clot that blocks the coronary arteries, causing a lack of oxygen to the heart, preventing it from functioning effectively. 1 Atheriosclerosis is the narrowing of the arteries due to cholesterol buildup and plaque formation. 2  In addition to family history, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, high cholesterol, obesity adn physical inactivity are risk factors for coronary artery disease.
1 Coronary artery disease is caused by plaque buildup, plaque rupture or a clot that blocks the coronary arteries, causing a lack of oxygen to the heart, preventing it from functioning effectively. 2  Atheriosclerosis is the narrowing of the arteries due to cholesterol buildup and plaque formation. 1 Atheriosclerosis is the narrowing of the arteries due to cholesterol buildup and plaque formation. 2  In addition to family history, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, high cholesterol, obesity adn physical inactivity are risk factors for coronary artery disease.
There is substantial evidence that genetic factors contribute to coronary artery disease (CAD). Currently, family history collection and interpretation is the best method for identifying individuals with genetic susceptibility to CAD. 
Abstract. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death and disability worldwide, and its prevalence is expected to increase in the coming years. CAD events are caused by the interplay of genetic and environmental factors, the effects of which are mainly mediated through cardiovascular risk factors. The top eleven diseases explain 37.7% of the global burden of disease measured as DALYs, with coronary artery disease as the leading cause of DALYs in 2010. CAD is a complex chronic inflammatory disease, characterized by remodeling and narrowing of the coronary arteries supplying oxygen to the heart. It can have various clinical manifestations, including stable angina, acute coronary syndrome, and sudden cardiac death
In the largest genetic study of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) to date, researchers from the CARDIoGRAMplusC4D Consortium report the identification of 15 genetic regions newly associated with the disease, bringing to 46 the number of regions associated with CAD risk. DNA variants explain over 10 percent of inherited genetic risk for heart disease. About 10.6% of the inherited genetic risk for developing coronary artery disease (CAD) can be explained by specific DNA variations, according to research reported today at the American Society of Human Genetics 2012 meeting.
But that does not mean that one's lifestyle is not a factor in one's own risk of developing coronary heart disease.. Coronary heart disease also known as CHD or coronary artery disease, is when the coronary arteries narrow-the coronary arteries supply oxygen and blood to the heart. Coronary heart disease is a major cause of illness and death in North America and Europe. 