The capital, Mao (maó formerly known As) mahon mahón is on'the island s, eastern end perched above one of'the world s great. Natural harbours much Smaller than mallorca and less Noisy, than-ibiza Low key menorca Is the balearic island that can easily slip under the. holiday radar It's a speciality of the many waterside restaurants in the fishing village of Fornells, and in nearby Playas de Fornells, where the Cafe café Del nord At Local comercial (5 00 34 971 37 66; 97 cafedel.nord) com provides a very tasty€ 20 caldereta as well as a lovely sea. view
The birdlife of Minorca is very well known. Menorca is a well watched island which is on the migration route of many species and good number of passage migrants can be seen in spring. Residents include Audouin's gull, blue rock thrush and Thekla lark. booted eagle and red kite are easy to see as is Egyptian vulture in the right habitat. When the Jewish community in Mahon requested the use of a room as a synagogue, their request was refused and they were denounced by the clergy. In 1781, when Louis des Balbes de Berton de Crillon, duc de Mahon invaded Minorca, he ordered all Jews to leave in four days.
by WCC on. in Europe. Minorca is the easternmost and northernmost island of the Spanish autonomous region of Balearic Islands. In Menorca live 94 383 inhabitants (2010) to 694 square kilometers. In 2006, the proportion of foreigners 14.2% (12,543 inhabitants), the proportion of German population 0.8% (683). The capital Mahon. minorca beach. Menorca has an area of almost 700 km. From Cape La Mola to the headland Bajoli the island is about 50 kilometers long and wide in the north-south direction 16 kilometers. The island is characterized by two regions: Tramuntana, the mountains in the north, and Migjorn, the hills in the south.
Balearic Islands Description. The Balearic Islands, an autonomous division of Spain, are one of the most popular holiday destinations in all of Europe. The well-known island of Mallorca is the largest in the group. There is little history on the earliest inhabitants of the islands, though many legends exist. 
Also famous is Mahon mahón, cheese a cheese typical of the. Island it is thought that mayonnaise was brought back To france From, Mahon, minorca After-Louis-Francois françois Armand du Plessis'de richelieu s victory Over the british at'the city s port. in 1756 When the Jewish community in Mahon requested the use of a room as a synagogue, their request was refused and they were denounced by the clergy. In 1781, when Louis des Balbes de Berton de Crillon, duc de Mahon invaded Minorca, he ordered all Jews to leave in four days.
If you really want to escape, though, Menorca is the place. With a somnolent interior, some outstandingly beautiful, undeveloped beaches and a couple of tiny port towns, it’s one of the Mediterranean’s most manageable island destinations, and a real treat for divers.allorca’s wine industry is a growing sector, with tasting tours available in the island’s main vineyard region of Binissalem (see Tasting tours below), while gin has been the tipple of choice in Menorca since British rule in the 18th century; Mao’maó S Gin xoriguer (factory 971 36 21, 97.www.xoriguer) es runs. tours
Menorca is the most north easterly Balearic Island and with Ibiza and Formentera on the western side of Mallorca, completes the group known locally as the Baleares. Menorca has been called one of the most beautiful islands in the Mediterranean Sea, which is no small claim, considering there are over 100 Mediterranean Islands from which to choose. The Balearic Island Archipelago. Menorca is one of the four islands in the Spanish Balearic archipelago located in the western part of the Mediterranean Sea. It is the second largest island of the four, drawing its name from its smaller size in comparison to neighbouring Mallorca (Majorca)
Like the other Balearic Islands of Minorca, Ibiza and Formentera, the island is an extremely popular holiday destination, particularly for tourists from Germany and the United Kingdom. The international airport, Palma de Mallorca Airport, is one of the busiest in Spain; it was used by 23.1 million passengers in 2014. Majorca is the largest island of Spain by area and second most populated (after Tenerife in the Canary Islands). Majorca has two mountainous regions, the Serra de Tramuntana and Serres de Llevant.
Its name derives from its size, contrasting it with nearby Majorca. Minorca has a population of approximately 94,383 (2010). It is located 39°47' to 40°00'N, 3°52' to 4°24'E. Its highest point, called El Toro or Monte Toro, is 358 metres (1,175 feet) above sea level. When the Jewish community in Mahon requested the use of a room as a synagogue, their request was refused and they were denounced by the clergy. In 1781, when Louis des Balbes de Berton de Crillon, duc de Mahon invaded Minorca, he ordered all Jews to leave in four days.