Involuntary muscles are muscles that are not controllable consciously, and instead contract due to unconscious impulses sent by the autonomic nervous system or certain specialized cells or hormones. Both smooth muscle and cardiac muscle can be classified as involuntary muscles. A beating heart is one of the best examples of an involuntary muscle. Contractions of cardiac muscles push blood through the four chambers of the human heart. The process of peristalsis, which pushes food through the esophagus and small intestine, is controlled by
Muscles are are classified both functionally as either voluntary or involuntary and structurally as either striated or smooth. From this, there emerges three types of muscle s: smooth involuntary (smooth) muscle, striated voluntary (skeletal) muscle and striated involuntary (cardiac) muscle. 
Best Answer: voluntary muscles allow you to move them in voluntary muscles you have no control of voluntary muscle is muscle that we have control of.. skeletal muscles are voluntary muscle.. they are the reason you can flex your bicep, tricep, or any other movement.. involuntary muscle is muscle that we have no control of.. cardiac and smooth muscle are involuntary muscles.. the muscle of the heart is involuntary.. you dont have to make your heart beat.. it beats by itself..The voluntary muscles also called as skeletal muscles or striated muscles (presence of striation due to regular black and white bands). These muscles are attached to the skeleton by the tendon and are contractile by our will (controlled by the cerebellum) but sometimes they can be contractile through reflexes. 
However, cardiac muscle shares features of both smooth and skeletal muscle tissue. It is striated like skeletal muscle tissue, but its contractions are involuntary, like those of smooth muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle is unique in that is particularly invulnerable to fatigue. A beating heart is one of the best examples of an involuntary muscle. Contractions of cardiac muscles push blood through the four chambers of the human heart. The process of peristalsis, which pushes food through the esophagus and small intestine, is controlled by involuntary muscles.
Visceral muscle tissue, or smooth muscle, is tissue associated with the internal organs of the body, especially those in the abdominal cavity. There are three types of muscle in the body: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac. As with any muscle, the smooth, involuntary muscles of the visceral muscle tissue (which lines the blood vessels, stomach, digestive tract, and other internal organs) are composed of bundles of specialized cells capable of contraction and relaxation to create movement. If one... Click to read more below.
a voluntary muscle is a muscle that move when you tell it to Muscles in our hands (skeletal muscle) are called voluntary, because these muscles act according to the impulses (… orders) given by our conscious brain. Heart (cardiac muscle) is an example of an involuntary muscle. It works all the time with impulses from our brain stem, which is involuntary. Some more examples of voluntary muscles in our body are muscles of the chest, neck, abdomen, and legs. Involuntary muscles include the muscles of the digestive system. --- Skeletal muscles, like biceps (the muscles that flex your forearm/wrist toward your shoulder) are voluntary muscles. These muscles will not flex unless you think about flexing them, and your brain sends that signal to your arm.
Contractions of cardiac muscles move blood throughout the veins and arteries of the circulatory system. Involuntary muscles in the eye's iris to expand and contract in response to light. A beating heart is one of the best examples of an involuntary muscle. Contractions of cardiac muscles push blood through the four chambers of the human heart. The process of peristalsis, which pushes food through the esophagus and small intestine, is controlled by involuntary muscles.
Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated
Report Abuse. voluntary muscle is muscle that we have control of.. skeletal muscles are voluntary muscle.. they are the reason you can flex your bicep, tricep, or any other movement.. involuntary muscle is muscle that we have no control of.. cardiac and smooth muscle are involuntary muscles.. the muscle of the heart is involuntary.. you dont have to make your heart beat.. it beats by itself..The voluntary muscles also called as skeletal muscles or striated muscles (presence of striation due to regular black and white bands). These muscles are attached to the skeleton by the tendon and are contractile by our will (controlled by the cerebellum) but sometimes they can be contractile through reflexes. 