Gout is a form of arthritis that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling (inflammation) in some joints. It often affects one joint at a time, but may affect a few or even many. 
Gout is a disorder of purine metabolism, and occurs when its final metabolite, uric acid, crystallizes in the form of monosodium urate, precipitating and forming deposits (tophi) in joints, on tendons, and in the surrounding tissues. Hyperuricemia is a classic feature of gout, but it occurs nearly half of the time without hyperuricemia, and most people with raised uric acid levels never develop gout. Thus, the diagnostic utility of measuring uric acid level is limited.
Signs and symptoms of gout include: 1  Hyperuricemia (high level of uric acid in the blood). 2  Uric acid crystals in joint fluid. 3  More than one attack of acute arthritis. 4  Arthritis that develops in 1 day, producing a swollen, red, and warm joint. 5  Attack of arthritis in only one joint, usually the toe, ankle, or knee. For many people, the first attack of gout occurs in the big toe. Often, the attack wakes a person from sleep. The toe is very sore, red, warm, and swollen. Gout can cause: 1  Pain. 2  Swelling. 3  Redness. 4  Heat. 5  Stiffness in joints.
Gout is one of the most painful forms of arthritis. It occurs when too much uric acid builds up in the body. The buildup of uric acid can lead to: 1  Sharp uric acid crystal deposits in joints, often in the big toe. 2  Deposits of uric acid (called tophi) that look like lumps under the skin. For many people, the first attack of gout occurs in the big toe. Often, the attack wakes a person from sleep. The toe is very sore, red, warm, and swollen. Gout can cause: 1  Pain. 2  Swelling. 3  Redness. 4  Heat. 5  Stiffness in joints.
Gout is a painful condition that occurs when the bodily waste product uric acid is deposited as needle-like crystals in the joints and/or soft tissues. In the joints, these uric acid crystals cause inflammatory arthritis, which in turn leads to intermittent swelling, redness, heat, pain, and stiffness in the joints. Signs and Symptoms of Gout. 1  hyperuricemia. 2  presence of uric acid crystals in joint fluid. 3  more than one attack of acute arthritis. 4  arthritis that develops in a day, producing a swollen, red, and warm joint. 5  attack of arthritis in only one joint, often the toe, ankle, or knee.
In this article. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints. It usually affects one joint at a time, although it can be in several joints at once. A. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints.
The signs and symptoms of gout almost always occur suddenly — often at night — and without warning. They include: 1  Intense joint pain. 2  Gout usually affects the large joint of your big toe, but it can occur in your feet, ankles, knees, hands and wrists. 
1 Asymptomatic tissue deposition occurs when people have no overt symptoms of gout, but do have hyperuricemia and the asymptomatic deposition of crystals in tissues. 2  The deposition of crystals, however, is causing damage. 3  Acute flares occur when urate crystals in the joint(s) cause acute inflammation. Gout is a rheumatic disease resulting from deposition of uric acid crystals (monosodium urate) in tissues and fluids within the body. This process is caused by an overproduction or under excretion of uric acid. Certain common medications, alcohol, and dietary foods are known to be contributory factors.
Gout is a disorder that causes sudden attacks of intense pain, swelling, and redness in your joints or soft tissues. In many cases, the first attacks occur in the joints of the big toe, but gout can affect many other joints. It is one type of inflammatory arthritis. 