Status. Nineteen polar bear sub-populations can be found throughout the Arctic. While the status of some sub-populations of polar bears is well documented, that of several others is unknown; the world-wide population estimate of the total number of polar bears is thought to range between 20,000 and 25,000 bears. 
Are there Polar Bears in Alaska. Polar bears are also present in Alaska but they only occur at the Arctic coastlines. In the winter, bears get together in St. Mathew Island, southernmost tip of St. Lawrence, and Kuskokwim Delta. With the beginning of the summer, polar bears move to the Chukchi Sea and the Arctic Ocean. In Alaska, polar bear population is concentrated in two regions. One of them is near Wrangell Islands in the western region of Alaska while the other is found in the Beaufort Sea near the North Slope. 
Details... © Daniel J. Cox/Natural Exposures. Polar bears live in the circumpolar north in areas where they can hunt their primary prey, ice seals. They are found in Canada (home to roughly 60% of the world's polar bears), the U.S. (Alaska), Greenland, Russia, and Norway (the Svalbard archipelago). The polar bear Range States have identified 19 populations of polar bears living in four different sea ice regions across the Arctic. 
Polar bears occur throughout the northern polar region. In the winter, polar bears in Alaska are found as far south as St. Lawrence Island and occasionally move down to St. Matthew Island and the Kuskokwim Delta. In the summer, bears are most abundant around the edge of the pack ice in the Chukchi Sea and Arctic Ocean. 
These bears can be found in most of Alaska's forests and are usually much smaller than brown bears or polar bears. Despite their name however, black bears can occur in several colors and nicknames have arisen for the different colors observed including 'cinnamon bears' (light brown) and 'glacier bears' (bluish-white). 
Alaska's bears have always been a popular attraction among visitors. Maybe it's because Alaska has all three different types of American bears! Alaska is home to the black bear (Ursus Americanus), the brown/grizzly bear (Ursus Arctos), and the polar bear (Ursus Maritimus) . Each of these species can be viewed in Alaska
Bears are curious and intelligent animals and inhabit most of Alaska's forests. Most bears tend to avoid people, but female bears are fierce defenders of their young. Brown / Grizzly Bear. The brown/grizzly bear can be found throughout the state--from the islands of southeastern Alaska to the Arctic. Most bears tend to avoid people, but all are potentially dangerous. In Denali National Park, visitors can see the blond grizzly bears.
There are two main polar bear populations in Alaska. The Chukchi population is found off in the western part of Alaska near the Wrangell Islands, and the Beaufort Sea population is located near Alaska’s North Slope. Most brown bears in Alaska are grizzly bears (the subspecies of brown bear found throughout North America), but Kodiak Island is home to Kodiak bears, another subspecies that is the largest type of brown bear in the world. The brown bear is the top predator
The Black bear is the most common and abundant of the North American bears and can be found in all states except Hawaii. In Alaska they are typically seen in forested areas, though they are not exclusive to them. They are the smallest of the bears, standing at about 5 feet on their hind legs. Maybe it's because Alaska has all three different types of American bears! Alaska is home to the black bear (Ursus Americanus), the brown/grizzly bear (Ursus Arctos), and the polar bear (Ursus Maritimus) .
The American black bear is the most commonly seen bear in North America and it has the largest geographic range. Black bears can be found as far south as central Mexico and as far north as northern Alaska and most of Canada. In the United States black bears are common in the east, along the west coast, in the Rocky Mountains and parts of Alaska. They are also found in a few small areas in the southwest and southeast.