Overview of Blood Vessel Disorders. The blood supply in the skin (cutaneous blood supply) is delivered by an interconnecting network of small arteries (arterioles), veins (venules), and tiny vessels called capillaries that connect the arterioles to the venules. Before birth, certain cells are responsible for stimulating blood vessel development. 
In the lungs, the pulmonary arteries (in blue) carry unoxygenated blood from the heart into the lungs. Throughout the body, the arteries (in red) deliver oxygenated blood and nutrients to all of the body’s tissues, and the veins (in blue) return oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. Arteries (in red) are the blood vessels that deliver blood to the body. Veins (in blue) are the blood vessels that return blood to the heart. Deep veins, located in the center of the leg near the leg bones, are enclosed by muscle.
The Aorta is the main artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the body. The Aorta branches off into smaller arteries throughout the body which supply blood to the bodie … s cells. These vessels change over to veins which return the blood to the heart. With the exception of the Pulmonary artery which carries low oxygenated blood from the heart. 5 people found this useful. The vessels that supply blood to the diaphragm are the superior phrenic artery, the inferior phrenic artery, and the musculophrenic artery.
blood vessels. The blood vessels that supply skin cells are found in the (Dermis and subcutaneous layer) Major blood vessels that supply the skin are located between the dermis and the epidermis (FALSE). 
A blood vessel's main function is to transport blood around the body. Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Groups of capillaries within a tissue reunite to form small veins called venules. Venules collect blood from capillaries and drain into veins. Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart.
There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart. There are various kinds of blood vessels: 1  Arteries. 2  Elastic arteries. 3  Distributing arteries. 4  Arterioles. 5  Capillaries (the smallest blood vessels). 6  Venules. 7  Veins.
The blood vessels that supply skin cells are found in the epidermis alone epidermis and dermis dermis alone dermis and subcutaneous layer. Follow. The blood vessels that supply skin cells are found in the. epidermis alone. epidermis and dermis. dermis alone. dermis and subcutaneous layer. Add your answer. Source.
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The carotid arteries are major blood vessels in the neck that supply blood to the brain, neck, and face. There are two carotid arteries, one on the right and one on the left. In the neck, each carotid artery branches into two divisions: 1  The internal carotid artery supplies blood to the brain