In a person with signs and symptoms of diabetes or hyperglycemia, a non-fasting glucose level (random blood sample) that is equal to or greater than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) indicates diabetes. The following information summarizes the meaning of other test results. 1 Fasting glucose (fasting blood glucose, FBG) – this test measures the level of glucose in the blood after fasting for at least 8 hours. 2  2-hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) – for this test, the person has a fasting glucose test done (see above), then drinks a 75-gram glucose drink.
1 A fasting blood sugar level less than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal. 2  A fasting blood sugar level from 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) is considered prediabetes. 3  If it's 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher on two separate tests, you have diabetes. 4  Oral glucose tolerance test. 1 A blood sugar level below 140 mg/dL (7.2 to 7.8 mmol/L) is usually considered normal on a glucose challenge test, although this may vary at specific clinics or labs. 2  If your blood sugar level is higher than normal, it only means you have a higher risk of gestational diabetes.
1 Oral glucose tolerance test. 2  For this test, you fast overnight, and the fasting blood sugar level is measured. 3  Then you drink a sugary liquid, and blood sugar levels are tested periodically for the next two hours. 4  A blood sugar level less than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L) is normal. 1 A blood sugar level below 140 mg/dL (7.2 to 7.8 mmol/L) is usually considered normal on a glucose challenge test, although this may vary at specific clinics or labs. 2  If your blood sugar level is higher than normal, it only means you have a higher risk of gestational diabetes.
Your doctor will advise you on how often you should check your blood sugar level. In general, the frequency of testing depends on the type of diabetes you have and your treatment plan. 1  Type 1 diabetes. 2  Your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing four to eight times a day if you have type 1 diabetes. 1 Type 2 diabetes. 2  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need. 3  Testing is usually recommended before meals, and sometimes before bedtime.
Blood Glucose. A blood glucose test measures the amount of a type of sugar, called glucose, in your blood. Glucose comes from carbohydrate foods. It is the main source of energy used by the body. Insulin is a hormone that helps your body's cells use the glucose. 
1 Check for diabetes that occurs during pregnancy (gestational diabetes). 2  Determine if an abnormally low blood sugar level (hypoglycemia) is present. 3  A test to measure blood levels of insulin and a protein called C-peptide may be done along with a blood glucose test to determine the cause of hypoglycemia. 1 Determine if an abnormally low blood sugar level (hypoglycemia) is present. 2
The fasting blood glucose test is the test most commonly used to diagnose diabetes. It measures blood glucose levels after a period of fasting, usually at least eight hours without food or liquid (except water). If the first level is above 125 mg/dL, the fasting blood glucose test will be done again (for example, the next day) to confirm a diagnosis of diabetes. A value between 100 and 125 mg/dL indicates pre-diabetes. Someone with a result in this range should be followed closely, with follow-up testing
The blood glucose test may be used to: 1  Detect high blood glucose (hyperglycemia) and low blood glucose (hypoglycemia). 2  Screen for diabetes in people who are at risk before signs and symptoms are apparent; in some cases, there may be no early signs or symptoms of diabetes. 1 Fasting glucose (fasting blood glucose, FBG) – this test measures the level of glucose in the blood after fasting for at least 8 hours. 2  2-hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) – for this test, the person has a fasting glucose test done (see above), then drinks a 75-gram glucose drink.
If you have diabetes, self-testing your blood sugar (blood glucose) can be an important tool in managing your treatment plan and preventing long-term complications of diabetes. You can test your blood sugar at home with a portable electronic device (glucose meter) that measures sugar level in a small drop of your blood. 1 Type 2 diabetes. 2  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need. 3  Testing is usually recommended before meals, and sometimes before bedtime.