For an interest-bearing deposit account, such as a savings account, APY is equal to one plus the periodic rate (expressed as a decimal) raised to the number of periods in one year. Due to compounding, the APY will be greater than the periodic interest rate multiplied by the number of periods in the year. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Annual Percentage Yield-APY'. The APY is similar in nature to the annual percentage rate. Its usefulness lies in its ability to standardize varying interest-rate agreements into an annualized percentage number.
Annual percentage yield (APY). Annual percentage yield is the amount you earn on an interest-bearing investment in a year, expressed as a percentage. For example, if you earn $60 on a $1,000 certificate of deposit (CD) between January 1 and December 31, your APY is 6%. The effective annual rate of return after considering the effect of compounding interest; APY assumes that funds will remain in the investment vehicle for a full 365 days and is calculated as follows: Investopedia explains Annual Percentage Y
Annual percentage yield (APY). The APY is commonly used by banks to express the rate of return on balances in interest-bearing deposit accounts. It is an annualized rate that calculates for the effect of compounding interest. APY Calculator. Using the APY calculator below, you can determine your projected interest earnings by entering the percent APY offered, the initial deposit balance, monthly contribution, and the investment term (in years) that the funds will stay invested.
Annual percentage yield (APY) is a normalized representation of an interest rate, based on a compounding period of one year. APY figures allow for a reasonable, single-point comparison of different offerings with varying compounding schedules. Also, it is worth noting that a nominal interest rate and its corresponding APY are very nearly equal when they are small. For example (fixing some large N), a nominal interest rate of 100% would have an APY of approximately 171%, whereas 5% corresponds to 5.12%, and 1% corresponds to 1.005%.
You will often see the term annual percentage yield (APY) when opening an interest-bearing account. APY is the yield you earn on a deposit over a year. Function. The formula to calculate APY is (1 + r/n)^n - 1. The r is the interest rate in decimal form (3.45 percent would be written as 0.0345), n is the number of compounding periods per year and ^ is to the power of. If the interest rate is compounded quarterly, then n would be 4. Using these numbers in this formula would equate to a 3.49 percent APY
Annual Percentage Yield (APY). An IRA CD receives a specified interest rate for the term of the CD contract. When an investor is not taking income and allows all interest to earn interest, this is referred to as compounding. The annual percentage yield (APY) refers to a rate where an investor gets compound interest.
The effective annual rate of return taking into account the effect of compounding interest. APY is calculated by: The resultant percentage number assumes that funds will remain in the investment vehicle for a full 365 days. The APY is similar in nature to the annual percentage rate. Its usefulness lies in its ability to standardize varying interest-rate agreements into an annualized percentage number.