Netstat is a common command line TCP/IP networking utility available in most versions of Windows, Linux, UNIX and other operating systems. Netstat provides information and statistics about protocol s in use and current TCP/IP network connections. (The name derives from the words network and statistics .). Displays the executable involved in creating each connection or listening port. In some cases well-known executables host multiple independent components, and in these cases the sequence of components involved in creating the connection or listening port is displayed.
Parameters. -a: Displays all active TCP connections and the TCP and UDP ports on which the computer is listening. -e: Displays Ethernet statistics, such as the number of bytes and packets sent and received. This parameter can be combined with-s. By default, statistics are shown for the TCP, UDP, ICMP, and IP protocols. If the IPv6 protocol for Windows XP is installed, statistics are shown for the TCP over IPv6, UDP over IPv6, ICMPv6, and IPv6 protocols. The-p parameter can be used to specify a set of
The netstat command is a Command Prompt command used to display very detailed information about how your computer is communicating with other computers or network devices. -a = This switch displays active TCP connections, TCP connections with the listening state, as well as UDP ports that are being listened to. -b = This netstat switch is very similar to the-o switch listed below, but instead of displaying the PID, will display the process's actual file name.
-a. Displays a ll active connections and the TCP and UDP ports on which the computer is listening. -b (Windows). Displays the b inary (executable) program's name involved in creating each connection or listening port. (Windows XP, 2003 Server and newer Windows operating systems; not Microsoft Windows 2000 or older). Displays s tatistics by protocol. By default, statistics are shown for the TCP, UDP, ICMP, and IP protocols. If the IPv6 protocol for Windows XP is installed, statistics are shown for the TCP over IPv6, UDP over IPv6, ICMPv6, and IPv6
Netstat. Netstat displays protocol statistics and current TCP/IP connections. From a command prompt, type Netstat-a to display all connections and listening ports. Type netstat-r to display the contents of the IP routing table and any persistent routes. The-n switch tells Netstat not to convert addresses and port numbers to names, which speeds up execution. The netstat-s option shows all protocol statistics. The netstat-p protocol-s option to show connections only for the protocol specified. The-e switch displays interface statistics. Sample output for the netstat-e command is shown here:
Netstat. Displays active TCP connections, ports on which the computer is listening, Ethernet statistics, the IP routing table, IPv4 statistics (for the IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP protocols), and IPv6 statistics (for the IPv6, ICMPv6, TCP over IPv6, and UDP over IPv6 protocols). Parameters. -a: Displays all active TCP connections and the TCP and UDP ports on which the computer is listening. -e: Displays Ethernet statistics, such as the number of bytes and packets sent and received.
Windows CE 5.0. The netstat utility displays active TCP connections, ports on which the computer is listening, Ethernet statistics, the IP routing table, IPv4 statistics (for the IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP protocols), and IPv6 statistics (for the IPv6, ICMPv6, TCP over IPv6, and UDP over IPv6 protocols). By default, statistics are shown for the IP, IPv6, ICMP, ICMPv6, TCP, TCPv6, UDP, and UDPv6 protocols. The-p parameter can be used to specify a subset of the default. -r. Displays the contents of the IP routing table. This is equivalent to the route print command.
Execute the netstat command alone to show a relatively simple list of all active TCP connections which, for each one, will show the local IP address (your computer), the foreign IP address (the other computer or network device), along with their respective port numbers, as well as the TCP state. -a = This switch displays active TCP connections, TCP connections with the listening state, as well as UDP ports that are being listened to. -b = This netstat switch is very similar to the-o switch listed below, but instead of displaying the PID, will display the process's actual file name.
Netstat. Displays active TCP connections, ports on which the computer is listening, Ethernet statistics, the IP routing table, IPv4 statistics (for the IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP protocols), and IPv6 statistics (for the IPv6, ICMPv6, TCP over IPv6, and UDP over IPv6 protocols). By default, statistics are shown for the TCP, UDP, ICMP, and IP protocols. If the IPv6 protocol for Windows XP is installed, statistics are shown for the TCP over IPv6, UDP over IPv6, ICMPv6, and IPv6 protocols. The-p parameter can be used to specify a set of