DNA Replication. DNA replicates by the semiconservative model of replication. This model states that during replication of double stranded DNA, the two strands separate and each separate strand is then used as a template to make a new strand.
Daughter strand-Refers to the newly synthesized strand of DNA that is copied via the addition of complementary nucleotides from one strand of pre-existing DNA during DNA replication. DNA Helicase-The enzyme responsible for separating the two strands of DNA in a helix so that they can be copied
Well, neither I'm sorry to say. During DNA replication both strands of the DNA are reproduced, so D is out as an answer. Yes, a complementary strand of DNA is reproduced, but this answer suggests that only one strand of DNA is made when in fact two strands of DNA are made.
1 The separation of the two single strands of DNA creates a ‘Y’ shape called a replication ‘fork’. 2  The two separated strands will act as templates for making the new strands of DNA. 3  One of the strands is oriented in the 3’ to 5’ direction (towards the replication fork), this is the leading strand.
1 This sort of replication is called continuous. 2  Lagging strand: 3  Numerous RNA primers are made by the primase enzyme and bind at various points along the lagging strand. 4  Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction.
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule.
Each newly synthesized strand of DNA (daughter strand) is made by the addition of a nucleotide that is complementary to the parent strand of DNA. In this way, DNA replication is semi-conservative, meaning that one parent strand is always passed on to the daughter helix of DNA.
The two strands of DNA will be separated during the process of DNA replication and each one will be the template for a new strand synthesis. Remember that each new forming strand will be built only one nucleotide at the time.