Lowood, a rural town, is 40 km west of central Brisbane and 25 km north-west of Ipswich. In 1884 the Brisbane Valley railway, starting from Ipswich, was begun, and Lowood was a railway terminus for two years. The name of the railway station came about from the prevalence of low growing scrub in the area. The terminus became the location of the new town, named Lowood
At the 2006 census, Lowood had a population of 1,010. Due to its proximity to Brisbane and Ipswich, Lowood is becoming an area for hobby farmers and residential commuters. Nearby Lake Wivenhoe is a popular place for activities such as boating and fishing. At present times there is no longer any rail-transport to Lowood. The main rail link is to Ipswich and from there a bus service from Queensland Rail (QR). There are two services in the morning and return services in the late afternoon. Time tables are available from QR.
Residents and property investors in Lowood have been waiting around 151.73 days to sell a property. The QLD suburb of Lowood, 4311 is in the Somerset local government area. Giving property investors a a poor capital gain of -11.11% for the last year, Lowood, 4311 is the 1599th highest performer in Australia in this respect. Property investors who have had real estate in Lowood, 4311 should be unhappy with this QLD suburb’s performance compared to the rest of the country. Over the last year it has seen median house prices decrease in value by -10.71%.
Welcome to Lowood! Lowood sits at the southern end of the beautiful Somerset Region, 80km from Brisbane CBD, 45km from Esk, 30km from Ipswich and 8km from Fernvale. Picturesque and Peaceful. Lowood is surrounded by picturesque farmland, meandering creeks and low rolling hills.
Lowood is a town and locality in the Somerset Region in south-east Queensland, Australia. The town is on the Brisbane River, 66 kilometres (41 mi) west of the state capital, Brisbane and 31 kilometres (19 mi) north of Ipswich. At present times there is no longer any rail-transport to Lowood. The main rail link is to Ipswich and from there a bus service from Queensland Rail (QR). There are two services in the morning and return services in the late afternoon. Time tables are available from QR.
Lowood was established as the first terminus of the Brisbane Valley branch railway in 1884 and the town grew from the subdivision around the new station. The name is derived from the low woods of brigalow in the Lowood area, as opposed to the taller trees elsewhere in the Brisbane Valley. At present times there is no longer any rail-transport to Lowood. The main rail link is to Ipswich and from there a bus service from Queensland Rail (QR). There are two services in the morning and return services in the late afternoon. Time tables are available from QR.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from Lowood circuit). The Lowood Airfield Circuit was a motor racing venue in Queensland, Australia which was used from 1946 to 1966. It was located at a former wartime airfield site at Mount Tarampa, near Lowood, 72 km west of the state capital Brisbane. The circuit utilised the airfield’s runway for its 1.9 km long 200 metre wide main straight and also used various taxiways and tarmac from the old hangar area. Lap distance was 4.54 km (2.82 mi)
Ray White Lowood Qld. Lowood is a town in south east Queensland, Australia. The town is located on the Brisbane River, 66 kilometres west of the state capital, Brisbane or 17 km birds line and 31 kilometres north of Ipswich. Situated in the Somerset Region Local government area, at the 2006 census, Lowood had a population of 1,010. Lowood was established as the first terminus of the Brisbane Valley branch railway in 1884 and the town grew from the subdivision around the new station. The name is derived from the low woods of brigalow in the Lowood area, as opposed to the … read on
detailed map of Lowood and near places. Welcome to the Lowood google satellite map! This place is situated in Esk, Queensland, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 27° 28' 0 South, 152° 35' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Lowood. See Lowood photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Lowood in Australia.