Staple dishes in the north were rice and polenta, and pasta was most popular throughout the south. During the last decades of the twentieth century (1980s and 1990s), however, pasta and pizza (another traditional southern food) became popular in the north of Italy. Pasta is more likely to be served with a white cheese sauce in the north and a tomato-based sauce in the south. There are more than 400 types of cheese made in Italy, with Parmesan, mozzarella, and asiago among the best known worldwide. Prosciutto ham, the most popular ingredient of the Italian antipasto (first course) was first made in Parma, a city that also gave its name to Parmesan cheese.
Apulia is a massive food producer: major production includes wheat, tomatoes, zucchini, broccoli, bell peppers, potatoes, spinach, eggplants, cauliflower, fennel, endive, chickpeas, lentils, beans and cheese (like the traditional caciocavallo cheese). Apulia is also the largest producer of olive oil in Italy. There are 'Italian Clubs' in all main cities and they have had a significant influence on the cuisine of this country. Italian foods, like ham and cheeses, are imported and some also made locally, and every city has a popular Italian restaurant or two, as well as Pizzerias.
. . . Common Italian foods and dishes include all types of pasta, risotto and pizza, some soups (minestroni and zuppe) and delicious meat and fish dishes. Other sweet foods Last, but not least, there is also the famous Italian gelato and the delicious pasterelle (sfogliatelle, maritozzi, aragoste) and pasticini (pastries). Ossobuco. Shin of veal with marrow bone in a tomato and wine sauce.
Common foods in Italy: Piemontese cuisine (Turin's region). Due to its proximity the French influence is notable in Piemontese cuisine. Some typical Piemontese starters: Bagna caoda, a type of fondue (fonduta) where you dip crostini (croutons) and vegetables into a tomato and anchovy base (instead of cheese). Common foods in Italy: Campania (Naples' province). To say the Neapolitans enjoy their tomato and pizza is an understatement of the year! This is the land where Pizza was invented, they are proud of this fact and are not impressed with the inferior thinner crispier Roman pizza that has no thick edges.
Common foods in Italy: Lombard cuisine (Milan's region). The Milanese have very few dishes of their own most being borrowed from other Italian regions. Pasta features less in Lombardia than any other Italian province with a bigger emphasis on meat dishes. Common foods in Italy: Campania (Naples' province). To say the Neapolitans enjoy their tomato and pizza is an understatement of the year! This is the land where Pizza was invented, they are proud of this fact and are not impressed with the inferior thinner crispier Roman pizza that has no thick edges.
Each region has its own spin on Italian food, according to CNN. For example, most of the foods that Americans view as Italian, such as spaghetti and pizza, come from central Italy. In the North of Italy, fish, potatoes, rice, sausages, pork and different types of cheeses are the most common ingredients. 
Another popular Italian food ingredient is rice. By far the most popular use for this ingredient is in the signature Italian food dish of risotto. Here rice is mixed with broth, vegetables and spices to make a very creamy and flavorful dish. The broth may be meat-based, fish-based, or vegetable-based; many kinds include parmesan cheese, butter, and onion. Risotto is widely known as the most popular appetizer in Italian food and different regions take great pride in their individual risottos.
Italian cuisine has a great variety of different ingredients which are commonly used, ranging from fruits, vegetables, sauces, meats, etc. In the North of Italy, fish (such as cod, or baccala), baccalà, potatoes, rice (corn), maize, sausages, pork and different types of cheeses are the most common. ingredients There are 'Italian Clubs' in all main cities and they have had a significant influence on the cuisine of this country. Italian foods, like ham and cheeses, are imported and some also made locally, and every city has a popular Italian restaurant or two, as well as Pizzerias.
See: types of pasta and 10 most famous pasta dishes of Italy. A variety of thick soups made with vegetables, beans and pasta, rice or potatoes. Common ingredients include beans, onions, celery, carrots, stock, and tomatoes. It is served as a primo as an alternative to a pasta or risotto plate. Other sweet foods Last, but not least, there is also the famous Italian gelato and the delicious pasterelle (sfogliatelle, maritozzi, aragoste) and pasticini (pastries). Ossobuco. Shin of veal with marrow bone in a tomato and wine sauce.
A very popular Italian dish is the minestrone soup. This soup makes excellent use of one of the most popular ingredients in Italian food – beans. Beans are widely used in Italian food and are the feature ingredient in many soups, not just the minestrone. Together with beans, nuts are another popular ingredient. The broth may be meat-based, fish-based, or vegetable-based; many kinds include parmesan cheese, butter, and onion. Risotto is widely known as the most popular appetizer in Italian food and different regions take great pride in their individual risottos.