Kalua is a town in Hawaii. Kahlua is the liquor. This slow-cooed pork roast is reminiscent of a pig roasted whole in an emu. Not the bird, the emu pit is a hole in sand lined with banana leaves and hot coals where a whole pig is roasted. 
Kahlua. Kahlúa kahlua kahlúa Is a-mexican coffee-flavored rum. Based liqueur it is dense, and sweet with the distinct taste, of coffee from which it. Is made kahlua kahlúa, also contains sugar corn syrup. and vanilla bean 
The term Kalua pork has been used by famous Hawaiian cook Sam Choy to describe pork shoulder butt which is rubbed with sea salt, wrapped in ti leaves, and slowly cooked in oven using liquid mesquite smoke rather than an imu. The pit is usually about 6 feet (1.8 m) long, 4 feet (1.2 m) wide and 3 ft (90 cm) deep. Rocks are then placed in the pit to retain cooking heat long after the flames have burned down. Once the rocks have become extremely hot, the hole is lined with traditional vegetation, such as banana leaves.
Kālua is a traditional Hawaiian cooking method that utilizes an imu, a type of underground oven. The word kālua, which literally means to cook in an underground oven, may also be used to describe the food cooked in this manner, such as kālua pig or kālua turkey, which are commonly served at luau feasts. The pit is usually about 6 feet (1.8 m) long, 4 feet (1.2 m) wide and 3 ft (90 cm) deep. Rocks are then placed in the pit to retain cooking heat long after the flames have burned down. Once the rocks have become extremely hot, the hole is lined with traditional vegetation, such as banana leaves.
2 Nov, 2007 Dining. One of the traditional Hawaiian dishes that you may come across in Hawaii is Kalua pork (or Kalua pig). The word “kalua” is a Hawaiian word that refers to cooking in an underground oven or Hawaiian “imu”. Typically, a large pit is dug in the ground, and lava rocks are heated over an open flame until they are extremely hot. Kalua pork (cooked in the traditional method) is typically served at Hawaiian Luaus, or family gatherings or parties. One can also find kalua pig in restaurants (typically smoked in a traditional smoker or oven). It is typically served with steamed white rice and/or poi (a taro root paste).
About Kailua. Please wait... Please wait... In the Hawaiian language Kailua means two seas, or two currents, a contraction of the words kai (meaning sea or sea water) and ʻelua (meaning two); it is so named because of the two lagoons in the district or the two currents which run through Kailua Bay. 
History of Kalua Pig and Cooking method: The word “Kalua” literally translates to cook in an underground oven. This word is also used to describe foods cooked in this method such as Kalua Pig (also known as Kalua Pig or Kalua Turkey) which is traditionally served at Hawaiian luau feasts. The Kalua cooking method utilizes an Imu which is a type of underground steam oven. A traditional Imu is a large sand or dirt pit that has a fire burning using koa wood (the pit is usually 6 feet long x 4 feet wide x 3 feet deep or the diameter and depth should match the amount of food that is to be cooked).
Origin of KALUA. Hawaiian kālua, from kālua to bake in a ground oven. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.