Aerobic vs. Anaerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration, which takes place in the mitochondria of your cells when oxygen is present, produces energy from the complete breakdown of glucose, as well as water and carbon dioxide. These byproducts are easily expelled when you breathe
Anaerobic Respiration. Anaerobic respiration occurs during high-intensity exercises when your body works so hard there is a shortage of oxygen for energy consumption. Due to the shortage of oxygen, your body breaks down glucose and phosphates stored in your muscles for energy. Muscles use both anaerobic and aerobic respiration depending on how intensely you are exercising. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, healthy adults should get 150 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise or 75 minutes of intense aerobic exercise per week to maintain good health.
There are actually two general types of respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration occurs in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not use oxygen. Both types of cell respiration begin with the process of glycolysis, after which the two diverge. 
Anaerobic respiration. Unlike aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration does not need oxygen. It is the release of a relatively small amount of energy in cells by the breakdown of food substances in the absence of oxygen. Aerobic and anaerobic respiration. Living organisms use energy released by respiration for their life processes. There are two types of respiration – aerobic (which needs oxygen) and anaerobic (which doesn’t need oxygen).
Not to be confused with Lactic acid fermentation. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system.
In anaerobic respiration, which occurs during fermentation, less energy is extracted — only two ATP molecules per glucose molecule — because the products of the process, such as ethanol or lactic acid, contain more energy than does carbon dioxide, the product of aerobic respiration. 