The truth of the matter is that organic food doesn t always cost more. Some items, such as coffee, cereal, bread, and even hamburger, may cost the same or even less than their conventional counterparts. And, as the demand for organics continues to grow, the cost will continue to come down. Converting land to organic status is a three-year process. There is a two-year conversion process consisting of building up the fertility of the land. Produce grown in the first year cannot be stated as organic. In the second year produce may be stated as In Conversion. It is not until the third year that produce may be stated as fully organic. Soil and natural fertility building are important parts of organic farming
Best Answer: Organic food is produced by farmers who emphasize the use of renewable resources and the conservation of soil and water to enhance environmental quality for future generations. Report Abuse. it means that the food was grown under the USDA NOP regulations (over 1500 pages of rules). Farmers must grow their crops and livestock according to these rules, keep excellent crop. sales and input records, fill out an annual application, get inspected and pay a lot of money in order to get certifed.
What is the difference between organic foods and conventionally grown foods? The word organic refers to the way farmers grow and process agricultural products, such as fruits, vegetables, grains, dairy products, and meat. Organic farming practices encourage soil and water conservation, as well as reduce pollution. Just because a product is organic or contains organic ingredients does not necessarily mean it is a healthier alternative. Organic products can still be high in sugar, salt, fat or calories. A cookie is still a cookie nutritionally, no matter if it is organic or not, and consumption in moderation is necessary.
Organic food is produced by farmers who emphasize the use of renewable resources and the conservation of soil and water to enhance environmental quality for future generations. Organic meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products come from animals that are given no antibiotics or growth hormones. Converting land to organic status is a three-year process. There is a two-year conversion process consisting of building up the fertility of the land. Produce grown in the first year cannot be stated as organic. In the second year produce may be stated as In Conversion. It is not until the third year that produce may be stated as fully organic. Soil and natural fertility building are important parts of organic farming
As with all organic foods, none of it is grown or handled using genetically modified organisms, which the organic standards expressly prohibit (see “ Organic 101: What Organic Farming (and Processing) Doesn’t Allow ”). 
Organic vegetables at a farmers' market in Argentina. Organic foods are foods produced by organic farming. While the standards differ worldwide, organic farming in general features cultural, biological, and mechanical practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity. Processed organic food usually contains only organic ingredients. If non-organic ingredients are present, at least a certain percentage of the food's total plant and animal ingredients must be organic (95% in the United States, Canada, and Australia).
1 Taste: Obviously, whether organic foods taste better is a matter of, well, taste. 2  Many people swear by the difference in organic eggs, dairy, meats, and some produce. 3  Others say that when blindfolded, those same people wouldn't be able to tell the difference between organic and conventional. 1 It's also worth noting that organic doesn't equal pesticide free, it means their use is restricted or limited to an allowed list. 2  The Atlantic notes : In the Stanford study, just 7 percent of organic foods were found to have traces of pesticides, compared to 38 percent of conventionally-farmed produce.
Organic meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products come from animals that are given no antibiotics or growth hormones. Organic food is produced without using most conventional pesticides; fertilizers made with synthetic ingredients or sewage sludge; bioengineering; or ionizing radiation. Report Abuse. it means that the food was grown under the USDA NOP regulations (over 1500 pages of rules). Farmers must grow their crops and livestock according to these rules, keep excellent crop. sales and input records, fill out an annual application, get inspected and pay a lot of money in order to get certifed.