A psychology degree develops knowledge of human behavior as well as research, statistics, and writing skills. It can provide a foundation for many careers. Positions don't all require a doctorate and they don't all involve therapy – though a graduate degree is a requirement for some, and an asset for some others.
Forensic Psychologist - $117,470 for top 10%. Pursuing a psychology degree is hard enough, but becoming one of the top forensic psychologists in the nation is a tedious battle. For the person who hates the grossly inaccurate joke that is CSI and loves real-life crime-solving, it can be a thrilling journey.
A psychology degree can lead to many rewarding careers for people who want to do something that with have a positive impact (and possibly ripple effect) on others. Here are some of the highest paying jobs one can get with a psychology degree. Child psychiatrist - $189,301 average. A child psychiatrist can make close to a half million dollars in just one year.
Earning an associate of arts degree, or AA, in psychology could mean a better income, a jump start on a bachelor's degree and a new career. Not to mention, you could pocket $130 a week more with an associate degree than you would with a high school diploma only, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
If you choose to study psychology at university, there are many different areas which you can choose to focus on. These include health, clinical, educational, research and teaching, occupational, counseling, neuro, sport and exercise, and forensic.
1 A degree in psychology can open the door to many career opportunities. 2  Careers in Psychology: Overview of the field of psychology, its subfields, the job outlook, how students can prepare for psychology jobs, and more.
Careers in and Related to Psychology. Following a BA or BSc degree in psychology, some students opt not to pursue a career in psychology while others do. For the former, many of the abilities and skills that one obtained as a psychology student can be used in careers that are not directly related to psychology.
1 Psychology: Science in Action. 2  A degree in psychology can open the door to many career opportunities. 3  Careers in Psychology: Overview of the field of psychology, its subfields, the job outlook, how students can prepare for psychology jobs, and more.