Diabetes mellitus refers to a group of diseases that affect how your body uses blood sugar (glucose). Glucose is vital to your health because it's an important source of energy for the cells that make up your muscles and tissues. It's also your brain's main source of fuel. If you have diabetes, no matter what type, it means you have too much glucose in your blood, although the causes may differ. Too much glucose can lead to serious health problems. Chronic diabetes conditions include type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes.
Definition. Diabetes mellitus is a condition in which the pancreas no longer produces enough insulin or cells stop responding to the insulin that is produced, so that glucose in the blood cannot be absorbed into the cells of the body. Symptoms include frequent urination, lethargy, excessive thirst, and hunger. Insulin — A hormone or chemical produced by the pancreas, insulin is needed by cells of the body in order to use glucose (sugar), the body's main source of energy. Ketoacidosis — A condition due to starvation or uncontrolled Type I diabetes.
Diabetes mellitus type 2 (formerly noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes) is a metabolic disorder that is characterized by hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) in the context of insulin resistance and relative lack of insulin. This is in contrast to diabetes mellitus type 1 in which there is an absolute insulin deficiency due to destruction of [islet cells in the pancreas and gestational diabetes mellitus that is a new onset of high blood sugars associated with pregnancy.
Diabetes (Diabetes Mellitus). A disease in which the body does not control the amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood and the kidneys make a large amount of urine. This disease occurs when the body does not make enough insulin or does not use it the way it should. Higher than normal amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood. Hyperglycemia can be a sign of diabetes or other conditions. Also called high blood sugar. Hypoglycemia. Also called low blood glucose, a condition that occurs when one's blood glucose is lower than normal, usually below 70 mg/dL.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus is characterized by loss of the insulin-producing beta cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas, leading to insulin deficiency. This type can be further classified as immune-mediated or idiopathic. 1 Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. 2  As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop. 3  This form was previously referred to as non insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. 1 Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. 2  As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop. 3  This form was previously referred to as non insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes.
Diabetes mellitus: More commonly referred to as diabetes -- a chronic disease associated with abnormally high levels of the sugar glucose in the blood. Diabetes is due to one of two mechanisms: 1  Inadequate production of insulin (which is made by the pancreas and lowers blood glucose), or. In type 1 diabetes there is no insulin or not enough of it. In type 2 diabetes, there is generally enough insulin but the cells upon it should act are not normally sensitive to its action. The signs and symptoms of both types of diabetes include increased urine output and decreased appetite as well as fatigue.
Diabetes is a disease that affects your body’s ability to produce or use insulin. Insulin is a hormone. When your body turns the food you eat into energy (also called sugar or glucose), insulin is released to help transport this energy to the cells. 