According to Nick Trujillo, author of “Hegemonic Masculinity on the Mound,” in which he analyzes the concept within the American sports culture, there are five particular dimensions. That the stereotypical male exercise physical force and control is first and foremost. 
As a sociologic concept, the hegemonic nature of hegemonic masculinity derives from the theory of cultural hegemony, by Marxist theorist Antonio Gramsci, which analyzes the power relations among the social classes of a society. For example, Laurie argues that the hegemonic masculinity framework lends itself to a modified essentialism, wherein the achievement of masculine goals is frequently attributed to a way of thinking understood as inherent to the male psyche, and in relation to an innate disposition for homosocial bonding.
Also, it could be used for the geopolitical and the cultural predominance of one country over others; from which was derived hegemonism, as in the idea that the Great Powers meant to establish European hegemony over Asia and Africa. In Ancient Greece (8th century BCE – 6th century CE), hegemony denoted the politico–military dominance of a city-state over other city-states. The dominant state is known as the hegemon. In the 19th century, hegemony came to denote the Social or cultural predominance or ascendancy; predominance by one group within a society or milieu. Later, it could be used to mean a group or regime which exerts undue influence within a society.
Print Email Save. Heteronormative is a term that describes a culture which conforms to heterosexual standards as the norm. Heteronormativity is quite subtle and exists in different forms. The concept of heteronormativity tends to marginalize people who do not belong to the hegemonic types. These include homosexuals and others who refrain from conforming to standard norms about gender and sexuality.
Hegemonic masculinity is not totally dominant, however, as it only exists in relation to non-hegemonic, subordinated forms of masculinity. The most salient example of this approach in contemporary European and American society is the dominance of heterosexual men and the subordination of homosexual men. For example, Laurie argues that the hegemonic masculinity framework lends itself to a modified essentialism, wherein the achievement of masculine goals is frequently attributed to a way of thinking understood as inherent to the male psyche, and in relation to an innate disposition for homosocial bonding.
R.W. Connell first coined the term 'hegemonic masculinity' in her books (1985; 1997). Some have critiqued the place of this dominant masculinity suggesting that it is just one of many dominant forms of masculinity though other forms continue to be marginalised. To me, the powerful, athletic, strong, cool, collected masculine man was embodied in my late brother Scott. We do not know the extent of his symptoms which he may have been ignoring. His mobile phone welcome message was 'Harden up'. This was not helpful, but I think it was an important part of his identity. Hegemonic masculinity, as Connell first suggested, is still alive and kicking.
The concept of hegemonic masculinity first was proposed in field reports from a study of social inequality in Australian high schools; in a related conceptual discussion of the making of masculinities and the experiences of men's bodies; and in a debate over the role of men in Australian labor politics. For example, Laurie argues that the hegemonic masculinity framework lends itself to a modified essentialism, wherein the achievement of masculine goals is frequently attributed to a way of thinking understood as inherent to the male psyche, and in relation to an innate disposition for homosocial bonding.
Consequently, hegemonic masculinity was reformulated to include gender hierarchy, the geography of masculine configurations, the processes of social embodiment, and the psycho-social dynamics of the varieties of masculinity. For example, Laurie argues that the hegemonic masculinity framework lends itself to a modified essentialism, wherein the achievement of masculine goals is frequently attributed to a way of thinking understood as inherent to the male psyche, and in relation to an innate disposition for homosocial bonding.