We'll take advantage of a little trick: you can rename an AI file from SampleArtFile.ai to SampleArtFile.pdf and open it in the PDF viewer of your choice-like, say, Foxit Reader.
AI -- Adobe Illustrator -- is the default file type for Illustrator which saves completely editable and scalable vector graphic images. Certain AI files are viewable with PDF readers; however, they will not allow you to edit the file's layers or individual elements.
In order to open .ai files as a pdf they have to be saved out in Illustrator with the option Create PDF Compatible File checked. Otherwise they won't open in Adobe Reader. That's more than likely the cause of everyone's issues. 1  Last comment is correct-thanks Joshua.
Ai file type is associated as Illustrator by Adobe Systems Inc. Ai or Adobe Illustrator is a vector-based drawing program, developed by Adobe Systems. Ai file extension representing single-page vector-based drawings in either the EPS or PDF formats.
You can bring artwork from PDF files into Illustrator using the Open command, the Place command, the Paste command, and the drag-and-drop feature. Use the Place command with the Link option selected to import a PDF file (or one page of the PDF if it is a multi-page document) as a single image.
The AI extension is used by Adobe Illustrator. Some other applications can be used to edit such files, and Adobe Reader, Photoshop and Preview can view them. The AI file format was originally a native format called PGF. PDF compatibility is achieved by embedding a total copy of the PGF data into the saved PDF file.
.ai Extension-List of programs that can open .ai files. In the following table, you can find a list of programs that can open files with .ai extension.This list is created by collecting extension information reported by users through the 'send report' option of FileTypesMan utility.
AI is the acronym for Adobe Illustrator. Files that have the .ai extension are drawing files that the Adobe Illustrator application has created. The Adobe Illustrator application was developed by Adobe Systems. The files created by this application are composed of paths that are connected by points and are saved in vector format.
An ai file most likely is one created by Adobe Illustrator. Unless you have Adobe Illustrator (which is fairly expensive), open it by saving the attachment renamed as covercrest.pdf. Then open it using your favorite pdf viewer (either Adobe Reader or Foxit Reader (both are free).