Patents. Waxes prepared from hydrogenated plant oils, such as castor, palm, and soybean, are used to prepare water based emulsions. The inventive waxes, obtained from naturally derived, renewable resources, were emulsified under anionic, cationic and nonionic conditions, producing emulsions having a solids content...
Castor wax is derived from castor oil in much the same was as the soy } .0 and palm waxes are prepared from their respective oils. Castor oil is a natural oil obtained from the seed of the castor plant.
- Hydrogenated Castor Oil is used in polishes, cosmetics, electrical capacitors, carbon paper, lubrication, and coatings and greases where resistance to moisture, oils and petrochemical products is required. - As Hydrogenated Castor Oil contains secondary hydroxyl group, it is useful in polyurethane coating formulation. - It also finds use in cosmetics, hair dressing, ointments, and in the preparation of hydroxyl-stearic acid and derivatives.
Patents. Waxes prepared from hydrogenated plant oils, such as castor, palm, and soybean, are used to prepare water based emulsions. The inventive waxes, obtained from naturally derived, renewable resources, were emulsified under anionic, cationic and nonionic conditions, producing emulsions having a solids content...
Castor Oil No-1:B.S.S. Castor Oil is Castor Oil bleached to British Standard Specifications. It is a yellow viscous liquid free from suspended matter and insoluble in water. APPLICATIONS:B.S.S. Castor oil finds application in a wide variety of uses and is the starting material for most other derivatives of castor oil.
Hydrogenated Castor Oil (HCO): Hydrogenated Castor Oil (HCO), also called Castor Wax, is a hard, brittle, high melting solid which is tasteless and odourless. Chemically it is the triglyceride mainly of 12-Hydroxy Stearic Acid. It is insoluble in water and solubility in many organic solvents is also very limited.
Castor wax, also referred to as hydrogenated castor oil, is catalytically hydrogenated castor oil (hydrogenation of castor oil in the presence of a nickel catalyst). Castor wax is a hard, brittle wax that is extremely insoluble in water and in commonly. used organic solvents, known to those skilled in the art.