What does Ronnie mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Ronnie is of Scottish origin. The meaning of Ronnie is rules with counsel. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is wise ruler. Ronnie is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-nnie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3382 in baby name popularity for girls with 47 occurrences. It ranked 755 in popular baby names for boys with 310 occurrences.
Ronnie /ron-nie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used less regularly as girls' name Ronnie) is of Hebrew and Old Norse derivation, and the name Ronnie means mountain of strength; ruler's counselor. Ronnie is an alternate form of Aaron (Hebrew): from the Hebrew har-on. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of the boy name Ronnie and corresponding names. Prominent variation forms of Ronnie (#755 last year) ranked in the Top 1000 are Aaron (#50 last year) , Ronald (#397) , Ari (#441) , Aron (#745) , Ronaldo, Ronny, Erin, Arran, Arron and Ron.
Meaning of Ronnie. English name. In English, the name Ronnie means-powerful rules with counsel form of reynold. Other origins for the name Ronnie include-English, Scottish, Gaelic.The name Ronnie is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-powerful rules with counsel form of reynold.
The name Ron is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Ron is: Mighty counselor/ruler. English Meaning: The name Ron is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ron is: Rules with counsel. 
[ 2 syll. ron-nie, ro-nn-ie ] The baby boy name Ronnie is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is R AA N-iy- †. Ronnie is largely used in the English and Spanish languages, and it is derived from Hebrew and Old Norse origins. Ronnie is an English and Spanish diminutive form of the name Aaron (English, German, Hebrew, and Polish). Ronnie is also a variant of the name Ron (English, Spanish, Dutch, and Hebrew). Ronnie is also an English diminutive form of the name Ronald (English and Scottish). Ronnie is a classic favorite. Currently it is still a somewhat popular baby name for boys, though not to the extent it was previously
Scottish Meaning: The name Ronnie is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Ronnie is: Mighty counselor/ruler. American Meaning: The name Ronnie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ronnie is: Mighty counselor/ruler. Gaelic Meaning: The name Ronnie is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Ronnie is: Rules with counsel. Form of Ronald from Reynold.
Ronnie is a very popular first name for males (#158 out of 1220, Top 13%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#71808 out of 150436, Top 48%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Ronnie for boys. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of the boy name Ronnie and corresponding names. Prominent variation forms of Ronnie (#755 last year) ranked in the Top 1000 are Aaron (#50 last year) , Ronald (#397) , Ari (#441) , Aron (#745) , Ronaldo, Ronny, Erin, Arran, Arron and Ron.
Meaning of Ronnie. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Ronnie means-Diminutive of Ronald: Mighty counselor/ruler.. Other origins for the name Ronnie include-Scottish, English, English, Gaelic.The name Ronnie is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-Diminutive of Ronald: Mighty counselor/ruler. Origin-Scottish. Alternate Origins-English English Gaelic.