Ischial Tuberosity Bursitis is an inflammatory condition of the bursa situated between the ischial tuberosity and the tendon of the hamstring muscle. The ischial tuberosity is the bony area situated in the pelvis where the weight of the body is rested in the seating position. Ischial Tuberosity Bursitis is caused by repetitive activities that strain the bursa such as prolonged sitting on hard surfaces, repetitive trauma with running, jumping, kicking or climbing stairs. When any activity strains the hamstring tendon, the bursa is prone to get affected.
(Redirected from Tuberosity of the ischium). The ischial tuberosity (or tuberosity of the ischium, tuber ischiadicum), also known informally as the sitz bone, or as a pair the sitting bones) is a large swelling posteriorly on the superior ramus of the ischium. It marks the lateral boundary of the pelvic outlet. When sitting, the weight is frequently placed upon the ischial tuberosity. The gluteus maximus provides cover in the upright posture, but leaves it free in the seated position.
Tweet. : a bony swelling on the posterior part of the superior ramus of the ischium that gives attachment to various muscles and bears the weight of the body in sitting.
ischial tuberosity. Etymology: Gk, ischion, hip joint; L, tuber, swelling. a rounded protuberance of the lower part of the ischium. It forms a bony area on which the human body rests when in a sitting position. 
Medical Definition of ISCHIAL TUBEROSITY. : a bony swelling on the posterior part of the superior ramus of the ischium that gives attachment to various muscles and bears the weight of the body in sitting. What made you want to look up ischial tuberosity?
Ischial Tuberosity. Ischial tuberosity pain can be a very debilitating, severe pain along the large bones along the lower portion of the pelvic girdle, the ischium, commonly referred to as the sitz bones. 
When a person is in a seated position, his or her weight typically rests on a section of bone called the ischial tuberosity. There are two of these bony swellings, sometimes called the sitting bones, located at the front of the superior ramus of the ischium, which is the lower back portion of the hip bone. Prolonged sitting on hard surfaces can cause ischial tuberosity damage. The ischial tuberosity bone lies in front of the lower hip bone. Soccer players are prone to ischial tuberosity damage. Inflammation of the bursa may cause buttocks pain.
The ischial tuberosity is a prominent bone section in the ischium, which is the lower portion of three major bones that make up the pelvis or hipbone. The ischial Tuberosity is attached to several muscles assisting with the sitting motion, hip flexion, and body weight support when in a seated position. 
The bursa is situated at base of the ischial tuberosity, which is a fluid filled sac that lubricates in order to reduce friction amongst the hamstring tendon and the bone. When this fluid filled sac is inflamed causing pain it is named as Ischial Tuberosity Bursitis. This condition is commonly due to sports injuries. Ischial Tuberosity Bursitis is caused by repetitive activities that strain the bursa such as prolonged sitting on hard surfaces, repetitive trauma with running, jumping, kicking or climbing stairs. When any activity strains the hamstring tendon, the bursa is prone to get affected.
Ischial tuberosity Definition. It is a large bony projection at the junction of the lower end of the body of the left and right ischium, the lower back part of the hip bone, and its ramus. It is also known by several other names like: 1  Tuber ischiadicum. 2  Tuberosity of the ischium. 3  Sitting bone