Cardamom (/ˈkɑrdəməm/), sometimes called cardamon (mostly in the UK) , is a spice made from the seeds of several plants in the genera Elettaria and Amomum in the family Zingiberaceae. Both genera are native to India, the largest producer until the late 20th century; Bangladesh, Bhutan, Indonesia, Nepal, and Pakistan. 
Cardamom is a fragrant spice found in a lot of dishes from around the world, including Indian dishes and Swedish meatballs. The spice is usually sold either in whole pod form or ground. There are only a few substitutes for cardamom, and the substitutes will not produce the same flavor as the spice itself. I've substituted nutmeg and cinnamon for cardamom in the past with some success. But cardamom is a very unique spice with a unique flavor and some recipes are just not right without it. I love cardamom in milk desserts, especially rice pudding and ice cream. It's also great in tea and coffee.
Generally, six pods of cardamom equal 1 teaspoon of ground cardamom. If you have cardamom seeds out of the pod, about 18 seeds is the same as one pod of cardamom. Other substitutes for cardamom include spices that are more commonly found in home pantries and that are considerably less expensive. The simplest substitute is an equal amount of cinnamon. I've substituted nutmeg and cinnamon for cardamom in the past with some success. But cardamom is a very unique spice with a unique flavor and some recipes are just not right without it. I love cardamom in milk desserts, especially rice pudding and ice cream. It's also great in tea and coffee.
Cardamom is a pretty unique spice related to curry. Hard to duplicate, but a mix of cinnamon and nutmeg may get you in the ballpark. A touch curry may help for that missing body. According to CDKitchen, you can use ground cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, coriander seeds, or mace.. Nothing tastes like cardamom. Cardamom substitutes are ground nutmegs, mace, ground cinnamon, ground cloves. Make sure you use these spices in certain combinations like equal … parts of nutmeg and cinnamon or cinnamon and ground clove or ground clove and nutmegs.
1 A pinch of each shall substitute the same amount of cardamom spice of course. 2  It is best to use ginger in the same proportions as cardamom spice recommended in the recipe, given that you are ladling up something savory. 3  In fact, cardamom is a cousin of ginger. Cardamom Spice Substitutes. Truly, cardamom is the spice without which most Indian dishes will remain incomplete. But if the aroma of these tiny seeds are too overbearing for you, then check out these cardamom spice substitutes.
1 It is best to use ginger in the same proportions as cardamom spice recommended in the recipe, given that you are ladling up something savory. 2  In fact, cardamom is a cousin of ginger. 3  Experiment if you want by using some grains of paradise, a.k.a. guinea pepper instead of cardamom. Cardamom Spice Substitutes. Truly, cardamom is the spice without which most Indian dishes will remain incomplete. But if the aroma of these tiny seeds are too overbearing for you, then check out these cardamom spice substitutes.
Anise seed: fennel seed or a few drops anise extract. Apple pie spice: For 1 teaspoon, substitute 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon plus 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg, 1/8 teaspoon ground allspice, and dash ground cloves or ground ginger. Cardamom, ground: ground ginger. Cinnamon, ground: For 1 teaspoon, substitue 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg or ground allspice. 
Substitutes for Cardamom Spice. The aroma of cardamom spice can in sooth be a little overwhelming sometimes, suppressing the natural flavors of other ingredients in a dish. Also, cardamom is known to aggravate situations for those already in gallbladder trouble. Cardamom Spice Substitutes. Truly, cardamom is the spice without which most Indian dishes will remain incomplete. But if the aroma of these tiny seeds are too overbearing for you, then check out these cardamom spice substitutes.
1 Use 50% of cinnamon and 50% nutmeg instead of the amount of cardamom you need to use. 2  This is specially effective as an alternative when concocting sweetmeats. 3  If you can afford a slightly accentuated flavor, use ½ tsp. cinnamon and ½ blended cloves to substitute for 1 tsp. of cardamom spice. Cardamom Spice Substitutes. Truly, cardamom is the spice without which most Indian dishes will remain incomplete. But if the aroma of these tiny seeds are too overbearing for you, then check out these cardamom spice substitutes.