Becky answers a question from a viewer like you about what age chickens start laying eggs. How old do my chickens need to be to start laying eggs is a question we get a lot. Becky also talks about molting chickens and eggs with soft shells. 
Laying Hens. Hens typically start laying eggs around 5 months of age. Some hens have laid as early as 4 months, and one of my hens didn’t start until she was 6 months old. The fun thing is that your hens will start giving you hints that an egg is coming. 
Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than hybrids. Most of the egg laying hybrids start laying at 4 to 5 months of age. These include Pearl White Leghorns, Black Stars, and Red Stars. Hybrid egg layers are bred by crossing two different lines or breeds. They are known for their excellent productivity and high feed conversion ratio
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Silkies start laying (usually) between 7-9 months, which is later than most chickens, I have an 8 month old that hasn't started laying yet, but a plus to that is, the la … ter in life your silkies lay, the more eggs you will get, and the more consistent with laying she will be. 6 people found this useful. In general, chicks start their egg laying at about 5 to 6 months old and reach peak production at about two years.   Egg … laying starts to decline at about three years. As the chicken ages, egg production is less reliable until they stop completely.
At what age do hens usually start laying eggs? We got our 25 Isa browns as little chicks on April 15. They've grown a lot, but we're expecting it to be several more months before they start contributing to our breakfast. - Stephanie. Stephanie-Feldpausch Family French Farm-Mid-Michigan. Typically they start laying around 18 - 22 weeks old, but it depends on the breed, environment & what they are being fed. I think my flock started laying at around 20 weeks last yr. Gosh~ it seemed like waiting forever. The signs that I saw was them doing the submissive squat about 2 weeks before they started to lay.
When Pullets Start to Lay Eggs. Summer has arrived and your spring chicks will be approaching puberty. Assuming they’ve enjoyed good food and care, the young hens, called pullets, begin laying sometime between their 16th and 24th week of age. You can anticipate the arrival of eggs soon! Discovering a hen’s first egg from your own hand-raised chicks is a thrill. Pullet eggs are tiny and look like gems in the nest. 
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 