Overall flexibility should be developed with specific joint range of motion needs in mind as the individual joints vary from one to another. Loss of flexibility can be a predisposing factor for physical issues such as pain syndromes or balance disorders. Gender, age, and genetics are important for range of motion. Internally, the joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments can affect one's flexibility. As previously mentioned, each part of the body has its own limitations and combined, the range of motion can be affected. The mental attitude of the performer during the state of motion can also affect their range.
Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by exercise, with stretching a common exercise component to maintain or improve flexibility. Quality of life is enhanced by improving and maintaining a good range of motion in the joints. Internally, the joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments can affect one's flexibility. As previously mentioned, each part of the body has its own limitations and combined, the range of motion can be affected. The mental attitude of the performer during the state of motion can also affect their range.
Flexibility is the amount of movement available at a joint. For example, the amount of movement available at the hip joint is determined by how far the leg can be moved in each of the permitted motions (e.g. flexion-raising the leg up in front). The term flexibility means the same as mobility or suppleness. Factors affecting flexibility. 1  Type of joint:The shoulder-a ball and socket joint, is more flexible (or mobile) than the knee-a hinged joint, for example. 2  Muscle tissue elasticity: Injured, poorly conditioned, tight muscles are less flexible.
Flexibility is a measure of the range of motion of a joint. This range of motion is affected by the health of the tendons, ligaments and muscles surrounding the joint, as well as medical conditions such as arthritis and osteoporosis, which tend to increase with advanced age.
The practice of yoga can make your body more flexible, giving your muscles and your joints a greater range of motion. A supple, flexible body is less prone to injuries because it can withstand physical stress. It is widely known that the words yoga and stretching go hand in hand. 
Flexibility is defined by Gummerson as the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints that is attainable in a momentary effort with the help of a partner or a piece of equipment.. This definition tells us that flexibility is not something general but is specific to a particular joint or set of joints. This is because the nervous control of length and tension in the muscles are set at what is repeated most strongly and/or most frequently. Overflexibility Strength and Flexibility: (previous section) Flexibility: (beginning of chapter) It is possible for the muscles of a joint to become too flexible.
Flexibility or limberness refers to the absolute range of movement in a joint or series of joints, and length in muscles that cross the joints to induce a bending movement or motion. Flexibility varies between individuals, particularly in terms of differences in muscle length of multi-joint muscles. Internally, the joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments can affect one's flexibility. As previously mentioned, each part of the body has its own limitations and combined, the range of motion can be affected. The mental attitude of the performer during the state of motion can also affect their range.
Flexibility defined. Flexibility is basically the range of motion at a particular joint-how far it can move from A to B. I like to think of flexibility as the quantity of movement, because this is a good reminder that it tells us nothing about the quality of the movement. 
1) Activity level: People who are active tend to be more flexible than sedentary individuals. 2) Training in a limited range of motion, especially resistance training (weight training) in a limited range of motion can reduce flexibility over time, thus it is important to work muscles in a full range of motion. 
Muscle fascia is the third connective tissue that affects flexibility, and by far the most important. Fascia makes up as much as 30 percent of a muscle’s total mass, and, according to studies cited in Science of Flexibility, it accounts for approximately 41 percent of a muscle’s total resistance to movement. 