NEVER thaw meat at room temperature. Allow a 24-hour thawing period in the refrigerator. After defrosting raw pork by this method, it will be safe in the refrigerator up to five days before cooking or, if you decide not to use the pork, you can safely refreeze it without cooking it first.
Perishable foods should be put in a refrigerator that is 40 degrees or below within 2 hours of preparation. If you leave food out to cool and forget about it after 2 hours, throw it away. Bacteria can grow rapidly on food left out at room temperature for more than 2 hours.
Use cooked pork within two hours (one hour if air temperature is above 90 °F) or refrigerate it at 40 °F or less in shallow, covered containers. Eat within 3 to 4 days, either cold or reheated to 165 °F (hot and steaming). It is safe to freeze ready prepared pork dishes. For best quality, use within 3 months.
The recommendation is potentially hazardous foods (meat, dairy, fish, etc) should not be a room temperature over 2 hours -- raw or cooked. While the product may be safe beyond that time frame, it has been shown that these foods can grow within that time frame bacteria that can cause illness.
Duration Cooked Meat Can be Left Out. In most food establishments, 4 hours is the maximum duration that a cooked meat is allowed to stand on the shelf when the room temperature is between 40F to 140F. At temperatures less than 40F, foods can remain bacteria free for a longer duration.
Do not leave any pork at room temperature for more than two hours. If cooked pork is not going to be used within four days of cooking, it should be frozen. Refrigerating. Raw or cooked meat can be stored safely in a refrigerator at 40°F or lower for several days.
Cooked pasta should not be left out at room temperature for more  than 2 to 3 hours. Any food that is left out at room temperature  after cooking can be dangerous at any tim … e past the 4 hour mark.
Low and slow smoking or roasting a big piece of meat to 190 to 200°F like brisket or pork shoulder. Usually cooked at 225°F these meats can take 8 to 12 hours and starting at room temp saves only about 20 to 30 minutes.
Because bacteria are everywhere, even after food is cooked to a safe internal temperature, they can be reintroduced to the food and then reproduce. For this reason leftovers must be put in shallow containers for quick cooling and refrigerated within 2 hours.