Anyone studying intelligent alien life is, of course, aware of the famous wow signal. This non-terrestrial/non-solar system origin narrowband radio signal that lasted 72 seconds through Big Ear radio telescope has become proof to SETI community that intelligent life does exist elsewhere. I believe that no matter if the wow signal is real or not, it is the closest thing there is to a lead that the SETI community really has. If you can search the area the signal is said to come from (which has been determined) and find places that could support life, that is a pretty good lead.
The signal lasted for 72 seconds, the longest period of time it could possibly be measured by the array that Ehman was using. It was loud and appeared to have been transmitted from a place no human has gone before: in the constellation Sagittarius near a star called Tau Sagittarii, 120 light-years away. One summer night in 1977, Jerry Ehman, a volunteer for SETI, or the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence, may have become the first man ever to receive an intentional message from an alien world.
The Wow! signal. The Wow! signal was a strong narrowband radio signal detected by Jerry R. Ehman on August 15, 1977, while he was working on a SETI project at the Big Ear radio telescope of The Ohio State University, then located at Ohio Wesleyan University 's Perkins Observatory in Delaware, Ohio. Therefore, both the length of the Wow! signal, 72 seconds, and the shape of the intensity graph may correspond to an extraterrestrial origin, as opposed to a stray terrestrial signal being picked up by the telescope.
Best Answer: If I remember right it was in 1977 when SETI picked up the WOW signal and lasted aprox, 15 seconds and was never heard again, it came from the vicinity of sagatarious constalation and was not of this earth, SG. Source(s): SPACEGUY · 8 years ago. 
The Big Ear radio telescope. The Wow! signal was detected by Jerry R. Ehman on August 15, 1977, while working on a SETI project at the now defunct Big Ear radio telescope, operated by Ohio State University, which was then located at Ohio Wesleyan University's Perkins Observatory in Delaware, Ohio. Therefore, both the length of the Wow! signal, 72 seconds, and the shape of the intensity graph may correspond to an extraterrestrial origin, as opposed to a stray terrestrial signal being picked up by the telescope.
The integration time of the receiver of the wow signal was 12 seconds. Any content shorter than that would have been averaged out to its mean signal intensity, during each 12 second period. Only six such time 'bins' were involved in the 72 seconds it took the source to pass through the receiving lobe of the telescope. I believe that no matter if the wow signal is real or not, it is the closest thing there is to a lead that the SETI community really has. If you can search the area the signal is said to come from (which has been determined) and find places that could support life, that is a pretty good lead.
The Wow! signal is the only piece of incoming data to have been confirmed as coming from aliens and for forty years astronomers have been scouring the heavens for signs of life-an effort known as the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence, or SETI. The Wow! signal, a mysterious radio transmission detected in 1977 that it is now confirmed came from extraterrestrials, has finally been deciphered and the message translated into English.
It was, apparently, a signal from outer space. It came from the direction of Sagittarius. The strength of the signal was represented by the digits 0-9 and the letters A-Z, a scale of 36 levels of intensity, rising with 6EQ and falling with UJ5, a near-perfect bell curve of signal strength spread over 72 seconds. In conclusion, yes, an alien intelligence is still a candidate explanation for the Wow! signal. But there's no evidence for this. A stronger candidate is the significantly more vague explanation of an interstellar radio source of unknown origin.