Post-Impressionism. (1880s-1900s). Post-Impressionist paintings were a broad reaction against Impressionism. The works continued to use the bright Impressionist palette, but rejected the Impressionism’s emphasis on the spontaneous recording of light and color. Post-Impressionists sought to create art with a greater degree of formal order and structure.
Their pictures are very bright and vibrant. The artists like to capture their images without detail but with bold colors. Some of the greatest impressionist artists were Edouard Manet, Camille Pissaro, Edgar Degas, Alfred Sisley, Claude Monet, Berthe Morisot and Pierre Auguste Renoir. Manet influenced the development of impressionism. He painted everyday objects. 
Impression, Sunrise (French: Impression, soleil levant) is a painting by Claude Monet. Shown at what would later be known as the Exhibition of the Impressionists in April 1874, the painting is attributed to giving rise to the name of the Impressionist movement. 
The artists held their first exhibition in 1874, calling themselves an anonymous group.. The show drew a storm of criticism from the press and the public. One critic mockingly called the artists' work impressionism, taking the term from the title of Monet's painting Impression: Sunrise. The critic meant that the paintings were only impressions, sketchy and incomplete. After 1875, impressionism became widely accepted and began to influence artists in other European countries. Prominent painters outside France added elements of impressionism to their work. They included Germany's Max Liebermann, Italy's Giuseppi De Nittis, and England's Wilson Steer.
Impression: Sunrise, Claude Monet, 1874. Impressionism takes its name from this painting, one of the initial works exhibited by artists in Paris who were dubbed by critics, “painters of mere impressions.”. The first exhibition, in 1874, featured Claude Monet’s Impression: Sunrise, prompting hostile critics to dismiss them all as. “painters of mere impressions.” The implication is that these artists are incapable of producing a properly composed and finished painting. Lavacourt under the Snow, Claude Monet, 1878-81.
Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. Musical Impressionism is the name given to a movement in European classical music that arose in the late 19th century and continued into the middle of the 20th century.
Impressionism is a genre of art in which the artist is trying to capture a fleeting moment, feeling or impression. It was characterized by loosely painted brush strokes, dabs of color that blended together to form an image (pointillism), sketchy lines and transitory lighting effects. That is not to say that there are no flaws with Impressionism, it is still a human creation and therefore fallible, but it is difficult to discern whether the criticisms against it are based out of a critics personal opinion or fact.
Impressionism is a 19th century artistic movement that swept much of the painting and sculpture styles of the period. It was not just a passing fad but has defined an entirely modern way of expressing one’s artistry that eventually rubbed off in other art forms like literature and photography. 
He died in 1926. Still, we can say that Impressionism as a style continues in the work of some artists to this very day. Some artists who exhibited with the Impressionists in the 1870s and 1880s pushed their art into different directions. Impressionism is about the temporary, the here and now, and not about the timeless, the forever. Impressionism is about life lived in bursts of brief encounters in the city. It's about faster speeds, quickly moving clouds, sunshine reflected on water, and the shimmer of satin ribbons dangling from a baby's cradle.