The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims. Alexander Graham Bell is commonly credited as the inventor of the first practical telephone. The classic story of him saying Watson, come here! I want to see you! is a well-known part of the history of the
To get the answer to that question, we need to look back more than a century. Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone in 1876. And then in 1900, on December 23 on the outskirts of Washington, D.C., an inventor named Reginald Fessenden accomplished a remarkable feat: He made the first wireless telephone call. 
Though he is credited with its invention, Alexander Graham Bell refused to have a telephone in his study, fearing it would distract him from his scientific work. Bell, who was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, was educated there and at the University of London. Alexander Graham Bell (1847-1922), the Scottish-born American scientist best known as the inventor of the telephone, worked at a school for the deaf while attempting to invent a machine that would transmit sound by electricity.
Alexander Graham Bell Edinburgh, Scotland; March 1847 Alexander Graham Bell is most well known for inventing the telephone. He came to the U.S as a teacher of the deaf, and conceived the idea of electronic speech while visiting his hearing-impaired mother in Canada. The telephone patent is one of the most valuable patents ever issued. Bell had other inventions as well -- his own home had a precursor to modern day air conditioning, he contributed to aviation technology, and his last patent, at the age of 75, was for the fastest hydrofoil yet invented.
Alexander Graham Bell conceived of (invented) the telephone at his summer home in Brantford, Ontario in the summer of 1876, and then later physically created his first telepho … ne in Boston, Massachusetts (where, he said, it was 'born'). In the 1870's the telegraph was in wide use and there were those who were interested in electrical voice transmission or harmonic telegraph (a telegraph that could transmit musical tone). Alexander Graham Bell was experienced with sound and speech and also knew a lot about electricity.
Alexander Graham Bell conceived of the telephone at his summer home in Brantford, Ontario and physically created his first phone in Boston, Massachusetts (where, he said, it w … as 'born'). This was a result of his research into improving the telegraph system. In the 1870's the telegraph was in wide use and there were those who were interested in electrical voice transmission or harmonic telegraph (a telegraph that could transmit musical tone). Alexander Graham Bell was experienced with sound and speech and also knew a lot about electricity.
Originally, it was invented for use in emergencies, and to spread information that was on a need to know basis. Then, once the cell phone caught on, it had all sorts of apps added to it, so the cell phone came from just a calling function with caller ID [I think] into the I phone which has over 75,000 apps. In 1947 Bell Labs made the first cell phone, but it took Dr. Cooper of Motorola to make … a cell phone in 1974 for the government. The public use of cell phones began in 1984. Your question has two answers. The phone was invented in 1889 by Bell.
The cell phone was first thought of in the 1920's when the use of police radios began. In 1947 Bell Labs made the first cell phone, but it took Dr. Cooper of Motorola to make … a cell phone in 1974 for the government. The public use of cell phones began in 1984. Your question has two answers. The phone was invented in 1889 by Bell. The cell phone idea began in the 1930's, but in 1947 Bell Labs made a cell type phone. The first cell phone inventor id given to Dr. Martin Cooper of Motorola in 1974. This phone was sold to the government
The concept of a telephone began with the acoustic string telephone (lover's telephone), such as the tin can telephone with two tin cans strung together with tight string or wire. Antonio Meucci invented an early voice communicating device around 1854, but was unable to patent his telettrofono due to lack of money. He installed a telephone-like device within his house in order to communicate with his wife who was ill at the time. Graham Bell. In the 1870's the telegraph was in wide use and there were those who were interested in electrical voice transmission or harmonic telegraph (a telegraph that could transmit musical tone). Alexander Graham Bell was experienced with sound and speech and also knew a lot about electricity.