Average Medical Scribe salaries for job postings in Atlanta, GA are 25% higher than average Medical Scribe salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Pay for a medical scribe will vary based on the company you work  for and the hospital in which you work. Pay varies from minimum  wage to up to 14 or 15 dollars an hour. As … k scribes who work in  your area for your local rates, if interested in becoming a medical  scribe. They get paid around 55,000 to 60,000 dollars a year. This income is a set income so no matter how much or little work they do it remains the same.
The average salary for medical scribe jobs in Minneapolis, MN is $40,000. Average medical scribe salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term medical scribe anywhere in the job listing.
Considerations. As is the case with virtually any career, the salary of a medical scribe varies depending on experience, level of education, employer and location. In 2012, the BLS reported that the top-paying regions for this occupation were New Jersey, the District of Columbia and Hawaii. The American Healthcare Documentation Professionals Group estimates that medical scribes pull down between $12 and $20 per hour. The Bureau of Labor Statistics pinned the mean hourly wage of medical recordists and health information technicians at $17.68, as of 2012.
It depends where you work and what type, if any certification you have. To work in a doctors office after a vocational training program w/o any certification, you'd make the l … ow end of $12 to $13 an hour. With certification more around $15 an hour. They get paid around 55,000 to 60,000 dollars a year. This income is a set income so no matter how much or little work they do it remains the same.
Most Scribes are pre med students looking for some medical experience. The pay isn’t great ($8-$11 per hour), the hours are horrible, but trust me, the it’s all worth it. No amount of shadowing will replace the medical experience you get while an ER Scribe. 
Average Medical Scribe Salaries. The average salary for medical scribe jobs is $62,000. Average medical scribe salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term medical scribe anywhere in the job listing. The medical scribe salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional medical scribe salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
This represents approximately one-third to one-half of the entire medical scribe market. Salaries and benefit packages for medical scribes vary by employer, geographical region, experience, and training. “An entry-level scribe who has successfully completed training typically starts at between $10 and $16 per hour depending on geographical location and the employer for whom they work. A local scribe manager will make between $14 and $20 per hour with or without benefits.
Average Medical Scribe salaries for job postings in Charleston, SC are 2% lower than average Medical Scribe salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Annual Salary. The BLS and AHDPG also agree on the typical range of yearly earnings for scribes. The mean annual wage for medical recordists and health information technicians who work at physicians' offices was about $31,290 in 2012, according to the BLS. The AHDPG estimates that experienced medical scribes at the top of the heap pull down as much as $41,600 per year. The American Healthcare Documentation Professionals Group estimates that medical scribes pull down between $12 and $20 per hour. The Bureau of Labor Statistics pinned the mean hourly wage of medical recordists and health information technicians at $17.68, as of 2012.