Traumatic injuries, repetitive strain injuries and certain medical conditions -- especially conditions involving the lower extremity blood vessels -- can cause pain in the back of your knee. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, knee pain, including pain in the back of your knee that is caused by musculoskeletal problems, usually responds well to conservative therapies, such as rest, ice, compression, elevation and temporary activity modification.
One of the common causes of popliteal pain is a Baker's cyst (or popliteal cyst). This is a fluid-filled lump at the back of the knee caused by fluid which has built up under pressure within the knee cavity in response to an inflammatory problem within the knee and not directly related to the lump itself. Injury to the posterior horn of the meniscus. Another cause of popliteal pain is a disruption at the back of the lateral meniscus, in the region known as the ' posterior horn '. The illustration on the left shows a bird's-eye view of the menisci sitting on the top of the tibia.
Overlying the knee joint is the patella or kneecap, which helps protect the knee joint and increases the efficiency of the quadriceps muscle group on the front of the thigh. Within the knee joint is articular cartilage, which helps absorb shock and decrease friction between moving bones. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, knee pain, including pain in the back of your knee that is caused by musculoskeletal problems, usually responds well to conservative therapies, such as rest, ice, compression, elevation and temporary activity modification.
One of the more common causes of pain in the back of the knee joint, specifically, is a popliteal synovial cyst, which is also known as a baker’s cyst. This fluid-filled cyst at the back of the leg often forms in response to arthritis or other cartilage damage. The bulge creates a feeling of tightness behind the knee as well as stiffness and swelling and pain behind the knee and calf. For many, this pain intensifies when flexing or fully extending the leg.
Popliteus tendonitis or injury is inflammation or injury to the small muscle at the back of the knee called the popliteus. The role of the popliteus muscle is to internally rotate the tibia or shin bone. Symptoms include pain at the back of the knee joint with tenderness when pressing in. Pain may be reproduced when the knee is bent against resistance whilst the lower leg or tibia bone is rotated outwards. It is usually caused by an injury or condition in the knee joint which will make the back of the knee swell up increasing pressure and causing pain. There is usually a very obvious round golf ball sized swelling at the back of the knee.
The knee is one of the most important and complex joints in your body. According to the Southern California Orthopedic Institute, the bones of the knee -- the femur, or thighbone, and the tibia, or shinbone -- form a hinge joint that allows the knee to bend and straighten. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, knee pain, including pain in the back of your knee that is caused by musculoskeletal problems, usually responds well to conservative therapies, such as rest, ice, compression, elevation and temporary activity modification.
A tumor in the soft tissue or bone of the knee joint can also cause pain in the back of the knee. In addition to discomfort, a tumor will likely include the appearance of a palpable mass, trouble. bending the knee and pain even when no weight is being placed on the legs. This fluid-filled cyst at the back of the leg often forms in response to arthritis or other cartilage damage. The bulge creates a feeling of tightness behind the knee as well as stiffness and swelling and pain behind the knee and calf. For many, this pain intensifies when flexing or fully extending the leg.
A PCL tear resulting in back of the knee pain can be caused by a fall on the knees when they are bent, a blow to the front of the knee or a major twisting motion, such as during a skiing wipeout. Physical therapy and surgery are the usual PCL tear treatment methods, likely with use of a ligament tear knee brace. This fluid-filled cyst at the back of the leg often forms in response to arthritis or other cartilage damage. The bulge creates a feeling of tightness behind the knee as well as stiffness and swelling and pain behind the knee and calf. For many, this pain intensifies when flexing or fully extending the leg.
A tear to the cartilage-like meniscus can also result in pain in the back of the knee, depending upon what sort of tear occurs. Pain and swelling behind the knee is common with a meniscus tear; the severity of the pain and whether the stability of the knee is compromised depends upon the extent of the tear. This fluid-filled cyst at the back of the leg often forms in response to arthritis or other cartilage damage. The bulge creates a feeling of tightness behind the knee as well as stiffness and swelling and pain behind the knee and calf. For many, this pain intensifies when flexing or fully extending the leg.
Photo Credit legs of runner image by jimcox40 from Fotolia.com. Numerous conditions can cause pain in the back of your knee, including injuries of, or damage to, muscles, tendons and ligaments in the posterior knee compartment, according to the Sports Injury Clinic website. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, knee pain, including pain in the back of your knee that is caused by musculoskeletal problems, usually responds well to conservative therapies, such as rest, ice, compression, elevation and temporary activity modification.