Calcium plays other essential roles in cell communication, enzymes and proteins. Whether you are intolerant, allergic or simply choosing not to drink milk, adequate amounts of calcium can be consumed through non-milk foods to achieve your daily calcium requirements.
Fun fact: Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the body, and is found naturally in a wide variety of foods and beverages and added to many others! (Hellooo orange juice.) But whether lactose-intolerant or sick of wine and cheese parties, there’s no need to rely only on dairy products for that daily dose of calcium.
The best way to get useable calcium is to eat a variety of plant foods, like quinoa, chickpeas, sesame seeds and broccoli. The dark green leafy vegetables are particularly good sources. It's awesome to see that the Harvard School of Public Health is recommending sources of calcium other than milk.
However, other excellent sources of calcium exist. Sources of well-absorbed calcium for vegans include calcium-fortified soy milk and juice, calcium-set tofu, soybeans and soynuts, bok choy, broccoli, collards, Chinese cabbage, kale, mustard greens, and okra.
You probably think of Chinese cabbage, collard greens, maybe almonds, in terms of non-dairy sources of calcium, but there are many more. Here are just 10, for starters: Black Eyed Peas: Not only are black eyed peas a good source of calcium, these little beans also contain potassium, folate and other nutrients.
Bok choy (1/2 cup cooked has 79 milligrams of calcium) and kale (1/2 cup cooked, 61 milligrams) are particularly good sources, as are broccoli, collard greens, okra, cooked spinach and turnip greens. Spinach and Swiss chard, among others, contain oxalic acid, which can significantly decrease calcium absorption.
Dairy is the number one source of calcium available: alternative milk: soy or almond milk all types of cheese yogurt cottage cheese you could also take a calcium supplement... ask your doc for a referral to a specific brand. Natual is always better.
Ashley’s answer: Sleep better knowing that while calcium intake is important for healthy bones, there are plenty of non-dairy sources of calcium (and plenty of other nutrients the body needs for healthy bones).
The following foods are not only great calcium sources, but also rich in other nutrients and low in calories. Compared to milk, the calcium in these foods is easier for our bodies to break down, absorb, and use.