The ascending aorta extends from the aortic root (which connects the aorta to the heart), upwards toward the aortic arch. The thoracic aorta is one of two parts of the descend … ing aorta, which extends back down towards the abdomen after
Most patients with ascending aortic aneurysms do not have any symptoms. The most common symptom of an ascending aortic aneurysm is dull and vague chest pain. Some patients will have symptoms related to compression of other structures in the chest like the trachea or esophagus.
The other part of the descending aorta, the. Like other sections of the aorta (the ascending aorta and aortic arch), the descending aorta is an arbitrary anatomic entity. The aorta is one continuous conduit that stems from the left ventricle of the heart to carry blood to most of the body.
Dilatation of the ascending aorta is a common finding in the elderly but unusual in younger patients. Causes include: 1. 1  senile / atherosclerotic ectasia / hypertension. 2  aneurysm of the ascending aorta. 3  aortic dissection (Stanford type A / DeBakey type I and II). 4  aortic valve. 5  aortic valve stenosis.
An aneurysm is a dilatation-or a bulging ballooning out-of the walls of an artery. An aortic aneurysm is bulging out of the walls of the aorta, which is the largest artery in the body and carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body.
• The ascending aorta rises up from the heart and is about 2 inches long. The coronary arteries branch off the ascending aorta to supply the heart with blood. • The aortic arch curves over the heart, giving rise to branches that bring blood to the head, neck, and arms.
Ascending aorta: The first section of the aorta, which starts from the left ventricle of the heart and extends to the aortic arch. The right and left coronary arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle arise from the ascending aorta.
An aortic aneurysm (say a-OR-tik AN-yuh-rih-zum) is a bulge in a section of the aorta, the body's main artery. The aorta carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Because the section with the aneurysm is overstretched and weak, it can burst.
Descending aorta: The descending aorta is the part of the aorta, the largest artery in the body, that runs down through the chest and the abdomen. The descending aorta starts after the arch of the aorta and ends by splitting into two great arteries (the common iliac arteries) that go to the legs.