Reaching Sikkim in India-Juxtaposed between two neighboring countries namely Bhutan and Nepal with West Bengal on its South, Sikkim lies on the extreme North Eastern corner of India. Whether you are traveling by road, air and train, you can only reach Sikkim by passing through West Bengal. The state of Sikkim is well-connected with air, rail and road network. However there are certain restrictions for foreigners coming to Sikkim.
Sikkim does not has its own airport. The nearest Airport is Bagdogra (near Siliguri) in West Bengal, which lies only 125 km away from Gangtok the capital of Sikkim. Bagdogra is connected to cities like Delhi and Kolkata by regular flights. By Road. Although the state of Sikkim lies at the foothills of the Himalayas, it has a good network of roads.
Sikkim Travel Map. Map of Sikkim with state capital, district head quarters, taluk head quarters, boundaries, national highways, railway lines and other roads. It has all travel destinations, districts, cities, towns, road routes of places in Sikkim.
Most travel in Sikkim is done by bus or jeep on road. Trekking is also a popular option. It is better to contact a travel agent in NJP or Siliguri who will provide food, lodging, travelling, permits, but beware of the touts roaming in the station or bus stand.
Gangtok is also the capital of the Indian state of Sikkim. Gangtok Travel is highly enjoyable. Gangtok cannot be accessed by train routes. The nearest train station is New Jalpaiguri (NJP) in Siliguri. Siliguri can be reached by train from Kolkata. It is an overnight journey and trains are frequent.
Once you arrive in New Jalpaiguri, you can either hire a taxi from the station itself or take an auto-rickshaw to the Siliguri bus stand. From there, you have the option of travelling to Gangtok by state bus or taxi's outside, roughly a 4 hour journey. State bus is operated by Sikkim National Transport. The fare on March 2014 for 1 seat was Rs.150. All seats are reserved from the counter.
Sikkim by Air: Bagdogra near Siliguri, 120 km from Gangtok is the nearest airport to the state. Regular flights connect it to the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport in Kolkata from where daily flights are available to New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and all the major cities of India.