Program is being voluntarily phased out by institution. 1. Programs That Are Fully Operational: Approval (without reporting requirements): An accreditation classification granted to an educational program indicating that the program achieves or exceeds the basic requirements for accreditation. Phaseout: A program scheduled to be phased out is identified by a * following the accreditation status. Combined Programs: A combined residency program is one that contains education and training in more than one specialty.
The U.S. Department of Education does not accredit colleges and universities itself, but it does maintain a database of accredited schools and recognized accrediting agencies. This is an excellent place for students to start looking for information about school and program accreditation. Before choosing a school, it is important that you have a clear picture of exactly who accredits the school and what that accreditation means for your future. Without accreditation, you will find yourself with a degree employers do not respect. The following set of articles cover the basics of
Approval (with reporting requirements): An accreditation classification granted to an educational program indicating that specific deficiencies or weaknesses exist in one or more areas of the program. Phaseout: A program scheduled to be phased out is identified by a * following the accreditation status. Combined Programs: A combined residency program is one that contains education and training in more than one specialty.
Accreditation is both a status and a process. As a status, accreditation provides public notification that an institution or program meets standards of quality set forth by an accrediting agency. As a student: Accreditation provides assurance that the program in which you are enrolled or are considering enrolling is engaged in continuous review and improvement of its quality, that it meets nationally endorsed standards in the profession, and that it is accountable for achieving what it sets out to do.
AAAHC accreditation means that the organization participates in on-going self evaluation, peer review and education to continuously improve its care and services. The organization also commits to a thorough, on-site survey by AAAHC surveyors, who are themselves health care professionals, at least every three years. 
As a member of the public: Accreditation ensures public accountability of a program or an institution -- that it has the means and demonstrates the outcomes for its educational process that are consistent with its goals and objectives; in other words, that there is 'truth in advertising.'. As a student: Accreditation provides assurance that the program in which you are enrolled or are considering enrolling is engaged in continuous review and improvement of its quality, that it meets nationally endorsed standards in the profession, and that it is accountable for achieving what it sets out to do.
Accreditation. Accreditation is a process of validation in which colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning are evaluated. The standards for accreditation are set by a peer review board whose members include faculty from various accredited colleges and universities. 
Accreditation is an incredibly important facet of your education. However, many people do not understand even the basics of the accreditation process. Before choosing a school, it is important that you have a clear picture of exactly who accredits the school and what that accreditation means for your future. Without accreditation, you will find yourself with a degree employers do not respect. The following set of articles cover the basics of accreditation.
The most recognized and accepted type of accreditation in the United States is regional accreditation. Generally, college credits or degrees received at a regionally accredited institution are accepted by other regionally accredited colleges or universities (non-regionally accredited programs are not as accepted). The Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) maintain directories of nationally recognized and specialized accrediting agencies. Programs that are nationally accredited may not transfer to a regionally accredited college. Distance Education & Training Council (DETC).
The accreditation classification granted by the Commission on Dental Accreditation to programs which are not fully operational is “initial accreditation.” When initial accreditation status is granted to a developing education program, it is in effect through the projected enrollment date. Phaseout: A program scheduled to be phased out is identified by a * following the accreditation status. Combined Programs: A combined residency program is one that contains education and training in more than one specialty.