This is what we call “microscopic hematuria”. Another commonly used term is “trace of blood in urine”. This is very non-specific term that can refer to a variety of things. It may refer to finding of red blood cells in urine under a microscope; it can also mean that a ‘dipstick test’ detects possible presence of blood. It is important to carefully examine the results of urinalysis test to see if it was performed by dipstick or using microscopic evaluation. Our board certified urologist specializes in evaluating women and men with blood in urine.
White Blood Cells in the Urine. White blood cells (or leukocytes) in the urine may be detected in the microscopic analysis of urine. In general, the presence of these cells in the urine is suspicious for a urinary tract infection (UTI). 
Normal Values. What abnormal results mean. Red blood cells in urine; Hematuria test; Urine-red blood cells. Normal values are 4 red blood cells per high power field (RBC/HPF) or fewer. Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. 
Blood in urine refers to the presence of red blood cells in urine. Hematuria is a medical term that is synonymous with and literally means “Blood in urine”. Hematuria. Blood in urine can be visible to the eye and may appear as pink or red discoloration of urine. It is important to carefully examine the results of urinalysis test to see if it was performed by dipstick or using microscopic evaluation. Our board certified urologist specializes in evaluating women and men with blood in urine.
9. Get help from a doctor now ›. Usually not related: If a person has a normal amount of hemoglobin, regardless of how many red blood cells he has, the amount of oxygen supplied to the various parts of his body is related to other factors (not directly related to his normal amount of hemoglobin). 
Urine (from Latin Urina, ae, f .) is a liquid by-product of the body secreted by the kidneys through a process called urination (or micturition) and excreted through the urethra. Cellular metabolism generates numerous by-products, many rich in nitrogen, that require clearance from the bloodstream. 
What is the normal range of albumin in urine? In the urine of a person with normally functioning kidneys, there should be no albumin. If there is between 30 and 300 mg per day, it is called microalbuminuria, and if it is … over 300 mg per day it is called frank albuminuria. 
Urinalysis can reveal diseases that have gone unnoticed because they do not produce striking signs or symptoms. Examples include diabetes mellitus, various forms of glomerulonephritis, and chronic urinary tract infections. The most cost-effective device used to screen urine is a paper or plastic dipstick. 
The Test. A red blood cell (RBC) count is typically ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) and may be used as part of a health checkup to screen for a variety of conditions. While an RBC count can be used to detect a problem with red blood cell production and/or lifespan, it cannot determine the underlying cause. In addition to the full CBC, some other tests may be performed at the same time or as follow up to help establish a diagnosis. Examples include: 1  Blood smear.