Barclays /ˈbɑːkliz/ is a British multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in London. It is a universal bank with operations in retail, wholesale and investment banking, as well as wealth management, mortgage lending and credit cards. In the UK Barclays also offers some personal banking services through branches of the Post Office. Most Barclays branches have 24/7 ATMs. Barclays customers and the customers of many other banks can use Barclays ATMs for free in the UK, although in some other countries fees are charged.
Student Account. Barclays Students account is a savings account designed solely to meet the needs of students in tertiary institutions. Students enjoy advantage of a savings account with the flexibility of a current account, access to online banking and electronic statements via email at no cost. At Barclays we understand this and that is why we have developed the Bank Account for you. The Bank Account is a transactional account for salaried earners which can be accessed 24/7 from any Visa branded ATM.
Barclays is organised into four core business: Personal & Corporate (Personal Banking, Corporate Banking, Wealth & Investment Management), Barclaycard, Investment Banking and Africa. Barclays traces its origins to a goldsmith banking business established in the City of London in 1690. In the UK Barclays also offers some personal banking services through branches of the Post Office. Most Barclays branches have 24/7 ATMs. Barclays customers and the customers of many other banks can use Barclays ATMs for free in the UK, although in some other countries fees are charged.
ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS. In establishing a Barclays Bank Delaware Savings Account, you are required to indicate your agreement to and acceptance of: (1) Barclays Electronic Consent Agreement; (2) this document, Barclays Deposit Account Agreement (the Agreement); and (3) Barclays Privacy Policy. This Agreement establishes the terms of your deposit account (Account) with Barclays Bank Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware (Barclays or the Bank).
Barclays Mobile Banking. With Barclays Mobile Banking, it's easy to manage your money on the go. You can check your balance, transfer money between accounts, make payments in the UK and more. It's simple to use and packed full of features, making banking on-the-go quicker and easy. With Barclays International Banking, you can choose from a range of fixed and variable rate UK mortgages with the ongoing support and expertise of our Mortgage advisers.
Barclays has made numerous corporate acquisitions, including of London, Provincial and South Western Bank in 1918, British Linen Bank in 1919, Mercantile Credit in 1975, the Woolwich in 2000 and the North American operations of Lehman Brothers in 2008. In the UK Barclays also offers some personal banking services through branches of the Post Office. Most Barclays branches have 24/7 ATMs. Barclays customers and the customers of many other banks can use Barclays ATMs for free in the UK, although in some other countries fees are charged.
Barclaycard, part of Barclays Retail and Business Banking, is a global payment business. The Barclaycard was the first credit card introduced in the UK, coming into service in 1966. It enjoyed a monopoly until the introduction of the Access card in 1972. Barclaycard later became part of the Visa network but now offer MasterCard, Visa and American Express versions. Barclaycard claims it is Europe 's leading issuer of credit cards with 10.4 million customers in the UK and 10.8 million outside the UK.
Bank Account. The safe and convenient way to manage your money. You work hard to earn a good living. You want to make sure your money is safe and that you can access it when it is most convenient to you. At Barclays we understand this and that is why we have developed the Bank Account for you. The Bank Account is a transactional account for salaried earners which can be accessed 24/7 from any Visa branded ATM.
ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS. In establishing a Barclays Bank Delaware Certificate of Deposit, you are required to indicate your agreement to and acceptance of: (1) Barclays Electronic Consent Agreement; (2) this document, Barclays Deposit Account Agreement (the Agreement); and (3) Barclays Privacy Policy. This Agreement establishes the terms of your deposit account (Account) with Barclays Bank Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware (Barclays or the Bank).
Barclays has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. It had a market capitalisation of approximately £22 billion as of 23 December 2011, the 22nd-largest company of any company with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange. In the UK Barclays also offers some personal banking services through branches of the Post Office. Most Barclays branches have 24/7 ATMs. Barclays customers and the customers of many other banks can use Barclays ATMs for free in the UK, although in some other countries fees are charged.