When messages are sent to the alias, they automatically go to your real email address. You can have up to a total of five (5) aliases. An alias can be paired with only one email address at a time. Your alias won’t change–just where your email is delivered. The best part of this is, if you’re using an alias and you change your email address, you won’t have to notify any of your correspondents, change your letterhead, or change your business cards! 
Alias is a short and more popular phrase for alias dictus. The abbreviation a.k.a., also known as, is frequently used in connection with the description of a person sought by law enforcement officers to disclose the names that the person has been known to use. ALIAS, practice. This word is prefixed to the name of a second writ of the same kind issued in the same cause; as, when a summons has been issued and it is returned by the sheriff, nil, and another is issued, this is called an alias summons.
alias. ALIAS, practice. This word is prefixed to the name of a second writ of the same kind issued in the same cause; as, when a summons has been issued and it is returned by the sheriff, nil, and another is issued, this is called an alias summons. The term is used to all kinds of writs, as alias fi. fa., alias vend
To create an alias. In SQL Server Configuration Manager, expand SQL Server Native Client Configuration, right-click Aliases, and then click New Alias. In the Alias Name box, type the name of the alias. Client applications use this name when they connect. In the Server box, type the name or IP address of a server. For a named instance append the instance name. In the Protocol box, select the protocol used for this alias.
Note that you can’t customize the first part of a domain alias address (the part before the @ sign). In the example above, maria @alias.com can’t have the address maria.lopez @alias.com. 1  You can add up to 20 domain aliases. 2  You must own the domain name you add as a domain alias, and verify your ownership. 1 You must own the domain name you add as a domain alias, and verify your ownership. 2  You can only add a domain alias to your account's primary domain. 3  You can't add a domain name that's associated with another Google account. 4  You must first remove the domain from the other account.
p. An alias can be created with the same name as the core name of a command (i.e., a command without any options or arguments). In such case, it is the alias that is called (i.e., activated) first when the name is used, rather than the command with the same name. 
An alias is an alternate name that can be used to make a connection. The alias encapsulates the required elements of a connection string, and exposes them with a name chosen by the user. Aliases can be used with any client application. In the Alias Name box, type the name of the alias. Client applications use this name when they connect. In the Server box, type the name or IP address of a server. For a named instance append the instance name. In the Protocol box, select the protocol used for this alias.
In Mac OS X, an alias is a pointer file that allows you to quickly open the files, folders, servers, or applications used most often. When you double-click an alias, the operating system finds the file it references and opens it. An alias can be distinguished by its icon, which has an arrow in the bottom left corner. You have several options for creating an alias: 1  Drag and drop: Click the item you wish to alias and hold down the mouse button. 2  Then, while holding down the Command and Option keys, drag the item to where you want the alias to appear. 3  Instead of moving the original item, this will create an alias at the new location.
1) In some computer operating system s and programming languages, an alias is an alternative and usually easier-to-understand or more significant name for a defined data object. The data object can be defined once and later a programmer can define one or more equivalent aliases that will also refer to the data object. In general, as a noun, an alias (pronounced AY-lee-uhs) is an alternate name for someone or something.