Greek (or Turkish) coffee is not better for you than regular coffee, but it contains a greater concentration of chlorogenic acids, which have many healthy benefits. Watch Medicine Hunter Chris Kilham explain the benefits of these compounds. 
1 Turkish coffepot, called cezve, as pictured above. Put the sugar into the coffepot first, then add the coffee. Fill the Turkish Coffee cup with water at room temperature, although leave a bit of room at the top. Pour into the coffepot.
1 (To make really authentic ‘Turkish’ coffee you need a narrow-topped pot that can be heated on a stove. 2  Pots like this are used to make coffee in the most expensive restaurants and on desert camp-fires. 3  You can use any heat-proof pot, but be careful.). 4  Fill the pot with about ½ litre of water and place it on the heat. Directions. ( 1 
Turkish coffee (Turkish: Tuerk türk, kahvesi Or armenian, coffee Or arabic, coffee Or greek, coffee Or cypriot) coffee is a method of preparing unfiltered. Coffee roasted and then finely ground coffee beans are boiled in a (pot), cezve usually with, sugar and served in a cup where the grounds are allowed to. settle It is called Arabic coffee (qahwa ‘arabiyya, قهوة عربية). Constructions such as Egyptian coffee, Syrian coffee, Lebanese coffee, and Iraqi coffee draw a distinction in the flavor, preparation, or presentation of different kinds of Turkish coffee.
And just like any type of coffee, Turkish coffee can bring you various health benefits. Turkish coffee basically refers to the method of brewing or preparation of roasted coffee beans. Any type of coffee can be used for Turkish style coffee. Generally, Turkish coffee is the same as any other brewed coffee; only the flavor and strength are different or distinctive. Coffee is primarily appreciated for its energy-boosting effect and for its anti-oxidant content. This is primarily due to the following reasons: 1  It is concentrated. 2  Turkish coffee is served as a concentrated coffee brew where in the coffee content of a small demitasse cup is equal to that of a regular-sixed coffee cup. 3  It is cost-effective.
Calories, Fat and Other Basics. A serving of Turkish coffee contains about 46 calories. Though the drink doesn't contain any fat, it also doesn't supply any fiber or protein, two key nutrients needed for good health. The coffee doesn't supply an impressive amount of calcium or iron either. A blend of strong coffee, sugar and cardamom, Turkish coffee is more of a sweet treat than something similar to a regular cup of coffee. While there are certain health benefits from the coffee and cardamom, sugar is a major drawback when it comes to the nutritional benefits of the drink
As with any other sort of coffee, the best Turkish coffee is made from freshly roasted beans ground just before brewing. Turkish-ground coffee can be bought and stored as any other type, although it loses flavour with time. It is called Arabic coffee (qahwa ‘arabiyya, قهوة عربية). Constructions such as Egyptian coffee, Syrian coffee, Lebanese coffee, and Iraqi coffee draw a distinction in the flavor, preparation, or presentation of different kinds of Turkish coffee.
Directions. Combine all ingredients in the cezve and mix with a spoon. Put the cezve over very low heat and do not stir. After about 3 minutes, a thick foam rises to the surface. Just as the coffee is about to bubble up and overflow, immediately remove the cezve from the heat. Gently divide the foam between 2 demitasse cups, then place the cezve back on the heat for a few seconds. Pour the coffee into the cups, carefully pouring it down the sides of the cups in order not to disturb the foam.
A serving of Turkish coffee contains about 11.5 grams of sugar, which is equal to almost 3 teaspoons. That's half of the 6 teaspoons women should limit themselves to each day and one-third of the 9 teaspoons men should set as their daily upper limit, according to the American Heart Association. A blend of strong coffee, sugar and cardamom, Turkish coffee is more of a sweet treat than something similar to a regular cup of coffee. While there are certain health benefits from the coffee and cardamom, sugar is a major drawback when it comes to the nutritional benefits of the drink