Photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is a process used by plants in which energy from sunlight is used to convert carbon dioxide and water into molecules needed for growth. These molecules include sugars, enzymes and chlorophyll. Light energy is absorbed by the green chemical chlorophyll
Just like how humans need energy, protein, and nutrients to grow, so do plants. So no, plants need photosynthesis to grow. Photosynthesis is a process where light energy from the sun is converted to chemical energy that is stored in bond of sugar. Photosynthesis is needed to make chemical products to make energy for the plant. The energy is then used to grow the plant. If a plant doesn't have photosynthesis, it doesn't grow, and will die. That being said, plants don't always need as much light as we would think.
Plants and photosynthesis. Animals eat food to get their energy. But green plants don't. Instead they make their own food, glucose, in a process called photosynthesis. We say that plants can photosynthesise. These are the things that plants need for photosynthesis: carbon dioxide. water. light. 
Plants need water, air, nutrients, and sunlight to grow. The energy from sunlight is used to chemically change water and carbon dioxide (air) into sugar. This process is called photosynthesis. A waste product from photosynthesis is oxygen. 
The three major functions that are basic to plant growth and development are: 1  Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. Transpiration uses about 90% of the water that enters the plant. The other 10% is an ingredient in photosynthesis and cell growth. Transpiration serves three essential roles: 1  Movement of minerals up from the root (in the xylem) and sugars (products of photosynthesis) throughout the plant (in the phloem).
Green plants convert solar energy to chemical energy by the process of photosynthesis. This reaction is directly or indirectly responsible for nearly all life on earth. During photosynthesis, carbon dioxide, a gas, is combined with water and solar energy, and converted to carbohydrates, a solid. Formation of carbohydrates is a chemical way to store the sun’s energy as “food.” Carbohydrates produced from photosynthesis provide energy for all plant growth and maintenance.
Well, sunlight is energy and photosynthesis is the process plants use to take the energy from sunlight and use it to convert carbon dioxide and water into food. Three things plants need to live. Plants need three basic things to live: water, sunlight, and carbon dioxide. 
1 Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. 2  Respiration – The process of metabolizing (burning) sugars to yield energy for growth, reproduction, and other life processes. Transpiration uses about 90% of the water that enters the plant. The other 10% is an ingredient in photosynthesis and cell growth. Transpiration serves three essential roles: 1  Movement of minerals up from the root (in the xylem) and sugars (products of photosynthesis) throughout the plant (in the phloem).
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together.