Vertebral artery dissection (VAD) is a relatively rare but increasingly recognized cause of stroke in patients younger than 45 years. Vertebral artery dissection (VAD) is an
Get help from a doctor now ›. Separation of vessel: Vertebral artery dissection is separation or splitting of the layers of the blood vessel wall. This is often related to trauma, and may result in posterior neck pain and vessel clotting or narrowing. Get help from a doctor now ›. Vertebral artery: ...Dissection is a rare condition / trauma. Often there are just intimal tears (or disruptions on the inside layer of the vessel) and only seldomly is there a true dissection.
1 Vertebral Artery Dissection: Dissection of the wall of the vertebral artery, leading to the formation of an aneurysm that may occlude the vessel. 2  Thrombus formation may occur and give rise to emboli. 1 Vertebral artery dissections can be caused by trauma to the neck, manipulation of the spine (chiropractics), high blood pressure or even blowing the nose in some cases.
Carotid artery dissection is a separation of the layers of the artery wall supplying oxygen-bearing blood to the head and brain and is the most common cause of stroke in young adults. 
Vertebral artery dissection. Dr Henry Knipe ◉ and Dr Frank Gaillard ◉ et al. Vertebral artery dissection, like arterial dissection elsewhere, is a result of blood entering the media through a tear in the intima. It is potentially lethal and can be difficult to diagnose clinically and radiologically. As with other arterial dissections, blood enters the wall of the artery through a tear in the intima, and dissects along the intima-media plane. As the blood expands the wall, it compromises the lumen resulting in stenosis or occlusion.
Vertebral artery dissection is less common than carotid artery dissection (dissection of the large arteries in the front of the neck). The two conditions combined account for 10–25% of non-hemorrhagic strokes in young and middle-aged people. After the tear, blood enters the arterial wall and forms a blood clot, thickening the artery wall and often impeding blood flow. The symptoms of vertebral artery dissection include head and neck pain and intermittent or permanent stroke symptoms such as difficulty speaking, impaired coordination and visual loss. It is usually diagnosed with a contrast-enhanced CT or MRI scan
Vertebral artery dissection (abbreviated VAD, often vertebral dissection) is a dissection (a flap-like tear) of the inner lining of the vertebral artery, which is located in the neck and supplies blood to the brain. After the tear, blood enters the arterial wall and forms a blood clot, thickening the artery wall and often impeding blood flow. The symptoms of vertebral artery dissection include head and neck pain and intermittent or permanent stroke symptoms such as difficulty speaking, impaired coordination and visual loss. It is usually diagnosed with a contrast-enhanced CT or MRI sca
Vertebral artery dissection is a dissection of the inner lining of the vertebral artery, which is located in the neck and supplies blood to the brain. After the tear, blood enters the arterial wall and forms a blood clot, thickening the artery wall and often impeding blood flow. 