A path to accommodate two people walking side by side should be 48 inches wide and one to provide enough room to transport a person in a wheelchair or motorized scooter should be 60 inches wide. The Landscaping Network says 18 inches is the minimum for a walkway, and Illinois State University suggests most paths be 36 to 48
When building stairs, how high and and wide should each step be. In residential buildings, the minimum stair width is usually 32 inches while the standard is 42 inches. If the stairs are more than 44 inches wide a handrail is required on both sides. 
On average you should provide approximately one 2” hole every 2-3 feet to provide adequate air for the flames. Note: If you are building a fire pit out of brick then you can simply leave out a ½ brick or turn one on its side if it is the kind with the holes in it. 
Outdoor Countertop Sizing. Time / 01:57. You'll want your bar countertop to be high enough to fit bar seating as well as leg room for entertaining guests. When determining the ideal size of your outdoor kitchen it is helpful to think in terms of zones. In order for you to get the most function out of your outdoor cooking space, it will need spaces designed specifically for food preparation and cooking, andfor dining and socializing. The size of these zones will vary depending on how you plan to use the space.
The standards for rise, run and tread width vary slightly from area to area. You should find out what is acceptable in your area. Rise is usually 8 inches maximum, and runs are typically 9 to 11 inches minimum. The tread width is usually one inch more than the run. In some areas, this is called tread depth; in others it is head width. This is accomplished by adding a one-inch nosing to the tread. Problems with rise, run, tread width, uniformity and slope may be caused by. the way it was built. settlement or heaving. Stairs that have settled or heaved may have a slope
Building Deep and Wide Stairs. This project shows you how to add decorative trim to the edges of a deck. Building Deep and Wide Stairs. Stair treads that are 14 inches wide make a graceful transition to the lawn and provide comfortable places for people to sit and relax. Stairs with 14-inch runs (tread widths) should have rises of between 5-1/2 and 6-1/2 inches. The wider the treads, the more total run the stringers have to span. 
A path can be as narrow as 18 to 24 inches or as wide as 60 inches. The Landscaping Network says 18 inches is the minimum for a walkway, and Illinois State University suggests most paths be 36 to 48 inches wide.
Weather If you live in a climate with a cold snowy winter and hot summer, you may want to place your hot tub close to an exterior door for easy access. A bathroom or changing room located close to your hot tub can also be convenient. A warmer climate may require shade from the hot sun. 
16.5'. Outdoor fireplaces can be as small as four feet tall, three feet wide and two feet deep. While larger fireplaces, complete with mantel and hearth, built-in seating and wood storage boxes, can be as large as 15 feet tall, 15 feet wide and 4 feet deep.
A large structure like this one needs an open yard and tall trees for the scale to seem appropriate. Breckenridge Landscape in New Berlin, WI. Gas fireplaces can be built in smaller sizes that won't overpower a modest yard. DC West Construction in Carlsbad,CA. While larger fireplaces, complete with mantel and hearth, built-in seating and wood storage boxes, can be as large as 15 feet tall, 15 feet wide and 4 feet deep.