Brand Stretching. The introduction of a new product or services in a different product category, using the same name as is being used for an existing product or services.
Brand stretch (also known as brand extension) is a proven way for brands to grow by extending into new product or service areas. Disney is the poster-child for brand stretch. From founding in the 1920s through to 1955, they were a pure movie company. In 1955, the first Disneyland opened in California. After this, the company has stretched and stetched again.
Brand stretch: a launch of a new product into a completely different and unrelated categor. The 007 fragrance is a good example of this. Brand extension: the launch of a new or modified product into the broader market category in which the brand operates e.g. Stella Artois Cidre. Stretching or extending a brand has some major advantages over launching something completely new : 1. Bringing the product to market requires less investment – reduced research costs, reduced design costs. 2. Distribution is generally easier.
In the 1990s, 81 percent of new products used brand extension to introduce new brands and to create sales. Launching a new product is not only time-consuming but also needs a big budget to create brand awareness and to promote a product's benefits. Brand extension is one of the new product development strategies which can reduce financial risk by using the parent brand name to enhance consumers' perception due to the core brand equity.
Definition. The act of using an established brand name in order to introduce unrelated products, such as a tobacco company that introduces non-tobacco related products in order to circumvent advertising restrictions.
Brand extension or brand stretching is a marketing strategy in which a firm marketing a product with a well-developed image uses the same brand name in a different product category. The new product is called a spin-off. Brand extension is one of the new product development strategies which can reduce financial risk by using the parent brand name to enhance consumers' perception due to the core brand equity.
Brand-Stretching. Brand extension or brand stretching is a marketing strategy in which a firm marketing a product with a well-developed image uses the same brand name in a different product category. Additional data for brand-stretching may be on the way. Brand-Diversification. Diversification is a corporate strategy to increase sales volume from new products and new markets. Diversification can be expanding into a new segment of an industry that the business is already in, or investing in a promising business outside of the scope of the existing business.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Brand stretching is the term used to describe a method where companies take advantage of a name brand in a new market. Generally speaking, the process starts when businesses come up with new products that seem complementary to other successful products they already produce. Brand stretching is generally considered an effective marketing tactic for launching something new, but it can also potentially damage name brands if the new products aren’t successful.