Report Abuse. Hydrogen bonds hold the two strands together. These are due to the nitrogenous bases (adenine, guanine etc...). These are not 'bonds' as such, they are intermolecular forces of attraction and are very strong. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hydrogen bonds hold the nitrogen-containing bases of each DNA strand together. Adenine (A) and Thymine (T) are held together by two H-bonds, and Cytosine (C) and Guanine (G) are held together by three.
See Fig. 1. The nucleotides within each strand are held together by the phosphodiester bonds between the 5' carbon of one nucleotide and the 3 ' carbon of the adjacent nucleotdie. These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific. James Watson and Francis Crick proposed a structure for the DNA molecule that suggested the basic mechanism of DNA replication. The model proposes that DNA is composed of two strands of DNA running anti-parallel (remember the 5' and 3' ends!!) to each other.
In Chemistry. Two strands of DNA are held together by Hydrogen Bond, an attraction, between their nitrogen bases. There are 3 Hydrogen bond between Guanine and Cytosine, whereas 2 hydrogen … bond between Adenine and Thymine. Remember the DNA runs in an anti-parallel direction. :). 2 people found this useful.
The DNA double helix is held together by hydrogen bonds and the nucleotide bases Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine, or Thymine. Check out the source I provided. There's a great diagram of the double helix. Source(s): http://www.ba-education.demon.co.uk/for/... Report Abuse. Hydrogen bonds hold the two helices together to form a double helix. I also remember somethign called base stacking, which if i recall was hydrogen bonding of the same strand, which promoted the helical nature and enforced rigidity of the structure.
1. The DNA double helix is held together by two types of bonds, covalent andhydrogen. Covalent bonds occur within each linear strand and strongly bond thebases, sugars, and phosphate groups (both within each component and betweencomponents). (It is the 3´ -OH group thatis required to create the next phosphodiester bond.) The RNA is subsequentlyremoved and replaced with DNA so that no gaps exist in the final product. 4. Helicases are enzymes that disrupt the hydrogen bonds that hold the two DNAstrands together in a double helix. This breakage is required for both RNA andDNA synthesis. Topoisomerases are enzymes that create and relax supercoiling inthe DNA double helix
Each strand of the double helix is held together by covalent bonds between deoxyribose sugar and phosphate groups (on the 3' and 5' carbons) (making up the backbone). The bases-purines or pyrimidines - (adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine) are also bonded onto the deoxyribose sugar (on 1' carbon) covalently. Report Abuse. Hydrogen bonds hold the two helices together to form a double helix. I also remember somethign called base stacking, which if i recall was hydrogen bonding of the same strand, which promoted the helical nature and enforced rigidity of the structure.