You’ll usually qualify for extra tax credits to help with childcare if: 1  you qualify for Working Tax Credit. 2  you’re responsible for the child. 3  you work at least 16 hours per week. 4  the childcare you pay for is registered or approved. It won’t cover all of your childcare costs-use the tax credits childcare calculator to work out what childcare costs you can claim. You could get help with your childcare costs with Universal Credit instead of tax credits. You can’t get Universal Credit and tax credits at the same time.
Tax Credits: Who can claim. Claimants can get help with their childcare costs through the childcare element of working tax credit (WTC). The childcare element is largely covered by Regulations 13-16 WTC (Entitlement and Maximum Rate) Regulations 2002. Although normally paid to the main carer alongside child tax credit (CTC), it is part of WTC and therefore has various work conditions attached to it.
If you are entitled to Working Tax Credit or Working Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit the threshold for calculating excess income is £6420. This means that 39% of any income above £6420 will be deducted from your maximum Tax Credits. The amount of Working Tax Credit paid is dependent on household income. It is paid on top of any wages, Child Benefit and Child Tax Credit Extra amounts may be payable if you work for more than 30 hours or have a disability or qualify for the 50-plus element.
Detail. This document is classified by HM Revenue and Customs as guidance and contains information about the rates payable for Working Tax Credit, Child Tax Credit, Child Benefit and Guardian’s Allowance. It also gives information about tax credit income thresholds and the childcare element of Working Tax Credit. 
1 Families can receive the childcare element of Working Tax Credit if they are: A lone parent working at least 16 hours per week A couple and (a) both working at least 16 hours per week, or (b) one is working at least 16 hours per week and theother is incapacitated, in hospital or in prison. 
Childcare element of Working Tax Credit. The Childcare Element of Working Tax Credit is for people who work but are on a low income to help with the cost of registered or approved childcare. It does not matter whether you are working for someone else or are self-employed. Applies to: England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland
childcare element and Housing Benefit. I hope someone will be able to help I'm a single parent and i have recently started using a childminder. So i have been able to claim childcare element of the working tax credit. I got a letter today from the housing benefit office saying because my tax credits have gone up because i am claiming for the childcare they are changing the amount they are giving me. 
Childcare element of WTC. Claimants can get help with up to 70% of their childcare costs through the childcare element of WTC. The childcare element is largely covered by Regulations 13-16 Working Tax Credit (Entitlement and Maximum Rate) Regulations 2002 (SI 2002/2005). 
If you get Child Tax Credit or tax credits to help with childcare costs. Your monthly Universal Credit payment will include the following elements also called additions, which will replace the help you currently get from tax credits. 1  Child element – this helps with the costs of bringing up a child. 
Tax credits. You could get extra tax credits to help pay for some of your childcare costs while you’re working. You can get up to £122.50 extra per week for 1 child, or £210 extra for 2 or more children-it depends on how much you earn. It won’t cover all of your childcare costs-use the tax credits childcare calculator to work out what childcare costs you can claim. You could get help with your childcare costs with Universal Credit instead of tax credits. You can’t get Universal Credit and tax credits at the same time.