In Dublin the Euro is used as the currency. The Euro is used in Dublin, Ireland.
Using your money in Ireland: Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland have different currencies. In the Republic of Ireland the currency used is the Euro and in Northern Ireland the currency used is the Pound Sterling. The banks in Northern Ireland all issue their own notes and with this you may come across different variations in the notes.
The currency of the Republic of Ireland is the Euro (symbol '€'). In Northern Ireland, the British Pound Sterling (£) is used.
First of all, the British Pounds and Sterling is the same currency, just two different names on the same baby. British Pounds are used in England, Scotland and in Northern Ireland. But, when travelling to Ireland the currency changes, and in Ireland and in Dublin Euro is the currency to be used.
The Euro (€) is the official currency of the Euro Zone and so the Euros you buy for use in Ireland can also be used in many countries across Europe including France, Spain, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia and Slovenia.
The Euro has been the currency in circulation in Ireland since the beginning of 2002. It replaced The Irish pound (punt Éireannach éireannach In). Irish be aware though that in the 6 counties Of Northern (Ireland, Fermanagh, Armagh, Tyrone, Derry antrim And), down (STERLING) gbp is the currency. used
What currency does Northern Ireland use? Northern Ireland uses the £ sterling, the currency in circulation in England, Scotland and Wales. Unlike the Euro which is used in the Republic of Ireland, £ sterling is not linked to the Euro.
Since 2002, the currency used in the Republic of Ireland is the Euro (€). The Euro is used in 17 countries, all of which are members of the European Union and you can use the same notes and coins if you are visiting another Euro-zone country before or after Ireland without having to exchange them.
Dublin is located in the Republic of Ireland which uses the Euro. Northern Ireland, being a separate entity and a part of the United Kingdom, uses the Pound Sterli … ng as its currency.