Mar 19, 2014 11:28AM | by Carly Sitzer. Getty. Despite recent reports claiming Kris Jenner ’s empire is crumbling and Keeping Up With the Kardashians is being cancelled, the show is doing just fine, according to an insider.
James Johnson. For the last 6 years, Keeping Up With The Kardashians has served as reality TV royalty. It was Kim, Khloe, and the rest of the Kardashian-Jenner family who ushered in a massive reality TV movement that was percolating before their arrival. Now snoops close to the show say it will bow out after its contract runs up in 2015. 
Kanye West doesn’t want Kim Kardashian to be part of Keeping Up with the Kardashians; Scott Disick is looking for a more private life with Kourtney Kardashian and their kids; fans are sick of Kris Jenner — all of these reasons put together are why the hit E! show is coming to an end, claims in a new report. No worries, Kardashian lovers. The Star magazine report is “not true,” a source close to the sisters told HollywoodLife.com exclusively. “Keeping Up with the Kardashians continues to be a successful series and appointment television,” the show’s press manager at E! told us.
Basically, everything about the tab’s story is FALSE. While Kim has previously said she will likely leave “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” in a few seasons to take on new ventures, the show is by no means getting canceled, and the other family members are NOT threatening to quit the series.
As far as how spinoffs like Kim and Kourtney Take Miami, it's not clear what will happen to those. Scott Disick and Kourtney Kardashian are reportedly getting their own series, but even that may be in jeopardy. The 1.7m number is disturbing because so many other TV shows have been doing incredibly well lately. Breaking Bad saw over 10m viewers and The Big Bang Theory gets just north of 20m viewers. Sunday's episode reached an all-time low of only 1.7m viewers, which is half of what the reality series was getting in its heyday of 2009 and far less than the 4.1m viewers that tuned in just after Kim Kardashian tied the knot with Kris Humphries.
Kim’s Wardrobe Malfunction. Fox said in a statement on Jan. 17: “‘Kris’ will not be on the schedule for the 2014 syndication season. However, the possibility for the talk show, or an additional project for Kris Jenner, for the 2015 season is being discussed and highly considered.”.
Keeping Up With The Kardashians season 8 cast Kim Kardashian, Khloe Kardashian Odom and Kourtney Kardashian (Photo: Eonline.com). The Kardashian brand may be dying down, as the family's hit reality show has been losing nearly 1 million viewers per episode since season 5 of the E! series. The season 5 premiere in 2010 was watched by 4.67 million viewers and held a steady average audience of 3.39 million, according to Radar Online.
“Keeping Up with the Kardashians” and the famous family’s related shows are NOT getting “canceled” by E! to make way for Bruce Jenner ’s upcoming series about his gender transition. 
If the Kardashian show is yanked, it could be bad news for the family's ancillary businesses as well. Their lucrative fashion deal with Sears and their sponsorship of nail polish company OPI could collapse. Those $100,000 payments for club appearances in Las Vegas could also dry up. Sunday's episode reached an all-time low of only 1.7m viewers, which is half of what the reality series was getting in its heyday of 2009 and far less than the 4.1m viewers that tuned in just after Kim Kardashian tied the knot with Kris Humphries.
The Kardashian family will do something they've NEVER done before ... turn down promotion for their TV show. Family sources tell TMZ ... not a single Kardashian or Jenner will do press related to the premiere of  Keeping Up with the Kardashians  Season 10. The reasons we got are pretty obvious. They don't want to spill more details about Bruce 's transition for several reasons.