Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 14 people found this useful.
Any kind of fresh meat in the fridge should be eaten within a week, and any meat that is unrefrigerated should be eaten within a day or a few hours, especially if it’s chicken. Raw beef and steaks are best at about three to four days in the fridge, but they can last up to six if you need them to. 
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 20 people found this useful. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 14
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. Answer by SuzziQ. Confidence votes 22.7K. Smoked, cooked sausage, such as kielbasa and salami, will last indefinitely at room temperatures without refrigeration except that they will dry out and become hard. In the refrigerator, if sealed in a plastic bag, it will last indefinitely as well.
Other sources say that you can keep the fresh cooked sausage in the refrigerator up to seven days if kept at 40 degrees F (which is the normal setting in both restaurant and home refrigerators). Another says up to five days for cooked Italian sausage, lightly smoked sausage, or breakfast sausage. T echnically in the sausage family, hot dogs can be kept in the refrigerator for up to two weeks unopened or for seven days in the refrigerator after opening.
Cooked sausage can be kept in the refrigerator longer than raw sausage, so it is best to go ahead and cook it. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, fresh uncooked sausage can be kept in the refrigerator only one to two days although it can be kept in the freezer for one to two months. T echnically in the sausage family, hot dogs can be kept in the refrigerator for up to two weeks unopened or for seven days in the refrigerator after opening.
Uncooked sausages include fresh (bulk, patties or links) and smoked sausages. To prevent foodborne illness, uncooked sausages that contain ground beef, pork, lamb or veal should be cooked to 160 °F. Uncooked sausages that contain ground turkey and chicken should be cooked to 165 °F. Ready-to-eat sausages are dry, semi-dry and/or cooked. Dry sausages may be smoked, unsmoked or cooked. Semi-dry sausages are usually heated in the smokehouse to fully cook the product and partially dry it. Cooked sausages (for example, bologna and frankfurters) are cooked and may also be smoked
If you can't use the sausage within that time, freeze it instead. T echnically in the sausage family, hot dogs can be kept in the refrigerator for up to two weeks unopened or for seven days in the refrigerator after opening. In the freezer the time is one to two months
Once meat has been cooked and leftovers put in the refrigerator, how long will those leftovers keep? I'm thinking of lamb in particular at the moment, but advice for meats in general would be helpful, especially if you have sources to back it up. At the high end: Meat that is purchased as a smoked product, and then hard cooked, like bacon or sausage, and separately stored in a sealed container (baggie or box) can stay for up to 10 days-maybe longer.
How long will smoked sausage last in fridge. I made 5# of summer sausage and 5# of andouille last saturday. The summer has 3tb of tenderquick and the andouille had 1tsp of pink salt. I smoked it to 155*, the andouille on Sunday and the Summer on Wednesday. 