Girls stop growing taller between the ages of 14-15. Remember, everyone is different and this is purely an average indication of when a girl will stop growing, however as you can see it's very easy to predict the height of a girl once they reach their teenage years, if you follow their growth curve.
It says that girls usually have a growth spurt at the beginning of puberty which usually lasts less than a year. By the time of her first period, the growth will slow a little to 1-2 inches per year. Girls usually reach their full adult height within 1-3 years after their first period. From the time of age 2, humans usually grow about 2 inches per year (that is on average-not necessarily steadily-it is often in spurts). Best Answer: It differs from person to person I would say between 18 to 21 years your height stops growing. Because I have seen girls and boys both growing taller uptil the age of 21. Take Care and God Bless you !
Growth & Puberty. Girls usually stop growing in height when puberty has finished. This is the time when the hormones, nutrients and genes have reached their peak in regard to being used for growth. If the test determines that a child's bone age is much less than a child's chronological age, it is highly likely that the child will continue to grow beyond the age it is expected. Girls continue to grow until a bone age of 14 years old.
The reasoning behind the answer to this question comes from studying the female growth charts. Take a look at the chart below, it's quite clear that girls stop growing by the age of 18, however more importantly nearly all girls are within their final height by the age of 15 and any growth after the age of 14 is minimal. Remember, everyone is different and this is purely an average indication of when a girl will stop growing, however as you can see it's very easy to predict the height of a girl once they reach their teenage years, if you follow their growth curve.
Get help from a doctor now ›. 16-20 years: Most men finish their height growth by age 20 years. Rarely, there may be growth after that, & often growth is over before then. Seeing an x-ray of growth plates of bones(so called bone age) can give a good estimate of the likelihood of future growth potential. 
Tanner stage five: Final Adult Height and Body. 1  This final stage usually occurs at just over 14 years of age. 2  Girls will stop growing about 1-2 years after menstruation begins, reaching their full adult height by age 14-15. 3  Breasts and genitals are fully developed at the end of this stage. Once their period starts, girls typically gain another 1 to 2 inches in height, reaching their full adult height by age 14 or 15. However there is a very broad range of time in which girls hit puberty-related growth spurts.
If you have a chronic disease, for example, this will affect your height. Most young women achieve their full height within 12 to 18 months after their first period. (around 16 years old) Most young men tend to stop growing at the end of puberty when they begin to shave regularly. (around 18 years old) but mainly girls stop growing around 17-18 and guys 20-21. Source(s): health class. amin · 8 years ago. Some people say 17 then they say 19, 20 ,21 etc.... what the real age girls stop growing. Update: I'm a guy people not a girl. The reason i'm typing this is cuz my friend is kinda short and she kinda wants to grow a little more.
Girls hit their maximum growth spurt before menstruation begins, generally getting their first period around 12 1/2 years of age. Once their period starts, girls typically gain another 1 to 2 inches in height, reaching their full adult height by age 14 or 15. However there is a very broad range of time in which girls hit puberty-related growth spurts.
1 This final stage usually occurs at just over 14 years of age. 2  Girls will stop growing about 1-2 years after menstruation begins, reaching their full adult height by age 14-15. 3  Breasts and genitals are fully developed at the end of this stage. Once their period starts, girls typically gain another 1 to 2 inches in height, reaching their full adult height by age 14 or 15. However there is a very broad range of time in which girls hit puberty-related growth spurts.