III. Distribution of Power under the Unitary System 23. A unitary state is a state governed as one single unit, in which the central government is supreme and any administrative divisions (sub-national units) exercise the powers that their central government delegates. Japan has a unitary system of government. In a unified system of national government, there are central and local components. During the last decade of the twentieth century, the government of Japan achieved a significant degree of decentralization, the high point of which was the 1999 Omnibus Law of Decentralization.
A form of government, or form of state governance, refers to the set of political systems and institutions that make up the organisation of a specific government. Variant of democracy; refers to a system of government in which lawfully elected representatives maintain the integrity of a nation state whose citizens, while granted the right to vote, have little or no participation in the decision-making process of the
Variant of monarchy; a system of government in which two individuals, the diarchs, are the heads of state. In most diarchies, the diarchs hold their position for life and pass the responsibilities and power of the position to their children or family when they die. Diarchy is one of the oldest forms of government. Variant of democracy; refers to a system of government in which lawfully elected representatives maintain the integrity of a nation state whose citizens, while granted the right to vote, have little or no participation in the decision-making process of the
Sultanate-similar to a monarchy, a government in which the supreme power is in the hands of a sultan (the head of a Muslim state); the sultan may be an absolute ruler or a sovereign with constitutionally limited authority. Monarchy-a government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of a monarch who reigns over a state or territory, usually for life and by hereditary right; the monarch may be either a sole absolute ruler or a sovereign-such as a king, queen or prince-
The process of having the local and central governments sharing power is known as federalism. federal The name you are looking for is federal.. The individual states ha … ve autonomous roles but share power with a central government. 1 Signing Up with the Central Contractor Registry Every contractor that works with the government has to be registered into a system. 2  Because the United States offers several opportunities and has several potential candidate….
1. the political direction and control exercised over the actions of the members, citizens, or inhabitants of communities, societies, and states; direction of the affairs of a community, etc. 2. the form or system of rule by which a state, etc., is governed: monarchical government. 
A unitary system of government is a type of government where power  is centralized. When power is shared between a central government  and local governments, this is referre … d to as a federal system of  government. Answered. In History, Politics & Society. The process of having the local and central governments sharing power is known as federalism. federal The name you are looking for is federal.. The individual states ha … ve autonomous roles but share power with a central government. 9 people found this useful.
The term federalism is also used to describe a system of government in which sovereignty is constitutionally divided between a central governing authority and constituent political units (such as states or provinces). Variant of democracy; refers to a system of government in which lawfully elected representatives maintain the integrity of a nation state whose citizens, while granted the right to vote, have little or no participation in the decision-making process of the government.
Democratic republic-a state in which the supreme power rests in the body of citizens entitled to vote for officers and representatives responsible to them. Dictatorship-a form of government in which a ruler or small clique wield absolute power (not restricted by a constitution or laws). Monarchy-a government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of a monarch who reigns over a state or territory, usually for life and by hereditary right; the monarch may be either a sole absolute ruler or a sovereign-such as a king, queen or prince-with constitutionally limited authority.