From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC or DL-PFC) is an area in the prefrontal cortex of the brain of humans and primates. It is one of the most recently evolved parts of the human brain, that undergoes an extremely prolonged period of maturation that lasts until adulthood. DLPFC is not an anatomical structure, but rather a functional one. This region lies in the middle frontal gyrus of humans (i.e., lateral part of Brodmann's area (BA) 9 and 46 and in macaque monkeys, this region is around the principal sulcus (i.e., in Walker's area 46).
The Prefrontal Cortex is that part of the brain located behind our forehead that is responsible for the executive function, meaning that it acts like a conductor communicating, guiding, and coordinating the functions of the different parts of the brain. 
Prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain, lying in front of the motor and premotor areas. This brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behavior, personality expression, decision making, and moderating social behavior. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: prefrontal cortex (Noun). T
For the reptile scale, see Prefrontal scale. In mammalian brain anatomy, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the cerebral cortex which covers the front part of the frontal lobe. The PFC contains Brodmann areas 9, 10, 11, 12, 46, and 47. To define the prefrontal cortex as the projection zone of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus builds on the work of Rose and Woolsey who showed that this nucleus projects to anterior and ventral parts of the brain in nonprimates.
Noun. 1. prefrontal cortex-the anterior part of the frontal lobe. prefrontal lobe. cerebral cortex, cerebral mantle, cortex, pallium-the layer of unmyelinated neurons (the grey matter) forming the cortex of the cerebrum. lobe - (anatomy) a somewhat rounded subdivision of a bodily organ or part; ear lobe.
the most anterior portion of the frontal lobe of each of the brain's cerebral hemispheres. It acts in attention, planning, and memory and is separated into a dorsolateral region and an orbito-frontal region. PREFRONTAL CORTEX: The prefrontal cortex is commonly referred to as the frontal association area.. 
Medical Definition of PREFRONTAL CORTEX. : the gray matter of the anterior part of the frontal lobe that is highly developed in humans and plays a role in the regulation of complex cognitive, emotional, and behavioral functioning. Next Word in the Dictionary: prefulgence Previous Word in the Dictionary: prefrontal All Words Near: prefrontal cortex.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain, lying in front of the motor and premotor areas. This brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behavior, personality expression, decision making, and moderating social behavior. 