Pelvic inflammatory disease is an infection of a woman’s reproductive organs. It is a complication often caused by some STDs, like chlamydia and gonorrhea. Other infections that are not sexually transmitted can also cause PID. Untreated sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), a serious condition, in women. Basic Fact Sheet | Detailed Version. Basic fact sheets are presented in plain language for individuals with general questions about sexually transmitted diseases.
As a PID controller relies only on the measured process variable, not on knowledge of the underlying process, it is a broadly useful controller. By tuning the three parameters of the model, one can design a PID controller for specific process requirements. If the PID controller parameters (the gains of the proportional, integral and derivative terms) are chosen incorrectly, the controlled process input can be unstable, i.e., its output diverges, with or without oscillation, and is limited only by saturation or mechanical breakage.
Short for process identifier, a PID is a unique number that identifies each of the running processes in an operating system such as Linux, Unix, Mac OS X, and Microsoft Windows. In the below output, is an example of a few of the processes running in Windows and their associated PID's listed in the PID column. PID. 1. Short for product identification or product id, PID is a unique number that helps identify a hardware product or a registered software product. For example, in the case of a computer mouse, its PID is often found on the bottom of the mouse or in the case of a wireless mouse inside the battery compartment.
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs. The pelvic organs include the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes (fuh-LOH-pee-uhn toobs), ovaries, and cervix. 
1 Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs including the uterus (womb), Fallopian tubes (tubes), ovaries, and cervix. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted disease. *Pelvic inflammatory facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md pelvic inflammatory (DISEASE) pid is an infection of a'woman s pelvic organs including the (uterus), Womb fallopian (tubes), tubes, ovaries and. 2  Cervix pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted.  disease
You may have heard of pelvic inflammatory disease, or PID, but many people are not sure what it is. PID is a serious infection that harms a woman's reproductive organs. It develops when an infection spreads up from the vagina and cervix into the fallopian tubes, uterus, and ovaries. The more times a woman has PID, the greater are her chances of becoming infertile. Pelvic inflammatory disease is often difficult to identify because the symptoms seem like those of other conditions, such as appendicitis, urinary tract infections, ovarian cysts, and endometriosis.
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs. The pelvic organs include the uterus (womb), fallopian (fuh-LOH-pee-uhn) tubes (tubes), ovaries, and cervix. *Pelvic inflammatory facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md pelvic inflammatory (DISEASE) pid is an infection of a'woman s pelvic organs including the (uterus), Womb fallopian (tubes), tubes, ovaries and. 2  Cervix pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted.  disease
A proportional-integral-derivative controller (PID controller) is a control loop feedback mechanism (controller) commonly used in industrial control systems. A PID controller continuously calculates an error value as the difference between a measured process variable and a desired setpoint. If the PID controller parameters (the gains of the proportional, integral and derivative terms) are chosen incorrectly, the controlled process input can be unstable, i.e., its output diverges, with or without oscillation, and is limited only by saturation or mechanical breakage.
If the cervix is exposed to a sexually transmitted disease -- such as gonorrhea and/or chlamydia -- the cervix itself becomes infected and less able to prevent the spread of organisms to the internal organs. PID occurs when the disease-causing organisms travel from the cervix to the upper genital tract. Untreated gonorrhea and chlamydia cause about 90% of all cases of PID. Other causes include abortion, childbirth, and pelvic procedures. The symptoms of PID can vary, but may include the following: 1  Dull pain or tenderness in the stomach or lower abdominal area, or pain in the right upper abdomen. 2  Abnormal vaginal discharge that is yellow or green in color or that has an unusual odor.