Ethos (ἦθος, ἔθος, plurals: ethe (ἤθη), ethea (ἤθεα)) is a Greek word originally meaning accustomed place (as in ἤθεα ἵππων the habitats of horses, Iliad 6.511, 15.268), custom, habit, equivalent to Latin mores. Ethos forms the root of ethikos (ἠθικός), meaning moral, showing moral character. Used as a verb in the neuter plural form ta ethika (τὰ ἠθικά), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word ethics. Ethos will simply mean the disposition, character, or fundamental values particular to a specific person, people, corporation, culture, or movement.
Ethos (/ˈiːθɒs/ or US /ˈiːθoʊs/) is a Greek word meaning  character  that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence its hearer's emotions, behaviors, and even morals. Ethos will simply mean the disposition, character, or fundamental values particular to a specific person, people, corporation, culture, or movement.
Ethos. Ethos is a Greek word meaning character that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence its hearer's emotions, behaviors, and even morals. 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 1 I used to call people I knew third cause they were but then they caught leukemia from someone's dock and died as a thot a,a stupid,ratchet ass thot that she was. 2  I am a thot and I am also a bitch. 3  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) .
This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. This is a list of symbols found within all branches of mathematics to express a formula or to represent a constant. When reading the list, it is important to recognize that a mathematical concept is independent of the symbol chosen to represent it. 1 Symbols that point left or right: 2  Brackets: Symbols that are placed on either side of a variable or expression, such as | x 3  |. Other non-letter symbols: Symbols that do not fall in any of the other categories.
Meaning & History. Greek form of the Aramaic name תָּאוֹמָא (Ta'oma') which meant twin. In the New Testament this is the name of the apostle who initially doubts the resurrected Jesus. According to tradition he was martyred in India. Due to his renown, the name came into general use in the Christian world. In England the name was introduced by the Normans and became very popular due to Saint Thomas Becket, a 12th-century archbishop of Canterbury and martyr. Another notable saint by this name was the 13th-century Italian philosopher and theologian Thomas Aquinas, who is regarded as a Doctor of the Church.
Thot. (Noun) An individual with a number of concurrent sex partners that is well above the established cultural norm. These individuals have coitus for the purpose of sexual pleasure, approval, or to fullfill an emotional void. Through linguistic genius tantamount to Shakespeare, the acronym thot has been redefined to mean thirsty ol' trick.. Thirsty defines hoes pretty well with the added bonus of making a thot appear more desperate, and trick is another term for ho, so all bases covered.
1 She a thot. 2  He a thot. 3  That bitch a thot. 4  I don't like her cause she a thot. 5  That nigga a thot. 6  She a thot though. 7  That stupid bitch a thot, with her STD infected ass. 8  That bitch sucking dick over there is a thot. 9  That bitch a fucking thot, G. That thot do dicks a lot. 10  She a ratchet-ass thot. 1 I used to call people I knew third cause they were but then they caught leukemia from someone's dock and died as a thot a,a stupid,ratchet ass thot that she was. 2  I am a thot and I am also a bitch. 3  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) .
Wale is only the latest rapper to capitalize on a newly popular slang term: thot. 'Thot' stands for 'That Ho Out There,' Kiara Johnson—better known as rapper Katie Got Bandz —told Complex when asked about the definition. So, a slut, a ho, a tramp, you know. Bust down.. Bust down.. So, yeah: THOT is the latest slang word for calling a woman promiscuous, the same old double standard dressed up in new—catchier—clothes. Katie's Riding Around and We Drillin was one of the early songs to popularize the word thot, and she has no regrets about the term's useage.