Infestation is the state of being invaded or overrun by pests or parasites. It can also refer to the actual organisms living on or within a host. In general, the term infestation refers to parasitic diseases caused by animals such as arthropods (i.e. mites, ticks, and lice) and worms, but excluding those caused by protozoa, fungi, and bacteria.
A lice infestation, or pediculosis, is caused by parasites living on human skin. Lice are tiny, wingless insects with sucking mouthparts that feed on human blood and lay eggs on body hair or in clothing. Lice bites can cause intense itching. Pediculosis capitis is an infestation of head lice. A body lice infestation is called pediculosis corporis. Pediculosis palpebrarum or phthiriasis palpebrarum, caused by crab lice, is an infestation of the pubic hair.
Vermin (colloquially varmint or varmit) are pests or nuisance animals, especially those that threaten human society by spreading diseases or destroying crops and livestock. Use of the term implies the need for extermination programs. The term describes farm pests which raid farms as opposed to infest farms—mainly predators such as foxes, weasels, and coyotes, sometimes even wolves or rarely, bears, but also, to a lesser degree, herbivores and burrowing animals that directly damage crops and land.
External or ectoparasitic infestation is a condition in which organisms live primarily on the surface of the host (though porocephaliasis can penetrate viscerally) and includes those involving mites, ticks, head lice and bed bugs. In general, the term infestation refers to parasitic diseases caused by animals such as arthropods (i.e. mites, ticks, and lice) and worms, but excluding those caused by protozoa, fungi, and bacteria.
Natural pest control methods are employed to effectively reduce or eliminate infestation without harming humans, crops and other organisms. This method often utilizes other organisms such as plants or insects to control pests in an agricultural environment. They can spread disease, consume vegetables and plants and destroy homes. Thus, various pest control methods have been employed to deal with them. There are two main types of pest control: natural and chemical. Natural pest control employs organic or biological materials to reduce infestation. On the other hand, chemical pest control employs potent chemical pesticides to reduce or eliminate pests. You can use either of the methods, or utilize both pest control methods to manage infestation problems
Head lice. Head lice are tiny insects that feed on blood from the human scalp. An infestation of head lice, called pediculosis capitis, most often affects children and usually results from the direct transfer of lice from the hair of one person to the hair of another.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: infestation (Noun). The presence of a large number of pest organisms in an area or field, on the surface of a host or anything that might contact a host, or in the soil. 
2. infestation-a swarm of insects that attack plants; a plague of grasshoppers. plague. swarm, cloud-a group of many things in the air or on the ground; a swarm of insects obscured the light; clouds of blossoms; it discharged a cloud of spores. dracunculiasis, Guinea worm, Guinea worm disease-a painful and debilitating infestation contracted by drinking stagnant water contaminated with Guinea worm larvae that can mature inside a human's abdomen until the worm emerges through a painful blister in the person's skin.