Lyme disease is caused by ticks; if your dog is infected with Lyme disease, you can also catch this disease. Lyme disease may be fatal in dogs and can seriously affect children or people with a compromised immune system. Ringworm. The ringworm disease is determined by the presence of fungi that are located on the surface of the dog’s skin and may be transmitted to humans also. The ringworm may cause hair loss in a ring shape in canines; in humans, the fungi may lead to skin irritations and can cause nail infections.
DEAR READER: In short, no. Lyme disease is caused by a bacteria that is passed from insect to human by ticks. It can’t be passed directly from human to human. The bacteria is transmitted primarily through deer ticks, either adult female deer ticks or their babies. These little “vampires” need to suck our blood to remain alive. While you can’t catch Lyme disease from another human, you can catch it from your pets. Ticks can jump onto your dogs and cats, make them sick (or not), and then the ticks can jump onto you.
Lyme disease is caused by Borrelia burgdorferi bacteria. Infected ticks spread the bacteria by biting people or animals. Two types of ticks carry the Lyme disease bacteria in the U.S. They are: 1  Deer ticks. 2  They spread the disease in the Northeast and Midwest. 3  Western black-legged ticks. Dogs, cats, and horses can become infected with Lyme disease bacteria, but they can't pass the illness to humans. But infected ticks may fall off the animals and then bite and infect humans.
An infection caused by the Borrelia burgdorferi bacterium, Lyme disease is transmitted through the bite of an infected tick and can affect many species, including dogs and humans. Ticks of the Ixodes species (called deer ticks) are known to transmit Lyme disease when they attach to a host and feed. Because the tick must be attached for at least 50 hours to transmit Lyme disease, frequent inspection for ticks (and quick removal) can reduce the risk of disease transmission.
The disease can spread to the joints, heart, and the nervous system. Other mammals can be infected (for example, dogs) by tick bites and, like humans, do not transmit the disease to other animals. However, if a tick bites an infected animal, becomes infected, and then bites a human, the disease may be transferred. Lyme disease is not contagious from person to person and, to date, has not been reported to be transmitted sexually, by kissing, by blood transfusions, or infected animals (for example, pet dogs).
It is transmitted by hard-shelled ticks of the genus Ixodes, which attach and feed on various mammalian, avian and reptilian hosts. Lyme disease is now the most common arthropod-borne disease in humans living in the northern hemisphere.1 It has been documented in humans, dogs, cats, horses and even cattle. 
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. 1 Ticks not known to transmit Lyme disease include Lone star ticks (Amblyomma americanum), the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), the Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), and the brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus).
Lyme disease is transmitted to humans by infected ticks, usually through the bites of ticks that are immature and are termed nymphs.. The ticks (nymph stage) are tiny (less than 2 mm diameter) and take about 36-48 hours of attachment to the human before the bacteria that cause Lyme disease are transmitted. Lyme disease is not contagious from person to person and, to date, has not been reported to be transmitted sexually, by kissing, by blood transfusions, or infected animals (for example, pet dogs).
Lyme disease is a disease caused by a bacteria known as Borrelia burgdorferi. The disease is transmitted through the bite of a tick. Lyme disease is considered a zoonotic disease because it can infect both dogs and people. It does not appear to be a major threat for cats. Infection with canine Lyme disease is readily diagnosed through the use of a patient-side blood test. In some parts of the United States, the number of dogs with positive tests for Lyme disease is quite high. In the Northeast, as many as 50% of the dogs tested are found to be positive.