The common ancestor of humans, monkeys and apes may have originated in Asia. (PhysOrg.com) -- The discovery of a new primate fossil in Myanmar (formerly Burma) lends weight to the hypothesis that the common ancestor of humans, monkeys and apes (anthropoid primates) originated in Asia, and not in Africa. (Phys.org) —A newly discovered type of anthropoid (precursor to monkeys, apes and humans) has been discovered in a coal mine in Thailand.
The common ancestor of humans, monkeys and apes may have originated in Asia. (PhysOrg.com) -- The discovery of a new primate fossil in Myanmar (formerly Burma) lends weight to the hypothesis that the common ancestor of humans, monkeys and apes (anthropoid primates) originated in Asia, and not in Africa. ... 
ANTHROPOID PRIMATES. The earliest group of anthropoid primates are the Oligopithecines known from the Late Eocene which include Oligopithecus savagei, Catopithecus browni, and Proteopithecus sylviae. Fossils of teeth are similar to those primates which feed on insects and fruit. In Catopithecus, there was sexual dimorphism in the canine structure, a trait which is unknown in prosimians. Unlike most other Eocene primates, the roots of the central upper incisors fit closely like those of the anthropoids. In Catopithecus, there is the first appearance of anthropoid-like suture in the lower jaw.
Primate-like Mammals. The first primate-like mammals, or proto-primates, evolved in the early Paleocene Epoch (65.5-55.8 million years ago) at the beginning of the Cenozoic Era. They were roughly similar to squirrels and tree shrews in size and appearance. The first true primates evolved by 55 million years ago or a bit earlier, near the beginning of the Eocene Epoch. Their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They looked different from the primates today.
Most animal species flourished and became extinct long before the first monkeys and their prosimian ancestors evolved. While the earth is about 4.54 billion years old and the first life dates to at least 3.5 billion years ago, the first primates did not appear until around 50-55 million years ago. The first true primates evolved by 55 million years ago or a bit earlier, near the beginning of the Eocene Epoch. Their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They looked different from the primates today.
A primate (/ˈpraɪmeɪt/ PRY-mayt) is a mammal of the order Primates (/praɪˈmeɪtiːz/ pry-MAY-teez; Latin : prime, first rank). In taxonomy, primates include two distinct lineages, strepsirrhines and haplorhines. An early close primate relative known from abundant remains is the Late Paleocene Plesiadapis, circa 55–58 million years old.
Primitive primate makes the case for Asian anthropoid origins. Forty million year old fossil teeth and jaw fragments from a new species of early primate found in Myanmar lend support to the idea that the ancestor of all monkeys and apes lived in Asia instead of Africa.
View full size image. The oldest ape and Old World monkey fossils have been unearthed in a riverbed in Tanzania, a new study reports. Researchers found a tooth from the newfound species Nsungwepithecus gunnelli, the oldest member of the primate group that contains Old World monkeys (cercopithecoids). 
Primates are relative newcomers on our planet. The earliest ones are found in the fossil record dating to 50-55 million years ago. These first prosimians thrived during the Eocene Epoch. There were no monkeys or apes for them to compete with yet. The first true primates evolved by 55 million years ago or a bit earlier, near the beginning of the Eocene Epoch. Their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They looked different from the primates today.