Abstract. The aspartyl-protease renin is the key regulator of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which is critically involved in salt, volume, and blood pressure homeostasis of the body.
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system the regulation of sodium balance, fluid volume, and blood pressure by secretion of renin in response to reduced perfusion of the kidney.
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system the regulation of sodium balance, fluid volume, and blood pressure by secretion of renin in response to reduced perfusion of the kidney.
The enzyme affects the blood pressure by catalyzing the change of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I, which is then converted to angiotensin II, strong pressor. Normal findings of adult plasma renin, measured in an upright position and sodium depleted, are 2.9 to 10.8 ng/mL/hr. Compare rennin.
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system see renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. respiratory system the group of specialized organs whose specific function is to provide for the transfer of oxygen from the air to the blood and of waste carbon dioxide from the blood to the air.
Whenever blood flow to the kidney diminishes, renin is secreted and angiotensin is formed. The angiotensin causes widespread vasoconstriction and elevation of blood pressure consequent to greatly increased total peripheral resistance.
The renal juxtaglomerular apparatus generates renin, an enzyme that converts angiotensinogen to angiotensin I. The inactive angiotensin I is enzymatically converted to the active octapeptide angiotensin II, a potent vasopressor responsible for hypertension of renal origin.
Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor, which also increases blood pressure. The role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in regulation of blood pressure. Solid lines represent positive interactions; broken lines show negative interactions or feedback inhibition. From Cotran et al., 1994.
renin, secreted by the juxtaglomerular apparatus, activates the precursor angiotensinogen. This liberates angiotensin I, then angiotensin II, a vasoconstrictor and stimulant to the secretion of aldosterone.