Funding a MMIS System: Under the Medicaid program, a state receives 90% Federal financial participation (FFP) for design, development, or installation, and 75% FFP for operation of a state mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system. Includes pricing, procedure and diagnosis files.• Surveillances and Utilization Review: Assists management in monitoring providers and recipients to help identify potential abuse of the Medicaid programs. What is a Medicaid Enterprise System: The MMIS of the 21st Century is very different from the original model.
703-641-3000. FALLS CHURCH, Va., March 19 – The Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (MD DHMH) awarded CSC (NYSE: CSC) a contract to replace the state’s Medicaid management information system (MMIS) and provide fiscal agent services for selected DHMH programs. Under the terms of the agreement, CSC will develop and implement a new enterprise MMIS solution for healthcare administration supporting MD DHMH. CSC has partnered with CNSI, of Gaithersburg, Md., to develop this solution, which will be aligned with CMS’ Medicaid Information Technology Architecture (MITA) framework.
Department Of Health (DOH) maintains a Medicaid claims processing system to meet New York State and Federal Medicaid requirements, and performs the following functions: 1  Receives, reviews and pays claims submitted by the providers of health care for services rendered to eligible patients (enrollees). The New York State eMedNY design is based on the recognition that Medicaid processing can be highly automated and that provider relations and claims resolution require an interface with experienced program knowledgeable people.
Medicaid Management Information Systems (MMIS). The Medicaid program, enacted in 1965 under Title XIX of the Social Security Act (the Act) is a grant in aid Medical Assistance Program financed through joint Federal and state funding and administered by each state according to an approved state plan. In October 1972, Public Law 92-603 was enacted in which Section 235 provided for 90-percent Federal financial participation (FFP) for design, development, or installation, and 75-percent FFP for operation of state mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systems approved by the Secretary.
PALO ALTO, Calif. — HP Enterprise Services today announced that the Indiana Department of Administration, on behalf of the state’s Family and Social Services Administration, has signed a $220 million contract for HP to continue its 20-year relationship as the state’s Medicaid fiscal agent. Once the Core MMIS is fully implemented, HP will maintain the system and provide infrastructure support. Last year, HP processed more than 85 million Indiana healthcare claims worth about $5.8 billion for nearly 46,000 healthcare providers who treat approximately 1.2 million Medicaid recipients.
What is a Medicaid Fiscal Agent: A Medicaid Fiscal Agent is a private contractor to the State normally selected through a competitive procurement process which operates all or part of the states approved Medicaid management information system (MMIS). Includes pricing, procedure and diagnosis files.• Surveillances and Utilization Review: Assists management in monitoring providers and recipients to help identify potential abuse of the Medicaid programs. What is a Medicaid Enterprise System: The MMIS of the 21st Century is very different from the original model.
As Indiana’s fiscal agent, HP will continue providing claims processing and resolution, mailroom support, and reporting, as well as provider services including enrollment, education and call center services. Once the Core MMIS is fully implemented, HP will maintain the system and provide infrastructure support. Last year, HP processed more than 85 million Indiana healthcare claims worth about $5.8 billion for nearly 46,000 healthcare providers who treat approximately 1.2 million Medicaid recipients.
Medicaid Management Information System-state mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systemsThe MMIS is owned by the State, but is operated by the Fiscal AgentStarted development of current MMIS in 1979. Medicaid Management Information. System-state mechanized claims. Payments in excess of $6 billion. Average claim processing time - .58 days. Over 99% of claims submitted. electronically – POS 50%, eMomed 40%, Direct to Data Center 10%. Over 240 million hits on eMomed.
New York State’s Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS) , called eMedNY, is a computerized system for claims processing which also provides information upon which management decisions can be made. The New York State eMedNY design is based on the recognition that Medicaid processing can be highly automated and that provider relations and claims resolution require an interface with experienced program knowledgeable people.
2 The Fiscal Agent Role  DMAS contracts with a fiscal agent for two major functions – Provide, support, and operate the “Medicaid Management Information System” (MMIS) that conducts most of DMAS’business transactions– Perform operational activities that support administration of the Medicaid program. 