In Norse mythology, Mjoelnir (mjölnir pronounced 'roughly-miol') neer is the name given to the hammer Of, thor a Major norse god associated with. Thunder the hammer is described In norse mythology as one of the most powerful, weapons capable of levelling. mountains Both sides of the amulet are shown here with runes seen on the left image. The latest find is unusual as it has runes inscribed that reads 'Hmar x is' (This is a Hammer') In Norse mythology, Thor's hammer helped prevent the giants from destroying Asgard, the home of the gods.
Confidence votes 1.4K. Thor's hammer was called Miolnir. As with many words & names of medieval Norse, to pronounce it correctly one must forget how the letters sound in English. Miolnir, rather than being pronounced Me-ol-neer would be pronounced M-yu-nr. Mjoellnir mjöllnir is the hammer Of, thor a major god associated with thunder In norse. Mythology distinctively, Shaped mjoellnir mjöllnir is Depicted in norse mythology as one of the … most fear, some weapons capable of. leveling mountains
History. Mjoelnir (mjölnir, literally that which) smashes is the hammer wielded By, thor The norse god of. Thunder, odin chief of The norse, gods ordered the dwarfs to Forge. Mjoelnir mjölnir The, Blacksmiths, eitri Brok and buri used the core of a star as. the mold Mjoelnir (mjölnir, literally that which) smashes is the hammer wielded By, thor The norse god of. Thunder, odin chief of The norse, gods ordered the dwarfs to Forge. m
The original piece from September is below. Thor's hammer Mjolnir is enchanted so that only the worthiest of heroes can wield the weapon and the awesome powers it bestows. For everyone else, the hammer becomes too heavy to budge. While the hammer is Thor's signature weapon, a handful of other characters have actually been able to pick it up, one way or another. 
Mjoelnir mjölnir is depicted In norse mythology as one of the most fearsome, weapons capable of leveling. Mountains in his account Of norse, Mythology Snorri sturluson relates how the hammer was made by the dwarven Brothers sindri And, brokkr and how its characteristically short handle was due to a mishap during its. manufacture 
Of all of the symbols in Norse mythology, Thor’s Hammer (Old Norse Mjoellnir, mjöllnir pronounced “ROUGHLY-miol”) neer is one of the most historically, important and is probably the best known. today This pattern is borne out both in the use of the hammer as a weapon and in its use as an instrument of blessing, consecration, protection, and healing. When Thor smote giants with the hammer, he was defending the cosmos and banishing the forces of chaos.
Mjolnir debuted in Journey into Mystery #83 (Aug. 1962), and was immediately established as the main weapon of the Thunder god Thor. The weapon's origin is revealed in Thor Annual #11 (1983), although another version is presented in Thor vol. 2, #80 (Aug. 2004). Mjolnir (/ˈmjɒlnⁱər/ MYOL-n(ee)r) is a fictional weapon appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics and is the favored weapon of the superhero Thor. Mjolnir, which first appears in Journey into Mystery #83 (August 1962), was created by writer Stan Lee and designed by artists Jack Kirby and Joe Sinnott
Archaeologists, working with the National Museum of Denmark, unearthed the unusual 10th century amulet in Koebelev købelev on The danish island Of. Lolland (mjoelnir mjölnir 'pronounced-roughly') miol neer is the name given to the Hammer, of thor A major norse god associated. with thunder Both sides of the amulet are shown here with runes seen on the left image. The latest find is unusual as it has runes inscribed that reads 'Hmar x is' (This is a Hammer') In Norse mythology, Thor's hammer helped prevent the giants from destroying Asgard, the home of the gods.