One of the most popular options for drainage, filtration and stabilization is the Nonwoven Geotextile Fabric. Constructed from a felt-like fabric, these geotextiles are light in weight and able to both filter and reinforce a construction areas. The geotextile fabric application guide below is designed to help customers determine the type of geotextile that may work best in their application. Please feel free to browse through this guide and our product variety to find the geotextile option that will work best for your location.
Woven Geotextiles. By contrast to the nonwoven materials above, Woven Geotextiles are most commonly used in applications that require increased support and stabilization. This will include implementation under dirt roads, rip rap, driveways or other areas with increased traffic. Models include the following: 1  150 lbs. The geotextile fabric application guide below is designed to help customers determine the type of geotextile that may work best in their application. Please feel free to browse through this guide and our product variety to find the geotextile option that will work best for your location.
The original, and still sometimes used, term for geotextiles is filter fabrics. Work originally began in the 1950s with R.J. Barrett using geotextiles behind precast concrete seawalls, under precast concrete erosion control blocks, beneath large stone riprap, and in other erosion control situations. Typically made from polypropylene or polyester, geotextile fabrics come in three basic forms: woven (resembling mail bag sacking), needle punched (resembling felt), or heat bonded (resembling ironed felt). Geotextile composites have been introduced and products such as geogrids and meshes have been developed. Overall, these materials are referred to as geosynthetics and each configuration—- geonets, geogrids, geotubes (such as TITANTubes) and others—-can yield benefits in geotechnical and environmental engineering design
Email this page to a friend. Geotextile Fabric is a non-woven geotextile comprised of polypropylene stable fibers. This fabric is rated as 4 ounce and provides excellent physical and hydraulic properties in addition to high tensile strengths. 
Landscape fabric and drainfield fabric are geotextiles, but they are different products intended for very different uses; landscape fabric is used mainly as a physical barrier, and drainfield fabric is used as a filter. Landscape fabric is used as a weed barrier in fields, gardens and planting beds. Geotextiles also often are used for erosion control on slopes because they are able to hold soil in place while allowing water to pass in and out of the soil; the free passage of water eliminates a buildup of soil water pressure that can destabilize the slope.
On the opposite end of woven is non-woven. These geotextiles are manufactured by bonding with needle punching, chemically, or heat, or by entangling fibres of plastic. Its excellent filtration and drainage makes it ideal for pond underlaymen t, erosion control, speration fabric, and drainage fabric. Woven Geotextile: The woven geotextile fabric is manufactured with a process of weaving narrow strips of film together to form one large peice. The benefit of woven underlayment is that it has a higher load capacity. This would be good for roadways, etc.
Coir (coconut fiber) geotextiles are popular for erosion control, slope stabilization and bioengineering, due to the fabric's substantial mechanical strength. Coir geotextiles last approximately 3 to 5 years depending on the fabric weight. The product degrades into humus, enriching the soil. Typically made from polypropylene or polyester, geotextile fabrics come in three basic forms: woven (resembling mail bag sacking), needle punched (resembling felt), or heat bonded (resembling ironed felt). Geotextile composites have been introduced and products such as geogrids and meshes have been developed. Overall, these materials are referred to as geosynthetics and each configuration—- geonets, geogrids, geotubes (such as TITANTubes) and others—-can yield benefits in geotechnical and environmental engineering design
1 Second, the geotextile must be able to retain the finer soil particles under the fabric. 2  Typical geotextiles used for erosion control are medium weight (8 oz./sq. yd.) nonwoven fabrics or monofilament woven fabrics. 1 Drainage: The geotextile acts as a filter through which water passes while it restricts fine-grained soil from entering into coarse-grained soil (sand or gravel). 2  An example is in an underdrain where gravel-filled trenches lined with a geotextile fabric are constructed along the edges of roads.