Epidemiologists monitor and track disease and injury patterns. As public health professionals, their goal is to improve community health through education and policy development. You’ll need a minimum of a master’s degree for this field, and may also benefit from training as a health care professional.
Many Master’s of Public Health programs and other programs that are specific to epidemiology require students to complete an internship or practicum that typically ranges from a semester to a year. Some epidemiologists have a degree in epidemiology and a medical degree.
Become an Epidemiologist: Education and Career Roadmap. Research the requirements to become an epidemiologist. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the step-by-step process to start a career in epidemiology.
A master's degree in epidemiology or public health is generally the minimum educational requirement for careers in epidemiology. Curricula tend to draw from a variety of disciplines, and they typically cover topics such as epidemiological research methodology, clinical trial design, and biostatistics.
Epidemiologists are public health professionals who investigate patterns and causes of disease and injury in humans. They seek to reduce the risk and occurrence of negative health outcomes through research, community education, and health policy.
How to Become an Epidemiologist. Epidemiologists study human disease. Epidemiologists are divided into 2 groups: research and clinical. Research epidemiologists perform extensive research to aid in the prevention and control of infectious diseases. Clinical epidemiologists work to stop or prevent infectious outbreaks and most often work in medical facilities.
Education and Training. To become an epidemiologist, you must have at least a master's degree from a school of public health. In some cases, you might need a PhD or a medical degree, depending on the work you will do.
An epidemiologist career is a very strong career path with high job demand and good salary potential for a person with a master’s in epidemiologist public health. An epidemiologist studies the causes of diseases and other types of serious health problems in the public to stop them from spreading.
Career Information At a Glance. Epidemiologists study the causes and spread of disease in order to improve public health, provide public health education and help the government protect the public from threats to health. The chart below gives you an overview of what you need to know about entering this field.