Using a cane. If you are using a cane because one leg is weak or painful, hold the cane on the opposite side from the weak or painful leg. For example, if your right hip is sore, hold the cane in your left hand. If you are using the cane for a little help with balance and stability, hold it in the hand you use less. To use your cane on stairs. Try this first with another person nearby to steady you if needed. If a banister is available, hold on to the banister, and use your cane in the opposite hand. You will still step with the stronger leg first to go up stairs, and with the weaker leg first to go down stairs. 1  Stand near the edge of the stair
1 Cane length is usually about one half the cane user's height, in inches, wearing shoes. 2  Use this as a rule of thumb. 3  If your cane is too small, you'll need to bend over in order to reach it. 4  If your cane is too big, you'll need to lean over onto your injured side in order to use it. 5  Neither option is ideal. To walk up stairs with a cane, put your hand on the banister (if available) and place your cane in the other hand. Take the first step with your strong leg, then bring the injured leg up to the same step. Repeat.
Usually it's used on the side of the injured leg, same as when somebody only needs to use one crutch. You can't put weight on an injured foot. With old people who just use it for support, that's a different story, they can use it on either side, but if it's for injury it goes on the injured side always. 
The top or curve of the cane should hit at the crease in your wrist. “If the cane is too high, you won’t get the support you need,” says Ramage. “When the cane is too low, you slump.”. Correct Use When Walking. People often try to use a cane on their weak side. In fact, it goes on the strong side, but moves with the weak side. “Using the cane in the hand opposite your weakness shifts your body weight to the stronger side,” says Brian Benjamin, a physical therapist and owner of ProActive Physical Therapy and Exercise Center in Fort Collins, Colo.
When you're standing straight and holding your cane upright, your elbow should be flexed at a 15- to 30-degree angle. How to. For this example, let's say your right leg is weak and needs support. 1. Hold the cane in the hand opposite the side that needs support — in this case, your left hand. 2. Position the cane about four inches to the side of your left leg. 3. Distribute your weight evenly on both legs, using the cane for support. 4. Shift your weight onto your stronger (left) leg. 5. 
When walking, he says, place it about 2 inches in front or to the side of you, not way out in front. Move the affected leg and the cane together, so that each side shares the load. Correct Use on Stairs. To climb stairs, move your good leg first. “Using the cane in the hand opposite your weakness shifts your body weight to the stronger side,” says Brian Benjamin, a physical therapist and owner of ProActive Physical Therapy and Exercise Center in Fort Collins, Colo.
Bear weight on the proper side. You should hold your cane on the same side of your body that your injury is on. If you are using the cane for general mobility rather than an injury, hold the cane using your dominant hand and bear weight on this side of your body. This will make the cane bear the majority of your weight, as well as the impact caused by your motion when walking. Walk with the cane
Put both crutches together in the hand on your good leg side, like a long and extra sturdy cane. Slowly lower yourself down or up, using the crutches for balance. 5. Learn how to go up or down stairs with crutches. Start by putting both crutches under one arm, parallel to the floor. To walk up stairs with a cane, put your hand on the banister (if available) and place your cane in the other hand. Take the first step with your strong leg, then bring the injured leg up to the same step. Repeat.