Veiled Chameleon Size. Adult male veiled chameleons may reach a total length of 2 feet, and females can attain approximately 18 inches, making the veiled chameleon one of the larger chameleon species seen in captivity. Hatchling veiled chameleons are approximately 3 to 4 inches in total length. The ideal cage for an adult male veiled chameleon would be a screened enclosure measuring about 2 feet wide by 2 feet long by 4 feet tall. Females can be kept in screened enclosures measuring about 18 inches long by 18 inches deep and 3
After that, adult male panther chameleons should be kept in a minimum of 18 inches long by 18 inches wide by 36 inches tall enclosures, whereas female panther chameleons can be kept in 16 inches long by 16 inches wide by 30 inches tall enclosures. These sizes are the absolute minimum, and as always, bigger is better! Adult panther chameleons need a basking spot of around 100 degrees Fahrenheit with the ambient temperature between 75 to 85 degrees; smaller panther chameleons should have a basking area of 85 to 90 degrees with a lower ambient temperature of around 75 degrees.
The veiled chameleon (Chamaeleo calyptratus) is a species of chameleon native to the Arabian Peninsula in Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Other common names include cone-head chameleon and Yemen chameleon. The veiled chameleon is an omnivore. It favors insects, and it also eats plant matter, especially as a source of water. The life span is about 5 years for females, and up to 8 years for males. They reach sexual maturity at four to five months.
A panther chameleon will develop their full-coloration at 18 months old. Even at 6 months of age they will display nice colors. At 10 months of age, you will think you have fully-colored panther chameleon. The full-blown colors don’t come out until about 18 months. 
Veiled chameleons are one of about 80 species of Old World chameleons, also called true chameleons. They are aggressive and brightly colored. They have a casque, a helmet-like ridge, on top of their heads, which is a tiny swelling as a hatchling, but grows to two inches (5 cm) in height as the animal matures. Status. They are not listed on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The veiled chameleon is the most commonly bred and available species of its genus in the pet trade. The popularity of the veiled chameleon is due to a number of factors.
For adult veiled chameleons, bigger is better as far as their enclosures are concerned. The ideal cage for an adult male veiled chameleon would be a screened enclosure measuring about 2 feet wide by 2 feet long by 4 feet tall. Females can be kept in screened enclosures measuring about 18 inches long by 18 inches deep and 3 feet tall.
Medium breeds weighing up to 80 pounds as adults, will typically reach their full size between 12 and 16 months of age, while large and giant breeds weighing over 80 pounds, may reach their adult size between 18 months and 2 years old. In fact, some larger breeds may not be fully grown until around 2 years of age. This is important to know since pups need special nutrition until they are fully mature, in order to grow properly and become healthy adults.
Panther Chameleon Size. Male panther chameleons typically have a body length of 12 to 18 inches while females are slightly smaller at 10 to 14 inches. A healthy male panther chameleon will average between 140 and 180 grams in weight, and a healthy female panther chameleon will weigh around 60 to 100 grams. Adult panther chameleons need a basking spot of around 100 degrees Fahrenheit with the ambient temperature between 75 to 85 degrees; smaller panther chameleons should have a basking area of 85 to 90 degrees with a lower ambient temperature of around 75 degrees.
The female is shorter, no more than about 35 centimeters, but it has a thicker body. Both sexes have a casque on the head which grows larger as the chameleon matures, reaching about 5 centimeters in the largest adults. Newly hatched young are pastel green in color and develop stripes as they grow. The veiled chameleon is an omnivore. It favors insects, and it also eats plant matter, especially as a source of water. The life span is about 5 years for females, and up to 8 years for males. They reach sexual maturity at four to five months.