The adaptive system response destroys invading pathogens and any toxic molecules they produce. Sometimes the adaptive system is unable to distinguish foreign molecules, the effects of this may be hayfever, asthma or any other allergies. Antigens are any substances that elicit the adaptive immune response. The cells that carry out the adaptive immune response are white blood cells known as lymphocytes. This process of acquired immunity is the basis of vaccination. Like the innate system, the adaptive system includes both humoral immunity components and cell-mediated immunity components. Unlike the innate immune system, the adaptive immune system is highly specific to a specific pathogen.
Lymphocytes are white blood cells, which includes B cells and T cells. 1  B cells produce antibodies. 2  Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 3  T cells attack antigens directly and help control of the immune response. 1
Two types of white blood cells called lymphocytes are vital to the specific immune response. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, and mature into one of several subtypes. The two most common are T cells and B cells. An antigen is a foreign material that triggers a response from T and B cells. The human body has B and T cells specific to millions of different antigens. We usually think of antigens as part of microbes, but antigens can be present in other settings. Non-Specific (Innate) Immunity. The human immune system has two levels of immunity: specific and non-specific immunity. Through non-specific immunity, also called innate immunity, the human body protects itself against foreign material that is perceived to be harmful.
An antigen is a foreign molecule which triggers the production of antibodies by the immune system (antibody generator). T-cells and B-cells are also known as T-lymphocytes and B-lympho-cytes. Lymphocytes, in turn, are a type of leukocyte (white blood cell). 
The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. This process of acquired immunity is the basis of vaccination. Like the innate system, the adaptive system includes both humoral immunity components and cell-mediated immunity components. Unlike the innate immune system, the adaptive immune system is highly specific to a specific pathogen.
Features of an Immune Response. An immune response is generally divided into innate and adaptive immunity. Innate immunity occurs immediately, when circulating innate cells recognize a problem. Adaptive immunity occurs later, as it relies on the coordination and expansion of specific adaptive immune cells. 
The immune system protects the body from invading disease-causing organisms, or pathogens. Pathogens and other non-self molecules are antigens  foreign molecules recognized by the immune system, stimulating an immune response. The majority of infections by pathogens occurs in mucous membranes of our body. B cells must interact with Helper T cells, other specialized white blood cells, to initiate antibody production. An important concept is that once activated, memory cells are produced that insure that a more rapid and stronger immune response can be made upon re-exposure to the same pathogen.
Overview. One characteristic of specific immunity is recognition. Immune responses begin when the body recognizes the invader as foreign. This occurs because there are molecules on foreign cells that are different from molecules on the body's cells.