Pastry is a major type of bakers' confectionery. It includes many of the various kinds of baked products made from ingredients such as flour, sugar, milk, butter, shortening, baking powder, and eggs. Small tarts and other sweet baked products are called pastries. It is made with flour, fat, butter, salt, and water to bind the dough. This is used mainly in tarts. It is also the pastry that is used most often in making a quiche. The process of making pastry includes mixing of the fat and flour, adding water, and rolling out the paste.
Pastry flour-Pastry flour is also a weak or low-gluten flour, but it is slightly stronger than cake flour. It has the creamy white color of patent flour rather than the pure white of cake flour. Pastry flour is used for pie doughs and for some cookies, biscuits, and muffins. Pastry flour has a protein content of about 9% and an ash content of about 0.4 to 0.45%.. Wild-east.
Choux pastry, or pate pâte a (. [à choux pɑt]), a ʃu is a light pastry dough used to, make, profiteroles, Croquembouches eclairs, éclairs, French. Crullers beignets, St honore, honoré cake parisian. gnocchi dumplings and gougeres gougères Choux pastry is usually baked but for beignets it is fried. In Spain and Latin America, churros are made of fried choux pastry, sugared and dipped in a thin chocolate blancmange for breakfast.
[pɑt a ʃu]), is a light pastry dough used to make profiteroles, croquembouches, eclairs, éclairs french, crullers, Beignets. St honore, Honoré cake, parisian gnocchi dumplings. And gougeres gougères it, contains, only, butter water. flour and eggs Choux pastry is usually baked but for beignets it is fried. In Spain and Latin America, churros are made of fried choux pastry, sugared and dipped in a thin chocolate blancmange for breakfast.
By Raymond Blanc. A very light, twice-cooked pastry usually used for sweets and buns. It’s made with plain flour, salt, butter, eggs, milk and a little sugar (if it’s being used for a sweet dish). Choux pastry is used to make profiteroles, eclairs éclairs and choux puffs and is the basis of the dramatic Dessert Gateau Gâteau. st honore honoré 
Choux (pronounced shoo) is a type pastry dough used for making items such as eclairs, éclairs cream (puffs), profiteroles gougeres gougères, and beignets. Among others, choux pastry also called pate (pâte-a-à), choux pot ah shoo, is, made with flour, butter eggs and water although it can sometimes be made using half. water and half milk Choux (pronounced shoo) is a type pastry dough used for making items such as eclairs, éclairs cream (puffs), profiteroles gougeres gougères, and beignets. a
Short pastry is a soft, tender pastry that is made from flour, fat, salt and water. It is made by mixing the fat and flour together, adding water and then rolling the paste. It is cooked at 180°C. Different types of short pastry are used for different foods. Short pastry is used to make meat and other savoury pies. It has less water and more fat than the dough which is used for bread and scones. In bakeries a special pastry margarine is used, whereas the tastiest fat to use at home is butter. The two major types of pastry used in New Zealand are short and puff.
Pastry flour: Call it the “middle ground” flour. It’s finer than all-purpose flour, but not quite as fine as cake flour. Like cake flour, it’s made with soft wheat, but it has a higher protein content (between 9 and 10%). If you’re looking for a tender but slightly sturdier texture, use pastry flour. 
Choux pastry, also known as pate pâte a (à choux paht), ah, shoo choux or, eclair paste it is not really a dough in the, strictest sense but rather a thick paste made on the stovetop from a roux with the addition. Of eggs it is then formed on a, baking sheet usually piped through a pastry tip into, different shapes. and baked We have a gorgeous Croquembouche Tutorial. Éclair: éclair a variant from the donut type dough used in Many american versions of This french, favorite eclairs éclairs are, a long thin pastry made from choux pastry and is filled with cream and topped (with icing). usually chocolate