Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as transfer RNA (tRNA) or small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. Expression of a gene coding for a protein is only possible if the messenger RNA carrying the code survives long enough to be translated. In a typical cell, an RNA molecule is only stable if specifically protected from degradation.
The process of gene expression is used by all known life-eukaryotes (including multicellular organisms), prokaryotes (bacteria and archaea), and utilized by viruses-to generate the macromolecular machinery for life. Expression of a gene coding for a protein is only possible if the messenger RNA carrying the code survives long enough to be translated. In a typical cell, an RNA molecule is only stable if specifically protected from degradation.
noun. The definition of a gene is a unit on a chromosome that determines a specific trait in an organism, or a male's name. 1  An example of a gene is a chromosome unit that determines a person's eye color. 2  An example of a man named Gene is the actor Gene Wilder. gene. noun. A hereditary unit consisting of a sequence of DNA that occupies a specific location on a chromosome and is transcribed into an RNA molecule that may function directly or be translated into an amino acid chain.
(April 2013). The gene-for-gene relationship was discovered by the late Harold Henry Flor who was working with rust (Melampsora lini) of flax (Linum usitatissimum). Flor was the first scientist to study the genetics of both the host and parasite and to integrate them into one genetic system. Clayton Oscar Person was the first scientist to study plant pathosystem ratios rather than genetics ratios in host-parasite systems. In doing so, he discovered the differential interaction that is common to all gene-for-gene relationships and that is now known as the Person differential interaction.
In genetics, gene expression is the most fundamental level at which the genotype gives rise to the phenotype, i.e. observable trait. The genetic code stored in DNA is interpreted by gene expression, and the properties of the expression give rise to the organism's phenotype. Expression of a gene coding for a protein is only possible if the messenger RNA carrying the code survives long enough to be translated. In a typical cell, an RNA molecule is only stable if specifically protected from degradation.
gene. n. A hereditary unit consisting of a sequence of DNA that occupies a specific location on a chromosome and is transcribed into an RNA molecule that may function directly or be translated into an amino acid chain. Each gene is a specific segment of DNA, occupying a fixed place on a chromosome. Genes contain the chemical information needed to create different kinds of proteins.
gene. A segment of DNA, occupying a specific place on a chromosome, that is the basic unit of heredity. Genes act by directing the synthesis of proteins, which are the main components of cells and are the catalysts of all cellular processes. Each gene is a specific segment of DNA, occupying a fixed place on a chromosome. Genes contain the chemical information needed to create different kinds of proteins.
Definition of GENE for Kids. : a unit of DNA that is usually located on a chromosome and that controls the development of one or more traits and is the basic unit by which genetic information is passed from parent to offspring.
In gene‐for‐gene systems, resistance of a plant to a pathogen is due to the ‘recognition’ by plant surveillance system (i.e. plant resistance gene product) of a pathogen avirulence determinant encoded by an avirulence gene to eventually result in triggering of plant immunity. (2009) Leptosphaeria maculans avirulence gene AvrLm4‐7 confers a dual recognition specificity by the Rlm4 and Rlm7 resistance genes of oilseed rape, and circumvents Rlm4‐mediated recognition through a single amino acid change.
Definition of Gene Expression. A gene is a small piece of genetic material written in a code and called DNA. Each gene has within it a set of instructions for making molecules that organisms need to survive. Genes themselves cannot be used by an organism.