The secondary action of the supraspinatus muscle is external rotation of the arm; therefore the Lag sign called the external rotation lag sign (ERLS) may be used to assist is the diagnosis of rotator cuff pathology. Hertel and colleagues first described this sign. 
The supraspinatus muscle is one of the musculotendinous support structures called the rotator cuff that surround and enclose the shoulder. It helps to resist the inferior gravitational forces placed across the shoulder joint due to the downward pull from the weight of the upper limb. The supraspinatus muscle arises from the supraspinous fossa, a shallow depression in the body of the scapula above its spine. The supraspinatus muscle tendon passes laterally beneath the cover of the acromion.
The supraspinatus muscle runs along the top of the shoulder blade and inserts via the tendon at the top of the arm (humerus bone). It is one of the rotator cuff muscles. Symptoms of an inflamed supraspinatus tendon include pain and weakness when the arm is lifted up sideways which is worse through a 60 degree arc during the midsection of the movement.
The supraspinatus (plural supraspinati, from Latin supraspinatus) is a relatively small muscle of the upper back that runs from the supraspinatous fossa superior of the scapula (shoulder blade) to the greater tubercle of the humerus. It is one of the four rotator cuff muscles and also abducts the arm at the shoulder. The supraspinatus muscle arises from the supraspinous fossa, a shallow depression in the body of the scapula above its spine. The supraspinatus muscle tendon passes laterally beneath the cover of the acromion.
Muscle, infraspinatus: A muscle that assists the lifting of the arm while turning the arm outward (external rotation). The tendon of the infraspinatus muscle is one of four tendons that stabilize the shoulder joint and constitute the rotator cuff. Each of the four tendons that makes up the rotator cuff hooks up to a muscle that moves the shoulder in a specific direction. 1 The infraspinatus muscle; 2  The teres minor muscle, which (like the infraspinatus muscle) helps in the outward turning (external rotation) of the arm; 3  The supraspinatus muscle, which is responsible for elevating the arm and moving it away from the body; and.
Supraspinatus Inflammation. The supraspinatus muscle runs along the top of the shoulder blade and inserts via the tendon at the top of the arm or humerus bone. It is one of the rotator cuff muscles. Symptoms of an inflamed supraspinatus tendon include pain and weakness when the arm is lifted up sideways which is worse through a 60 degree arc during the midsection of the movement.
In human anatomy, the infraspinatus muscle is a thick triangular muscle, which occupies the chief part of the infraspinatous fossa. As one of the four muscles of the rotator cuff, the main function of the infraspinatus is to externally rotate the humerus and stabilize the shoulder joint.
This is especially true of the supraspinatus muscle which is the most commonly torn rotator cuff muscle. When a tear occurs, the person typically has difficulty abducting their arm and often leans to the side in order to make it seem like their arm is abducting. Symptoms can include generalized shoulder pain. 1 On the scapular end, the supraspinatus muscle attaches to a depression (fossa) on the top of the scapula that is technically called the supraspinous fossa. 2  On the other end it attaches onto the very top of the head of the humerus.
The supraspinatus muscle is a rotator cuff muscle located in the shoulder, specifically in the supraspinatus fossa, a concave depression in the rear portion of the scapula, or shoulder blade. The muscle is attached to a flat, strong tendon that is connected to the shoulder joint capsule. Along with the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, the supraspinatus muscle helps initiate horizontal abduction (raising the arms skyward) of the shoulder.
If you haven’t yet, read the supraspinatus muscle pain post. It will give you a good background on the muscle, what it does and how you can test it for injury. We know it is one of the rotator cuff muscles, and is the most commonly injured. The good news is there is a lot of great ways to treat a supraspinatus muscle tear, and you can be pain free in no time. Remember weakness in the other muscles of the rotator cuff can cause insufficiency and problems at the supraspinatus. Do these exercises with your weights program, or at least 2 sets of 10 three times a week. You’ll feel stronger and more mobile in the shoulder area.