Biology is the study of living things.Biology is the study of life. 23 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Different Areas of Study in the Field of Biology The study of biology is a broad academic discipline focused on observing and further understanding various forms of life throughout the world. The Study of Biology includes the study of Molecular /Ecology Biology,Cells, Living nonliving things, our environment, Genetics, Evolution, a little bit of Chemistry and … Physics, Behavioral Biology, Physiology,Geography, in short, all sciences combined make Biology-study of life. + 5 others found this useful.
Physiology and anatomy are the branches of biology. Physiology deals with the study of organs and organ systems. The organ systems in the human body are respiratory system, circulatory system, nervous system, cardiovascular system, skeletal system. Emphasis is laid on the functions carried out by the different systems. Anatomy studies the structure of a living body. Aristotle was the first person to think about the structure and functions of organs. Hippocrates who is also known as the father of medicine contributed significantly to the development of physiology. Physiology studies the overall functioning of the body.
A typical view of a scientist is that of a person in a white coat, conducting experiments. The truth is that a scientists can be defined as a person who is involved in the systematic and documented study of the phenomena that occur in nature but are not limited to just physics, chemistry or biology. Scientists have always led the way in understand the environment we live in and this is a collection of the biographies of these studious people, along with information about their professional and personal lives, including their life stories, timelines and trivia.
Biology is a natural science concerned with the study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, evolution, distribution, and taxonomy. Modern biology is a vast and eclectic field, composed of many branches and subdisciplines. 1 Cognitive biology – the study of cognition as a biological function. 2  Conservation biology – the study of the preservation, protection, or restoration of the natural environment, natural ecosystems, vegetation, and wildlife.
Ornithology is a branch of zoology that concerns the study of birds. Etymologically, the word ornithology derives from the ancient Greek ὄρνις ornis (bird) and λόγος logos (rationale or explanation). Several aspects of ornithology differ from related disciplines, due partly to the high visibility and the aesthetic appeal of birds. Many aspects of bird biology are difficult to study in the field. These include the study of behavioural and physiological changes that require a long duration of access to the bird. Non-destructive samples of blood or feathers taken during field studies may be studied in the laboratory.
Marine Biology is studied because we want to know more things about marine mammals and fish. Also to get to know the eco-system and the life of fish. With-out marine bio … logy we will not know anything about the ocean and what lies beneath it. 3 people found this useful. The first degree you would get to become a marine biologist is a Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology, or a Bachelor of Science in Biology with an emphasis in Marine Biology. … for further degrees you would need to go to graduate school to get your Master
Biology is the study of all living things, from microscopic organisms up to the largest lifeforms we know about. It's important to know how living things work, because humans … are living things. Knowing about biology helps you to understand how your own body works. The Study of Biology includes the study of Molecular /Ecology Biology,Cells, Living nonliving things, our environment, Genetics, Evolution, a little bit of Chemistry and … Physics, Behavioral Biology, Physiology,Geography, in short, all sciences combined make Biology-study of life. + 5 others found this useful.
Spectrology is the study of ghosts, phantoms or apparitions. Other words meaning the same are phantasmology or spookology. So I guess the person who studies ghosts woul … d be either A spectrologist, A phantasmologist, or A spookologist.. I hope this answer has helped, All the best. The Study of Biology includes the study of Molecular /Ecology Biology,Cells, Living nonliving things, our environment, Genetics, Evolution, a little bit of Chemistry and … Physics, Behavioral Biology, Physiology,Geography, in short, all sciences combined make Biology-study of life. + 5 others found this useful.