Although the modern era of what we now call the 'metabolic syndrome' or the 'insulin resistance syndrome' seems to have started less than two decades ago with the description of syndrome X by G.M. Reaven in the late 1980s, the history of this syndrome is much longer. The metabolic syndrome: a glance at its history. Sarafidis PA(1), Nilsson PM. Author information: (1)First Department of Medicine, AHEPA University Hospital, Aristotle University, Thessaloniki, Greece.
Metabolic Syndrome. A grouping of health conditions associated with an increased risk for heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Conditions include hypertension, a large waist, high triglyceride levels, low HDL cholesterol levels, and above-normal blood glucose levels. PubMed Health Glossary. About Metabolic Syndrome. Metabolic (met-ah-BOL-ik) syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for heart disease and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke. The term metabolic refers to the biochemical processes involved in the body's normal functioning
Metabolic syndrome is also known as metabolic syndrome X, cardiometabolic syndrome, syndrome X, insulin resistance syndrome, Reaven's syndrome (named for Gerald Reaven), and CHAOS (in Australia). Metabolic syndrome and prediabetes may be the same disorder, just diagnosed by a different set of biomarkers. The syndrome is thought to be caused by an underlying disorder of energy utilization and storage.
Bakersfield, CA. ...approximately 90% of overweight Hispanic children with a family history for type 2 diabetes have at least one feature of the metabolic syndrome and 30% possess the metabolic syndrome. That's not a startling idea, for we know that eating fatty or cholesterol-laden foods can be bad for our hearts. However, the Metabolic Syndrome culprit isn't red meat or butter, it's carbohydrates. Yet these carbohydrates are reluctant, inadvertent offenders.
The risk factors associated with diabetes were observed as early on as the 1920s, but the term “metabolic syndrome” was only coined in the 1950s and then became commonly used in the 1970s. He used the term in reference to the associations between obesity, diabetes mellitus, high blood lipids, a high uric acid level (predisposes to gout) and fatty liver disease (hepatic steatosis) and how the combined presence of these factors increase the risk of atherosclerosis developing.
Metabolic syndrome, that diabetes mellitus forms a part of was discovered by Dr Gerald Reaven's in 1988. Banting was honored by World Diabetes Day which is held on his birthday, November 14 staring 2007. It was known in the 17th century as the “pissing evil”. The term diabetes was probably coined by Apollonius of Memphis around 250 BC. Diabetes is first recorded in English, in the form diabete, in a medical text written around 1425. It was in 1675 that Thomas Willis added the word “'mellitus'” to the word diabetes.
Facts to Know. Metabolic syndrome is not a disease, but a clustering or constellation of health markers. To be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, you must have three of the following: Your waist measures more than 35 inches around (more than 40 inches in men). Your fasting blood glucose is 100 mg/dL or higher; or you're already taking medication because you have high blood glucose levels. The reason so many Americans have metabolic syndrome is related to three things: weight, lack of exercise and genetics. However, while you're more likely to have metabolic syndrome if you're overweight, not everyone who is overweight has it. And you can have it even if you are not overweight.
Metabolic syndrome is associated with the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Some studies have shown the prevalence in the USA to be an estimated 34% of the adult population, and the prevalence increases with age. Metabolic syndrome and prediabetes may be the same disorder, just diagnosed by a different set of biomarkers. The syndrome is thought to be caused by an underlying disorder of energy utilization and storage.
Metabolic Syndrome was discovered by Stanford University Professor and researcher Gerald Reaven, MD. That's not a startling idea, for we know that eating fatty or cholesterol-laden foods can be bad for our hearts. However, the Metabolic Syndrome culprit isn't red meat or butter, it's carbohydrates. Yet these carbohydrates are reluctant, inadvertent offenders.