Some persons break out with hives when emotionally upset or when under stress. If the cause of hives is not immediately known, one would do well to keep a detailed diary recording every single food item and drug that one ingests (including even over-the-counter preparations like aspirin). 
A. Urticaria, also known as hives, is an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of the body's reaction to certain allergens, or for unknown reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. Histamine is a chemical released from specialized cells along the skin's blood vessels. Allergic reactions, chemicals in certain foods, insect stings, sunlight exposure, or medications can all cause histamine release. It's often impossible to find out exactly why hives have formed.
Can Stress Cause Hives-A Biochemical Reaction. This is how hives happen: Chemicals called neurotransmitters in our cells warn other cells that change is occurring, and our bodies get ready for a fight-or-flight response. Even if you can’t cool off your emotions, you can try taking a cool bath. Some people use an oatmeal-based product, or use your own oatmeal by putting it in the food processor until it’s a fine powder. Or you can go to a sink and gently splash your face and neck. Pat your skin dry slowly and do not rub the hives. Another way to get rid of hives is to practice stress relief techniques. If you feel your emotions rising, it’s a good time to go for a walk
But it doesn’t do so entirely on its own. It's more likely that stress can cause or exacerbate and outbreak of hives. Hives are usually caused when the body responds to an allergen which prompts the release of histamine and thus the appearance of hives. In my dog this was caused by an insect sting. In people it can be cause by shellfish, nuts and plants, and antibiotics to name a few. For some people it is not their skin that is affected. In these people stress can trigger inflammation in their digestive track or respiratory tract (Houck, C. 1996). This can cause a slew of other stress related illnesses. It's important to remember that our skin frequently shows our emotions.
Certain food additives and preservatives can also trigger hives. A child may break out in hives because he's allergic to the protein in the food or because his body reacts to a chemical in the food by releasing histamine. Some children even develop hives simply from coming into contact with certain foods – for example, when the juice from a strawberry gets on their skin.
Cholinergic urticaria (heat hives) is a terrible condition in which the body will break out into a tingly, painful, but intensely itchy feeling when the person becomes hot, exercises, gets stressed out, nervous, or if the body temperature rises. Other symptoms of heat hives may include: 1  Red flushing during the breakout (like how your cheeks blush when you get embarrassed) on areas of the body. 2  Small hives or bumps (ranging from the size of tiny mole to the size the pupil of your eye) that may appear on the body.