Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin-hCG The most common test used to detect a pregnancy in the very early weeks uses hCG.The hCG hormone starts to be released into the woman's blood stream soon after the baby implants into the lining of her uterus at about 8 to 12 days after conception.
The timing of a positive pregnancy test depends on implantation. If you are pregnant, a urine pregnancy test is not expected to be positive until 3-4 days after implantation (at the very earliest), which is about 10 days after ovulation/fertilization and 4 days before the next period. About 51% of pregnant women have a positive pregnancy test 2 days before their next expected period.
Answer     A blood test should be able to pick up the HCG in your blood at about 7 days after conception.     Some pregnancy tests say they can pick up … HCG in your urine from about 7-10 days after conception, but most tests you have to wait to about 14 days-when your period is due.
How early pregnancy can be detected depends on the pregnancy hormone hcG which can be detected in the blood about three to four days after implantation. Urine hCG can be detected about two to three days after blood hCG can first be seen. Detection of hCG depends on timing of implantation, so hCG can normally be detected in the blood between nine and 16 days after ovulation (HPT: 12-19 days after ovulation).
as many of you would have just found out about a pregnancy I thought you be able to help. How long does it take for HCG levels to be detected by HPT after implantation. I have read some where that it can take 2-4 for HCG to be detected on blood tests and a further 2-3 days for urine tests.
This produces the hCG hormone which can now be detected in the blood and later in the urine. Implantation takes place when a fertilized egg is embedded into the inner wall of the uterus. This occurs about one week after your ovulation, although this may range from 6 to 12 days. It will take another 3 to 4 days (approximately 9 to 16 days post-ovulation) for your blood test to become positive. After 2 to 3 days an early urine test for pregnancy or a Home Pregnancy Test (HPT) may turn positive.