1-800-759-0856. The first thing you need to check is what kind of connection both your PC and receiver support. You can hook your PC to your stereo or home theater system using three kinds of connection: 1  Analog connection: This is the standard connection all PCs have. 2  If your PC and your sound system don’t have digital connection, this is the connection you will use. 3  Digital connection (coaxial): Use a single RCA-RCA cable. 1 If your PC and your sound system don’t have digital connection, this is the connection you will use. 2  Digital connection (coaxial): Use a single RCA-RCA cable. 3  Because it is digital, no noise is produced. 4  Not all PCs have this kind of connection. 5  Digital connection (optical): Uses a fiber optic cable.
1 Connect the other end of the cable either to the audio input port on your Mac, or, to your Mac-connected audio interface. 2  Turn on your home stereo. 3  Make sure your stereo is set to output via auxiliary. 4  From the Apple () menu, choose System Preferences, then click Sound. 1 Turn on your home stereo. 2  Make sure your stereo is set to output via auxiliary. 3  From the Apple () menu, choose System Preferences, then click Sound. 4  Click the Input tab and select your audio interface or the audio line In.
1 Connect the RCA connectors to your stereo receiver's auxiliary (Aux) output. ( 2 This may also be called Record or Tape Out on some receivers). 3  Connect the other end of the cable either to the audio input port on your Mac, or, to your Mac-connected audio interface. 4  Turn on your home stereo. 1 Turn on your home stereo. 2  Make sure your stereo is set to output via auxiliary. 3  From the Apple () menu, choose System Preferences, then click Sound. 4  Click the Input tab and select your audio interface or the audio line In.
I'd connect the speaker or headphone out from the PC to the AUX IN of your receiver. You might need a converter cable, but those are cheap to buy or easy to make. Read http://forums.cnet.com/7723-13973_102-580028/tv-sound-through-stereo-amplifier/ for a comparable case and note the comment by Bob in the last post of it. I cannot figure out how to connect my pc to stereo receiver in order to stream audio. I am on my second audio/video receiver, which replaced an older stereo receiver.
Figure 6: Cable connected to our home theater receiver (here we used the “MD/Tape In” input). Figure 7: Cable connected to a standard receiver (here we used the “Aux” input). Now just insert the other end of the cable to the green connector located on your PC. Figure 8: Connecting our PC to our receiver. Now everything is connected and should work just fine. 
2. Use the HDMI output of your GPU. (This is what I'd recommend if you're using a HDMI display). For option 1, connect the cable and set the 'Realtek digital output' as you default device, then right click it, go to properties, and in the rightmost tab select DTS or Dolby Digital or 5.1 (or something like that). - The monitor is connected to the computer via a VGA connection (VGA to GPU/HDMI to monitor). - The T.V is also connected to the computer via a VGA connection (VGA to GPU/HDMI to T.V). I've currently got the following set-up, - VGA/HDMI cable from GPU to HDMI 1 input on receiver. - HDMI/HDMI cable from receiver output to T.V input. The result is an extended display to my T.V. Although this is horrible for watching video on the T.V as the video becomes very choppy
Run an HDMI cable from your computer to one of the inputs on your receiver, make sure the desktop resolution isn't higher than your TV can handle (so 1920x1080 if you have a 1080p TV, but make sure it's actually 1080p and not a scaled 1080i), run the output to your TV... My receiver has just about every input and output you can think of. I can connect my computer to my Samsung tv via HDMI and that works. The problem with that set-up is that I can't push the sound through my stereo speakers which is why I want to run the connection through the Pioneer SC-27.
All you need to connect the PC to the stereo is a 3.5mm-to-RCA stereo cable, which costs a few quid from somewhere like Maplin. I can't see an 'Aux' connector on the back of my stereo. Not the end of the world. You can put your PC's audio output into almost any analogue input of a hi-fi amplifier. 
When you connect a PC to the receiver input via HDMI cable, make sure the resolution output from PC is a TV signal. The Television is capable of displaying some of PC resolutions. For the no audio issue with PC directly to TV/AV receiver, verify your connection from TV to Receiver (refer to TV’s operating manual). I have the hdmi cable coming from my laptop to the game hdmi on the receiver. With this connection I get sound, but no video. When I hook up the hdmi from my laptop to the tv, I get video, but no sound from my ht speakers...sound only from the tv speakers.