Iron Horses: The New American Railroad. When you hear the clatter of wheels and a shrill whistle, you know that a train is heading your way. But 200 years ago people wouldn't have known what to make of such sounds because trains weren't around at that time! At first, people were hesitant to ride on these new vehicles. Trains were noisy and smoky and sped along at a dizzying 20 to 30 miles per hour. Can you imagine how fast that must have seemed to someone who was used to traveling on land at about 3 miles per hour by foot, or 8 miles per hour in a horse-drawn carriage? Why do you think people called the new trains iron horses?
The use of rails offered reduced friction and guided the carriages so they didn't need to be steered. Horses provided the pulling power on these early tramroads or railroads. Cast iron rails were introduced in England in the 1770's, and a superior wrought Iron edge rail was introduced in the 1790's. Steel rails were introduced on the Pennsylvania Railroad in 1863, and by 1890 were in use on 80 percent of the railroads. Steel rail thickness is typically measured by the weight of a three foot section of rail. During the 1860's 62 to 78 lb. rail were commonly used.
The Railroad and the Iron Horse Affected Everyone in North America. The settlers of the West loved the train because they could get to their new lands quicker and more easily. The Native Americans hated the trains for the same reasons, and because when the tracks were laid the mountains and prairies were ruined. They were each laying up to 10 miles (16km) of line (that s what they called the tracks) a day. Telegraph wires ran alongside the train tracks. The telegraph lines sent back news of each day s total to each company. Much Faster Transportation Train travel was faster and more comfortable than going by stagecoach.
The Union Pacific started building tracks west from Omaha, Nebraska. The Central Pacific began building tracks east from Sacramento, California. They were each laying up to 10 miles (16km) of line (that s what they called the tracks) a day. Telegraph wires ran alongside the train tracks. The telegraph lines sent back news of each day s total to each company. Much Faster Transportation Train travel was faster and more comfortable than going by stagecoach.
Everything changed out west after the two sets of tracks became one and when the iron horse linked the Atlantic to the Pacific. I n the 1860s, railroads were built across North America. The railroad became very popular all across America. They were each laying up to 10 miles (16km) of line (that s what they called the tracks) a day. Telegraph wires ran alongside the train tracks. The telegraph lines sent back news of each day s total to each company. Much Faster Transportation Train travel was faster and more comfortable than going by stagecoach.
The Native Americans hated the railroad and they called it the iron horse because in the very beginning of the railroad the train cars were pulled on the tracks by horses. Later, when the steam locomotives were invented people were transported by the train as they had been by regular horses. They were each laying up to 10 miles (16km) of line (that s what they called the tracks) a day. Telegraph wires ran alongside the train tracks. The telegraph lines sent back news of each day s total to each company. Much Faster Transportation Train travel was faster and more comfortable than going by stagecoach.
The Topic: Railroads. Easier-A railroad is a system of transport made up of trains, tracks, stations, and other equipment. Because railroads can carry large cargo over great distances in a single trip, they use less fuel and produce less pollution than cars and trucks. The first modern railroads were built over 150 years ago. The first stream locomotive was built in England by Richard Trevithick in 1803. The 1800 mile transcontinental railroad linked the east and west coast of the United States in 1869.
Railroad tracks are used on railways (or railroads), which, together with railroad switches, guide trains without the need for steering. Tracks consist of two parallel steel rails, which are fastened to the ties with rail spikes or clips. Steel rails were introduced on the Pennsylvania Railroad in 1863, and by 1890 were in use on 80 percent of the railroads. Steel rail thickness is typically measured by the weight of a three foot section of rail. During the 1860's 62 to 78 lb. rail were commonly used.