Sear the lamb roast for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Do Not Cover the roast. The term boneless means the leg bone has been removed from the lamb roast. A boned, rolled, and tied or netted leg is easy to roast. You can easily find this type of lamb at most large grocery stores or super markets. For a generous serving of lamb roast, figure on 1/2 pound of lamb per serving.
1 Place leg of lamb on a rack in a roasting pan. 2  Preheat oven to 325 degrees and bake leg of lamb uncovered for 30 minutes per pound or until internal temperature reaches 120 to 130 degrees at the thickest point. 1
1 1 Heat the oven to 400°F and arrange a rack in the middle. 2  2 Finely grate the zest from the lemons. ( 3 If you’re using a vegetable peeler, finely chop the peeled zest.) Place the lemon zest, garlic, parsley, and measured oil in a medium bowl and season with salt and pepper. 
Directions: Add the wine to the saucepan with the lamb juices and bring to a boil, and cook until the stock is slightly reduced, about 5 minutes. NOTE: Au jus is not thick like a typical sauce or gravy. Add the butter and mix it in by swirling the pan. Season to taste with salt and pepper. The term boneless means the leg bone has been removed from the lamb roast. A boned, rolled, and tied or netted leg is easy to roast. You can easily find this type of lamb at most large grocery stores or super markets. For a generous serving of lamb roast, figure on 1/2 pound of lamb per serving.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place the oven rack in the lower third of the oven so the lamb will sit in the middle of the oven. Peel 6 of the cloves of garlic and place them in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the steel blade. Add the rosemary, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, and butter
Place in the bottom of a large roasting pan. Place the lamb on top of the potatoes and roast for 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours, or until the internal temperature of the lamb is 135 degrees (rare) or 145 degrees (medium). Remove from the oven and put the lamb on a platter; cover tightly with aluminum foil. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place the oven rack in the lower third of the oven so the lamb will sit in the middle of the oven. Peel 6 of the cloves of garlic and place them in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the steel blade.
Rub mixture over lamb; place in a large roasting pan. Let stand 30 minutes. 3. Preheat oven to 450°. Toss together potatoes and remaining 1 1/2 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. pepper, and 4 Tbsp. oil; place potatoes around lamb in roasting pan. 
Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Using your hands, rub the lamb all over with the lemon juice. Pat the garlic and rosemary evenly all over the surface of the meat. Season the meat with the salt and pepper and place the lamb in a roasting pan. Place the lamb in the oven and roast for 30 minutes.
1 boneless leg of lamb (about 4 to 5 lbs) 2 tablespoons fresh rosemary 2 tablespoons fresh thyme 2 tablespoons fresh oregano 4 cloves garlic Olive oil Salt & pepper. Preheat the oven to 450ºF. While the oven is heating, finely chop the herbs and garlic or use a food processor like we did. 
1 Season lamb with all the ingredients listed, making sure that they are evenly distributed. 2  Place leg of lamb on a rack in a roasting pan. 3  Preheat oven to 325 degrees and bake leg of lamb uncovered for 30 minutes per pound or until internal temperature reaches 120 to 130 degrees at the thickest point. 1