The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.. ~Article II, Section 4 of the United States Constitution. ~Impeachment Trial of President Andrew Johnson. He is the second and only other President in American History to be impeached. In both Presidential impeachments the Articles of impeachment were drawn and a criminal trial in the U.S. Senate proceeded. However, both Johnson and Clinton were acquitted of the charges and were not removed from office.
Two US Presidents have been impeached, but neither was removed from office. Both Presidents Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton were impeached by the US House of Representatives … , but acquitted (found not guilty of the charges) at trial in the Senate. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution. No US president was ever removed from office via the impeachment process, Two have been impeached and none have been removed from office. Zero. No presidents have ever been removed from office following impeachment.
The House Committee of Impeachment Managers in the Senate Chamber, Washington, D.C. “The President, Vice President and all Civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.”. — U.S. Constitution, Article II, section 4. 
So yes, he was impeached (charged with wrongdoing), but only by the House of Representatives, not by the entire Congress. And no, since the Senate failed to convict (found guilty) the President, he was not removed from office. President Johnson served out the remained of his term and left office on March 4, 1869. President Johnson was impeached for violating the Tenure of Office Act, but never removed from office. The Tenure of Office Act prohibited the President from firing any offi … cial who had been placed in office with the advice and consent of the Senate unless the Senate also approved the removal.
Bill Clinton was impeached by the House of Representatives but was not removed from office by the Senate. No president to date … has been removed from office. Richard Nixon was facing impeachment, but resigned the Presidency to avoid it. There have been 2 Presidents Impeached in the U.S. history. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution. No US president was ever removed from office via the impeachment process, Two have been impeached and none have been removed from office. Zero. No presidents have ever been removed from office following impeachment.
U.S. WASHINGTON, Dec. 19— William Jefferson Clinton was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice today by a divided House of Representatives, which recommended virtually along party lines that the Senate remove the nation's 42d President from office. 
On February 24, 1868, something extraordinary happened in the U.S. Congress. For the first time in history, the United States House of Representatives impeached a sitting president, Democrat Andrew Johnson. Now, Johnson faced trial before the U. S. Senate. If convicted, he would be removed from office.
Article II, Section 4 of the Constitution says, The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.. 
Standards for Impeachment. The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors. Section 4. The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.