INTRODUCTION The word adolescence is coined from the Latin verb ‘adolescere’ that implies “to grow into maturity”. Therefore adolescence can be regarded as a process. 
(The word teenager was coined in 1939.). A discussion of adolescence can be approached in many different ways and, similarly, there are numerous methods of interpreting it. In general, it is the product of attempts to adapt to the new conditions in which teenagers find themselves. In The Adolescent Society: The Social Life of the Teenagers and Its Impact on Education (1961), he stated that the characteristic aspects of youth culture were loyalty to one's peers and the gratuitousness of behavior, contrasting with the responsible behavior of adults.
During the time that G. Stanley Hall proposed the age of adolescence, which overlaps with today’s current views of the development of emerging adulthood, child labor laws were put into place that forbid children under the age of 16 from working (Henig, 2010). Unlike previous scholars who started the adolescent stage at age ten Hall felt that adolescence encompassed ages 14-24 (Arnett, 2006). Ultimately, G. Stanley Hall considered the stage of adolescence as merely a change in human experience (Keniston, 1971, p. 4-5).
EMERGING ADULTHOOD: BOOKS AND ARTICLES. Dr. Arnett’s main area of scholarship is emerging adulthood, the age period from the late teens to the mid-twenties. Dr. Arnett coined the term and presented a theory of emerging adulthood in a widely-cited article in American Psychologist in 2000.
G. Stanley Hall. In 1904, G. Stanley Hall published his monumental work called Adolescence: Its Psychology and Its Relations to Physiology, Anthropology, Sociology, Sex, Crime, Religion and Education. Unlike previous scholars who started the adolescent stage at age ten Hall felt that adolescence encompassed ages 14-24 (Arnett, 2006). Ultimately, G. Stanley Hall considered the stage of adolescence as merely a change in human experience (Keniston, 1971, p. 4-5).
The term adolescence was innovated into the social scientific literature by G. Stanley Hall in 1904. In general, the term indicates this period of development in the life of the individual between childhood and adulthood. In The Adolescent Society: The Social Life of the Teenagers and Its Impact on Education (1961), he stated that the characteristic aspects of youth culture were loyalty to one's peers and the gratuitousness of behavior, contrasting with the responsible behavior of adults.
Dr. Arnett’s main area of scholarship is emerging adulthood, the age period from the late teens to the mid-twenties. Dr. Arnett coined the term and presented a theory of emerging adulthood in a widely-cited article in American Psychologist in 2000. Dr. Arnett is the author of the popular textbooks Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood: A Cultural Approach (2010, Prentice Hall) and the newly published, Human Development: A Cultural Approach (2015, Pearson Education).
I think the term teen-ager started in the 1950s, before that it was bobby soxer and junior miss for girls and there was bright young thing in the 1930s. Adolescent was around longer than that but at the turn of the 20th century. they married younger so there was probably no transition from childhood to adulthood. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I believe it was coined in the 50's,when the demographic started to become recognized. Previous to that era, young people were considered to be more or less trainee adults, and in fact were often out working at an early age of 14-15.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I believe it was coined in the 50's,when the demographic started to become recognized. Previous to that era, young people were considered to be more or less trainee adults, and in fact were often out working at an early age of 14-15.