Report Something » Report Something. Facebook requires everyone to be at least 13 years old before they can create an account (in some jurisdictions, this age limit may be higher). Creating an account with false info is a violation of our terms. This includes accounts registered on the behalf of someone under 13..
The same goes for web-based email services including Google's GMail and Yahoo! Mail. If you're not 13 years old, you'll get this message when trying to sign up for a GMail account: Google could not create your account. In order to have a Google Account, you must meet certain age requirements..ote that we'll promptly delete the account of any child under the age of 13 that's reported to us through this form, the company states. Facebook is also working on a system that would allow children under 13 to create an account that would be linked to those held by their parents.
Facebook requires everyone to be at least 13 years old before they can create an account (in some jurisdictions, this age limit may be higher). Creating an account with false info is a violation of our terms. This includes accounts registered on the behalf of someone under 13. 
It depends on what email account you're using. I use 4 of the most common ones (Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail and AOL). To what I know, Hotmail doesn't have age limits (I have set up accounts for my children who's 10 and 12 and there doesn't seem to be any problems) , while Yahoo limits its users to only ages 18 and above. You can check for yourself if you use AOL because I'm not very sure. G-mail is 13 and older.
I am trying to create an email address on my account for my son who is not yet 13. We didn't know about the age limit earlier and he tried to set up an account with correct information. The system kicked him out due to age requirements.oogle does allow accounts for minors since anyone between 13 and 18 is legally a minor and the Terms of Service indicate that any person 13 and over may set up an account. I am not trying to set up a separate account for my 11-year-old, and therefore not asking for suggestions on how to violate the Terms of Service.
To what I know, Hotmail doesn't have age limits (I have set up … accounts for my children who's 10 and 12 and there doesn't seem to be any problems) , while Yahoo limits its users to only ages 18 and above. You can check for yourself if you use AOL because I'm not very sure. G-mail is 13 and older.
In theory, you have to be at least 13 years old before you can upload videos. That’s the minimum age for creating a Google account, thanks to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. The reality, though, is quite different. There are vast numbers of underage YouTubers uploading content.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The age limit for Answers is 13. The age limit for the US 360 site was recently lowered from 18, and the limit they amount of information that 13-17 year olds can display on their page as compared to what they allow for adults. Some of the international 360 sites have had an age limit of 13 for a lot longer. For the US site, you need to be 13 to sign up for your own Yahoo! ID without parental involvement.
Note that we'll promptly delete the account of any child under the age of 13 that's reported to us through this form, the company states. Facebook is also working on a system that would allow children under 13 to create an account that would be linked to those held by their parents.