The caliper presses the brake pad against the brake rotor, causing friction that slows down the car. During normal usage of the brakes, brake pads wear out and become thinner. If the thickness of brake pads is less than 3mm, it is time to change the pads. Depending on where you drive (city driving tends to wear pads out quicker) brake pads usually last between 30,000-35,000 miles. Some vehicles (eg. BMW’s) are equipped with a low-pad-warning system. In these vehicles, you will also need to replace the brake sensors as part of the brake pad service. 
Considering the cost of rotors these days, resurfacing and replacing can be as little as a $50 difference. If you’re just keeping your ship tight with regular brake maintenance, resurfacing is fine and will get you a few extra miles on your rotors. 
Rotors have a tolerance and have to be so thick or they cannot be resurfaced and need to be replaced. Four year old rotors should be OK You can also call up Pep Boys or Kragen or whatever parts store is in your area and ask them what new pads and rotors cost. Pads are pretty cheap and It might be cheaper to buy new rotors than resurfacing old ones. Repair places sometimes will triple the cost of parts or more, ESPECIALLY for girl if they think you don't know what things cost in the first place
it costs 55.00 per rotor and 30.00 for the brake pads. Front only 140.00 and rear obveously 140.00 Grand Total of 280.00 for the whole thing. Make sure that you need the rotors before you replace them though you may not need to replace them. Cost then only 60.00 bucks for the whole thing. If you are looking to do the work yourself, the parts are available at an auto parts store. Approx. $35 for each rotor (required for a front brake service) and approx. $40 for the front
Our recommendation: It is a good idea to get the thickness of brake rotors measured annually. Your mechanic should measure the rotor thickness every time the brake pads are replaced. Brake rotors usually last twice as long as brake pads, which usually means you need to replace rotors every other brake service. If you drive the car with worn-out brake pads for too long, you will destroy the rotors. A brake rotor is a smooth metal disc attached to the wheel hub. Most new cars (1999 and above) come with rotors at each wheel.
At most dealerships or other types of repair facilities, replacing your brake rotors, on average, will cost somewhere between $30 and $60 for each of the wheels. Replacing brake rotors is considered more labor intensive than just doing normal brake maintenance jobs, like replacing your brake pads. Making sure your brakes are safe is very important, so knowing brake rotors replacement cost is one thing you need to find out if you have to get it done on your car or truck.
Parts: $145 - $213. The average cost for a brake pad and rotor replacement is between $297 to $406. Labor costs are estimated between $152 to $193 while parts are priced between $145 to $213. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. Brake rotors should be measured at every brake pad replacement. If found to be at or below the manufacturer's minimum thickness specification, they will require replacement. These measurements should always be noted on your repair order. We recommend braking gently for the first 40 to 50 miles of driving on new pads.