Like all proteins, whey protein is made of building blocks called amino acids. Protein in the body is primarily used for muscle growth and to repair tissues. When people digest food, they break down the proteins into amino acids, and then use those amino acids to build new proteins. Body builders prize whey protein as a good source of the amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine. Together these amino acids make up the BCAAs (3-branched chain amino acids) that are important in building muscle.
Whey and Muscle Building. MayoClinic.com says, there is good evidence whey protein increases muscle mass and muscle strength. Whey protein powder is a complete protein, which means all the amino acids -- the building blocks of protein -- you need for protein to do its work are present. One key amino acid is leucine, which plays a vital role in promoting muscle building and grow
The Power of Protein. It's easy to understand the excitement. Protein is an important component of every cell in the body. Hair and nails are mostly made of protein. Your body uses protein to build and repair tissues. You also use protein to make enzymes, hormones, and other body chemicals. Protein is an important building block of bones, muscles, cartilage, skin, and blood. 
Protein is a major functional and structural component for the growth and repair of our cells. They are made up of long chains of amino acids, which are nutritionally essential and obtained by our diet and provide 10-15% of our dietary needs. 
Strength Training. If your goal is to build muscle, you will never achieve it without adding a good deal of protein to your life. While carbs and fats play significant roles in your overall energy, nothing is as important for muscles as protein. Here are four reasons you need to be using protein and protein powders for muscle building: Fat and carbs are turned into triglycerides and glucose, which your body burns for energy when you run, lift weights, cycle, or walk to work.
Delivering your body a constant supply of Protein throughout the entire day is essential for optimum muscle growth. Protein is made up of amino acids. Amino acids are the building blocks of your muscles and body. Without them, it would be impossible to build, repair or even maintain muscle tissue. Protein is made up of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen. Having a sufficient amount of protein will put you in a positive nitrogen balance, or an anabolic state
Protein is needed to repair the damage to your muscle fibers, but it also is necessary in order to lengthen and expand the muscle fibers. That is why protein is so crucial to muscle growth, because, in essence, that expansion and lengthening of muscle fibers is the visible growth that you see. As you can see, protein is a vital nutrient for not only overall health, but also specifically for muscle building. Here are four reasons you need to be using protein and protein powders for muscle building: Fat and carbs are turned into triglycerides and glucose, which your body burns for energy when you run, lift weights, cycle, or walk to work.
Meat, fish and dairy foods such as cottage cheese, yogurt, turkey and tuna are the best foods for making protein needed for muscle growth. Beans, lentils and vegetables are another source of good protein for muscle growth. Eating these foods before, during and after putting your body through a full day of work will help you maintain your energy levels and keep your muscles growing. Shares & Saves. Save. Protein is necessary for the body to repair itself and to achieve muscular growth. Amino acids create protein in the body. A balanced diet, rich in meat, vegetables and dairy, has the necessary amino acids that will allow your body to build the protein to create muscle.
1 Whey protein is very easily digested and utilized by the body. 2  Biological Value (BV) is a term you will see used often with regards to protein powders. 3  BV is a measure of the efficiency with which protein can be absorbed and utilized by the body for tissue growth-the higher the value the greater the efficiency. In the muscle building diet, it is often the relatively high levels of prescribed protein consumption that trainers have a difficult time achieving. Whey protein powders offer a quick and quality protein source to bodybuilders.