The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) is a coalition of police units and associations from across the United States. NAPO was organized for the purpose of advancing the interests of America’s law enforcement officers through legislative advocacy, political action, and education.
The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) is a coalition of police units and associations from across the United States. NAPO was organized for the purpose of advancing the interests of America's law enforcement officers through legislative advocacy, political action, and education. Founded in 1978, NAPO is the strongest unified voice supporting law enforcement officers in
Our purpose as law enforcement officers, every time we put that badge on, is to go out and preserve our uniquely American way of life by enforcing, or not enforcing, our laws in accord with our oaths to our Constitutions.
The purpose of training in law enforcement is to keep officers  unified and educated. The officer may require training in the area  of legal responsibilities when laws chang … e. Training may also be  required when the department obtains new equipment for the officers  to use.
History, Purpose, and Operations. HISTORY. In the mid 1950’s, local and state law enforcement agencies in the United States recognized that no single agency or organization was responsible for receiving, collating, maintaining, and disseminating information on persons involved in organized crime.
Types of Law Enforcement Agencies. There are many different types of law enforcement agencies, from small town police departments to large federal agencies. The types of jobs available will depend on the type of agency, its mission, size, and jurisdiction.
A federal law enforcement agency is an organizational unit, or subunit, of the federal government with the principle functions of prevention, detection, and investigation of crime and the apprehension of alleged offenders.
It is very easy for law enforcement officers to lose sight of their purpose; with 6 years of experience as a police officer and Deputy PA State Constable I know this to be true.