Picture of the gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pea
The gallbladder is an organ which is situated in the upper right quadrant of the abdomen, below the liver. The main function of this pear-shaped, sac-like organ is to store and secrete bile, which is a digestive enzyme manufactured by the liver. Gallbladder pain can be caused due to a variety of reasons. 1 Other symptoms of the condition include nausea, gallbladder pain, vomiting, and pain in the abdomen post meals. 2  Choledocholithiasis: It is another cause of gallbladder pain. 3  When a single or more gallstones are present in the common bile duct then the disorder is known as choledocholithiasis.
Gallbladder – location, pain, function, pictures. The gallbladder is a hollow organ occurring just below the liver. In adults, its length is about 3.1 inches or 8cm, and measures about 1.6 inches or 4 cm in diameter, when completely distended. The gallbladder comprises of three parts, i.e. the fundus, body and neck
Front View of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. In response to signals, the gallbladder squeezes stored bile into the small intestine through a series of tubes called ducts. Bile helps digest fats, but the gallbladder itself is not essential.
Hepatobiliary (HIDA) scan —A radioactive dye is injected into the arm, and pictures are then taken of the ... Internet Address: http://www.sages.org/. ... Additionally, the main page features links to indepth sites on nine conditions and procedures, including gallbladder surgery. Humans: (Image 2 of 2); Gallbladder Location Picture : (Image 1 of 2); Gallbladder Location Picture : (Image 2 of 2 ... Ingrown Hair Infection Pictures : (Image 2 of 3); Ingrown Hair Infection Pictures : (Image 3 of 3 ... Iron Rich Foods Chart: (Image 1 of 3); Itchy Skin Rash Images : (Picture 1 of ...
Gallbladder Pain Location. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, small organ on the right side of the abdomen, just underneath the liver. Location of gallbladder pain includes the right shoulder, between the shoulder blades, center of the abdomen below the breast bone. 
Front View of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear.
In this article. Gallstones form in the gallbladder, a small organ located under the liver. The gallbladder aids in the digestive process by storing bile and secreting it into the small intestine when food enters. 