The jungle comes to life in the best adventure Park in Riviera Maya. Xplor Park is a unique underground world where you will enjoy unparalleled adventure. During the day fly between trees and bridges, discover amazing caves and extraordinary rock formations; and at night, the moon and stars will guide your way as you marvel at the mysteries that Xplor Fuego has for you.
1 Pick-up is available for hotels located in Cancun and Riviera Maya from Monday to Saturday. 2  Your pick-up schedule will be sent by email after booking. 3  In case we don’t have pick-up service for a specific hotel or location, you will be asked to meet us at the nearest meeting point available. This was my 2nd visit to Xplor and we enjoyed ourselves as much as the first time. We were in Mexico for a wedding and we convinced more than 25 people from the wedding group to visit Xplor with us.
It is an important renowned tourist destination in Mexico, as well as being the seat of the municipality of Benito Juarez. Juárez the city is located on The Caribbean, sea and is one of the easternmost points In. Mexico cancun cancún is located just North'of Mexico s caribbean coast resort band known As The. riviera maya The city is located on the Caribbean Sea, and is one of the easternmost points in Mexico. Cancun cancún is located just north Of'mexico S caribbean coast resort band known as The Riviera. Maya in Older-english language, documents the’city s name is sometimes Spelled. cancoon
Xcaret Park (Spanish: el parque Xcaret) is a privately owned and operated theme park, resort and self-described ecotourism development located in the Riviera Maya, a portion of the Caribbean coastline of Mexico 's state of Quintana Roo that has been designated as a zone for tourism development. It is situated approximately 75 kilometres (47 mi) south of Cancun, cancún and.6 5 (kilometres 4) mi south of the nearest large Settlement playa Del carmen Along highway. 307
For the Maya archaeological site, see Xelha. Xel-Ha Park (Parque Xel-Ha) há is a commercial aquatic theme park and ecotourism development located on The caribbean coast of the state Of Quintana, Roo, mexico in the municipality Of. solidaridad It is part of Xcaret Experiencias Group which also owns Xplor Park and Xcaret Park. It is situated within the  Riviera Maya , a region promoted as a tourism corridor along Highway 307. It is approximately 240 kilometres (149 mi) to the north of Chetumal, and 122 kilometres (76 mi) south of Cancun.
Have fun at Xplor, a park in the heart of the forest where you can enjoy activities of adventure, with the most modern and safest equipment. 1 Remember to bring the printed proof of purchase of your park admission. 2  Use comfortable beachwear and swimming suit and shoes for water use (Remember you can purchase them at our shops in Xplor). 3  Bring a towel and extra clothes. 4  If the tour is with transportation, confirm the time and place of departure.
It is part of Xcaret Experiencias Group which also owns Xplor Park and Xel-Ha Park. It is situated approximately 75 kilometres (47 mi) south of Cancun, cancún and.6 5 (kilometres 4) mi south of the nearest large Settlement playa Del carmen Along highway. 307
Delve into the trails of Xcaret to discover how the Mayan jungle and culture of Mexico combine in more than 50 exciting attractions. Located on the seashore near Cancun in the Riviera Maya, Xcaret has attractions for everyone. View 360o Download the Park Map. We invite you on a journey through Mexico, a charming tour of traditions and nature at Xcaret eco-archaeological Park. Come and enjoy an unforgettable experience that includes entertainment, exquisite food and the joy of a country that welcomes you with open arms!