It’s unclear whether the lichen moths are the former or the latter, although at least one species–the black-and-yellow lichen moth (Lycomorpha pholus)–is a mimic of distasteful net-winged beetles, and members of the very closely related and similarly aposematic tiger moth group are unpalatable.
Introduction. The black and yellow lichen moth, Lycomorpha pholus (Drury), is a member of the subfamily Arctiinae, tiger moths and woolly bears. The common names of the subfamily refer to the bright wing color patterns found in adults and the long setae covering many of its caterpillars. Figure 1.
A: You’ll notice that the lichen moths, those that are colored, are mostly yellow/orange/red and black. Typically in the insect kingdom this combination of flame-family colors with black is an indication of distastefulness–a visual warning to potential predators not to waste their time.
The black and yellow lichen moth is also a member of the tribe Lithosiini (subfamily Arctiinae), the lichen moths. The common name of the tribe refers to the frequent choice of lichens as food sources by the caterpillars. Like other tiger moths, the lichen moths are also most common in the Neotropics.
The black and yellow lichen moth, Lycomorpha pholus (Drury), is a member of the subfamily Arctiinae, tiger moths and woolly bears. The common names of the subfamily refer to the bright wing color patterns found in adults and the long setae covering many of its caterpillars. Figure 1.
The black and yellow lichen moth is also a member of the tribe Lithosiini (subfamily Arctiinae), the lichen moths. The common name of the tribe refers to the frequent choice of lichens as food sources by the caterpillars. Like other tiger moths, the lichen moths are also most common in the Neotropics.
Adult lichen moths can be recognised by their wing colouration, and the way they hold their wings. Many rest with the wings rolled around the abdomen rather than holding them in the shape of a roof, leading to the common name of footman. Adult moths often have bright orange, yellow, red, black and white wing markings.
Lichen moths have it all!! Toxins, aposematism, attitude, thoracic tympana and ultrasonic emanations, sensory setae, fecal flicking, mimicry, and even cannibalism! What an insect!! Taxonomic Lumpers and Splitters have been working on the moths again.
Packard's lichen moth is a small, colorful moth with a wingspan of 14-19 mm. It has gray forewings with pink and yellow areas. On the anterior margin of each forewing, a thin yellow line merges with a rounded pink patch near the apex.