Owen /owen/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced OH-en. It is of Scottish and Greek origin, and the meaning of Owen is born of yew; youth. Variant of Eoghan. Also variant of the Latin name Eugenius (see Eugene). It may also derive from an old Celtic name meaning born of Esos, referring to a god with a cult in Gaul. 
The name Owen is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Owen is: or Eugene. Greek Meaning: The name Owen is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Owen is: Well-born. Famous bearer: Prince Eugene of Savoy. Welsh Meaning: The name Owen is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Owen is: Young warrior. Also can be a Well-born.
Notes: Owen is a name with Welsh origins. The meaning of the name Owen is Desire Born. An alternative spelling is Owain. Common nicknames for the name Owen include Owe, Wayne, and Wen. Famous men with the name Owen include actors Owen Wilson and Owain Yeoman. Authors named Owen include Owen Davis and Owen Wister. 
Owen is an anglicized variant of the Welsh name Owain, and may appear as both a personal name and as a surname (with or without the s as in Owens [son of Owen]). It can also be an anglicised version of the Irish Eoghan. 
Owens is a traditional Welsh surname found in the UK. The name's original roots come from Wales. Owens, son of Owen, is an old personal name from Latin Eugenius or Audoenus. Historically in Welsh Owen is spelt Owain. It can also be found in Ireland (especially in Ulster) as an anglicisation of the surname McKeown. 
Last Name Meaning & Genealogy Links for the Surname OWEN. Meaning & Origin: Derived from the Welsh first name Owain, probably from the Latin Eugenius and Greek Eugenious meaning well born or noble - similar to the first name, Eugene. The plural OWENS may be a patronymic form of OWEN (meaning son of Owen), or just a variant spelling. Surname Origin: Welsh.
Report Abuse. Owens Last name origins & meanings: Welsh: patronymic from Owen, with English patronymic-s. Irish: adopted as an Anglicized form by bearers of the Gaelic surname Mac Eoghain (see McEwen). 
The boy's name Owen o-wen is pronounced OH-en. It is of Welsh and Greek origin, and its meaning is well-born, noble. Variant of Eugene. Also possibly variant of Eoghan (Gaelic) youth. Owen is an anglicized variant of the Welsh name Owain. Owain is  probably a Welsh form of Eugene (well-born'), although it might be  derived from Welsh eoghunn meaning you … th.. Owen may also  be derived from Eoghan which possibly means born from the yew  tree in Irish.
It is a patronymic of Owen, which is derived either from the ancient Celtic personal name Owain, adapted from the Latin Eugenius, meaning well-born, or from the Old Welsh word oen, meaning the lamb. Given the warrior status of the clan, this seems an unlikely explanation. 