SOUTH LAKELAND TOURIST INFORMATION. Broughton Tourist Information Centre for advise on accommodation, Self Catering, B&B, pubs, local shops, where to eat and drink and helpful advice on holiday attractions activities and adventure in the Lake District. e mail: broughtontic@btconnect.com. Please click on the icon above for our Monthly Draw information.
Broughton Castle was one of many fabulous locations used for BBC2’s Wolf Hall series starring Damien Lewis, Mark Rylance and Claire Foy. Filming took place in 2014 and the series is showing on BBC2 in Jan/Feb 2015, and on PBS from April 2015. Broughton Castle is a moated and fortified manor house near Banbury in North Oxfordshire. The core of the house was built in 1306 and the gatehouse in the early fifteenth century, but most of what you see today dates from the 1550’s.
There are 3 schools in Broughton: Broughton Pre-School was founded in 1968 and caters for children aged 2–8. Broughton Church of England Primary School is voluntary-aided and next to St John's Church. It was founded in 1590 and is the oldest primary school in the UK. Broughton has several unique claims. The Broughton C of E primary school is the oldest in the country, being built in 1590 and it is the only parish in the UK to have a fire, police and ambulance headquarters within its own boundaries.
Broughton Rifle Barrels / North Manufacturing Co., Inc. is dedicated to crafting one of the Premier Stainless Steel Rifle Barrels in the U.S.A utilizing the 5C ® process. 
Broughton is a village and civil parish in the City of Preston, Lancashire, England, about 4 miles (6 km) north of Preston city centre. According to the 2001 census it had a population of 1,735. Broughton has several unique claims. The Broughton C of E primary school is the oldest in the country, being built in 1590 and it is the only parish in the UK to have a fire, police and ambulance headquarters within its own boundaries.
The parish is included in Preston Rural East ward of Preston city council, and the Preston Rural division of Lancashire County council. The parish (historically also known as Broughton-in-Amounderness) was part of Preston Rural District throughout its existence from 1894 to 1974. In 1974 the parish became part of the Borough of Preston, which became a city in 2002. Broughton has several unique claims. The Broughton C of E primary school is the oldest in the country, being built in 1590 and it is the only parish in the UK to have a fire, police and ambulance headquarters within its own boundaries.
detailed map of Broughton and near places. Welcome to the Broughton google satellite map! This place is situated in Milton Keynes, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 52° 3' 0 North, 0° 41' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Broughton. See Broughton photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Broughton in United Kingdom.
Broughton Archipelago Provincial Park. Broughton Archipelago Park, B.C.’s largest marine park, consists of a wonderful collection of dozens of undeveloped islands and islets situated at the mouth of Knight Inlet on the west side of Queen Charlotte Strait near the north end of Vancouver Island. Established in 1992, Broughton Archipelago Park offers excellent boating, kayaking and wildlife viewing opportunities. A multitude of islands provides park visitors sheltered waters and anchorages with a backdrop of the magnificent coastal mountains to the east and the waters of Queen Charlotte Strait to the west.