1 The cost of spaying, a more complicated surgery, usually ranges from about $50 to $175. 2  Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 3  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
1 Spaying a pregnant dog costs about $50 to $125 extra. 2  Laser surgery can reduce pain, bleeding and swelling, and can be more precise, but costs between one-quarter and one-third more. 3  Most veterinarians offer the option of pre-anesthesia blood work, to make sure the liver and kidneys are working properly, for about $40. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
1 Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 2  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
1 The cost of your pet's spay/neuter surgery is a lot less than the cost of having and caring for a litter. 2  You may even qualify for FREE or Low Cost services! 3  It also beats the cost of treatment when your unneutered dog or cat escapes and gets into fights with the neighborhood stray! 
The Spay and Neuter Clinic at the Seattle Animal Shelter is committed to providing compassionate and quality care to your pet and low-cost spay and neuter surgeries to any dog or cat in need. Our promise is to take good care of both you and your pet. 
Neutering just costs too much! The cost of caring for a pet, including providing veterinary care, should be considered before acquiring an animal. Many animal shelters offer low-cost spay/neuter services, and there are also many low-cost spay/neuter clinics across the country. To find low-cost options in your area, call your local animal shelter.
We offer low cost spay and neuter surgeries in the Animal Care League’s Clinic at 1011 Garfield, Oak Park, IL. All surgery is done by appointment and is performed by a licensed Veterinarian. Animal must be at least 2 months (8 weeks) of age and weigh at least 2lbs. To schedule an appointment please call 708-848-8155. 1 If your dog is in heat you will be asked to reschedule your appointment. 2  We perform spay and neuter for dogs for $110. 3  We currently offer spay and neuter of cats for only $35 for a spay/$25 for a neuter. 4  We require that all pets have proof that they are current on their Distemper vaccinations.
It costs approximately 1,000 Baht ($30 USD) to spay or neuter one animal. This includes: 1  Drugs and surgical supplies. 2  Vets fees. 3  Nurse fee. 4  Dart and anaesthetic for catching. 5  Dog catchers. 6  Vehicle costs and fuel. 7  Clinic overheads. 
1 Costs for dogs are $50 to $100 based on weight and gender. 2  spay or neuter clinic hours and information: 3  Patient drop off: 8-8:30 am Monday-Thursday. 4  Only a limited number of pets will be taken daily. The City of Albuquerque Animal Welfare Department offers free spay or neuter services for the cats and dogs of low-income and moderate-income Albuquerque residents. Surgeries are offered on Tuesday and Thursday at the East Side Animal Shelter Veterinary Clinic.