A NRTL’s scope of recognition is the specific safety test standards which it applies for, and that OSHA approves. Other scope areas include the specific testing locations and the supplemental programs that OSHA has recognised for the NRTL. The requirements for products that require ‘ approval ’ by a NRTL can be found in 29 CFR Part 1910, which shows electric products covered, and in some Safety Standards in Parts 1915, 1918, and 1926. These standards apply to workplaces under OSHA's jurisdiction that are not covered by other standards
No. In fact, this misconception has misled many to believe that they don’t have a choice in third-party testing partners. The only major requirement is that the laboratory performing the testing is an OSHA-recognized NRTL. The ETL Listed Mark serves as an indicator of compliance with applicable product safety standards. 
Type of Products Requiring NRTL Approval. The following categories of materials/equipment (products) are required to be approved by a NRTL, per provisions of the General Industry Standards (Part 1910 of Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations - 29 CFR Part 1910). Materials/equipment that are similar in type are grouped together. 1 Self-closing fire doors (including frames and hardware) used in openings into an exit. 2  Flame arresters, check valves, hose (transfer stations), portable tanks and safety cans - (flammable/combustible liquids). 3  Pumps and self-closing faucets (for dispensing Class I liquids).
Again, as ITS ETL SEMKO is an NRTL recognized by OSHA, the ETL Listed Mark is an accepted alternative to UL and, as such, inspectors and AHJs are required by law to recognize, acknowledge, and accept the mark as proof of product compliance. Both marks demonstrate that the product that bears it has met the minimum requirements of widely accepted product safety standards as determined through the independent testing of a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL).
An NRTL functions to provide independent evaluation, testing, and certification of any electrically operated or gas-and oil-fired product. ETL is recognized as an NRTL in the United States and, in a similar capacity, as a Testing Organization and Certifying Body in Canada by the Standards Council of Canada. A product bearing the ETL Listed Mark is determined to have met the minimum requirements of prescribed product safety standards. Inform them about the NRTL program. Explain to them how the ETL Product Safety Certification Program includes the same testing, listing, labeling, and follow-up inspection services as UL, and that it’s accredited by the same organizations, agencies, and regulatory bodies.
OSHA's Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL) Program. Recognizes private sector organizations to perform certification for certain products to ensure that they meet the requirements of both the construction and general industry OSHA electrical standards.
You cannot be sure about selling in the US without an NRTL mark (it doesn't have to be UL per se, but has to be a recognized mark). You can be sure that if the product has a recognized mark, you can sell it. We have a $4.5M medical device and the City of Baltimore wanted UL, CSA or MET Labs so we gave MET Labs the TUV test reports and a check for a few thousand dollars and they gave us an approval. UL is a pain to work with, I would go with CSA before UL (even though CSA is Canadian they can grant US NRTL marks in general).
What is the difference between the ETL Listed Mark and those issued by our competitors? Certification marks – like the ETL Listed Mark – demonstrate compliance to the requirements of widely accepted product safety standards, as determined through independent testing and periodic follow-up inspections by an NRTL. The ETL Listed Mark indicates to distributors, retailers and customers that your product has been tested by Intertek and found in compliance with accepted national standards.
OSHA, an agency of the Department of Labor, publishes a list of Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories. Organizations currently recognized by OSHA as NRTLs: 1  Canadian Standards Association (CSA) (also known as CSA International). 2  Communication Certification Laboratory, Inc. (CCL). The testing and certification are done to U.S. consensus-based product safety test standards. These test standards are not developed or issued by OSHA, but are issued by U.S. standards organizations, such as the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).