The Rime of Ancient Mariner is one of the most famous three poems of S. T. Coleridge. The poem was planned by Wordsworth and Coleridge on the afternoon of the 20th November, 1797, when they were walking in the Quantocks. This is true in Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s poem, “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.” This poem is an allegory that symbolizes the inherent struggle of humans facing the ideas of sin and redemption.
Some of Coleridge's contemporaries denounced the poem and questioned his story of its origin. It was not until years later that critics began to openly admire the poem. Most modern critics now view Kubla Khan as one of Coleridge's three great poems, along with The Rime of the Ancient Mariner and Christabel. The poem is considered one of the most famous examples of Romanticism in English poetry. A copy of the manuscript is a permanent exhibit at the British Museum in London.
DOI:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198117506.003.0006 This chapter considers the meaning of ‘The Rime of the Ancient Mariner’, Coleridge's poem that serves as one of the culture's standard texts for introducing students to poetic interpretation. 
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner (originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere) is the longest major poem by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads. Modern editions use a revised version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner relates the experiences of a sailor who has returned from a long sea voyage. The mariner stops a man who is on the way to a wedding ceremony and begins to narrate a story.
The Rime of Ancient Mariner is one of the most famous three poems of S. T. Coleridge. The poem was planned by Wordsworth and Coleridge on the afternoon of the 20th November, 1797, when they were walking in the Quantocks. Read the full answer FREE at. http://josbd.com/coleridge_3.html. 
Back to Menu. Back to Literature. When analysing 'The Rime of the Ancient Mariner' by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, many theories as to the poems meaning and objective may be dwelled upon. The personally perceived theory about the true, original meaning of 'The Rime of the Ancient Mariner' by Samuel Taylor Coleridge presented here, better fits what I would consider to be a balanced, inclusive account of all aspects of the poem, than that of the Christians.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge The Wedding-Guest is spell-bound by the eye of the old seafaring man, and constrained to hear his tale. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner in seven parts He holds him with his glittering eye-- Facile credo, plures esse Naturas invisibiles quam visibiles in rerum universitate. 
The albatross to sailors is a sign of good luck, and sailors everywhere for centuries are very superstitious people, so they look for signs. In the poem, however, the albatross is the symbol of the curse, and the origin of the popular saying hang an albatross around his neck. In many ways it is the actual killing of the albatross that comes to have great meaning in the poem, but the albatross itself has always been linked to a number of things in nautical society.