Among the plants notable for their essential oils and used as a source of fragrances and flavorings, are members of the following plant families. 1  carrot family (anise, dill, angelica). 2  ginger family (cardamom, ginger). 3  laurel family (cinnamon, camphor). Photo by Teresa Prendusi. Arrowleaf balsamroot (Balsamorhiza sagittata). Essential oils are produced in various parts of a plant such as in the flower, seeds, bark, root, leaves, resin, or wood and can be responsible for the distinctive odor or flavor of a plant.
First, the quality of the plant material that is used to produce the essential oil is critical. Plant sources should be either certified organic or wild. Wild plant sources should be from a clean environment, and plants should not have been exposed to chemical fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides. The plants that are used as the raw material for essential oils must be healthy and clean. The processing methods must preserve the natural qualities of the essential oil. The essential oil that results must be 100% natural and 100% pure.
Essential oils carry the essence of the plants in such a potent form that a single drop of essential oil can equal multiple teaspoons of the dried herb (for instance, 1 drop of peppermint oil equals more than 25 cups of peppermint tea and oils can be up to 70x more potent than their dried herbal form). The essential oils that are extracted from plant leaves, flowers, stems, roots, or bark are incredible tools for us to use in our everyday lives, and when we are looking for natural and healthy solutions in a more potent form.
Amend the soil with lavender oil. This will improve growing conditions for all plants and is a good compost material. Mix 2 to 3 drops into the soil surrounding plants. Use the same amount in small compost materials. In the spring, mulch all plants with the compost to encourage growth. Organic gardening is becoming more popular with the use of organic materials such as manure for fertilizer and household products as weed killers. Essential oils have a place in the garden as well. Various essential oils are used as a pesticide and are very effective. Make your own pesticide with different essential oils
Essential oils are volatile and liquid aroma compounds from natural sources, usually plants. Essential oils are not oils in a strict sense, but often share with oils a poor solubility in water. Essential oils often have an odor and are therefore used in food flavoring and perfumery. 
Use spearmint oil with the water and liquid soap in the spray bottle, and spray garden plants to control ants, aphids, caterpillars, moths, gnats, black flea beetle and plant lice. It is important to use the liquid soap in all applications as the soap acts as an adherent so the oils will stick to the insects. Organic gardening is becoming more popular with the use of organic materials such as manure for fertilizer and household products as weed killers. Essential oils have a place in the garden as well. Various essential oils are used as a pesticide and are very effective. Make your own pesticide with different essential oil
Only the highest quality essential oils have the capacity to promote healing. The plants that are used as the raw material for essential oils must be healthy and clean. The processing methods must preserve the natural qualities of the essential oil. The essential oil that results must be 100% natural and 100% pure.
The links on your left will take you to articles on individual essential oils and their uses, recipes for bath oils and creams, information on herbs, plants, famous aromatherpists and herbalists, medical matters and methods of use. You can also buy books and Essential Oils online. FEATURED ARTICLE TEA TREE. 