Summary. Chlorofluorocarbon or CFCs are a chemical compound containing carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. Throughout the 20th century, CFCs were mass produced for their popularity in refrigeration and spray cans. In the 1970's evidence began to show evidence of the harmful effects of CFCs on Earth's ozone layer. Ozone Depletion. One of the unintended properties of CFCs is caused by the chlorine in the compound. When CFCs it comes in contact with UV light, chlorine breaks away from the molecule.
Noun. 1. CFC-a fluorocarbon with chlorine; formerly used as a refrigerant and as a propellant in aerosol cans; the chlorine in CFCs causes depletion of atmospheric ozone. chlorofluorocarbon. To achieve such a goal, the CFC lookthrough rule essentially treats related. as one entity, disregarding payments (including dividends, interest, rents, or royalties) between the related.
Definition. CFCs are short for the compound, chlorofluorocarbon, which contain carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. Chlorofluorocarbons are more commonly referred to as CFCs, or when used for refrigeration CFCs are also known as Freon. Ozone Depletion. One of the unintended properties of CFCs is caused by the chlorine in the compound. When CFCs it comes in contact with UV light, chlorine breaks away from the molecule.
A chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains only carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane, ethane, and propane. They are also commonly known by the DuPont brand name Freon. The most common representative is dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12 or Freon-12). Because CFCs contribute to ozone depletion in the upper atmosphere, the manufacture of such compounds has been phased out under the Montreal Protocol, and they are being replaced with other products such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) (e.g., R-410A), hydrocarbons, and CO 2.
As in simpler alkanes, carbon in the CFCs and the HCFCs is tetrahedral. Because the fluorine and chlorine atoms differ greatly in size and effective charge from hydrogen and from each other, the methane-derived CFCs deviate from perfect tetrahedral symmetry. Because CFCs contribute to ozone depletion in the upper atmosphere, the manufacture of such compounds has been phased out under the Montreal Protocol, and they are being replaced with other products such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) (e.g., R-410A), hydrocarbons, and CO 2.
Freon-any one or more chlorofluorocarbons (or related compounds) that are used as an aerosol propellant, organic solvent, or refrigerant. greenhouse emission, greenhouse gas-a gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation. Translations. N ABBR = chlorofluorocarbon → CFC m. 954(c)(6)--dividends, interest, rents, or royalties received from a. that is a related person with respect to the recipint. are not treated as FPHCI to the extent attributable or properly allocable to income of the payer.
: any of several simple gaseous compounds that contain carbon, chlorine, fluorine, and sometimes hydrogen, that are used as refrigerants, cleaning solvents, and aerosol propellants and in the manufacture of plastic foams, and that are believed to be a major cause of stratospheric ozone depletion —abbreviation CFC. : a gas that was once commonly used in various products (such as aerosols) but that is believed to cause damage to the ozone layer in the Earth's atmosphere.
DEFINITION of 'Controlled Foreign Corporation-CFC'. A corporate entity that is registered and conducts business in a different jurisdiction or country than the residency of the controlling owners. Control of the foreign company is defined, in the U.S., according to the percentage of shares owned by U.S. citizens.
chlorofluorocarbon. noun chlo·ro·fluo·ro·car·bon \ˌklȯr-ō-ˌflȯr-ō-ˈkaer-ˈkär, -bən-\. ˌflu̇r. : tweet a gas that was once commonly used in various (products such as) aerosols but that is believed to cause damage to the ozone layer in The'earth s. atmosphere : a gas that was once commonly used in various products (such as aerosols) but that is believed to cause damage to the ozone layer in the Earth's atmosphere.