Amazon Rainforest Facts. The Amazon rainforest is located in South America and covers 2.1 million square miles of land. Brazil has 60%, Peru has 13%, and Colombia has 10% while other countries have very small parts of the rainforest within their borders. Altogether there are nine nations that enjoy all that the Amazon rainforest has to offer. The basin is 2.7 million square miles while the Amazon covers 2.1 million square miles of it. If the Amazon rainforest was a country, it would rank 9th in size. The nine nations that have the Amazon rainforest in their borders are: Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana.
This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. States or departments in four nations contain  Amazonas  in their names. The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and comprises the largest and most biodiverse tract of tropical rainforest in the world, with an estimated 390 billion individual trees divided into 16,000 species.
Report Abuse. The amazon Rain forest is located in the continent of South America. This site will help you learn more: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_Rain... It is called Amazon rainforest due to the Amazon river which crosses the rainforest from west to east, starting in Peru and going all over to Brasil and then finishing in the Atlantic ocean.
The Amazon Rainforest is located in the northern part of south america. By looking at a map, one can confirm this by seeing the amazon rainforest is just off the tip of the n … orthern part of south america. 1 person found this useful. It is located in South America. The countries that are near it are  Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, and Guyana.
Share |. Map showing Where is Amazon Rainforest, Brazil located on the World Map. The Amazon rainforest is the largest tropical rainforest in the world. The Amazon Rainforest is located in the upper section of Brazil south of the Equator in South America
The Amazon Rainforest is located in South America. See the image below for an outline of the Amazon Rainforest (according to the World Wildlife Fund). As you can see, the Amazon Rainforest covers much of the Northern region of South America, stretching from the Atlantic Ocean on the East to the Andes Mountains on the West.
The Amazon is located in South America. In Brazil is 60% of the land and the rest covers part of Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, Venezuela. + 16 others found this useful. It is located in South America. The countries that are near it are  Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, and Guyana.
Home World Wonders. Map showing Where is Amazon Rainforest, Brazil located on the World Map. The Amazon rainforest is the largest tropical rainforest in the world. The Amazon Rainforest is located in the upper section of Brazil south of the Equator in South America
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Amazon Rainforest covers the countries of Peru and Brasil, both of them located in South America, therefore the rainforest is in South America. It is called Amazon rainforest due to the Amazon river which crosses the rainforest from west to east, starting in Peru and going all over to Brasil and then finishing in the Atlantic ocean.