Dicloxacillin is an oral, second generation penicillin antibiotic that is used to treat bacterial infections caused by penicillinase-resistant staphylococci. Dicloxacillin (dye klox' a sil' in) is a second generation penicillin that is resistant to inactivation by penicillinases and is used to treat infections caused by penicillinase-producing bacteria.
Dicloxacillin is a prescription antibiotic used to treat a variety of different infections. It is taken by mouth and can be used by adults and children. However, it is only available in capsule form, which may limit its usefulness in young children who usually cannot swallow capsules. Dicloxacillin should be used only when there is a very good reason to suspect that an infection is caused by bacteria that will be susceptible to the drug. The best way to know this is if a culture and sensitivity test has been done.
More specifically, dicloxacillin is a penicillinase-resistant penicillin. Some bacteria produce penicillinase, an enzyme that destroys the beta-lactam structure of penicillin, making it and other similar antibiotics ineffective for treating infections due to such bacteria. Dicloxacillin is a penicillin antibiotic. Penicillins are part of a larger group of medications known as beta-lactam antibiotics, which are named after the ring-like lactam structure of these drugs. Dicloxacillin works by stopping bacteria from making cell walls, which eventually causes the bacteria to die.
Dicloxacillin sodium is a prescription antibiotic licensed to treat a number of different infections. Specifically, it is used for infections caused by Staphylococci bacteria that produce penicillinase, an enzyme than can destroy penicillin. Dicloxacillin is a penicillin antibiotic. Penicillins are part of a larger group of medications known as beta-lactam antibiotics, which are named after the ring-like lactam structure of these drugs. Dicloxacillin works by stopping bacteria from making cell walls, which eventually causes the bacteria to die.
1 Review. Dicloxacillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin group of drugs. It fights bacteria in your body. Dicloxacillin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria such as bronchitis, pneumonia, or staphylococcal (also called staph) infections. Dicloxacillin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Dicloxacillin will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Do not share this medication with another person, even if they have the same symptoms you have. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection.
Dicloxacillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin group of drugs. It fights bacteria in your body. Dicloxacillin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria such as bronchitis, pneumonia, or staphylococcal (also called staph) infections. Dicloxacillin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.