Betelgeuse is the brightest star in Orion, and one of the largest known stars with a diameter of roughly 700 times that of the Sun. Orion’s Alpha star is 20 times more massive than the Sun. This red supergiant emits 7,500 times as much energy as the Sun does. Another star found in the constellation Cepheus that is among the largest and most luminous stars in the Milky Way is Mu Cephei. It is a so-called red supergiant star and may be the largest star visible to the naked eye, and possibly, in the whole galaxy.
Some are only a fraction of the Sun's mass, while others are equivalent to hundreds of Suns. It is important to note that most massive doesn't necessarily mean the largest. That distinction depends not only on mass, but at what stage of evolution the star is currently in. Side Note: Current theory constrains a star's mass to about 120 times that of our Sun.
One huge, famous star in our galaxy is the monster Eta Carinae, located approximately 7,500 light years away, and weighing in at 120 solar masses. It’s a million times as bright as the Sun. Most stars blow with a solar wind, losing mass over time. The largest known star is VY Canis Majoris; a red hypergiant star in the Canis Major constellation, located about 5,000 light-years from Earth. University of Minnesota professor Roberta Humphreys recently calculated its upper size at more than 1,540 times the size of the Sun.
Polaris: Also known as the North Star (as well as the Pole Star, Lodestar, and sometimes Guiding Star), Polaris is the 45th brightest star in the night sky. It is very close to the north celestial pole, which is why it has been used as a navigational tool in the northern hemisphere for centuries. Notice that the closer stars are to Polaris, the smaller the circles they describe. Stars at the edge of the frame make much larger circles. Credit: Bob King. Sirius: Also known as the Dog Star, because it’s the brightest star in Canis Major (the “Big Dog”), Sirius is also the brightest star in the night sky. The name “Sirius” is derived from the Ancient Greek “Seirios “, which translates to “glowing” or “scorcher”
So while solar radii would give us the “largest star in universe” by radius/circumference, it wouldn’t give us the most massive star (solar mass), or the most powerful star (luminosity). With that in mind, let’s take a look at some of the largest stars, most massive stars, and most powerful stars in the known universe. 
On the other hand, the most massive stars, known as hypergiants, may be 100 or more times more massive than the Sun, and have surface temperatures of more than 30,000 K. Hypergiants emit hundreds of thousands of times more energy than the Sun, but have lifetimes of only a few million years. The smallest stars, known as red dwarfs, may contain as little as 10% the mass of the Sun and emit only 0.01% as much energy, glowing feebly at temperatures between 3000-4000K. Despite their diminutive nature, red dwarfs are by far the most numerous stars in the Universe and have lifespans of tens of billions of years.
She noted that the largest stars are the coolest. So even though Eta Carinae is the most luminous star we know of, it’s extremely hot – 25,000 Kelvin – and so only a mere 250 solar radii. The largest stars will be the cool supergiants. For example, VY Canis Majoris is only 3,500 Kelvin. The largest known star is VY Canis Majoris; a red hypergiant star in the Canis Major constellation, located about 5,000 light-years from Earth. University of Minnesota professor Roberta Humphreys recently calculated its upper size at more than 1,540 times the size of the Sun.
The Pistol Star is a blue hypergiant and is one of the most luminous known stars in the Milky Way Galaxy. It is one of many massive young stars in the Quintuplet cluster in the Galactic Center region. 
Antares: Also known as Alpha Scorpii, Antares is a red supergiant and one of the largest and most luminous observable stars in the nighttime sky. It’s name – which is Greek for “rival to Mars” (aka. Ares) – refers to its reddish appearance, which resembles Mars in some respects. Notice that the closer stars are to Polaris, the smaller the circles they describe. Stars at the edge of the frame make much larger circles. Credit: Bob King. Sirius: Also known as the Dog Star, because it’s the brightest star in Canis Major (the “Big Dog”), Sirius is also the brightest star in the night sky. The name “Sirius” is derived from the Ancient Greek “Seirios “, which translates to “glowing” or “scorcher”