Each price is for his labour, adhesive and grout. No tiles are included. Lets assume a 8’ x 6’ bathroom, with one window reveal, walls ready for tiling, with the bath etc in situ, to be tiled in 8” (200mm) square tiling. Job 1. Tile the bathroom, floor to ceiling, apply grout, then silicone around the bath.
Tile. Ceramic tile comes in a myriad of colors, sizes and styles. The cost of the actual tile can vary from as little as 49 cents per square foot to upwards of $15 per square foot. What’s most important is to select and quote a decent quality tile that will not easily scratch, chip or crack. On average, it is possible to provide a good quality tile for about $3 per square foot. Labor. Pricing labor for laying tile depends on the type of tile, the intricacy of the pattern, and any specialty elements included in the job. Generally, more cuts require more time and should be priced higher.
If there’s anywhere the pricing of a tile job can go awry, it’s usually in the cost of floor preparation. Tile must be laid on a clean, level and structurally sound subfloor. If the subfloor is made of plywood, a concrete backer board will be required, since tile does not properly adhere to unsupported plywood. Labor. Pricing labor for laying tile depends on the type of tile, the intricacy of the pattern, and any specialty elements included in the job. Generally, more cuts require more time and should be priced higher.
Add the price of tile, thinset, grout, concrete board (if needed) and screws to secure the concrete board to the subfloor. The total amount is your material costs. Decide the price of your labor based on the state in which you live. The amount that you charge must be a competitive rate. Labor for tile installation can be as low as $3 a square foot, and as high as $15 a square foot. Add the cost of your materials and labor together. The solution is the total amount you will charge to complete a tile job
You can add this percentage to the base cost of the tile, grout and other materials. Also allow enough for profit on each cost. Calculate the price of the tile, the grout and the installation labor. Multiply the number of square feet of tile required for the job by the square foot price of the tile. For example, you may have an installer that can lay 300 square feet of tile on average in a day. If this is the case, take the number of square feet and divide it by 300. This way, you can give your customer an idea of how long the job will take. Calculate how much you should charge for each product and service.
Comments. Approximately 48 square feet of tile at $8 per square foot installation (approx $400) plus $10 per square foot materials ($480) for a total of $880. Exceeds the legal cost for an unlicensed handyman in CA. 
Determine how much grout and adhesive you need for the job. In most cases, you can get about 100 square feet of tile grouted with one bag of grout. You can usually get 70 to 100 square feet of tile laid with one bag of adhesive. For example, you may have an installer that can lay 300 square feet of tile on average in a day. If this is the case, take the number of square feet and divide it by 300. This way, you can give your customer an idea of how long the job will take. Calculate how much you should charge for each product and service.
Knowing how to price a ceramic tile job can be almost as tricky as installing the tile itself. From the price of the tile to preparation, supplies, and labor, a good tradesman needs to make sure everything is accounted for when submitting a proper quote. Labor. Pricing labor for laying tile depends on the type of tile, the intricacy of the pattern, and any specialty elements included in the job. Generally, more cuts require more time and should be priced higher.
Let’s figure materials first. $1.50 per square foot for the tile multiplied by 250 square feet, which equals $375. Add in 10% and the total for flooring materials comes to $412.50. For labor, $3 times 250 square feet equals $750. No need to add 10% here. Add in the removal and haul away for the carpeting and the total labor cost is $900. 