Gort is a fictional humanoid robot in the 1951 American science fiction film The Day the Earth Stood Still and its 2008 remake. In the original short story Farewell to the Master, on which the two films are based, the character was called Gnut. Cultural references[edit]. A life size replica of the 1951 Gort is on display at the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame in Seattle.[4] A photo of Gort, with Ringo Starr (as Klaatu), appears on the cover of Starr's 1974 Goodnight Vienna album. In episode 3 of Freaks and Geeks, Sam dresses as Gort for Halloween.
Welcome. Gort is a medium sized market town on the Galway to Ennis Road, situated in a gap between the Slieve Aughty Mountains and the Burren to the south. The name in Irish is An Gort, (The Field) or Gort Inse Guaire, (Field of Guaire's Island). 
Location. Gort Golf Club is located at Castlequarter which is approximately 2 miles (3km) from Gort, Co. Galway. We are less than 30 minutes drive from Shannon International Airport (M18), and less than 30 minutes from Galway City (N18) and 130 miles (200km) due west from Dublin. Excellent Course with Stunning Views. Gort Golf Club is located at Castlequarter which is approximately 2 miles (3km) from Gort, Co. Galway. We are less than 30 minutes drive from Shannon International Airport (M18), and less than 30 minutes from Galway City (N18) and 130 miles (200km) due west from Dublin.
Gort appeared in the 1951 Science Fiction epic, The Day the Earth Stood Still. This was the first big science fiction movie of its kind, and in my opinion, set the stage for robot movies to follow. It's hard to believe that the fifties generation were almost more into science fiction than we are today. 
As the sun sets... Gort Golf Club is located at Castlequarter which is approximately 2 miles (3km) from Gort, Co. Galway. We are less than 30 minutes drive from Shannon International Airport (M18), and less than 30 minutes from Galway City (N18) and 130 miles (200km) due west from Dublin. Excellent Course with Stunning Views. Gort Golf Club is located at Castlequarter which is approximately 2 miles (3km) from Gort, Co. Galway. We are less than 30 minutes drive from Shannon International Airport (M18), and less than 30 minutes from Galway City (N18) and 130 miles (200km) due west from Dublin.
History [edit]. Gort takes its name, Gort Inse Guaire, from gort (a meadow), inse (island) and Guaire Guaire Aidne mac Colmain, colmáin the sixth Century king Of connacht and patron Of. St MacDuagh. macduagh These people originally came to work in the meat processing plants in Gort where the pay is generally much higher than in similar plants in Brazil. According to Claire Healy a large community of Brazilians now live, work and attend school in Gort, gradually altering the appearance and the character of the town.
In the movie The Day the Earth Stood Still, Gort is a large robot that appears to be constructed from a single piece of bendable metal. Actor Lock Martin was actually inside the suit for most of the filming. During the movie he wore a thick foam rubber suit that was designed and built by Addison Hehr. 
Gort. The robot Gort is one of the most memorable pop culture images from the Cold War era. Introduced in the 1951 movie classic The Day the Earth Stood Still, Gort comes to Earth as the killer robot bodyguard of the mysterious spaceman, Klaatu, who is on a mission of peace. GORT, for your unforgettable screen presence that, even today, communicates the lethal consequences of human conflict and inspires us to carefully contemplate the use of robots in war and peace...we welcome you, GORT, to the Robot Hall of Fame!
Gort is a fictional humanoid robot that first appeared in the 1951 20th Century Fox American science fiction film The Day the Earth Stood Still and years later in its 2008 remake. A photo of Gort, with Ringo Starr (as Klaatu), appears on the cover of Starr's 1974 Goodnight Vienna album. Experimental pop artist Eric Millikin created a large mosaic portrait of Billy out of Halloween candy and spiders as part of his Totally Sweet series in 2013.