C-reactive Protein (CRP) Overview. C-reactive protein (CRP) is a marker of inflammation in the body. Therefore, its level in the blood increases if there is any inflammation in the body. C-reactive protein, along with other markers of inflammation (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or ESR) are also sometimes referred to as acute phase reactants. C-reactive protein is produced by the cells in the liver. 
CRP tests for heart disease. It's thought that high hs-CRP levels in your blood are associated with narrowed coronary arteries. A CRP test can't tell your doctor where the inflammation is, though, so it's possible that a high hs-CRP level could mean there's inflammation somewhere other than your heart. 
C-reactive protein (CRP). The liver produces a type of acute phase protein known as C-reactive protein (CRP) and the level of C-reactive protein increases in the blood when there is inflammation in the body. When there is tissue damage the concentration of CRP in the blood can double every six hours. Doctors can perform a C-reactive protein (CRP) test to determine if a person has a problem linked to acute infection or inflammation but not what or where the problem is.
C-Reactive Protein (CRP). Guide. A C-reactive protein (CRP) test is a blood test that measures the amount of a protein called C-reactive protein in your blood. C-reactive protein measures general levels of inflammation in your body. High levels of CRP are caused by infections and many long-term diseases. 
If you have inflammation in a part of your body then extra protein is often released from the site of inflammation and circulates in the bloodstream. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP) and plasma viscosity (PV) blood tests are commonly used to detect this increase in protein. 
A high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) test, which is more sensitive than a standard test, also can be used to evaluate your risk of developing coronary artery disease, a condition in which the arteries of your heart are narrowed. Coronary artery disease can eventually lead to a heart attack. The level of C-reactive protein (CRP), which can be measured in your blood, increases when there's inflammation in your body. Your doctor may check your C-reactive protein level treatment for infections or for other medical conditions
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a protein made by the liver and secreted into the blood. It is often the first evidence of inflammation or an infection in the body. A high or increasing amount of CRP in your blood suggests that you have an acute infection or inflammation-most infections and inflammations result in CRP levels above 10 mg/L. If the CRP level in your blood drops, it means that you are getting better and inflammation is being reduced.
The C-reactive protein (CRP) test is used to find swelling and infection in your body. It does this by measuring the amount of CRP in your blood. CRP is a protein made by the liver and sent into the bloodstream. Blood levels may be higher when you have swelling (inflammation) or an infection. Because CRP levels often go up before you have symptoms of pain or fever and drop down as you recover, the CRP test is especially useful for tracking infections. The normal range for this test depends on the lab and the procedure used in the lab. Generally, a CRP level under 10 milligrams per liter (mg/L) is considered normal. If the level of CRP in your blood is higher than that, it may mean your body is having an inflammatory reaction to something.