Obviously lesser consumption will result in a lower Blood Alcohol Level and the body will eliminate the alcohol quicker .. IE: For example, you drink 6 beers over 2 hours -- You would likely test positive for alcohol for about 6 hours. The rule of thumb is 1 hour per Beer (or 1 shot of 80 proof liquor). The breathalyzer used by police is very close to what a blood test would detect and for the same period of time.
Alcohol is metabolized by the body at the rate of approximately 1 standard drink every hour (if you want to be safer, you can use 1 1/2 hour) If you were to drink 6 beers (12 ounce), the alcohol would be eliminated in approximately 6 - 9 hours. Urine produced AFTER this period would be negative for alcohol. How long does alcohol stay in your urine for a UA test that screens for alcohol, cocaine and marijuana (not the etg test).
Adding up your units. If you drink a large (250ml) glass of wine, your body takes about three hours to break down the alcohol. If you drink one pint of beer, your body takes about two hours to break it down. One pint of strong lager is equivalent to three units, so this will take longer. 
Best Answer: They shouldn't. Let me explain. Alcohol in the blood is detected for a matter of hours and completely depends on how much alcohol you consume over a specific period of time. Heavy consumption of alcohol over a few hour time span can be detected in the blood for around 10-12 hours. IE: For example, you drink 6 beers over 2 hours -- You would likely test positive for alcohol for about 6 hours. The rule of thumb is 1 hour per Beer (or 1 shot of 80 proof liquor). The breathalyzer used by police is very close to what a blood test would detect and for the same
If a person drinks 250 ml of wine, it would take three hours for the body to metabolize the alcohol. A 500 ml beer would take about two hours. But a strong 500ml strong beer would take much longer since it contains about three units of alcohol. It is those BAC readings that can be used to interpret how long does alcohol stay in your system. References: 1  Marcus, Kim. 2  You don’t have to abstain while dieting. 3  Wine Spectator, May 31, 1997, p. 13; Kahn, H. S., et al, 4  2Barr, Andrew. 5  Drink: A Social History of America. 6  New York: Carroll & Graf, 1999, p. 233
Usually, alcohol would stay within your system for around 24 hours after you have had a few drinks and this would be the time period during which it would be detectable in your urine. However, there are a few special tests which can detect its presence in urine for up to 48 hours. So, the question of how long alcohol is detectable in urine or how long does alcohol stay in your system depends on the rate at which your body would break it down. Usually, normal human beings metabolize wine at about the same rate which is around 0.015 BAC per 60 minutes.
After 4 hours – your BAC would be 0.02. After 5 hours – your BAC would be 0.005. Alcohol would be eliminated from the body at about 5 hours and 20 minutes (the body metabolizes alcohol at the rate of about 0.005 per twenty minutes, as 0.005 x 3 = 0.015). So it is easy to tell when your body will be free of alcohol. It is not so easy to tell, however, what your BAC is if you do not have some kind of alcohol tester, be it a breathalyzer or a disposable alcohol test. Getting to a BAC of 0.08 is not that difficult. For a 140 lb man, it would be 3 drinks in one hour.
Do not drink: Blood alcohol levels will not be abnormal at 24 hours after a drink. However there are other tests that can detect alcohol intake up to 80 hours earlier. It would depend on what test is being done. Some tests are positive for two weeks after the drink in a chronic drinker. See this site for info. http://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/arh28-1/30-37.pdf ...Read more.
Actually, alcohol stays in your system up to 3-4 days after your last drink (urine screen). It will not show up using a breathalyzer after a day. If your probation officer is giving you a urine screen, again, it can show up 3-4 days later. I know, because I work as a drug and alcohol counselor. Hope this helps. 