Diazepam is a useful adjunct in status epilepticus and severe recurrent convulsive seizures. Diazepam is a useful premedication (the I.M. route is preferred) for relief of anxiety and tension in patients who are to undergo surgical procedures. Lower doses (usually 2 mg to 5 mg) and slow increase in dosage should be used for elderly or debilitated patients and when other sedative drugs are administered. (See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .). For dosage in infants above the age of 30 days and children, see the specific indications below.
The investigators randomly assigned 273 patients aged 3 months to younger than 18 years presenting with convulsive status epilepticus to diazepam (0.2 mg/kg) or lorazepam (0.1 mg/kg) given intravenously, with half the dose repeated at 5 minutes if needed. There was no difference in the primary efficacy outcome of cessation of status epilepticus for 10 minutes without recurrence within 30 minutes, which occurred in 101 of 140 (72.1%) patients in the diazepam group and 97 of 133 (72.9%) patients in the lorazepam group.
Lorazepam does not have better efficacy and safety than diazepam for pediatric status epilepticus, according to results of a head-to-head comparison. There was no difference in the primary efficacy outcome of cessation of status epilepticus for 10 minutes without recurrence within 30 minutes, which occurred in 101 of 140 (72.1%) patients in the diazepam group and 97 of 133 (72.9%) patients in the lorazepam group.
The benzodiazepines are some of the most effective drugs in the treatment of acute seizures and status epilepticus. The benzodiazepines most commonly used to treat status epilepticus are diazepam (Valium), lorazepam (Ativan), and midazolam (Versed). All three compounds work by enhancing the inhibition of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) by binding to the benzodiazepine-GABA and barbiturate-receptor complex. Lorazepam. Lorazepam has emerged as the preferred benzodiazepine for acute management of status epilepticus. 24 [evidence level A, RCT] Lorazepam differs from diazepam in two important respects. It is less lipid-soluble than diazepam, with a distribution half-life of two to three hours versus 15 minutes for diazepam.
Diazepam in a typical intravenous dosage of 5 to 10 mg per minute terminates seizures of any type in about 75 percent of patients with status epilepticus. 22, 23, 26 Adverse effects include respiratory suppression, hypotension, sedation, and local tissue irritation. Lorazepam. Lorazepam has emerged as the preferred benzodiazepine for acute management of status epilepticus. 24 [evidence level A, RCT] Lorazepam differs from diazepam in two important respects. It is less lipid-soluble than diazepam, with a distribution half-life of two to three hours versus 15 minutes for diazepam.
The rate of mortality from status epilepticus (defined as death within 30 days of status epilepticus) was 22 percent in the Richmond study. 1, 13 The mortality rate among children was only 3 percent, whereas the rate among adults was 26 percent. Lorazepam. Lorazepam has emerged as the preferred benzodiazepine for acute management of status epilepticus. 24 [evidence level A, RCT] Lorazepam differs from diazepam in two important respects. It is less lipid-soluble than diazepam, with a distribution half-life of two to three hours versus 15 minutes for diazepam.
We've also looked at a different protocol for the treatment of continuous spikes and waves during slow sleep, a high-dose diazepam (Valium) protocol. This was the treatment of the ESES syndrome with high-dose diazepam. We were using diazepam at an initial dose of 1 mg/kg, and the first dose is typically given rectally. After that, a dose was given orally at night, from 0.5 to 0.75 mg/kg, and then EEGs were done in follow-up. We had 14 patients with follow-up of at least 3 months. 1 Select appropriate initial, second-, and third-line therapies for convulsive status epilepticus. 2  Differentiate epilepsy with epileptiform discharges during slow-wave sleep and the Landau-Kleffner syndrome from related conditions.
There were 273 patients; 140 randomized to diazepam and 133 to lorazepam. INTERVENTIONS: Patients received either 0.2 mg/kg of diazepam or 0.1 mg/kg of lorazepam intravenously, with half this dose repeated at 5 minutes if necessary. If status epilepticus continued at 12 minutes, fosphenytoin was administered. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among pediatric patients with convulsive status epilepticus, treatment with lorazepam did not result in improved efficacy or safety compared with diazepam. These findings do not support the preferential use of lorazepam for this condition.