Report Abuse. I personally don't like the taste of truffles very much. It has an earthy mushroom flavour but more concentrated. It's like a super mushroom flavour almost over the top but it also kind of tastes like bad morning breath if you ate a lot of salami the night before and smells like people on the city bus. 
Best Answer: They are supposed to have a strong earthy taste. I have had truffles several times,but only little slivers mixed or shaved on other foods,so it was hard to tell what the truffle really tasted like. 
Best Answer: for that you need to actually taste a truffle. I suggest that you visit an upscale food store-if there's a Whole Foods convinient to you go there-and buy some Truffle Oil - this will be expensive but it keeps pretty well. Try the oil on a piece of baguette (the long crusty french bread loave). You can get a pretty good idea of what they taste like from truffle oil, sprinkled on eggs or potatoes. The real ones are rather nicer than that, but say twice as nice for 50 times as much. Then again, Mr. Brillat-Savarin begs to differ, Let no one ever confess that he dined where truffles were not.
How it tastes: Truffles have a slight mushroom flavor like their relatives, but have deeper, earthier undertones. They are slightly reminiscent of wood or nuts. Because of the different varities, truffle flavor can differ depending on the source of the truffles. People who don’t like them say they taste like dirty mushrooms. Tips: Truffles are very expensive to buy because of the difficulty in cultivation and harvesting.
For a slightly cheaper chance to taste the truffle flavor, try truffle oil instead of fresh truffles, in your cooking. If you do plan to buy these you’ll probably need to do so in a speciality store. Fungus truffles are also often confused with chocolate truffles, a sweet (and much cheaper) confectionery. September 11, 2011 in Unique Foods. What it is: A truffle is a mushroom fungus that grows underground. They usually live off the nutrients supplied by trees, meaning their usual location is around the roots of large plants and trees. Truffles are usually black or white, with slight color variations in between.
I have tried both white and black truffle oil. both are very earthy and strong. In the right dish they could be wonderful. They do have a slight taste of portobello mushrooms, but no sweetness. The black truffle oil tasted to much like dirt to me, but I'm sure that was because I was tasting the oil only. If it was in a dish, I'm sure it would have been lovely
Truffles taste very powerfully of mushrooms. The taste is usually described as earthy and even meaty. White truffles have a subtler, slightly floral taste. Truffles are extremely expensive, and Brillat-Savarin points out that eating them in tiny quantities is pointless. You can get a pretty good idea of what they taste like from truffle oil, sprinkled on eggs or potatoes. The real ones are rather nicer than that, but say twice as nice for 50 times as much. Then again, Mr. Brillat-Savarin begs to differ, Let no one ever confess that he dined where truffles were not.
September 11, 2011 in Unique Foods. What it is: A truffle is a mushroom fungus that grows underground. They usually live off the nutrients supplied by trees, meaning their usual location is around the roots of large plants and trees. Truffles are usually black or white, with slight color variations in between. They are slightly reminiscent of wood or nuts. Because of the different varities, truffle flavor can differ depending on the source of the truffles. People who don’t like them say they taste like dirty mushrooms. Tips: Truffles are very expensive to buy because of the difficulty in cultivation and harvesting.
While all truffles have an earthy flavor, each kind has its own distinct taste and fragrance; white truffles have a creamier taste, while black truffle are known for their woody notes. If you are interested in experimenting with truffles, you should consider picking up a bottle of truffle oil. 