The uncoordinated use of the metric system by different scientific and engineering disciplines, particularly in the late 19th century, resulted in different choices of base units, even though all were based on the same definitions of the metre and the kilogram. In the metric system, multiples and sub-multiples of units follow a decimal pattern, a concept identified as a possibility in 1586 by Simon Stevin, the Flemish mathematician who had introduced decimal fractions into Europe.
The metric system is for all people for all time. (Condorcet, 1791). Four everyday measuring devices that have metric calibrations: a tape measure calibrated in centimetres, a thermometer calibrated in degrees Celsius, a kilogram weight, and an electrical multimeter that measures volts, amperes and ohms. In the metric system, multiples and sub-multiples of units follow a decimal pattern, a concept identified as a possibility in 1586 by Simon Stevin, the Flemish mathematician who had introduced decimal fractions into Europe.
Metric system basics. The simplicity of the metric system stems from the fact that there is only one unit of measurement (or base unit) for each type of quantity measured (length, mass, etc.). The three most common base units in the metric system are the meter, gram, and liter. The meter is a unit of length equal to 3.28 feet; the gram is a unit of mass equal to approximately 0.0022 pounds (about the mass of a paper clip); and the liter is a unit of volume equal to 1.05 quarts. Metric prefixes can be used with any base unit. For example, a kilometer is 1,000 meters, a kilogram is 1,000 grams, and a kiloliter is 1,000 liters. Six common prefixes used in the metric system are listed below.
The gram is used to measure mass or weight. For instance, a person weighing 170 pounds in customary measurement, weighs 77110 grams or 77.11 kilograms in the metric system. the liter is used to measure capacity. For instance, 1 liter of coke measures about 33.81 ounces in customary measurement. The meter is used to measure length. For instance, a person whose height is 1 meter is equivalent 3.2808 feet or about 39.5 inches in customary measurement. In the metric system, other units are named by using prefixes such as kilo, hecto, deka, deci, centi, and milli etc..
From its beginning, the main features of the metric system were the standard set of inter-related base units and a standard set of prefixes in powers of ten. These base units are used to derive larger and smaller units that could replace a huge number of other units of measure in existence. In the metric system, multiples and sub-multiples of units follow a decimal pattern, a concept identified as a possibility in 1586 by Simon Stevin, the Flemish mathematician who had introduced decimal fractions into Europe.
Summary. The metric system is an alternative system of measurement used in most countries, as well as in the United States. The metric system is based on joining one of a series of prefixes, including kilo-, hecto-, deka-, deci-, centi-, and milli-, with a base unit of measurement, such as meter, liter, or gram. 
This is much simpler than the American system of measurement, in which we have to remember inches, feet, miles, and many more units of measurement. Metric prefixes can be used with any base unit. For example, a kilometer is 1,000 meters, a kilogram is 1,000 grams, and a kiloliter is 1,000 liters. Six common prefixes used in the metric system are listed below.
Although a number of variants of the metric system emerged in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the term is now often used as a synonym for SI or the  International System of Units —the official system of measurement in almost every country in the world. In the metric system, multiples and sub-multiples of units follow a decimal pattern, a concept identified as a possibility in 1586 by Simon Stevin, the Flemish mathematician who had introduced decimal fractions into Europe.
Most of the world uses the metric system. The only countries not on this system are the U.S., Myanmar, and Liberia. The metric system is based on 10s. For example, 10 decimeters make a meter (39.37 inches). Units smaller than a meter have Latin prefixes: 1  Deci-means 10; 10 decimeters make a meter.
metric system. A decimal system of weights and measures based on the meter as a unit of length, the kilogram as a unit of mass, and the liter as a unit of volume. See Table at measurement.