Thankfully, there is an easy way to tell how long hearing aid batteries will last in any hearing aid, but first you need to understand a little about how hearing aids work with different types of batteries. If you are in a hurry you can download our guide to measuring battery life here. A size 13 battery stores more energy than a size 312, which stores more energy than a size 10A. So, this is going to be a factor in calculating how long the battery will last in a hearing aid.
Just like the gas tank in your car, the larger the tank, the further you can drive before filling up. A size 13 battery stores more energy than a size 312, which stores more energy than a size 10A. So, this is going to be a factor in calculating how long the battery will last in a hearing aid. This stored energy has a value called milliamp hours. And though this value may differ depending on battery manufacturer, there are some default values you can use for your calculation
Although rechargeable hearing aids are growing in popularity, the vast majority of hearing aids today are still powered by traditional hearing aid batteries. These batteries can be divided in to 4 different “size groups”, ranging from smallest to largest: Size 10, 312, 13, and 675. It’s very rare for batteries to drain that quickly, get the manufacturer to look at them. pauline wineland | May 22, 2015 at 1:47 pm | Reply. I have a phonic hearing aid bought a year ago. I only get 2 days out of my 312 battery why can’t I get 15 to 20 hours with them or even 5-10.
In a recent market survey we performed, device users were asked how long their hearing aid batteries last. For size 10 batteries, people were experiencing anywhere from 3 to 10 days; for size 312, from 3 to 12 days; for size 13, from 6 to 14 days; for size 675, from 9 to 20 days. 
The more active you are, the more power your hearing aid may need in order to perform all of its sound cleaning and restoration functions. If you are curious how long your hearing aid batteries should last, ask your hearing healthcare provider. They will be able to calculate the life expectancy of the batteries used in your particular hearing aid. Knowing what to expect from your hearing aid will allow you to plan accordingly and hear with confidence. And, it depends on the circuitry in the hearing aid, too. Some hearing aids are constantly working to improve the sound quality and reduce noise. These “automatic” hearing aids generally require more battery power.
0. Usually hearing aid batteries last approximately 6-7 days when the hearing aid is used full-time (morning to night, on a daily basis). If your batteries are lasting less than 6 days, consult with your professional. It may be time to send your hearing instrument in for a repair. more. 0. Hearing aid batteries last approximately 6-7 days when the hearing aid is used full-time (morning to night, on a daily basis). If your batteries are lasting less than six days, let us know. Your hearing aid may need to be repaired.
A standard hearing aid battery lasts anywhere from 3 to 22 days, depending on the hearing aid type, battery type and capacity, and the amount of hearing aid use. Your Starkey hearing aids need a steady power supply from a quality hearing aid battery in order to run effectively. Even subtle changes in a battery's output can mean the difference between clear performance and poor volume or noise control.
Battery life. One of the most common questions individuals have about hearing aid batteries is how long they will last. Generally speaking, they can last anywhere from five to 14 days, based on a 16 hour per day use cycle. This is of course dependent upon the size of the battery and power needed by the hearing aid. The most common battery size for hearing aids in the US market is the brown, size 312 battery. One of the most common questions individuals have about hearing aid batteries is how long they will last. Generally speaking, they can last anywhere from five to 14 days, based on a 16 hour per day use cycle.