If you have palpitations as a symptom of your heart failure, you will feel like your heart is racing or throbbing and your heart beat may seem irregular, with beats of varying strength. Palpitations indicate an irregular heart beat and this may have been caused by the heart speeding up to compensate for its failing ability to pump blood normally. A common cause is the sudden onset of a rapid irregular heart rate (atrial fibrillation).
You may have a heart rhythm problem (arrhythmia), such as atrial fibrillation or supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). There are also other, less common, heart rhythm conditions that may be the cause of your palpitations. These can be determined by appropriate tests. When your GP or hospital discovers the exact problem with your heart, ask them to explain it to you.
Heart Palpitations. A heart palpitation is the sensation that your heart has skipped a beat or added an extra beat. It may feel like your heart is racing, pounding, or fluttering. You may become overly aware of your heartbeat. This sensation is sometimes also felt in the neck, throat, or chest. While you are having palpitations, your heart rhythm may or may not be abnormal. Heart palpitations can be caused by a variety of factors, including caffeine, exercise, smoking, or stress. Although they can be quite unsettling, most heart palpitations are harmless and resolve on their own without treatment
Side Effects. Duromine is a drug that is used to reduce body weight in obese or overweight patients. As with any medication, there are usually some side effects that are associated with the product. Some of these side effects may be mild, serious and dangerous. Generally, when you take Duromine, most people will experience an increase in heart rate and also blood pressure. Some patients may also experience restlessness, insomnia and heart palpitations. On the more serious side, it is documented that Duromine can be addictive.
Causes of Heart Palpitations. Many things can cause heart palpitations. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks. 2  Vigorous physical activity. A. Heart palpitations are a feeling that your heart is beating too hard or too fast, skipping a beat, or fluttering. You may notice heart palpitations in your chest, throat, or neck. Heart palpitations can be bothersome or frightening.
Palpitations are unpleasant sensations of excessively strong, rapid and/or irregular heartbeats. In many people who experience palpitations, no heart disease or abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) can be found and the cause of the palpitations is unknown. In others, palpitations may be caused by arrhythmias of different types (heartbeats that are too slow, too rapid, irregular, or too early) or by other heart conditions such as leaking valves.
Occasionally heart palpitations can be a sign of a serious problem, such as an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) or an abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia). Arrhythmias may include very fast heart rates (tachycardia), unusually slow heart rates (bradycardia) or an irregular heart rhythm. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors. Often the cause of your heart palpitations can't be found. Common causes of heart palpitations include: 1  Strong emotional responses, such as stress or anxiety. 2  Strenuous exercise. 3  Caffeine. 4  Nicotine. 5  Fever. 6  Hormone changes associated with menstruation, pregnancy or menopause
Treatment of palpitations. Palpitations that are not related to specific arrhythmias or heart disease may not require specific treatment and your doctor may advise you to reduce emotional and physical stress. Your doctor may prescribe medications to regulate abnormal heartbeats. In others, palpitations may be caused by arrhythmias of different types (heartbeats that are too slow, too rapid, irregular, or too early) or by other heart conditions such as leaking valves.