Corn is believed to have been introduced across what is now the United States-Mexico border a few thousand years ago. The original corn plant known as teosinte is still grown in Mexico and its size (ears of corn) has substantially increased due to efforts of American Indians and scientific research. Corn production (also maize production) plays a major role in the economy of the United States. The country is one of the worldwide corn leaders with 96,000,000 acres (39,000,000 ha) of land reserved for corn production. Corn growth is dominated by west/north central Iowa and east central Illinois
Corn is grown in most U.S. States, but production is concentrated in the Heartland region (including Illinois, Iowa, Indiana, eastern portions of South Dakota and Nebraska, western Kentucky and Ohio, and the northern two-thirds of Missouri). 
Corn Geography. 1  Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska and Minnesota account for over 50 percent of the corn grown in the U.S. 2  Other major corn growing states are Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin, South Dakota, Michigan, Missouri, Kansas and Kentucky. 1 The Corn Belt includes the states of Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska, Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin, South Dakota, Michigan, Missouri, Kansas and Kentucky. 2  Corn is produced on every continent of the world with the exception of Antarctica
See all. Corn is the most widely produced feed grain in the United States, with most of the crop providing the main energy ingredient in livestock feed. Corn is also processed into a wide range of food and industrial products including fuel ethano
CORN. Most of the corn grown in the United States is produced in the Corn Belt, which includes Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Indiana, Nebraska, Ohio, Missouri and South Dakota. Within the USA, Michigan sits at the NE extremities of the corn belt. The map below shows where the corn belt lies
As of 2008, the top four corn-producing states were Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska and Minnesota, together accounting for more than half of the corn grown in the United States. The Corn Belt also sometimes is defined to include parts of South Dakota, North Dakota, Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Kentucky.
The Corn Belt is a region of the Midwestern United States where corn (maize) has, since the 1850s, been the predominant crop, replacing the native tall grasses. By 1950, 99% of the corn was grown from hybrids. Most corn is fed to livestock, especially hogs and poultry. The Corn Belt also sometimes is defined to include parts of South Dakota, North Dakota, Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Kentucky.