Established in 1975 during the Royal Mail postal strikes of the 1970s, DX became the only next-day alternative for business mail delivery. DX Group's origins lie within the legal sector, with the DX Document Exchange members' network supplying the majority of the top legal firms within the UK. With the acquisition of DX Secure (Secure Mail Services), DX became a more prominent player for mail and courier deliveries to residential addresses. Established in 1975, amidst the Royal Mail postal strikes of the 1970s, DX Group has been in private ownership since 2006 and combines DX Network Services Ltd, DX Secure (previously Secure Mail Services (SMS)) and, as of 15 March 2012, DX Freight, previously known as Nightfreight GB.
DX Two-Man. DX 2-Man is a two-person home delivery service designed for retailers and manufacturers. The delivery option leverages DX’s one-man network, although it is designed for heavier and larger items weighting between 30 and 150 kilograms. DX Courier has a range of convenient features, including flexible price options. The service also includes proof of delivery, online delivery confirmation and barcode tracking. There is also an option for simultaneous collections where DX also picks up items when delivering parcels.
Book your delivery today and the DX collection service will bring the label. Whether it’s a special present for a friend, sending an item to a customer or a business contract, DX can get the parcel delivered within two days. Features of DX Delivery Services. With DX parcel prices starting from just £7.99+VAT, and offering next day delivery for around 80% of parcels, you can rest easy with expert end-to-end service at a fair price.
DX Secure items can be traced using the company’s online tracking service. In order to track an item, a tracking number is required. Users of the tracking service will also be asked to provide the postcode of the original delivery address. DX Courier has a range of convenient features, including flexible price options. The service also includes proof of delivery, online delivery confirmation and barcode tracking. There is also an option for simultaneous collections where DX also picks up items when delivering parcels.
Secure-our highly secure DX Mail business delivery network is so secure that it's used by both Federal and State Courts and Police services around Australia,. All documents are securely transported by authorised DX staff that have undergone extensive security checks. Toll’s DX Mail is Australia’s only national document exchange service, and provides fast, secure and accurate delivery of your documents. Our extensive air and road network enables us to deliver more than 100,000 DX Mail documents every business day.
DX Mail. Document delivery that’s fast, secure and cost-effective. Toll’s DX Mail is Australia’s only national document exchange service, and provides fast, secure and accurate delivery of your documents. Our extensive air and road network enables us to deliver more than 100,000 DX Mail documents every business day.
DX Delivery is a mail, courier and logistics company serving the United Kingdom and Ireland. The company provides a range of business-to-business and business-to-consumer services, including same day and next day delivery. DX Courier has a range of convenient features, including flexible price options. The service also includes proof of delivery, online delivery confirmation and barcode tracking. There is also an option for simultaneous collections where DX also picks up items when delivering parcels.
DX provide: • Fully tracked courier collection and delivery for packages up to 20kgs. • Next day delivery across the UK. • Where possible a signature will be obtained on delivery, but if there’s no one home we will leave the parcel with a neighbour, or leave discretely in a suitable location. DX understand how important your package is and will look after it as if it were our own. DX is a leading independent mail and parcels operator in the UK and Ireland. Established in 1975 DX delivers approximately 200 million items per year.
DX (Group) plc (trading as DX and DX Freight) is a British mail, courier and logistics company, with operations throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland. Established in 1975, amidst the Royal Mail postal strikes of the 1970s, DX Group has been in private ownership since 2006 and combines DX Network Services Ltd, DX Secure (previously Secure Mail Services (SMS)) and, as of 15 March 2012, DX Freight, previously known as Nightfreight GB.