From a food point of view, Moringa leaves can be used like spinach, though they are far more nutritious. Sorry Popeye. The leaves can be used fresh or dried into a powder. The leaves are an excellent source of vitamin A and C, a good source of B vitamins, and among the best plant sources of minerals. 
Unlike many other liquid or powder extracts our moringa herbal leaf extract tastes great (like honey) and is ready to take as is. Our moringa liquid extract (Glycerin-water extractive medium) can be placed under your tongue, bypassing the digestive process. 
The fastest, easiest way to eat moringa leaves, is raw, right from your own tree. To cook moringa, strip the leaves off some of the branches, and just add a little water to the pan, and a little butter, olive oil or coconut oil, and garlic, and saute sauté them until the leaves wilt and change. color To cook moringa, strip the leaves off some of the branches, and just add a little water to the pan, and a little butter, olive oil or coconut oil, and garlic, and saute sauté them until the leaves wilt and change. Color the taste is far, superior in my, opinion to, spinach collard, greens, kale or any other. greens
Loaded with tons of nutrients and antioxidants, moringa powder (also known as moringa leaf powder) is one of nature's most nutritious superfoods. Moringa powder is considered a complete protein because it contains all 9 essential amino acids. Moringa powder is made from dried Moringa oleifera leaves. To retain naturally-occurring nutrients, Moringa oleifera leaves are dried in an area hidden from the presence of direct sunlight.
Moringa is an edible tropical tree, known all over the world by many different names. It is called  The Miracle Tree  - with good reason, . The Horseradish Tree  - due to the taste of the leaves and its root, . The Drumstick Tree  - because of its pods. Both the Moringa Oleifera and the Moringa Stenopetala that we grow, have that bite, but it is more pronounced in the Moringa Oleifera. When cooked, the bite goes away, and Moringa tastes like pecany spinach, at least to us! It only takes a few minutes to wilt and turn an intense green.
Any form of Moringa can be added, to a regular meatloaf. You can successfully use the chopped pods, the buds, the flower blossoms, the leaves, or the powder-they will all absorb the flavors of your meatloaf's ingredients, and add some more valuable nutrition, in the process. Moringa leaves, from the Moringa tree, are a welcome addition to any diet, whether in its fresh state, or dried and ground into powder. For those who are fortunate enough to live in any area where the ground does not freeze in the winter, a Moringa tree can provide excellent nourishment year-round.
Fresh Moringa leaves can be used in a wide variety of dishes, or cooked as a green like spinach. This page provides a few examples of recipes using Moringa. These are from India, but could be adapted to local ingredients and tastes. See this page for more cooking information. 
Moringa is a plant that is native to the sub-Himalayan areas of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. It is also grown in the tropics. The leaves, bark, flowers, fruit, seeds, and root are used to make medicine. 
Raw Moringa leaves, have a slight bite, reminiscent of watercress or radish. Both the Moringa Oleifera and the Moringa Stenopetala that we grow, have that bite, but it is more pronounced in the Moringa Oleifera. When cooked, the bite goes away, and Moringa tastes like pecany spinach, at least to us! It only takes a few minutes to wilt and turn an intense green.