The word salt is a general chemical term that refers to ionic compounds formed when an acid reacts with a base. They may be simple salts such as. A large pile of salt at an Uppington, South Africa, salt mine. NaCl, KCl, and Na 2 SO 4; acid salts like NaHCO 3 and NaH 2 PO 4; or double salts like KAl(SO 4) 2. Table salt is sodium chloride, a chemical compound with the formula NaCl. Sodium chloride has been used to flavor and preserve food for thousands of years. As a result, salt became an essential part of commercial transactions and was often used as money or barter. Salt is used to cure meat and fish by soaking them in brine, rubbing salt onto them, or injecting them with a salt solution. Bacon and cured ham are examples of meats preserved by the use of salt. Salt is also used to make pickles by soaking cucumbers in brine. Rock salt is sprinkled on highways to melt ice.
Table salt, or sodium chloride, is the ionic product of the combination of lye, or sodium hydroxide, and hydrochloric acid. Appearing clear to milky white, sodium chloride has been valued as a seasoning for food for more than 2,000 years. It was so highly valued that the Romans would pay their soldiers in salt rations. In chemistry, salts are the ionic products when an acid reacts with a base and neutralizes. In the solid form, salts have a neutral charge. They become ions when dissolved in water. Certain salts can be distinguished by color
Chemical formula for salt. Salt is an ionic compound formed by the action of an acid on a substance. There are many different types of salts. The most common salt is sodium chloride, NaCl or table salt, and is made up of the elements sodium and chlorine. 
Characteristics and Classification of Salts. The most familiar salt is sodium chloride, the principal component of common table salt. Sodium chloride, NaCl, and water, H 2 O, are formed by neutralization of sodium hydroxide, NaOH, a base, with hydrogen chloride, HCl, an acid: HCl+NaOH→NaCl+H. 
Common salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl), a chemical compound belonging to the larger class of salts; salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. Salt is present in vast quantities in seawater, where it is the main mineral constituent; the open ocean has about 35 grams (1.2 oz) of solids per litre, a salinity of 3.5%. Salt is essential for animal life, and saltiness is one of the basic human tastes.
The salt copper(II) sulfate as the mineral chalcanthite. In chemistry, a salt is an ionic compound that results from the neutralization reaction of an acid and a base. Salts are composed of related numbers of cations (positively charged ions) and anions (negative ions) so that the product is electrically neutral (without a net charge). The name of a salt starts with the name of the cation (e.g., sodium or ammonium) followed by the name of the anion (e.g., chloride or acetate). Salts are often referred to only by the name of the cation (e.g., sodium salt or ammonium salt) or by the name of the anion (e.g., chloride salt or acetate salt).
In the form of edible or table salt it is commonly used as a condiment and food preservative. Large quantities of sodium chloride are used in many industrial processes, and it is a major source of sodium and chlorine compounds used as feedstocks for further chemical syntheses. A second major consumer of sodium chloride is de-icing of roadways in sub-freezing weather.
Sodium chloride is the most common salt, the common table salt used for the seasoning of food. It forms in cubic crystals apparent even in table salt. It occurs commonly in the mineral form, halite, also called rocksalt. Sodium bisulfate is a salt which is used widely with potassium dichromate in bleach used for photographic purposes. It is a skin irritant and must be used with caution. If skin is exposed, wash with running water for 15 minutes.
For other uses, see NaCl (disambiguation) . Sodium chloride /ˌsoʊdiəm ˈklɔraɪd/ , also known as salt, common salt, table salt or halite, is an ionic compound with the chemical formula NaCl, representing a 1:1 ratio of sodium and chloride ions. Large quantities of sodium chloride are used in many industrial processes, and it is a major source of sodium and chlorine compounds used as feedstocks for further chemical syntheses. A second major consumer of sodium chloride is de-icing of roadways in sub-freezing weather.