In botany, plant cuticles are protective, hydrophobic, waxy coverings produced by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs. Cuticles minimize water loss and effectively reduce pathogen entry due to their waxy secretion. A cuticle /ˈkjuːtɪkəl/ , or cuticula, is a term used for any of a variety of tough but flexible, non-mineral outer coverings of an organism, or parts of an organism, that provide protection. Various types of cuticle are non-homologous, differing in their origin, structure, function, and chemical composition.
The cuticle is a non-cellular protective layer covering the outer cell layer (epidermis) of the green, aerial parts of land plants. Cuticles protect plants against dessication, UV radiation and various kinds of physical, chemical and (micro)biological agents. 
A plant cuticle is a protecting film covering the epidermis of leaves, young shoots and other aerial plant organs without periderm. It consists of lipid and hydrocarbon polymers impregnated with wax, and is synthesized exclusively by the epidermal cells. The plant cuticle is a layer of lipid polymer impregnated with waxes that is present on the outer surfaces of the primary organs of all vascular land plants.
The plant cuticle is an extracellular hydrophobic layer that covers the aerial epidermis of all land plants, providing protection against desiccation and external environmental stresses. 
A plant cuticle is the waxy film or membrane that covers leaves and other dermal tissue on plant sections above the ground. Waxes and polymers such as cutin and cutan, which contain omega hydroxy acids, ester, epoxides, and hydrophobic aliphatic compounds, make up the cuticle. 
Abstract. The plant cuticle is an extracellular hydrophobic layer that covers the aerial epidermis of all land plants, providing protection against desiccation and external environmental stresses. 
This answer refers to the Botanical reference of Cuticle; refer to the related question What is a cuticle for the Anatomical definition. Plant cuticles are a protective waxy covering produced only by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs without periderm. Plants without a cuticle live underwater. The purpose of the cuticle is to prevent the leaves of a plant from losing moisture to the atmosphere. Pine needles have a thick waxy … coating that prevents moisture loss during the winter, when the air is dry.
The cuticle is a multi-layer structure composed primarily of cutin, cutan, polysaccharides, lipids and waxes. On the inward-facing side of a leaf, the cuticle attaches to the epidermal plant cell walls, and on the outward-facing side, the cuticle forms a film or skin that covers the leaf surface. 