There are only a few things that can make you lose your citizenship if you are a natural born citizen or a naturalized citizen. You can lose your citizenship for treason. In all U.S. history fewer than 40 people have been charged with treason.
This is unusual, too. You could lose your citizenship if you apply for citizenship to another country, on purpose and by your own free will, and with the idea that you're giving up your US citizenship. If you really want to, you can give
Naturalized citizens can lose their citizenship. A naturalized citizen is an American citizen who was not born in the USA. But for natural born citizens—people who are US citizens from birth—it is nearly impossible to lose their citizenship. Anyone can give up their citizenship if they want.
A naturalized citizen who lies or hides things during naturalization can lose their US citizenship. When that happens, it means you never really were a citizen to begin with. The government says your US citizenship wasn't real because you tricked the country.
Though you can't involuntarily be stripped of your citizenship, you can still lose citizenship should you engage in specific types of behavior. And for those who choose to renounce their U.S. citizenship, it's irrevocable and very difficult to resume. Let us explain.
In other words, the only way you are going to lose your US citizenship and Certificate of Naturalization is in a federal court and by a federal judge, who is appointed for life, makes good money, and is answerable to no politician or government bureaucrat no matter how on popular the judge's decision turns out to be.
When you lose your U.S. nationality, you are no longer under the protection or jurisdiction of the United States. When the United States considers you to no longer be of U.S. nationality, it in effect considers you to no longer be a citizen.
When the United States considers you to no longer be of U.S. nationality, it in effect considers you to no longer be a citizen. Note that these are things you can do that may force you to lose your citizenship. The law also says that these acts must be voluntary and with the intent of losing U.S.