The process of using a geo-fence is called geo-fencing, and one example of usage involves a location-aware device of a location-based service (LBS) user entering or exiting a geo-fence. This activity could trigger an alert to the device's user as well as messaging to the geo-fence operator. This info, which could contain the location of the device, could be sent to a mobile telephone or an email account.
Geo-fencing (geofencing) is a feature in a software program that uses the global positioning system (GPS) or radio frequency identification (RFID) to define geographical boundaries. A geofence is a virtual barrier. 
Display Advertising-For advertising purposes geofencing has been incorporated in forms of ad delivery. Web or mobile ads can be delivered based on IP address or mobile device’s location and a marketer can choose to deliver their ads to only consumers who match particular location requirements. The geofencing industry is said to be and estimated 300 million dollar industry by 2017. The main reason for that number and most likely soon to be increased figure is the integration of mobile devices into the everyday life of the consumer.
One of the most powerful features of mobile geofencing advertising is its delivery of “highly perishable” offers. The hyperlocal and hyperpersonal nature of mobile geofencing advertising requires a different type of enticement to get consumers to act. What makes mobile geofencing advertising unique is its ability to increase foot traffic into any business. It entices customers not within sight of the business, but within a short walk or drive, to make a purchase they might not have otherwise.
The terms Geo-Fencing, and Location Based Services are hot topics in the mobile marketing world but many are still find out what they are. A geo-fence is a virtual perimeter for a real-world geographic area*. Location-based services access information provided by a mobile device to tell where a user is located, typically through a phone’s GPS. As such, location-based services (LBS) have a number of uses in social networking (e.g Foursquare or Facebook check ins) and mobile advertising today.
Mobile marketing is becoming more important for businesses. Geofencing is just one tool in the marketing mix. By using audience targeting programs in conjunction with geofencing, marketers can maximize the likelihood of reaching the optimal recipients of an offer. No related posts. What makes mobile geofencing advertising unique is its ability to increase foot traffic into any business. It entices customers not within sight of the business, but within a short walk or drive, to make a purchase they might not have otherwise.
Geo-Fencing is a location-based advertising medium that has the ability to recognize a customer’s proximity to a storefront, thereby sending virtual ads or coupons to their mobile device. Indeed, greater revenue generation is one of the premier benefits of using geo-fencing, but the product can yield other profitable outputs, too. Its presence on an individual’s mobile device has offered companies solid market research information in reference to time, location, and product preferences.
| Geofencing For Location Based Advertising. February 27, 2013 Thumbvista Geo-Fencing, Geofencing Companies, Geofencing Services, Geofencing Uses, Geofencing-Best-Practices, Location SMS Services, Location-Based Marketing Services, Mobile Marketing, Mobile Marketing Terms. A recent Econsultancy report, 27% of global companies plan to deliver location based marketing in 2013, with 34% of them investing in mobile advertising. Setting up a Geofence for consumer engagement has shown to increase buying action greatly.
Geofencing is a term used primarily in the corporate world that refers to the practice of limiting mobile employees to a specific geographic location by tracking their whereabouts via the technology of a global positioning system (GPS). 
Marketing case studies have recently shown very effective when Geofencing is being used to engage the customer. Location based advertising can be implemented by using geotargeted banners, push messages from App and or SMS (Text messages). A recent Econsultancy report, 27% of global companies plan to deliver location based marketing in 2013, with 34% of them investing in mobile advertising. Setting up a Geofence for consumer engagement has shown to increase buying action greatly.