The Structure of the Cell Membrane The cell membrane (or plasma membrane) surrounds all living cells, and is the cell's most important organelle. It controls how substances can move in and out of the cell and is responsible for many other properties of the cell as well.
Cell Membrane Structure. The cell membrane is primarily composed of a mix of proteins and lipids. Depending on the membrane’s location and role in the body, lipids can make up anywhere from 20 to 80 percent of the membrane, with the remainder being proteins.
The structure of a cell membrane is made up of proteins and phospholipids. Phospholipids are organic compounds made out of fats, or oils. These materials make up the majority of the membrane's surface. Proteins reside within the crevices built into the membrane.
Figure 1: The lipid bilayer and the structure and composition of a glycerophospholipid molecule. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple).
Cell Membrane. The cell membrane (plasma membrane) is a thin semi-permeable membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm of a cell. Its function is to protect the integrity of the interior of the cell by allowing certain substances into the cell, while keeping other substances out.
Phospholipids make up the basic structure of a cell membrane. A single phospholipid molecule has two different ends: a head and a tail. The head end contains a phosphate group and is hydrophilic. This means that it likes or is attracted to water molecules.
Plasma membranes consist of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in the bilayer. The principle lipids are phospholipids. A phospholipid molecules has a hydrophilic head with a phosphate group as part of its structure and two hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic tails consist of long hydrocarbon chains.
A membrane separates a cell from its environment or subdivides a cell into specialized regions or compartments. The structure of a membrane is best understood in light of its component parts and in the context of the specialized functions performed by the cell or by its various, membrane-bound
The cell membrane is a double layer of phospholipid molecules. Proteins in the cell membrane provide structural support, form channels for passage of materials, act as receptor sites, function as carrier molecules, and provide identification markers.