You will be able to get a Smart ID Card at three (3) offices in each of the nine (9) provinces. The number of offices at which you can get a Smart ID Card will be increased to 70 by the end of March 2014. It is envisaged that the new smartcard process will take only three days, whereas the turnaround time on the old green barcoded ID was about 54 days after application. The Department of Home Affairs has said that it is likely to be able to produce three million ID cards a year.
You must also surrender any valid driver license or instruction permit issued by the state of California or any other jurisdiction. Your new ID will be mailed to you in the next 60 days; if not received, call 1-800-777-0133 to check the status. http://www.dmv.com/ca/california/apply-i... UCANTCME · 5 years ago. 
Will the Smart ID Card be used for 2014 Elections? Citizens who will be having Smart ID Cards at the time of elections will use the Smart ID Cards for voting whilst those that will be using the green barcoded ID Books will also be using the green barcoded ID Books to vote.
1 The exact fee for your ID depends on whether you select a short-term (valid for 4 to 5 years) or long-term (valid for 8 to 9 years) ID. 2  It also depends on the length of time between the date you apply and the expiration date (your birthday). 1 You will need to take a driver test and you must be at least 16 years old. 2  Visit the DMV website for information and an application. 3  The non-driver State ID is NOT the same as a driver license.
How long will it take to get a regular id card from the dmv. Not a drivers license. For instance, do you get it right away at the dmv when you register for one or does it come in by mail. I am 18 years old and I am going to take a trip to Washington D.C. and my passport expired. Add your answer. Source.
1 You can be any age to get any of the IDs. 2  You may need one of your parents to help you get your ID if you are under 18 - visit the How Do I Get an ID page for more information about each kind of ID.If you are 16 or 17 years old and your parent cannot apply for a birth certificate for you, you can get a minor certificate.. The same application process applies. 1 You will need to take a driver test and you must be at least 16 years old. 2  Visit the DMV website for information and an application. 3  The non-driver State ID is NOT the same as a driver license.
Pandor said the cost of the smart ID card will be the same as the amount paid for the green bar-coded ID, which currently costs R140. IDs are free for first time applicants. According to Pandor, the new ID will take about three days for the applicant to receive. It has a life span of at least 10 years,” said Pandor. The new smart ID card will have a microchip, the specifications for which cannot be disclosed for security reasons, which will house the necessary biometric data unique to every individual.
• When the Department begins to roll out the Smart ID Card, it will be issued to 16 year olds who apply for IDs and to pensioners. It will also be issued to South Africans who re-apply for their IDs. • We will thereafter be issuing IDs to South Africans by the year of their birth. • Make sure you have your birth certificate. You can apply to have your birth registered through the late registration of birth process at any Home Affairs office. You cannot receive a Smart ID Card without a
When the Department begins to roll out the Smart ID Card, it will be issued to 16 year olds who apply for IDs and to pensioners. It will also be issued to South Africans who re-apply for their IDs. We will thereafter be issuing IDs to South Africans by the year of their birth. It is envisaged that the new smartcard process will take only three days, whereas the turnaround time on the old green barcoded ID was about 54 days after application. The Department of Home Affairs has said that it is likely to be able to produce three million ID cards a year.
• You will be able to get a Smart ID Card at three (3) offices in each of the nine (9) provinces. The number of offices at which you can get a Smart ID Card will be increased to 70 by the end of March 2014. • The list will also be published on the website www.dha.gov.za. • Make sure you have your birth certificate. You can apply to have your birth registered through the late registration of birth process at any Home Affairs office. You cannot receive a Smart ID Card without a