Rosemary illustration from an Italian herbal, circa 1500. Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) essential oil. Rosemary is an aromatic evergreen shrub that has leaves similar to hemlock needles. The leaves are used as a flavoring in foods such as stuffings and roast lamb, pork, chicken and turkey. It is native to the Mediterranean and Asia, but is reasonably hardy in cool climates. The name rosemary derives from the Latin for dew (ros) and sea (marinus), or dew of the sea. The plant is also sometimes called anthos, from the ancient Greek word ἄνθος, meaning flower.
Providing consistent and trusted performance, Kalsec ® natural antioxidant product solutions are meticulously designed to keep foods fresher, longer. Derived from a natural rosemary extract, Herbalox ® Rosemary Extract is ideal for a diverse selection of applications, ranging from meats to oils to beverages. 
Aside from its extract form, rosemary is used in cooking as a fresh or dried herb. Photo Credit rosemary image by Denis Plaster from Fotolia.com. Although the terms essential oil and extract are sometimes used interchangeably, they technically have different meanings. Rosemary provides your body with antioxidants when ingested, as in the case of rosemary extract. Antioxidants fight free radicals, which many experts believe are responsible for cancer and other diseases.
Several studies suggest that rosemary extract may inhibit tumor growth by preventing cancerous cells from replicating. One study found that rosemary, on its own and in combination with curcumin, helped prevent breast cancer. A second study found similar effects of rosemary on colon cancer cells. Adult. Rosemary can be used as a tea made from the dry herb, a tincture, fluid extract, decoction for a bath, or as an essential oil mixed with other oils for topical use. Speak to your doctor to find the right dose for your condition. Total daily intake should not exceed 4 to 6 grams of the dried herb.
Essential oils are the essence of the plant and are medicinal; extracts are not.. Rosemary is one such plant that is used both as an extract and as an essential oil. An Austrian study published in the September 2010 issue of the journal Scientia Pharmaceutica investigated the different forms of rosemary. Rosemary provides your body with antioxidants when ingested, as in the case of rosemary extract. Antioxidants fight free radicals, which many experts believe are responsible for cancer and other diseases.
In addition to being a celebrated savory seasoning, rosemary has a time-honored tradition of medicinal and therapeutic use. For centuries, it has been used to enhance memory, promote hair growth and relieve pain and tension. Cold-pressing and steam distillation are common methods used to extract essential oils from herbs like rosemary. However, these techniques usually require extensive experience and the use of complex apparati.
The extract is from rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis Linn .), a common household plant that has grown in the Alps since the Middle Ages, and is now found throughout the world. That’s where rosemary extract is significantly different. It has a longer life span of antioxidant activity. Not only that, it contains more than two dozen antioxidants, including carnosic acid, one of the only antioxidants that deactivates free radicals through a multilevel cascade approach.
ROSEMARY Overview Information. Rosemary is an herb. Oil is extracted from the leaf and used to make medicine. Rosemary is used for digestion problems, including heartburn, intestinal gas (flatulence), liver and gallbladder complaints, and loss of appetite. It is also used for gout, cough, headache, high blood pressure, and reducing age-related memory loss.
Although rosemary extract has been used commercially as an antimicrobial food preservative for years, now we know for certain that it also has a lot to offer as a nutritional supplement, especially in the prevention of some types of cancer, allergies, and the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. That’s where rosemary extract is significantly different. It has a longer life span of antioxidant activity. Not only that, it contains more than two dozen antioxidants, including carnosic acid, one of the only antioxidants that deactivates free radicals through a multilevel cascade approach.
Home » Herbal Remedies » Rosemary ». You can make rosemary oil extract using either fresh or dried rosemary. Many individuals prefer to use fresh herbs because some nutrients and beneficial compounds are lost when the herb is dried out. This oil can offer all of the rosemary herb benefits in a concentrated form. There are three main methods that can be used to extract the oil from the plant. The water and steam distillation methods are recommended. The maceration method is not used frequently because it is not as effective as the distillation methods. The most common method used to make rosemary oil extract is the steam distillation method. This process involves passing steam through a container full of rosemary. The steam causes the oil in the herb to evaporate and it combines with the steam. Once this mixture is cooled off, the oil can be collected.