We are right next to a river where cedars usually grow. We must have 20 or more cedar trees, 30 feet high or more, within 3 to 25 feet of the water. Two years ago, in the fall, all the leaves on one cedar turned brown.
Considerations. Mature cedar trees reach a height up to 70 feet tall and can be difficult to trim as they age. Contact a professional company to trim trees that are too tall to safely trim with a ladder. Never attempt to trim tall trees by placing a ladder on an unsafe surface or a tree with branches near power lines.
Cedar trees can grow to heights of over 120 feet. Some species grow to 180 feet. They have a light colored, spicy scented wood.
Trim a cedar at planting when to reduce pruning maintenance as the tree grows. Cedar is an evergreen tree that grows into a tall, pyramid shape with cascading branches. The tree has a pleasing shape and is ideal to grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 6 through 10, depending on the varieties.
How to Grow Cedar Trees. Cedar trees are not hard to grow and will give elegance to any space where they have room to spread. The trees start easily from seed but require a 48-hour soaking period and another month in the refrigerator, along with some potting soil in a zip lock bag.
To grow cedar trees, you can either plant a cedar tree sapling or buy cedar tree seeds and grow the sapling yourself. Both the choices require different methods to grow trees. (1) Grow cedar tree from cedar tree seeds. a) Soak the cedar tree seeds in water for about two days and change the water in between.
As very tall, long-lived trees, cedars generally grow more rapidly in the first 10 to 20 years of life and more slowly thereafter, resulting in a lifetime growing rate of medium, or even slow.
Eastern Red Cedar ----juniperus virginiana. It normally grows 30 or more ft tall with some specimens reaching over 80 ft and 30 ft wide. It can live a very long life with some specimens in Iowa are over 500 years old on rocky high spots.