The idea continued to be a threat to the American union until the issue was settled in the Civil War which began in 1861. While President Jackson battled the nullifiers, another struggle began. This time, it was Jackson against the Bank of the United States. Congress provided money to establish the Bank of the United States in 1816. It gave the bank a charter to do business for 20 years. The bank was permitted to use the government's money to make loans. 
Andrew Jackson did not like the National Bank because the bankers would not let poor people borrow money, but they would let wealthy people. (Andrew Jackson was poor.) He thou … ght it was unconstitutional and nothing would get done. 4 people found this useful. J.P. Helm. The Bank of the US was run by the rich people in the Eastern US. It gave preferential treatment to business interests in the East and was not of service to Jackson's people on … the Western frontier.
Congress reduced the tariff in 1833, defusing the crisis. The Second Bank of the United States was a corporation chartered by Congress to provide a national paper currency and manage the government's finances. Like Thomas Jefferson, Jackson believed such a bank to be dangerous and unconstitutional. In 1832, he vetoed a bill to extend the Bank's charter beyond its scheduled expiration in 1836. Jackson's veto message counterposed the virtuous plain people against the Bank's privileged stockholders. Andrew Jackson, seventh President of the United States, was the dominant actor in American politics between Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. Born to obscure parents and orphaned in youth, he was the first self-made man and the first westerner to reach the White House.
Jackson Vetoes Re-Charter of the Second Bank of the US. Andrew Jackson vetoed the bill re-chartering the Second Bank in July 1832 by arguing that in the form presented to him it was incompatible with “justice,” “sound policy” and the Constitution. Speech on the Bank of the United States veto and its aftermath. Report of a Committee of Directors of the Second Bank of the United States, 1833 (first edition). Political cartoon: A potential Third Bank of the United States provides Jackson and Van Buren an awful affright.
President Andrew Jackson opposed the Second Bank of the United  States because he believed that it held too much power without  accountability and undermined the rights of s … tates. Furthermore, it  used that power to benefit the old Eastern establishment and  shortchanged the farmers on the frontier. The Bank of the US was run by the rich people in the Eastern US. It gave preferential treatment to business interests in the East and was not of service to Jackson's people on … the Western frontier.
The bank’s charter was unfair, Jackson argued in his veto message, because it gave the bank considerable, almost monopolistic, market power, specifically in the markets that moved financial resources around the country and into and out of other nations. Speech on the Bank of the United States veto and its aftermath. Report of a Committee of Directors of the Second Bank of the United States, 1833 (first edition). Political cartoon: A potential Third Bank of the United States provides Jackson and Van Buren an awful affright.
Following Jefferson, and contradicting the Supreme Court in McCulloch, Jackson denied the Bank's constitutionality and affirmed his right to judge that question independent of Congress or the courts. Ingeniously, and perversely, he targeted foreign stockholders for special censure. 
Jackson was not opposed to central banking, per se, but to the Second Bank in particular. No other bill to renew the Bank's charter was presented to Jackson, and so the Second Bank of the United States expired in 1836. Although the Second Bank was not a campaign issue (Biddle actually voted for Jackson), by 1832, four years before the Bank's charter was to expire, political divisions over the Bank had already formed (Ibid). Pro-Bank members of Congress produced a renewal bill for the Bank's charter, but Jackson vetoed it.
And kill it he did. In 1832, the Bank had to be re-chartered, and because Jackson' … s intentions were known, the Bank became a major election issue. But when the time came, Jackson vetoed the charter and disbanded the bank. The Bank of the US was run by the rich people in the Eastern US. It gave preferential treatment to business interests in the East and was not of service to Jackson's people on … the Western frontier.