1 The mantle is made up of semi-molten rock called magma. 2  In the upper parts of the mantle the rock is hard, but lower down the rock is soft and beginning to melt. 3  The crust is the outer layer of the earth. 4  It is a thin layer between 0-60 km thick. 5  The crust is the solid rock layer upon which we live. The Earth is made up of four distinct layers: 1  The inner core is in the centre and is the hottest part of the Earth. 2  The outer core is the layer surrounding the inner core. 3  The mantle is the widest section of the Earth. 4  The crust is the outer layer of the earth.
Oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of an oceanic tectonic plate. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together comprise an oceanic plate. The plates of the Earth together are referred to as the lithosphere. Oceanic crust is the result of erupted mantle material originating from below the plate, cooled and in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. This occurs mostly at mid-ocean ridges, but also at scattered hotspots, and also in rare but powerful occurences known as flood basalt eruptions
This usually involves a continental plate and an oceanic plate. The oceanic plate is denser than the continental plate so, as they move together, the oceanic plate is forced underneath the continental plate. The point at which this happens is called the subduction zone. As the oceanic plate is forced below the continental plate it melts to form magma and earthquakes are triggered. The magma collects to form a magma chamber [magma chamber: A region under the surface of the Earth where hot molten magma collects. ] . This magma then rises up through cracks in the continental crust. As pressure builds up, a volcanic eruption may occur. The diagram below shows how the oceanic plate is pushed underneath the continental plate, causing mountains and possibly volcanoes to form along the destructive plate boundary.
A thin layer of rock separates the Earth's oceans from the hot mantle beneath them. In this lesson, you'll read about the composition and life cycle of this oceanic crust, and take a quiz to test your understanding. A term that is sometimes used for oceanic crust rocks is sima, which is short for magnesium silicate, a common component of these rocks. Another term for these undersea igneous rocks is mafic, which comes from the fact that they are high in magnesium and iron. Basalt and gabbro are examples of mafic rocks.
] layers: inner core, outer core, mantle [mantle: A zone of hot rock in the interior of the Earth, located between the outer crust and the molten core. ] and crust [crust: The outer layer of the Earth, on top of the mantle. It is between 6 and 48 kilometres thick and includes the continents and the ocean floor. ] . The Earth is made up of four distinct layers: 1  The inner core is in the centre and is the hottest part of the Earth. 2  The outer core is the layer surrounding the inner core. 3  The mantle is the widest section of the Earth. 4  The crust is the outer layer of the earth.
This rock is made up of silicon, oxygen, and magnesium. The density of the oceanic crust is about 3.0 g/cm3. The continental crust has a lower density. This difference in the average densities allows many natural phenomenon to occur on and below the surface of the Earth. The oceanic crust scarcely floats on the mantle. 
Oceanic crust is the part of the Earth's crust that makes up the seafloor. It's thinner, denser, and simpler in structure than the continental crust. Oceanic crust is also younger, on average; from its birth at a mid-ocean ridge to its end at a subduction zone is no more than 250 million years. A term that is sometimes used for oceanic crust rocks is sima, which is short for magnesium silicate, a common component of these rocks. Another term for these undersea igneous rocks is mafic, which comes from the fact that they are high in magnesium and iron. Basalt and gabbro are examples of mafic rocks.
The oceanic crust is part of the crust that is made fully out of basaltic rock and is several times thinner than the continental crust which is made out of granitic rock. Ocea … nic crust underlies Earth's oceans and is produced at divergent plate boundaries which are commonly referred to as mid-ocean ridges. 
There are two different types of crust: continental crust, which carries land, and oceanic crust, which carries water. The diagram below shows the structure of the earth. In geography, taking a slice through a structure to see inside is called a cross section. Cross section showing structure of the Earth. Page: 1  1. 2  2. The Earth is made up of four distinct layers: 1  The inner core is in the centre and is the hottest part of the Earth. 2  The outer core is the layer surrounding the inner core. 3  The mantle is the widest section of the Earth. 4  The crust is the outer layer of the earth.