Organization as an Author: If the author is an organization or a government agency, mention the organization in the signal phrase or in the parenthetical citation the first time you cite the source. According to the American Psychological Association (2000),... In subsequent citations, only use the first author's last name followed by et al. in the signal phrase or in parentheses. (Kernis et al., 1993). In et al. , et should not be followed by a period.
There are a number of websites you may need to cite for a paper, including standard webpages, online articles, online books, forum posts, and blogs. Here is an explanation of how to properly cite these website sources in the APA style. 3. Include the date of retrieval. Introduce the date with the word Retrieved.. Type the date in month-day-year format, and follow with a comma. 1  How to cite a website in APA. (2012, December 31).
APA Style gives prominence to the date of a publication. In-text citations use the author's last name and the date, separated by a comma, as a brief reference in the text of the article to refer the reader to complete information in the reference list. 
In Word, you can automatically create a bibliography of the sources you used to write your paper. Each time you add a new citation to your paper, Word adds that source so that it appears in the bibliography in the correct format, such as MLA, APA, and Chicago-style. Click at the end of the sentence or phrase that you want to cite. Click Insert Citation and then select Add New Source. In the Create Source box, type in the citation details, and then click OK.
Six or More Authors: Use the first author's name followed by et al. in the signal phrase or in parentheses. Harris et al. (2001) argued... (Harris et al., 2001). Unknown Author: If the work does not have an author, cite the source by its title in the signal phrase or use the first word or two in the parentheses. In subsequent citations, only use the first author's last name followed by et al. in the signal phrase or in parentheses. (Kernis et al., 1993). In et al. , et should not be followed by a period.
In-text citations consist of the surname(s) of the author(s) and the year of publication. 1  If there is no author, use the title (or a short form of the title, if it is lengthy) and the year. 2  If there is no date, use “n.d.” (without quotation marks) instead. The reference list entry for an e-book includes the author, date, title, and source (URL or DOI). For a chapter in an e-book, include the chapter title and page numbers (if available). Whole e-book: Author, A. (date). Title of book. Retrieved from http://xxxxxxxxx.
Retrieved from http://xxxxxxxxx. The in-text citation includes the author and date (Author, date), as with any other APA Style citation. More information. Publication Manual (6th ed., section 6.32, pp. 189–192; Chapter 7, Examples 29, 30, 54, 55, and 76, pp. The reference list entry for an e-book includes the author, date, title, and source (URL or DOI). For a chapter in an e-book, include the chapter title and page numbers (if available). Whole e-book: Author, A. (date). Title of book. Retrieved from http://xxxxxxxxx.
Cite the name of the website and the URL from which you obtained the information. Introduce the information with the word from.. Name the website, then follow it with a colon. Finish with the URL. 1  How to cite a website in APA. (2012, December 31). 3. Include the date of retrieval. Introduce the date with the word Retrieved.. Type the date in month-day-year format, and follow with a comma
Method 2 of 5: Website with No Author. 1. Indicate the name of the article or page. Do not put the title in quotation or italics. Capitalize only the first letter of the first word, as well as any proper nouns. Follow with a period. 1  How to cite a website in APA. 3. Include the date of retrieval. Introduce the date with the word Retrieved.. Type the date in month-day-year format, and follow with a comma. 1  How to cite a website in APA. (2012, December 31).
by Chelsea Lee. When you use others' ideas in your paper, you should credit them with an in-text citation. Several different systems of citation are in use in various academic communities (such as footnotes and endnotes), but APA Style uses a kind of parenthetical referencing called the author–date system. Basic In-Text Citation Style. As the name author – date system implies, APA Style in-text citations include the author and date, either both inside parentheses or with the author names in running text and the date in parentheses. Here are two examples: 