Later on in the play, Tybalt, who is Juliet's cousin, challenges Romeo to a duel to the death. What Tybalt doesn't know is that it's already too late to stop his cousin from marrying the enemy Romeo, because they already married in secret. Mercutio thinks Tybalt is a fool and ridicules him when he arrives to duel Romeo.
Tybalt was a hotheaded, loyal swordsman who thought he was protecting the Capulet name. In the end, Tybalt's anger and quick temper resulted not only in his own death, but in the death of Mercutio, which all ultimately led to the suicide of Romeo and Juliet.
Tybalt, a kinsman to Capulet, sees Benvolio’s drawn sword and draws his own. Benvolio explains that he is merely trying to keep the peace, but Tybalt professes a hatred for peace as strong as his hatred for Montagues, and attacks.
In William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, Tybalt is the nephew of Lord Capulet and Juliet's older cousin. We can accurately describe the skilled swordsman as a tough, cocky and aggressive character who is always looking for a fight.
Romeo, Mercutio, and Tybalt share many distinctive characteristics and personalities in the story. We learn that Romeo is the romantic and handsome son of the Montagues. In the beginning of the story, he was depressed, but his mood quickly changed as the story went on.
Tybalt is the cousin to Juliet. He is referred to as the Prince of Cats as he is a skillful fencer and kills all the mice he encounters. Tybalt is unwilling to tolerate Romeo's presence at the Capulet party and seeks revenge. When he finally meets Romeo in the street, Romeo refuses to fight.
Tybalt and Mercutio trade insults until Romeo arrives on the scene. When he does, Tybalt challenges Romeo to a duel. Of course, Romeo can't fight his cousin, so he declines. Mercutio, an honorable man, doesn't know that Romeo married a Capulet. However, in order to honor the Montague name, he begins to duel with Tybalt.
Tybalt, true to his nickname, does find a fight at the Capulet's masked ball. Romeo, Mercutio and Benvolio decide to crash the party in order to try and get Romeo out of the dumps after his love for Rosaline goes unrequited.