Fertile chicken eggs can be stored up to 10 days (before incubating) with little loss in hatchability – as long as you keep them out of the refrigerator. The ideal storage conditions are 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 70 to 75 percent relative humidity. The easiest way to incubate and hatch fertile chicken eggs is to have a broody hen do all the work for you. What’s a broody hen, you wonder? This hen has undergone progesterone-induced changes that make her want to sit on eggs to hatch them and brood the resulting chicks.
In a forced air incubator (with a fan) the temperature should be 99-99.5*F. In a still air incubator the temperature should be slightly higher, 101-102*F measured at the top of the eggs. I use a thermometer and a hygrometer (which measures humidity) in my incubator. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began.
Perhaps the most important parameter is temperature – chicken eggs should be incubated at a temperature between 99 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (99.5 is often considered to be ideal) and 50 to 65 percent relative humidity (60 percent is often considered the ideal). The easiest way to incubate and hatch fertile chicken eggs is to have a broody hen do all the work for you. What’s a broody hen, you wonder? This hen has undergone progesterone-induced changes that make her want to sit on eggs to hatch them and brood the resulting chicks.
Fertility and Candling. Natural fertility is rarely 100% - it may vary from 55% to 95% with season, condition and type of birds. You might be safe to expect that 50% to 75% of the fertile eggs will hatch, though 90%-100% hatches can and does happen. With shipped eggs the hatch rate is approximately 50% overall. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began.
Chicken eggs require 21 days at temperatures of approximately 99-100 F to hatch successfully. I try to maintain a temperature of 99.5 F to 100 F. Make sure that you will be able to care for the incubating eggs during the hatch period. 
If it is necessary to hold the eggs before you set them, turn them daily and keep them in a room where the temperature is around 50 o F (10 C) and the relative humidity is 70 to 80 percent. The vegetable section of your refrigerator could be used for holding the egg until it is time to place them in the incubator. Put some warm water in the water pan, place each thermometer so that the bulb of the thermometer is 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the screen, cover the incubator with the pane of glass, and then operate the incubator until the temperature inside it holds at 99 o to 103 o F (37 to 39 C).
Temperature: The eggs need to be kept at 99.5 degrees at all times; just one degree higher or lower for a few hours can terminate the embryo. Humidity: 40 to 50 percent humidity must be maintained for the first 18 days; 65 to 75 percent humidity is needed for the final days before hatching. Mothering chicken eggs is not for everyone, but if you think it might be your calling, here’s how to do it. Once a hen lays a clutch of eggs, instincts take over. They constantly fuss over them, adjusting them just so throughout the day and rarely leaving the nest for more than a few minutes.
Chicken eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Chicken eggs incubate for 21 days. Your countdown for days starts when you put your eggs in your incubator. It does not start when the hen lays her eggs. Duck eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. Calibrate the incubator's temperature. You must calibrate the incubator to ensure the temperate is correct and stable at least 24 hours prior to incubating any eggs. 1  Make sure to adjust the incubator's thermometer so that it will measure the temperature around where the center of an egg will reach in the incubator.
1 Temperature: Chicken eggs should be incubated at a temperature between 99 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (99.5 is often considered to be ideal). 2  Avoid temperatures outside the 97–103 °F (36–39 °C). 3  range. 4  If the temperature remains beyond either extreme for several days, hatchability may be severely reduced. Before you begin to hatch your chicken eggs, make sure to read all of the instructions in the incubator's instruction manual. Make sure you know how to operate the fan, the light and any other functions. 1  Use the thermometer provided to check the temperature of the incubator.