It is composed of neurons, or nerve cells, which receive and transmit impulses, and neuroglia, also known as glial cells or more commonly as just glia (from the Greek, meaning glue), which assist the propagation of the nerve impulse as well as providing nutrients to the neuron. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia. The tissue is categorized by its neuronal and neuroglial components.
1 Example of Nervous Tissue Within the Nervous System Nervous tissue is a large component of the entire nervous system. 2  Examples of nervous tissue include the brain, spinal cord, and the peripheral nervous system. 3  All of these s…. 4  Fibrous Breast Tissue: What Does it Mean Every woman has fibrous breast tissue. 1 Examples of nervous tissue include the brain, spinal cord, and the peripheral nervous system. 2  All of these s…. 3  Fibrous Breast Tissue: What Does it Mean Every woman has fibrous breast tissue. 4  Sometimes, due to hormonal changes, that tissue changes and becomes painful.
Nerve cells, also called Neurons. 2. Interstitial/Supportive cells, also called Neuroglia or Neuroglial cells. 3. Connective tissue proper of the nervous tissue which include: a. Meninges of the brain and spinal cord b. Connective tissue of the blood vessels of the nervous tissue. c. Connective tissue sheath of the peripheral nerves, which include (See Diagram 1.): i. Epineurium ii.
Nervous Tissue. Nervous tissue consists of nerve cells and associated supporting cells. All cells exhibit electrical properties, but nerve cells, also called neurons, are specifically designed to transmit electrical impulses from one site in the body to another, and to receive and process information. The nervous system is divided into the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The central nervous system is limited to the brain and spinal cord, all other nervous tissue belongs to the peripheral nervous system. An individual nerve cell can have components in both the CNS and the PNS.
Cells of nervous tissue. Nervous tissue is the main component of the two parts of the nervous system; the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and the branching peripheral nerves of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which regulates and controls bodily functions and activity. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia. The tissue is categorized by its neuronal and neuroglial components.
Here are some examples of nervous tissue: 1  Gray matter-cells without insulation, tightly packed in your brain and in the inner part of your spinal cord. 2  White matter-cells insulated by a substance called myelin. 3  Neuroglial cells-these cells support and nourish the nerve cells. The nervous system is not just built from neurons. There are also cells that don't communicate, but wrap around the neurons to nourish and protect them, called Schwann cells. The organs of the nervous system work together to coordinate body processes.
A group of cells working together is called a tissue. Here are some examples of nervous tissue: 1  Gray matter-cells without insulation, tightly packed in your brain and in the inner part of your spinal cord. 2  Gray matter is like an integrated circuit, connecting and processing information. The nervous system is not just built from neurons. There are also cells that don't communicate, but wrap around the neurons to nourish and protect them, called Schwann cells. The organs of the nervous system work together to coordinate body processes.
Nerve Tissue. Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. The word neuroglia means nerve glue.. These cells are nonconductive and provide a support system for the neurons. They are a special type of connective tissue for the nervous system. The unmyelinated regions between the myelin segments are called the nodes of Ranvier. In the peripheral nervous system, the myelin is produced by Schwann cells. The cytoplasm, nucleus, and outer cell membrane of the Schwann cell form a tight covering around the myelin and around the axon itself at
Tissues combine to form organs. The nervous system is not just built from neurons. There are also cells that don't communicate, but wrap around the neurons to nourish and protect them, called Schwann cells. The organs of the nervous system work together to coordinate body processes.
Structure [edit]. Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia. The tissue is categorized by its neuronal and neuroglial components.