The leading cause of stroke occurs when a blood clot occludes, or obstructs, an artery supplying blood to your brain. Formation of vascular blood clots is also a leading cause of death in cancer patients because cancer cells create conditions that favor clotting. 
The most common type of stroke is an ischemic stroke, which is caused by a blood clot. A clot can form in an artery that supplies blood to the brain. A clot that forms elsewhere can travel through the blood vessels until it becomes trapped in a vessel that supplies the brain. 
It could be, depending on where the clot is. A clot shuts off blood flow to whatever area of the brain the vessel it is in feeds. If that's an important one, it could lead to death of that area. Other blood clots cause pressure on the brain and can cause the same type problems. Sometimes the pressure can be relieved surgically, other times not. It really depends on the size, location and type of clot it is. Not all blood clots are fatal.
Head injuries or trauma to the brain, head and neck can cause these clots to form in the brain. Blood clots in the brain are caused when bleeding occurs between the skull and the brain. The body will form a clot to stop the bleeding, which will put pressure on the surrounding brain tissue. Trauma to the head can also cause blood clots formed outside of the brain to break loose and become lodged in the brain, which can cause an ischemic stroke.
Blood clots in the brain are frequently caused by injury to the vessels in this area. A blood clot in the brain can cause an Ischemic stroke, a stroke that is caused by an artery to the brain becoming blocked and starving a portion of the brain of oxygen and nutrients. The body will form a clot to stop the bleeding, which will put pressure on the surrounding brain tissue. Trauma to the head can also cause blood clots formed outside of the brain to break loose and become lodged in the brain, which can cause an ischemic stroke.
Certain diseases and conditions are more likely to cause clots to form in specific areas of the body. Conditions that can trigger excessive blood clotting in the heart and brain: 1  Atherosclerosis is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside your arteries. 2  Over time, the plaque may rupture. 3  Platelets clump together to form clots at the site of the damage. Many factors can lead to excessive blood clotting, leading to limited or blocked blood flow. Blood clots can travel to the arteries or veins in the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs and limbs, which in turn can cause heart attack, stroke, damage to the body’s organs or even death. 1  Smoking. 2  Overweight and obesity.
Blood Clots. Blood clotting, or coagulation, is an important process that prevents excessive bleeding when a blood vessel is injured. Platelets (a type of blood cell) and proteins in your plasma (the liquid part of blood) work together to stop the bleeding by forming a clot over the injury. An abnormal clot that forms in a vein may restrict the return of blood to the heart and can result in pain and swelling as the blood gathers behind the clot. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a type of clot that forms in a major vein of the leg or, less commonly, in the arms, pelvis, or other large veins in the body.
Inflammation of a superficial vein can also cause an increased risk of blood clots. If a vein is damaged due to a high trauma injury it can become inflamed. A bacterial infection in the vein can also cause this type of inflammation which will reduce blood flow to the surrounding area. The body will form a clot to stop the bleeding, which will put pressure on the surrounding brain tissue. Trauma to the head can also cause blood clots formed outside of the brain to break loose and become lodged in the brain, which can cause an ischemic stroke.
Best Answer: a blood clot is basically a lump of coagulated blood which block brain flow to a certain part of the brain. brain cells need constant supply of oxygen and nutrients. they have little to none reserves of either so a block of blood flow will cause them to die. Other blood clots cause pressure on the brain and can cause the same type problems. Sometimes the pressure can be relieved surgically, other times not. It really depends on the size, location and type of clot it is. Not all blood clots are fatal.
Blood clots that arise in the arteries of the heart itself may block the flow of blood through that artery and cause a heart attack. Blood clots that arise from within the carotid arteries in your neck may travel to the brain and cause a stroke. Factors and conditions that can cause blood clots, as well as serious conditions that are associated with blood clots once they form and travel to other parts of your body, include: Blood clots may also break away from their original source and cause damage elsewhere in your body. Blood clots that break away from a deep vein thrombosis and travel to your lungs may cause a potentially life-threatening blood clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism).