Congenital (infantile) esotropia is a type of strabismus which first appears sometime within the first six months of life. This esotropia may be present at birth but often develops within the first few months. 
Summary. 1. Strabismus and Amblyopia are both medical conditions that affect the eye. 2. Strabismus is a condition that makes the eye unsure of its visual alignment. 3. If the eye is affected with Strabismus, it will cause the sufferer to encounter double vision. 4. A common term for Amblyopia is Lazy Eye. 
What is Esotropia. Esotropia, a form of Strabismus, is the inward deviation (turn) of an eye and occurs in 1.2% of children by 7 years of age and occurs equally in males and females. What causes Esotropia. The exact cause of the misalignment is not fully understood. Six eye muscles, controlling eye movements, are attached to the outside of each eye. In each eye, two muscles move the eye right and left. The other four muscles move it up or down and control tilting movements.
Strabismus, the technical term for eye turn, occurs when one of the two eyes does not aim at the spot one is looking at. An eye may turn inwards (esotropia), outwards (exotropia), or upwards hypertropia. The eye turn may occur some of the time (intermittent) or all the time (constant). 
Amblyopia (Lazy Eye) and Strabismus are not the same condition. Many people make the mistake of saying that a person who has a crossed or turned eye (strabismus) has a lazy eye, but lazy eye (amblyopia) and strabismus are not the same condition. Some of the confusion may be due to the fact that strabismus can cause amblyopia.
Commonly referred to as crossed eyes, esotropia is a common type of strabismus in which one or both eyes turn inward toward the nose. 
Esotropia with Amblyopia (Lazy Eye) If Amblyopia is present, therapy including eye patching is often required so that the turned lazy eye develops the capacity to see as well as the preferred eye. If surgery is chosen as a treatment option, it is best to do the lazy eye therapy BEFORE surgery. It is more difficult to help this type of strabismus with non-surgical methods, such as Vision Therapy and/or glasses. Sometimes, clear tape applied to the inner third of each lens (occlusion) can reduce the tendency to turn inward. Prisms may aid alignment if the turn is not too large.
Esotropia is sometimes erroneously called “lazy eye,” which describes the condition of amblyopia —a reduction in vision of one or both eyes that is not the result of any pathology of the eye and cannot be resolved by the use of corrective lenses. Esotropia is a form of strabismus, or “squint,” in which one or both eyes turns inward. The condition can be constantly present, or occur intermittently, and can give the affected individual a cross-eyed appearance
Strabismus refers to eyes that are out of alignment. The eyes maybe converged (crossed), diverged (outwardly deviated), vertically (one eye higher than the other) or torsionally misaligned (one or both eyes rotated inwardly or outwardly). 