It is thought that there are hundreds of different olfactory receptors, each encoded by a different gene and each recognizing different odorants. Smell is a very direct sense. In order for you to smell something, molecules from that thing have to make it to your nose. Everything you smell, therefore, is giving off molecules -- whether it is bread in the bakery, onions, perfume, a piece of fruit or whatever.
Overview. The olfactory nerve is the shortest cranial nerve and is the nerve which transmits special sensory information, allowing us to have a sense of smell. It is one of two nerves that do not join with the brainstem, the other being the optic nerve. 
It contains the afferent nerve fibers of the olfactory receptor neurons, transmitting nerve impulses about odors to the central nervous system, where they are perceived by the sense of smell (olfaction). Lesions to the olfactory nerve can occur because of blunt trauma, such as coup-contra-coup damage, meningitis, and tumors of the frontal lobe. They often lead to a reduced ability to taste and smell. However, lesions of the olfactory nerve do not lead to a reduced ability to sense pain from the nasal epithelium
The olfactory system is the sensory system used for olfaction, or the sense of smell. Most mammals and reptiles have two distinct parts to their olfactory system: a main olfactory system and an accessory olfactory system. Olfactory neurons transduce receptor activation into electrical signals in neurons. The signals travel along the olfactory nerve. The olfactory nerve, similar to the optic nerve, is not part of the peripheral nervous system but is defined as a part of the brain.
1 Odorant molecules (molecules that we can smell) dissolve in the mucus and. 2  bind to receptors on the cilia. 3  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 4  Binding of the odorant activates a G protein coupled to the receptor on its cytoplasmic side. 1 The cilia of the sensory neurons are immersed in a layer of mucus. 2  Odorant molecules (molecules that we can smell) dissolve in the mucus and. 3  bind to receptors on the cilia. 4  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 5
The olfactory nerve is sensory in nature and originates on the olfactory mucosa in the upper part of the nasal cavity. From the olfactory mucosa, the nerve (actually many small nerve fascicles) travels up through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to reach the surface of the brain. Lesions to the olfactory nerve can occur because of blunt trauma, such as coup-contra-coup damage, meningitis, and tumors of the frontal lobe. They often lead to a reduced ability to taste and smell. However, lesions of the olfactory nerve do not lead to a reduced ability to sense pain from the nasal epithelium
Olfaction, along with taste, is a form of chemoreception. The chemicals themselves that activate the olfactory system, in general at very low concentrations, are called odorants. Although taste and smell are separate sensory systems in land animals, water-dwelling organisms often have one chemical sense. The sensory receptors of the accessory olfactory system are located in the vomeronasal organ. As in the main olfactory system, the axons of these sensory neurons project from the vomeronasal organ to the accessory olfactory bulb, which in the mouse is located on the dorsal-posterior portion of the main olfactory bulb.
The olfactory nerve (Latin: nervus olfactorius) is typically considered the first cranial nerve, or simply CN I. Lesions to the olfactory nerve can occur because of blunt trauma, such as coup-contra-coup damage, meningitis, and tumors of the frontal lobe. They often lead to a reduced ability to taste and smell. However, lesions of the olfactory nerve do not lead to a reduced ability to sense pain from the nasal epithelium