Doggerel is a form of crude, often awkwardly composed verse which is generally viewed to be of little to no literary value. Despite the fact that people tend to look down their noses at doggerel, this style of verse is quite ancient, suggesting that humans may be more fond of it than they wish to admit. 
Doggerel is poetry that is irregular in rhythm and in rhyme, often deliberately for burlesque or comic effect. The word is derived from the Middle English dogerel, probably a diminutive of dog. In English it has been used as an adjective since the fourteenth century and a noun since at least 1630. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. That your central girders would not have given way, At least many sensible men do say, Had they been supported on each side with buttresses, At least many sensible men confesses, For the stronger we our houses do build, The less chance we have of being killed.
Definition and Examples. Doggerel is a technical term for bad poetry. You probably knew someone in high school who wrote doggerel, which is usually characterized by irregular verse and forced rhyme. Overly sentimental tones can also be a trait of doggerel, and so can comical effect. Lesson Summary. Doggerel is a technical term for bad poetry. It is characterized by irregular verse and forced rhyme, and it may be overly sentimental. While doggerel is viewed disparagingly in many contexts, some have used it intentionally for comical effect or to drive a point home.
Doggerel. Doggerel is a derogatory term for verse considered of little literary value. The word probably derived from dog, suggesting either ugliness, puppyish clumsiness, or unpalatability. Doggerel is attested to have been used as an adjective since the fourteenth century and a noun since at least 1630. 
Doggerel Poems. Below are examples of doggerel poems. This list of doggerel poems is made of PoetrySoup member poems. PoetrySoup is a great resource for examples of doggerel poems or a list of doggerel poetry. These examples illustrate what doggerel poems look like. There is also a link below to the definition of doggerel and a page where you can discuss these types of poems. 
Definition of DOGGEREL. : loosely styled and irregular in measure especially for burlesque or comic effect; also: marked by triviality or inferiority. ADVERTISEMENT