Raise the temperature of the oil to 375 degrees F. For the second fry, deep-fry the potatoes for 2 minutes, or until crispy. Remove potatoes, and transfer into a colander or bowl. While still hot, salt the potatoes. Serve with favorite dipping sauce.
Enter your text here. Pommes Frites isn't an ordinary shop, but a specialty shop serving authentic Belgian fries, or as the Belgians call them, pommes frites.. You won't find many seats here, but you will find the tastiest treat in town. 
DS 2001Its authentic European ambiance will transport you to a cafe café In. BRUSSELS 2001Superior 2001superior, cuisine bistro ambiance and attention to.Detail out of this world mussels And Pomme. FRITES 2002This 2002this small and Charming-european style restaurant nestled in the heart of Downtown Palm. springs DS 2001Superior cuisine, bistro ambiance and attention to detail.Out of this world mussels and Pomme Frites. ZAGAT 2002This small and charming European-style restaurant nestled in the heart of downtown Palm Springs.
In France and other French-speaking countries, fried potatoes are formally pommes de terre frites, but more commonly pommes frites, patates frites, or simply frites. The word  aiguillettes  or allumettes is used when the French fries are very small and thin. In Denmark, Sweden and Norway they are called Pommes Frites (potatoes, fried). They are the most common form of potatoes when served together with breaded plaice (or certain other low fat fishes). When served with fish, represents remoulade and a good lemon slice the typical Danish version of fish and chips.
Directions. Peel the potatoes, and cut them into batons that are about the length and width of your index finger. Preheat a deep pot of oil to 325 degrees F. For the first fry, deep fry potatoes in the oil for 5 to 6 minutes, or until a light golden color. Do not over load fryer. Fry in 3 batches if necessary. Remove the potatoes using a slotted spoon, and allow them to cool to room temperature. For the second fry, deep-fry the potatoes for 2 minutes, or until crispy. Remove potatoes, and transfer into a colander or bowl. While still hot, salt the potatoes. Serve with favorite dipping sauce.
Hello Pommes Frites friends and fans! We want to thank everyone from the bottom of our hearts for all of your inspirational, thoughtful words and your generous support and encouragement throughout these past months. CLICK HERE to support Rebuild Pommes FritesHelp rebuild this New York institution so they can get back to serving authentic Belgian Frites. | Crowdfunding is a democratic way to support the fundraising needs of your community. Make a contribution today!indiegogo.com. CLICK HERE to support Rebuild Pommes Frites. Help rebuild this New York institution so they can get back to serving authentic Belgian Frites. | Crowdfunding is a democratic way to support the fundraising needs of your ..
128 Macdougal St. New York, NY 10012 212-674-1234. Hello Pommes Frites friends and fans! We want to thank everyone from the bottom of our hearts for all of your inspirational, thoughtful words and your generous support and encouragement throughout these past months. Back in June 2015, Pommes Frites signed a new lease in a great location at 128 Macdougal Street in Greenwich Village. Our new space is adorable and will it be a real adventure for all. We are grateful that we have the opportunity to rebuild Pommes Frites in our new home. Pommes Frites’ projected opening date will (hopefully) be within the first few months of 2016.
Impressive wine list and large assortment of Belgian beers. DS 2004Serving superior cuisine with pride but without European pomp. DS 2001Its authentic European ambiance will transport you to a cafe café In. BRUSSELS 2001Superior 2001superior, cuisine bistro ambiance and attention to.Detail out of this world mussels And Pomme. frites DS 2001Superior cuisine, bistro ambiance and attention to detail.Out of this world mussels and Pomme Frites. ZAGAT 2002This small and charming European-style restaurant nestled in the heart of downtown Palm Springs.
In France, the thick-cut fries are called Pommes Pont-Neuf or simply pommes frites, about 10 mm; thinner variants are pommes allumettes (matchstick potatoes), ±7 mm, and pommes paille (potato straws), 3–4 mm (roughly 0.4, 0.3 and 0.15 inch respectively). The two-bath technique is standard (Bocuse). In Denmark, Sweden and Norway they are called Pommes Frites (potatoes, fried). They are the most common form of potatoes when served together with breaded plaice (or certain other low fat fishes). When served with fish, represents remoulade and a good lemon slice the typical Danish version of fish and chips.