Mylar® and Melinex® polyester films are flexible, exceptionally strong and durable translucent and clear films produced by DuPont. They have a high tensile, tear and impact strength. They remain tough and flexible at temperatures from -70°c to 150°c. 1 An electrical barrier in motors, transformers and wire, cables and a host of uses in electronic and aerospace equipment. 2  A physical barrier in protective laminates for decals and book covers. 3  A thermal and electrical barrier in wire and cables.
Polyethylene terephthalate is a white, odorless solid with molecular weight 20,000–40,000; the maximum crystallinity of unoriented polyethylene terephthalate is 40–45 percent, and of the oriented variety, 60–65 percent; density, 1.38–1.40 g/cm 3 (20°C); melting point, 255°-265°C; softening point, 245°-248°C. (organic chemistry). A thermoplastic polyester resin made from ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid; melts at 265°C; used to make films or fibers.
BoPET (Biaxially-oriented polyethylene terephthalate) is a polyester film made from stretched polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and is used for its high tensile strength, chemical and dimensional stability, transparency, reflectivity, gas and aroma barrier properties, and electrical insulation. 
You may be familiar with Mylar in shiny helium-filled balloons, solar filters, space blankets, protective plastic coatings or insulators. Here's a look at what Mylar is made of and how Mylar is made. Answer: Mylar is the brand name for a special type of stretched polyester film. Mylar is one of the brand names for stretched polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film or foil. This type of polyester film is also known as BoPET (biaxially-oriented polyethylene terephthalate). Anton. Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
OVERVIEW. Melinex® polyester films are known around the world and used in hundreds of industrial, packaging, imaging, printing, technical and consumer products. With more than 930 basic grade types covering 90+ market segments and 140+ specific end uses, we produce the world's broadest range of high-quality polyester film. Melinex® is a biaxially oriented polyester film from the DuPont Teijin Films family of films. This family includes Melinex® polyester film, Mylar® polyester film and Cronar® polyester photographic film base
DuPont Teijin Films is the world’s leading differentiated producer of PET and PEN polyester films and is able to meet the global and regional needs of those customers that value innovative and high quality films. DuPont Teijin Films is a 50:50 global joint venture between DuPont and Teijin. Only DuPont Teijin Films manufactures Mylar® brand, Melinex® brand, Teijin® Tetoron® brand, and Teonex® brand films. To identify your location, click on the map below so we can direct your information request to the appropriate web site and contact person.
Used in hundreds of industrial, packaging, imaging, printing, technical and consumer products, Melinex® polyester films are well known all over the world. uki produces the world's broadest range of high-quality polyester film, with more than 930 basic grade types covering 90+ market segments and 140+ specific end uses. 
polyethylene terephthalate. (organic chemistry). A thermoplastic polyester resin made from ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid; melts at 265°C; used to make films or fibers. Abbreviated PET
Polyester makes up about 18% of world polymer production and is the fourth-most-produced polymer; polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) are first, second and third, respectively. Polyethylene terephthalate is produced from ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate (C 6 H 4 (CO 2 CH 3) 2) or terephthalic acid.