To become a fiduciary for a family member or friend, submit a request with the beneficiary‘s name and VA file number, and your name and contact information to the VA regional office nearest you. To become a professional fiduciary, submit your resume with cover letter to the following e-mail address: VA_Fiduciary@va.gov. 
A fiduciary fund is used to account for funds or assets that are  held in trust by the government. These funds or assets are held for  individuals or other entities. 1 person found this useful. Edit. A fiduciary is someone who has undertaken to act for and on behalf of another in a particular matter in circumstances which give rise to a relationship of trust and co … nfidence.[1]    A fiduciary duty is the highest standard of care at either equity or law.
A fiduciary is someone who has undertaken to act for and on behalf of another in a particular matter in circumstances which give rise to a relationship of trust and confidence. A fiduciary duty is the highest standard of care at either equity or law.
DEFINITION of 'Fiduciary'. 1. A person legally appointed and authorized to hold assets in trust for another person. The fiduciary manages the assets for the benefit of the other person rather than for his or her own profit. 2. A loan made on trust rather than against some security or asset
A fiduciary is someone who manages money or property for someone else. When you are named a fiduciary, you are required by law to manage the person’s money and property for his or her benefit, not yours. For example, a friend of yours may name you her fiduciary through a power of attorney (POA). As a fiduciary, you should remember the four basic duties you have: 1  Act only in her best interest. 2  Because you are dealing with your friend’s money and property, your duty is to make decisions that are best for her, not you.
A fiduciary is a person who holds a legal or ethical relationship of trust with one or more other parties (person or group of persons). Typically, a fiduciary prudently takes care of money or other asset for another person. A fiduciary duty is the highest standard of care at either equity or law.
A fiduciary account is a statement of all of the receipts and disbursements of an executor, trustee, or other fiduciary. Fiduciary accounts are often filed with a court in order to get court approval of the actions of the fiduciary, so the content and format of the account is determined by rules of court. It shows what the fiduciary received, what was sold, what was spent, what was distributed, and what is left in the estate or trust. Specifically, a fiduciary account usually consists of the following sections or schedules: Summary. The first page is usually a summary page that also serves as a table of contents.
Fiducairies may be required to hold funds and assets in a special fiduciary account and file periodic acounts and/or inventories with the court. A fiduciary has a duty not to benefit at the expense of the one they are responsible for. 
Definition. Savings or deposit account the funds of which are owned by one party but are managed by another (such as an agent, bank, or trustee) for the owner's, or a beneficiary's, benefit.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. fiduciary account -- a savings account, the funds of which are owned by one individual but administered for that individual's benefit by another individual, such as a legally appointed conservator, trustee, or agent. A fiduciary is someone who has undertaken to act for and on behalf of another in a particular matter in circumstances which give rise to a relationship of trust and co … nfidence.[1]    A fiduciary duty is the highest standard of care at either equity or law.