Administration. SPRIX is not an inhaled product. Do not inhale when administering this product. Instruct patients to administer as follows: 1  First hold the finger flange with fingers, and remove the clear plastic cover with opposite hand; then remove the blue plastic safety clip. Do not use any single SPRIX bottle for more than one dayas it will not deliver the intended dose after 24 hours. Therefore, the bottle must be discarded no more than 24 hours after taking the first dose, even if the bottle still contains some liquid.
SPRIX ® (ketorolac tromethamine) Nasal Spray is a non-opioid pain reliever to treat short-term moderate to moderately severe pain for up to 5 days. Limitations of Use. Do not use SPRIX ® along, before, or after other forms of ketorolac for more than 5 days in a row. SPRIX ® is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), the same class of drugs as ibuprofen. Do not use SPRIX ® concomitantly with other NSAIDs and aspirin. Use SPRIX ® for the shortest duration possible
To make sure ketorolac nasal is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot; 2  heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure; 3  liver or kidney disease, 4  ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease; 5  polyps in your nose; Do not use this medicine for longer than 5 days. You should not use ketorolac nasal if you have severe kidney disease, a bleeding or blood clotting disorder, bleeding in your brain, a stomach ulcer or history of stomach bleeding, or if you are breast-feeding a baby.
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Therefore, SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with active peptic ulcer disease, in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation, and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Ketorolac tromethamine is highly water-soluble, allowing its formulation in an aqueous nasal spray product at pH7.2. SPRIX is a clear, colorless to yellow solution packaged in a glass vial with a snap on spray pump for use as an intranasal spray product. It contains the active ingredient (ketorolac tromethamine) and the excipients edetate disodium (EDTA), mono basic potassium phosphate, sodium hydroxide, and water for injection
Sprix belongs to a group of medications called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Like other NSAIDs, Sprix is thought to work by blocking the production of certain hormones that cause pain and inflammation in the body. These hormones are called prostaglandins. By blocking prostaglandins, Sprix helps to alleviate pain
SPRIX (ketorolac tromethamine), a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), is indicated for short-term (up to 5 days in adults) management of moderate to moderately severe pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level. Ketorolac tromethamine is highly water-soluble, allowing its formulation in an aqueous nasal spray product at pH7.2. SPRIX is a clear, colorless to yellow solution packaged in a glass vial with a snap on spray pump for use as an intranasal spray product. It contains the active ingredient (ketorolac tromethamine) and the excipients edetate disodium (EDTA), mono basic potassium phosphate, sodium hydroxide, and water for injection
SPRIX ® (ketorolac tromethamine) Nasal Spray, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), is indicated for short-term (up to 5 days in adults) management of moderate to moderately severe pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level. Limitations of Use. Do not use SPRIX ® along, before, or after other forms of ketorolac for more than 5 days in a row. SPRIX ® is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), the same class of drugs as ibuprofen. Do not use SPRIX ® concomitantly with other NSAIDs and aspirin.
Limitations Of Use. The total duration of use of SPRIX alone or sequentiallywith other formulations of ketorolac (IM/IV or oral) must not exceed 5 daysbecause of the potential for increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Do not use any single SPRIX bottle for more than one dayas it will not deliver the intended dose after 24 hours. Therefore, the bottle must be discarded no more than 24 hours after taking the first dose, even if the bottle still contains some liquid.
Be the first to review this Drug. Ketorolac is a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug (NSAID). This medicine works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain, fever, and inflammation. Ketorolac nasal (for the nose) is used short-term (5 days or less) to treat moderate to severe pain. Ketorolac may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Do not use this medicine for longer than 5 days. You should not use ketorolac nasal if you have severe kidney disease, a bleeding or blood clotting disorder, bleeding in your brain, a stomach ulcer or history of stomach bleeding, or if you are breast-feeding a baby.