A broad-spectrum antibiotic can be used to treat a wide range of infections. A narrow-spectrum antibiotic is only effective against a few types of bacteria. There are antibiotics that attack aerobic bacteria, while others work against anaerobic bacteria. Aerobic bacteria need oxygen, while anaerobic bacteria don't.
Antibiotics are medicines used to treat infections or diseases caused by bacteria (e.g. respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia and whooping cough). Antibiotics are used for a range of other infections caused by bacteria, including urinary tract infections, skin infections and infected wounds.
Erythromycin is an antibiotic used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria, such as bronchitis; diphtheria; Legionnaires' disease; pertussis (whooping cough); pneumonia; rheumatic fever; venereal disease (VD); and ear, intestine, lung, urinary tract, and skin infections.
In addition, injectable or oral erythromycin is used to prevent rheumatic fever in people with streptococcal infections of the upper respiratory tract, such as  strep throat .. Oral erythromycin is also approved for long-term use to prevent recurrent attacks of rheumatic fever.
Erythromycin belongs to the family of medicines called antibiotics. Erythromycin ophthalmic preparations are used to treat infections of the eye. They also may be used to prevent certain eye infections of newborn babies, such as neonatal conjunctivitis and ophthalmia neonatorum.
Ophthalmic erythromycin is used to treat bacterial infections of the eye. This medication is also used to prevent bacterial infections of the eye in newborn babies. Erythromycin is in a class of medications called macrolide antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria that cause infections.
This medication is used to treat certain eye infections (such as conjunctivitis). It is also used to prevent certain eye infections in newborns. It belongs to a class of drugs known as macrolide antibiotics. Erythromycin works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This medication treats only bacterial eye infections.
In general, penicillin is the drug of choice for these uses, and erythromycin is typically prescribed only for people who are allergic to penicillin. Erythromycin eye ointment is used to treat various eye infections. It is also routinely used in newborns to prevent se