Cradle cap in babies is actually a condition known as seborrheic eczema or seborrheic dermatitis. It appears as yellow, oily, scaly patches on the scalp and will usually clear up without treatment at 8 to 12 months of age. In contrast, atopic dermatitis (AD) in infants usually appears as a red rash. Eczema in Children. Children may develop the rash on the inside of their elbows or behind the knees, around their mouths, on the sides of their necks, or on wrists, arms, and hands. Those with atopic dermatitis are more likely to have food allergies, including allergies to peanuts, milk, or other nuts.
Many people do not know the technical differences between psoriasis and eczema, or atopic dermatitis. Recognizing a patch of skin that is inflamed, red, or peeling, as one of these conditions will dictate how you treat it. This image depicts psoriasis on the belly. Eczema appears on the hands very commonly. This is because soaps, lotions, and contact with certain fabric, animals, and other allergens or irritants that the hands come in contact with can cause a reaction in people with hypersensitive skin.
Eczema. Eczema (also called atopic dermatitis) is a skin rash which is common in babies and young children, but which tends to get better as they get older. The skin is very itchy and it can be quite distressing to the child. It can usually be controlled and the child helped to feel more comfortable. Contents.
The term atopic is from the Greek meaning strange.. The term dermatitis means inflammation of the skin. In atopic dermatitis, the skin becomes extremely itchy and inflamed, causing redness, swelling, vesicle formation (minute blisters), cracking, weeping, crusting, and scaling. Atopic dermatitis, seborrheic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, allergic contact eczema, etc. The signs and symptoms of eczema vary depending on the type of eczema. The skin can be red, itchy, appear as scaly patches on the body, or patches of skin may be crusted, scaling, and very itchy.
Eczema has been called the itch that rashes because the itching usually occurs first. This group of skin rashes may first appear in babies and toddlers, becoming a drier, flaky rash in older children. Adults may see scaly, leathery patches or a stubborn hand eczema. Atopic dermatitis is a common, often inherited form, but there are other types, as well as many treatment options. Eczema in Children. Children may develop the rash on the inside of their elbows or behind the knees, around their mouths, on the sides of their necks, or on wrists, arms, and hands. Those with atopic dermatitis are more likely to have food allergies, including allergies to peanuts, milk, or other nuts.
388 Followers. A. Eczema is a skin condition caused by inflammation. Atopic dermatitis is the most common of the many types of eczema. While the word dermatitis means inflammation of the skin, atopic refers to an allergic tendency, which is often inherited. This answer should not be considered medical advice..
We don't know exactly what causes atopic dermatitis, the most common form of eczema. Experts believe genetic, environmental, and skin factors all play a role. A malfunction of the immune system may be involved, creating inflammation in the skin, even when there is no infection to fight. Eczema in Children. Children may develop the rash on the inside of their elbows or behind the knees, around their mouths, on the sides of their necks, or on wrists, arms, and hands. Those with atopic dermatitis are more likely to have food allergies, including allergies to peanuts, milk, or other nuts.
“Eczema” is a term for many kinds of skin problems. Atopic dermatitis is the most common kind of eczema. Other types include: 1  Allergic contact eczema. 2  The skin gets red, itchy, and weepy because it touches something that the immune system knows is foreign, like poison ivy. 3  Contact eczema. 
Eczema, or atopic dermatitis, may also be a long-term condition affecting the skin. It occurs because of a hypersensitivity reaction (similar to an allergy), in which the skin reacts to triggers, such as dyes, fabrics, soaps, animals, and other irritants. Eczema appears on the hands very commonly. This is because soaps, lotions, and contact with certain fabric, animals, and other allergens or irritants that the hands come in contact with can cause a reaction in people with hypersensitive skin.