A: To become a RN nurse you can either take ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) or you can take BSN (Bachelors of Science in Nursing) degree. Associate's degree in nursing takes two years to complete while a BSN is more comprehensive and therefore takes four years to complete. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
Nursing diploma programs are typically three years long. ADN programs offered through community and 4-year colleges last 2-3 years and qualify graduates for entry-level RN positions. Nursing associate's degree programs at community colleges can be taken either during the day or as a night or weekend schedule. Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN). ADN programs offered through community and 4-year colleges last 2-3 years and qualify graduates for entry-level RN positions. Nursing associate's degree programs at community colleges can be taken either during the day or as a night or weekend schedule.
You can attend a 2 year college and receive an Associate Degree in Nursing Or you can attend a 4 year coll … ege and receive a Bachelor of Science in Nursing. The difference in the end can be the pay. Also the RN's with BSN are more likely to have a managerial or leadership position in a Health Care Setting. To become a pediatrician you need: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3-4 years of residency So 11-12 years after high school is needed to become a pediatrician, at … a minimum. Many have more.
BSN programs, offered by colleges and universities, take about 4 years to complete. In 2006, 709 nursing programs offered degrees at the bachelor's level. ADN programs, offered by community and junior colleges, take about 2 to 3 years to complete. About 850 RN programs granted associate degrees. Diploma programs, administered in hospitals, last about 3 years. Only about 70 programs offered diplomas. To become a pediatrician you need: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3-4 years of residency So 11-12 years after high school is needed to become a pediatrician, at … a minimum. Many have more.
Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years. 
There are two kinds of nursing education for registered nurses. The first is basic education that allows the graduate to take the national licensing exam – called the NCLEX-RN – and begin to practice as a registered nurse. The second is post-graduate education in nursing. Most nursing programs also have prerequisite classes that may take six months to a year to complete, which can also affect the length of an RN’s education. The shortest time from entry to graduation is two years and the longest may be up to 11 years. An associate degree is a two-year program and is commonly offered at a community college. The focus of the education is on a broad body of nursing knowledge with little emphasis on leadership, nursing theory and nursing research.
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school. However, if you are looking to complete this qualification in two years for any number of reasons, there is an option of distance learning programs