Hypoglycemia: The non availability of glucose due to severe lack of carbohydrate causes drop in the blood sugar levels. Hypoglycemia occurs when blood glucose, levels drop under 70 mg/dL with typical symptoms like giddiness, fatigue, distress and delirium. People lacking food of plant origin, and people suffering chronic illness, poverty or starvation also experience deficiency diseases. The carbohydrates consumed by us are broken down by digestive enzymes into monosaccharides (glucose, fructose etc) and absorbed in the intestine.
Phosphofructokinase deficiency (Tarui's disease, glycogenosis type VII) is an autosomal recessive myopathy caused by a genetic defect of the muscle (M) subunit of the rate-limiting enzyme of glycolysis, PFK (Fig. 42-1). Presenting symptoms are cramps after intense exercise, followed by myoglobinuria in some patients. Acid maltase deficiency (AMD) (glycogenosis type II) is an autosomal recessive disease caused by a genetic defect of the lysosomal enzyme acid maltase, an α-1,4- and α-1,6-glucosidase capable of digesting glycogen completely to glucose
Hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia, also known as low blood sugar or low blood glucose, occurs when the glucose levels in the blood drop below normal. While hypoglycemia is often associated with diabetes, it can be caused by a lack of carbohydrates in healthy people. Symptoms of hypoglycemia include tiredness, weakness, light-headedness, confusion and hunger. Ketosis. Eating less than 130 grams of carbohydrates a day can cause a buildup of ketones, which are partially broken-down fats in the blood. This condition is known as ketosis, according to the Weight-Control Information Network, a service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
In the advanced stage many diseases are prevalent in the sufferer before death occurs. Carbohydrates displace essential protein and essential fats in the diet to cause a double health reversal. The carbohydrates themselves cause disease, and the deficiency of protein and fats contribute or cause other diseases. The consumption of carbohydrates generally begins showing the disease effects in either one of two directions. 
Lack of carbohydrates can cause low blood sugar and ketosis. Many people avoid carbohydrates due to concerns about weight gain, but carbs are needed for the body to function. Carbohydrates are your body’s main energy source and necessary for you to think and remain active. Ketosis. Eating less than 130 grams of carbohydrates a day can cause a buildup of ketones, which are partially broken-down fats in the blood. This condition is known as ketosis, according to the Weight-Control Information Network, a service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
Answer by Twyy76543. Confidence votes 276. A disease caused by lack of all macronutriets (carbohydrates, fats, and protein) is kwashiorkor. Symptoms include a swollen abdomen, cracking and scaly skin, and reddish hair. The mortality is about 60% and it also affects a person's physical and mental development. Another related disease is Marasmus. 
Prolonged deprivation leads to the symptoms and diseases connected with severe carbohydrate short fall. The symptoms include hypoglycemia, confusion, tremor, feverishness, giddiness, fatigue, distress, delirium, muscles atrophy, loss of muscle tissue and reduces stamina. People lacking food of plant origin, and people suffering chronic illness, poverty or starvation also experience deficiency diseases. The carbohydrates consumed by us are broken down by digestive enzymes into monosaccharides (glucose, fructose etc) and absorbed in the intestine.
A disease caused by lack of all macronutriets (carbohydrates, fats, and protein) is kwashiorkor. Symptoms include a swollen abdomen, cracking and scaly skin, and reddish hair. … The mortality is about 60% and it also affects a person's physical and mental development. Another related disease is Marasmus. 
Carbohydrates are being shunned by health conscious, rather weight conscious, people. They have to understand that carbohydrate deficiency diseases and their manifestations are certain to appear if there is too much exclusion of carbohydrates in the diet. People lacking food of plant origin, and people suffering chronic illness, poverty or starvation also experience deficiency diseases. The carbohydrates consumed by us are broken down by digestive enzymes into monosaccharides (glucose, fructose etc) and absorbed in the intestine.