1 The level of ambulance service dispatched to each call (ALS, BLS, SCT) is based on nationally recognized emergency medical service protocols that take into account the patient’s condition, the duration of the injury or illness and the on-going care or monitoring that the patient may require. 1 Each ambulance is appropriately staffed with state-licensed Emergency Medical Technicians (Basic and/or Paramedic) who receive on-going skills development and quality assurance guidance. 2  An Advanced Life Support Ambulance is staffed with at least one Paramedic (EMT-P) and an EMT.
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS, Lou Gehrig's disease (noun). thickening of tissue in the motor tracts of the lateral columns and anterior horns of the spinal cord; results in progressive muscle atrophy that starts in the limbs. see more on Definitions.net ». 
Advanced Life Support (ALS) is provided when a patient is in more critical condition and a paramedic is required to assist in the treatment of the patient before and/or during transport to the emergency facility. 
1 An Advanced Life Support Ambulance is staffed with at least one Paramedic (EMT-P) and an EMT. 2  It is equipped with all of the supplies needed to care for a severely injured or ill patient, such as IV supplies, cardiac monitor, intubation equipment and a ventilator. 1 Each ambulance is appropriately staffed with state-licensed Emergency Medical Technicians (Basic and/or Paramedic) who receive on-going skills development and quality assurance guidance. 2 
ALS, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. A-myo-trophic comes from the Greek language. Motor neurons reach from the brain to the spinal cord and from the spinal cord to the muscles throughout the body. The progressive degeneration of the motor neurons in ALS eventually leads to their demise. When the motor neurons die, the ability of the brain to initiate and control muscle movement is lost. With voluntary muscle action progressively affected, people may lose the ability to speak, eat, move and breath
1 Answer. 0. A. The different transport types are based on the level of care a patient receives during an emergency transport. ALS 1 and ALS 2 are the two levels of Advanced Life Support and are given to the patient by a provider with a certification beyond EMT-Basic, such as a Paramedic. BLS transports are transports in which Basic Life Support treatment is given by an EMT-Basic or a provider with higher certification. 
I think in both cases part of the problem is nobody actually knows what ALS or BLS means. To some its billing, to others level of care, some see it as ACLS/BLS which covers cardiac but not trauma and finally some see it as just a unit designation. So, I am asking you to help a brother out and provide your definition of ALS and BLS.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), often referred to as Lou Gehrig's Disease It's a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. With voluntary muscle action progressively affected, patients in the later stages of the disease may become totally paralyzed. Source(s): my half sister's Dad is slowly dying of this http://www.alsa.org/als/what.cfm. emjay · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Motor neurons reach from the brain to the spinal cord and from the spinal cord to the muscles throughout the body. The progressive degeneration of the motor neurons in ALS eventually leads to their death. With voluntary muscle action progressively affected, patients in the later stages of the disease may become totally paralyzed. Source(s): my half sister's Dad is slowly dying of this http://www.alsa.org/als/what.cfm. emjay · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.