epinephrine. a hormone produced by the medulla of the adrenal glands; called also adrenaline. Its function is to aid in the regulation of the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system. adrenaline (epinephrine). A hormone of the adrenal medulla which, instilled in the eye, causes a constriction of the conjunctival vessels, dilates the pupil and diminishes the intraocular pressure.
Epinephrine (ep-uh-nef-rin, -reen) is also known as adrenaline. It is a hormone that is secreted by the adrenal glands. (1, 3). Adrenalin, without the e, was originally used as a trademark for a product made by an American pharmaceutical firm Parke, Davis & Co. Epinephrine and liver cells. One of the places where epinephrine has an effect is in the liver. Epinephrine, along with another hormone called glucagon, is responsible for the breakdown of glycogen in liver cells. Glycogen is a form of energy storage in animals.
Uses For epinephrine. Epinephrine injection is used for emergency treatment of severe allergic reactions (including anaphylaxis) to insect bites or stings, medicines, foods, or other substances. It is also used to treat anaphylaxis caused by unknown substances or triggered by exercise. 
Epinephrine is a hormone and a neurotransmitter that's also known as adrenaline. As an injectable medicine, such as EpiPen, epinephrine is used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) caused by foods, insect bites, and other allergens. Epinephrine is an FDA Pregnancy Category C drug, which means harm to an unborn baby can't be ruled out. It's not known whether epinephrine passes into breast milk or could harm a breastfeeding baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding before using epinephrine.
Epinephrine Auto-injectors. Epinephrine (adrenaline), a self-injectable medication, is the first-line treatment for severe or life-threatening allergic reactions (anaphylaxis). Epinephrine is a highly effective medication that can reverse severe symptoms. However, it must be administered promptly during anaphylaxis to be most effective. About Food Allergies. Epinephrine (adrenaline), a self-injectable medication, is the first-line treatment for severe or life-threatening allergic reactions (anaphylaxis).
Epinephrine is normally produced by both the adrenal glands and certain neurons. It plays an important role in the fight-or-flight response by increasing blood flow to muscles, output of the heart, pupil dilation, and blood sugar. Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a medication, hormone and neurotransmitter. As a medication it is used for a number of conditions including: anaphylaxis, cardiac arrest, and superficial bleeding. Inhaled epinephrine may be used to improve the symptoms of croup
Epinephrine injection is used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions caused by insect bites, foods, medications, latex, and other causes. Symptoms of allergic reaction include wheezing, shortness of breath, low blood pressure, hives, itching, swelling, stomach cramps, diarrhea, and loss of bladder control. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Epinephrine is a hormone that is chemically identical to the adrenaline produced by the body, and the names of the two are often used interchangeably to some extent. When produced naturally by the body, it helps us respond effectively to short-term stress. 