Eastern Redbud. Eastern redbud, or Cercis canadensis, grows quickly to a height of 25 to 35 feet. The horizontal branching habit and rounded crown look attractive throughout the year. In early spring, clusters of pink or lavender flowers bloom from the twigs and branches of the tree before the dark green leaves emerge.
Blooming Season and Care. Redbud trees begin to bloom in early spring, usually in March in the more southern regions of the country, such as Kansas and Texas. The trees bloom later in northern states such as Connecticut and Pennsylvania, around May. The tree can grow as tall as 20 to 30 feet high and spreads as wide as 26 feet. For maximum flowering, the trees require at least four hours of direct sunlight during the spring, and they thrive in moist -- but not sodden -- soil. Don't look for blooms before about four years, because the redbud takes time to mature.
Eastern Redbud. The familiar purplish-red blooms of the Eastern redbud are a harbinger of spring from mid-to late-March through mid-April. The decades old monster specimen in the photo above is located at UT's West Tennessee AgResearch and Education Center in Jackson. Photo by C. Reese.
The familiar purplish-red blooms of the Eastern redbud are a harbinger of spring from mid-to late-March through mid-April. The decades old monster specimen in the photo above is located at UT's West Tennessee AgResearch and Education Center in Jackson. Photo by C. Reese.
Redbud leaves are almost as decorative as the tree's flowers. Both the eastern redbud (Cercis canadensis) and the western redbud (Cercis occidentalis) are small, native trees that grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture Plant Hardiness Zones 7 through 9. Redbuds rarely grow taller than 25 feet, and they prefer a sunny location.
Root-prune the redbud several months before you transplant it, always during tree dormancy. To root-prune, trace a circle in the earth with the redbud trunk at its center; the radius of the circle (the distance from the trunk) should be about 15 inches.