Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. It has the third-largest planetary radius and fourth-largest planetary mass in the Solar System. Uranus is similar in composition to Neptune, and both have different bulk chemical composition from that of the larger gas giants Jupiter and Saturn. Uranus has a complicated planetary ring system, which was the second such system to be discovered in the Solar System after Saturn's. Uranus's aurorae against its equatorial rings, imaged by the Hubble telescope.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun. 
Exploration: Uranus has only been visited once by any spacecraft: NASA’s Voyager 2 space probe, which flew past the planet in 1986. On January 24th, 1986, Voyager 2 passed within 81,500 km of the surface of the planet, sending back the only close up pictures ever taken of Uranus. 
A colour photograph of Uranus, taken by Voyager 2 in 1986 as it headed towards the planet Neptune. The exploration of Uranus has, to date, been solely through telescopes and NASA 's Voyager 2 spacecraft, which made its closest approach to Uranus on January 24, 1986. Voyager 2 discovered 10 moons, studied the planet's cold atmosphere, and examined its ring system, discovering two new rings. The Uranian moon Miranda, imaged by Voyager 2. Uranus is the third-largest planet in the Solar System. It orbits the Sun at a distance of about 2.8 billion kilometers (1.7 billion miles) and completes one orbit every 84 years. The length of a day on Uranus as measured by Voyager 2 is 17 hours and 14 minutes.
Get short URL. Astronomers have announced that 715 new planets have been discovered outside the Earth’s solar system, including four planets that are more than double the size of our own. This discovery boosts the number of known planets in our galaxy to over 1,700. Tags Space, SciTech, Information Technology, USA, NASA, Science. 
Uranus has been visited by only one spacecraft, Voyager 2 on Jan 24 1986. Most of the planets spin on an axis nearly perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic but Uranus' axis is almost parallel to the ecliptic. At the time of Voyager 2's passage, Uranus' south pole was pointed almost directly at the Sun. 
Facts about Uranus. Uranus was officially discovered by Sir William Herschel in 1781: It is too dim to have been seen by the ancients. At first Herschel thought it was a comet, but several years later it was confirmed as a planet. Herscal tried to have his discovery named “Georgian Sidus” after King George III. To date 27 moons have been discovered around Uranus,... Miranda Moon Facts Miranda is the smallest of the rounded satellites of Uranus. It also orbits the closest of the five larger moons.
No other planet has a moon as proportionally as large as the Earth's -- not even close. Outside the Solar System, many other planets have been identified and some rudimentary measurements taken. It would be hard to say that these planets have been explored, however. Best Answer: To some degree or another, humans have explored every planet in our Solar System. Although people have physically been only to the Earth and Moon, robotic exploration craft have visited all the other planets.