It's common for ramp agents to clock in 70 to 80 hours a week, said Kevin Talbert, a TWU Local 555 representative in Baltimore. A ramp agent with Southwest for over nine years, Talbert, 30, now makes $18.50 an hour and with all the overtime his pay reaches about $75,000 a year, he said. The pay scale tops out at $24 an hour and benefits include the right to free flights. The turnover rate for Southwest ramp agents at BWI is close to five times the company's 4 percent to 5 percent overall average, Lamb said. Southwest flies more than half of all passengers at BWI, which is the airline's fourth-biggest market, with 172 daily
A day in the life of me, a Southwest Airlines Ramp Agent at SFO. This was my first project assignment, in my film editing class at Napa Valley College. I would have liked to include a little more of my life outside of work, but we had to keep the video short. This was shot entirely with a GoPro Hero 2 camera. 
Southwest Airlines Ramp Agents are responsible for providing legendary Customer Service when safeguarding and handling our Customers luggage or cargo. Our Ramp Agents also provide friendly service and maintain positive relationships with all Internal and External Customers to ensure the success of Southwest Airlines. 
Jack, it's sort of difficult to explain but I'll try. At Southwest the ramp is a union job. The pay is on a set scale so regardless of your merits, your pay increases a certain amount each year. A ramp agent begins at a bit over $11 an hour and ends up at $26 an hour. As far as being promoted to supervisor.
A Southwest Airlines ramp agent directs a flight to an airport gate. Carlos E. Santa Maria. Southwest Airlines (NYSE: LUV) is hiring 500 new ramp workers in several of its busiest markets including Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston and Baltimore. Southwest has its largest hub at Chicago's Midway Airport
Those with one to four years of experience at the company can expect to make $50K per year on average. Overall, the greater share of Southwest Airlines Co folks have 10-19 years of experience and earn an average approximately $87K annually. Southwest Airlines Co employees bring home $65K per year on average. Your role at the company is the biggest factor affecting pay for Southwest Airlines Co workers, followed by your city and your experience level.
(United States). Ramp Agents in the United States can expect wages of $11.10 per hour on average. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $8.75 per hour and $20.07. Compensation for this group is mainly affected by experience level, but the specific employer and geographic location are influential factors as well. Median compensation in the five-to-10 year group, however, is higher at approximately $29K. Ramp Agents bring in $44K after working for 10 to 20 years. People who have worked for more than 20 years report a median income of $45K, which is barely higher than the median for folks with 10 to 20 years of experience.
John in Chicago, Illinois said: Southwest is the only worthwhile airline to work ramp in. They have the best benefits, medical, flight, proffit sharing, 401k match, as well as the best pay. Currently a senior ramp agent makes $25.22 an hour. The pay is on a set scale so regardless of your merits, your pay increases a certain amount each year. A ramp agent begins at a bit over $11 an hour and ends up at $26 an hour. As far as being promoted to supervisor.