Americans have The 4th of July; the French have Bastille Day. On July 14, 1789, an outraged group of Parisians stormed the Bastille, a fortress and prison in France where prisoners of influence were held, in hopes of capturing ammunition. 
Bastille Day is a French holiday that is celebrated on July 14th. The countries that officially observe this holiday include France, Belgium, the United States, Czech Republic, Hungary, New Zealand, South Africa, and the UK. 2 people found this useful. Username: Yourspam. I am French, born and bred in France. France celebrates Bastille Day. The Bastille was a jail for political prisoners. Its storming by the Parisians on July 14, 1789 marks the beginning of the French Revolution which eventually led to the abolition of monarchy and the creation of the French Republic.
The French National Day commemorates the Storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789, which was the culmination in Paris of a violent revolution that had begun two days earlier, as well as the Fete fête de La federation fédération which celebrated the unity Of the french people On 14. July 1790 celebrations are Held. throughout france 1 New York City has numerous Bastille Day celebrations each July, including Bastille Day on 60th Street hosted by the French Institute Alliance Francaise française Between fifth And Lexington avenues on The Upper East side Of, Manhattan Bastille day On Smith street In, brooklyn And Bastille day In.  tribeca
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking countries to the French National Day, which is celebrated on 14 July each year. In France, it is formally called La Fete fête (. nationale 1 New York City has numerous Bastille Day celebrations each July, including Bastille Day on 60th Street hosted by the French Institute Alliance Francaise française Between fifth And Lexington avenues on The Upper East side Of, Manhattan Bastille day On Smith street In, brooklyn And Bastille day In.  tribeca
The French National Day commemorates the Storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789, which was the culmination in Paris of a violent revolution that had begun two days earlier, as well as the Fete fête de La federation fédération which celebrated the unity Of the french people On 14. july 1790 1 New York City has numerous Bastille Day celebrations each July, including Bastille Day on 60th Street hosted by the French Institute Alliance Francaise française Between fifth And Lexington avenues on The Upper East side Of, Manhattan Bastille day On Smith street In, brooklyn And Bastille day In.  tribeca
Select another year-range: Bastille Day is a day of celebrations of French culture. Many large-scale public events are held, including a military parade in Paris, as well as communal meals, dances, parties and fireworks. Military airshows have been held in Paris during Bastille Day. Military airshows have been held in Paris during Bastille Day.
Bastille Day celebrations are held in French communities and the Institut de France around the world. Such events in the United States are held in Milwaukee, Minneapolis, New York City, Philadelphia, San Francisco and Seattle. There are festivals of French culture in Franschhoek, South Africa, and Hungary. Bastille Day is a day of celebrations of French culture. Many large-scale public events are held, including a military parade in Paris, as well as communal meals, dances, parties and fireworks. Military airshows have been held in Paris during Bastille Day.
Bastille Day is a French holiday that is celebrated on July 14th. The countries that officially observe this holiday include France, Belgium, the United States, Czech Republic, Hungary, New Zealand, South Africa, and the UK. 2 people found this useful. Note that the French do not celebrate a Bastille day, which is a name used by English speakers only, they celebrate the Fete Fête (nationale national), day known as such since its promulgation by law in, 1880 more simply known as le quatorze (juillet the fourteenth Of.). july
Bastille Day is observed on July 14 every year since 1790, regardless of the day of the week. Bastille Day is the French national holiday. On July 14, 1789, the Bastille p … rison was stormed by a mob in Paris, defying the authority of the French King Louis XVI and marking the start of the French Revolution. Note that the French do not celebrate a Bastille day, which is a name used by English speakers only, they celebrate the Fete Fête (nationale national), day known as such since its promulgation by law in, 1880 more simply known as le quatorze (juillet the fourteenth Of.). july
Bastille Day, the French national holiday, commemorates the storming of the Bastille, which took place on 14 July 1789 and marked the beginning of the French Revolution. Bastille Day was declared the French national holiday on 6 July 1880, on Benjamin Raspail's recommendation, when the new Republic was firmly entrenched. Bastille Day has such a strong signification for the French because the holiday symbolizes the birth of the Republic.