Noun. 1. epidermis-the outer layer of the skin covering the exterior body surface of vertebrates. cuticle. cutis, skin, tegument-a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch; your skin is the largest organ of your body.tratum granulosum-the layer of epidermis just under the stratum corneum or (on the palms and soles) just under the stratum lucidum; contains cells (with visible granules) that die and move to the surface. malpighian layer, rete Malpighii, stratum basale, stratum germinativum-the innermost layer of the epidermis.
epidermis. n. 1. (Biology) Also called: cuticle the thin protective outer layer of the skin, composed of stratified epithelial tissue. 2. (Anatomy) the outer layer of cells of an invertebrate. 3. (Botany) the outer protective layer of cells of a plant, which may be thickened by a cuticle. stratum granulosum-the layer of epidermis just under the stratum corneum or (on the palms and soles) just under the stratum lucidum; contains cells (with visible granules) that die and move to the surface. malpighian layer, rete Malpighii, stratum basale, stratum germinativum-the innermost layer of the epidermis.
In plants, the epidermal cells secrete further protective substance (called cuticle) to prevent desiccation (water loss). A plant leaf is lined with two layers of epidermis (i.e. upper and lower): one on top of and another one below the mesophyll layer.upplement. The epidermis is a protective outer covering of many plants and animals. It may be comprised of a single layer, as in plants, or of several layers of cells on top of the dermis, as in those of vertebrate animals.
7. epidermis. The epidermis cells (from the Greek επίδερμίδα, meaning over-skin) is a single-layer of cells that covers the leaves, flowers, roots and stems of plants. It forms a boundary between the plant and the external environment.
epidermis. n. 1. (Biology) Also called: cuticle the thin protective outer layer of the skin, composed of stratified epithelial tissue. 2. (Anatomy) the outer layer of cells of an invertebrate. 3. (Botany) the outer protective layer of cells of a plant, which may be thickened by a cuticle. 1. epidermis-the outer layer of the skin covering the exterior body surface of vertebrates. cuticle. cutis, skin, tegument-a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch; your skin is the largest organ of your body.
noun. One or more layers of cells forming the outermost portion of the skin or integument. Supplement. The epidermis is a protective outer covering of many plants and animals. It may be comprised of a single layer, as in plants, or of several layers of cells on top of the dermis, as in those of vertebrate animals. The primary role of the epidermis is to protect the more susceptible layers of the skin
Epidermis: The upper or outer layer of the two main layers of cells that make up the skin. The epidermis is mostly made up of flat, scale-like cells called squamous cells. Under the squamous cells are round cells called basal cells. The deepest part of the epidermis also contains melanocytes. These cells produce melanin, which gives the skin its color. The other main layer of the skin is the dermis, the inner layer of skin, that contains blood and lymph vessels, hair follicles, and glands.
1. the outermost, nonvascular, nonsensitive layer of the skin, covering the dermis. 2. the outer epithelial layer of animal tissue. 3. a thin layer of cells forming the outer integument of seed plants and ferns. epidermis. Epidermís see -, epi ]. derma1`ep•i′der, mal`ep•i′der, mic. adj. epidermis-the outer layer of the skin covering the exterior body surface of vertebrates. cuticle. cutis, skin, tegument-a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch; your skin is the largest organ of your body.
Full Definition of EPIDERMIS. 1. a: the outer epithelial layer of the external integument of the animal body that is derived from the embryonic epiblast; specifically: the outer nonsensitive and nonvascular layer of the skin of a vertebrate that overlies the dermis b: any of various animal integuments. 2.edical Definition of EPIDERMIS. 1. : the outer epithelial layer of the external integument of the animal body that is derived from the embryonic epiblast; specifically: the outer nonsensitive and nonvascular layer of the skin of a vertebrate that overlies the dermis. 2.
1. the outermost, nonvascular, nonsensitive layer of the skin, covering the dermis. 2. the outer epithelial layer of animal tissue. 3. a thin layer of cells forming the outer integument of seed plants and ferns. epidermis. epidermístratum granulosum-the layer of epidermis just under the stratum corneum or (on the palms and soles) just under the stratum lucidum; contains cells (with visible granules) that die and move to the surface. malpighian layer, rete Malpighii, stratum basale, stratum germinativum-the innermost