Membranes. Body membranes are thin sheets of tissue that cover the body, line body cavities, and cover organs within the cavities in hollow organs. They can be categorized into epithelial and connective tissue membrane. Synovial Membranes. Synovial membranes are connective tissue membranes that line the cavities of the freely movable joints such as the shoulder, elbow, and knee. Like serous membranes, they line cavities that do not open to the outside. Unlike serous membranes, they do not have a layer of epithelium.
Mucous Membranes. Mucous membranes are epithelial membranes that consist of epithelial tissue that is attached to an underlying loose connective tissue. These membranes, sometimes called mucosae, line the body cavities that open to the outside. The entire digestive tract is lined with mucous membranes. 
Mucous Membranes. Mucous membranes are epithelial membranes that consist of epithelial tissue that is attached to an underlying loose connective tissue. These membranes, sometimes called mucosae, line the body cavities that open to the outside. The entire digestive tract is lined with mucous membranes. Synovial Membranes. Synovial membranes are connective tissue membranes that line the cavities of the freely movable joints such as the shoulder, elbow, and knee. Like serous membranes, they line cavities that do not open to the outside. Unlike serous membranes, they do not have a layer of epithelium.
The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells.
Epithelial membranes consist of epithelial tissue and the connective tissue to which it is attached. The two main types of epithelial membranes are the mucous membranes and serous membranes. Synovial Membranes. Synovial membranes are connective tissue membranes that line the cavities of the freely movable joints such as the shoulder, elbow, and knee. Like serous membranes, they line cavities that do not open to the outside. Unlike serous membranes, they do not have a layer of epithelium.
Epithelial Tissue. Epithelial tissues are widespread throughout the body. They form the covering of all body surfaces, line body cavities and hollow organs, and are the major tissue in glands. They perform a variety of functions that include protection, secretion, absorption, excretion, filtration, diffusion, and sensory reception. 
Epithelia are grouped into two general classes: (1) Epithelial Membranes-covering or lining of the body (skin or stomach lining) and (2) Glandular Epithelium-for increased secretion epithelial cells grow down into the connective tissue and form glands. Epithelial Membranes. Epithelial membranes provide many diverse functions in the body including protection from wear and tear, drying, or excess moisture; secretion of many different products; and absorption of nutrients and other molecules.
The four types of membranes are: 1) cutaneous membranes; 2) serous membranes; 3) mucous membranes; and 4) synovial membranes. Mucous membranes are tissues that line body cavities or canals such as the throat, nose, mouth, urethra, rectum, and vagina. Serous membranes line body cavities (peritoneum) and surround organs such as the lung (pleura) and heart (pericardium). The cutaneous membrane is the skin. This membrane is composed of a layer of epithelium over a layer of connective tissue. Synovial membrane is a layer of connective tissue that lines the cavities of joints, tendon sheaths, and bursae (fluid sacs) and makes synovial fluid, which has a lubricating function