In humans, the embryo is defined as the product of conception from implantation in the uterus through the eighth week of development. An embryo is called a fetus at a more advanced stage of development and up until birth or hatching. In humans, this is from the eighth week of gestation.
Embryo and fetus are different stages in the human reproduction process. The human life starts when the sperm and ovum (egg) get together to form the fertilized ovum. Fertilized ovum starts to divide and produce more cells.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The difference between a embryo and a fetus is that the fetus is a fully developed embryo and a embryo takes up to 8 weeks to develop into a fetus An embryo is a fertilized egg that turns into a fetus at 8 weeks.
Once the embryo reaches the stage of the fetus, the other organs like the liver, brain and kidneys start functioning inside the tiny body. You can also see the tiny differentiation of the fingers and the toes. This is also the time when the external genitalia are visible on an ultrasound.
The embryo refers to the first stage of development of a baby from the moment of fertilization. It is called a fetus from the eighth week of conception. There are developmental differences between the two stages and a lot of difference that the mom faces while she is carrying them. The embryo is the first thing you notice when you go for a pregnancy test.
An Embryo is the very early stages of development after the egg being fertilised by a sperm and is categorised up until 8 weeks. A Foetus is described as an embryo that has passed through the very early stages of development and is categorised as from 8 weeks up until 23 weeks or further.
Like toddler and adolescent, the terms “embryo” and “fetus” do not refer to nonhumans but to humans at particular stages of development. Human beings inside the womb are smaller, less developed, and more dependent than human beings outside the womb. These are differences of degree, not differences of kind.
Embryo vs Fetus. Embryo and fetus are different stages in the human reproduction process. The human life starts when the sperm and ovum (egg) get together to form the fertilized ovum. Fertilized ovum starts to divide and produce more cells.