Symptoms: black pepper allergy. black pepper allergy. black pepper allergy. black pepper allergy. black pepper allergy. black pepper allergy. black pepper allergy. Allergy to black pepper is not very common. Those people who are allergic to celery and pollen show a higher rate of allergy to black pepper.
You are also likely to be allergic to white pepper if you cannot tolerate the black variety without experiencing the allergic symptoms. Black Pepper Allergy Symptoms. 1  Itchiness around the lips, on the tongue and back of the throat. 2  Inflammation of tongue and throat which may hamper the act of swallowing.
Common symptoms of allergic reaction to pepper depend on how the pepper comes in contact with you. Since black, white and green peppers are the same fruit in different stages of processing, if you are allergic to black pepper, it will be no surprise to find you are allergic to white and green peppers as well.
Symptoms. Symptoms of an allergy to black pepper, like any food allergy, can range from annoying to life-threatening. According to MayoClinic.com, common symptoms include hives, tingling or itching inside your mouth, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting.
Black pepper allergy is not widely recognized; however, they exist and people often overlook the condition due to the insignificant amount of the condiment used in food preparation. The allergy symptoms become more evident when an individual consumes black pepper corns or the cracked corns instead of the powdered form.
Whereas most food allergens cause itching or swelling of the mouth, tongue or lips, more common allergic reactions to green pepper are respiratory symptoms, such as rhinoconjinctivitis (red, itchy, swollen, watery eyes) and asthma.
If you are allergic to black pepper and eat something with pepper in it, you’ll usually show signs of allergy symptoms pretty quickly. Everyone reacts differently, so it could happen immediately or take a few minutes to a couple hours for these symptoms to arise. Symptoms You May Be Allergic to Black Pepper. 1  Hives.