Adherens junctions (Zonulae adherens). Adherens junctions are a type of specialized adhesive junction particularly common in epithelia, The plasma membranes in this region are separated by 20 to 35 nm and are sites where cadherin molecules that bridge the gap between neighbouring cells. Belt like junctions located just below tight junction.
Photo by: RAJCREATIONZS. Cell junctions can be divided into two types: those that link cells together, also called intercellular junctions (tight, gap, adherens, and desmosomal junctions), and those that link cells to the extracellular matrix (focal contacts/adhesion plaques and hemidesmosomes). Tight Junctions. The tight junction (also referred to as a zonula occludens) is a site where the membranes of two cells come very close together. In fact, the outer leaflets of the membranes of the contacting cells appear to be fused.
Cell Junctions. There are three major types of cell junctions: anchoring junctions, tight junctions, and gap junctions. They consist of protein complexes and are found in various tissues of vertebrates, especially muscles and epithelial tissues. It is composed of a pair of E-cadherins. Anchoring junctions are found in tissues that stretch a lot, such as muscles and skin. Anchoring junctions also transduce signals in and out of cells.
Tight junctions hold cells together in a sheet, restricting the movement of substances between the cells. Tight junctions are found in cells that line the digestive tract. 2--Adherens junction. Adherens junctions are anchoring junctions that use integrin to hold cells together by anchoring to the cells' actin networks. Adherens junctions, as other anchoring junctions are found in tissues that are subject to mechanical stress such as muscle and epithelium. Desmosomes are anchoring junctions that use cadherin to hold cells together by anchoring to the cells' actin networks, or for more stable cell-to-cell connections by anchoring to the cells' intermediate fibers.
Epithelial cells are held together by strong anchoring (zonula adherens) junctions. The adherens junction lies below the tight junction (occluding junction). In the gap (about 15-20nm) between the two cells, there is a protein called cadherin-a cell membrane glycoprotein. (The type of cadherin found here is E-cadherin). 1 occluding junctions (zonula occludens or tight junctions). 2  adhering junctions (zonula adherens). 3  desmosomes (macula adherens). 4  There are also ' hemidesmosomes ' that lie on the basal membrane, to help stick the cells to the underlying basal lamina.
Anchoring Junctions. The main purpose of an anchoring junction is to hold cells together at a mass of proteins called a plaque. Anchoring junctions are made up of three different proteins: cadherins, which form homodimers with each other in the membranes of adjacent cells, and α-catenin and β-catenin. It is composed of a pair of E-cadherins. Anchoring junctions are found in tissues that stretch a lot, such as muscles and skin. Anchoring junctions also transduce signals in and out of cells.
Epithelial cells are held together by strong anchoring (adherens) junctions. There are two types of adherens junctions: zonula adherens-which contain actin filaments. macula adherens (desmosomes) which contain intermediate filaments. The zonula adherens junction lies below the tight junction (occluding junction). 
A cell junction (or intercellular bridge) is a type of structure that exists within the tissue of some multicellular organisms, such as animals. Cell junctions consist of multiprotein complexes that provide contact between neighbouring cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix. Invertebrates have several other types of specific junctions, for example septate junctions or the C. elegans apical junction. In multicellular plants, the structural functions of cell junctions are instead provided for by cell walls. The analogues of communicative cell junctions in plants are called plasmodesmata.
In vertebrates, there are three major types of cell junction: 1  Adherens junctions, desmosomes and hemidesmosomes (anchoring junctions). 2  Gap junctions (communicating junction). 3  Tight junctions (occluding junctions). Invertebrates have several other types of specific junctions, for example septate junctions or the C. elegans apical junction. In multicellular plants, the structural functions of cell junctions are instead provided for by cell walls. The analogues of communicative cell junctions in plants are called plasmodesmata.