Leukocytes are a type of white blood cell. The presence of  leukocytes in the urine is likely to mean that there is a bacterial  infection, quite possibly a urinary tract in … fection. 1 person found this useful. +1 +2 or +3 leukocytes indicate bacteria are growing. Higher numbers may be present in people when there is a UTI or several other conditions: such as cancer, kidney infection, and cystitis, urethritis, or contamination, vaginal secretion.
leukocyte. a type of blood cell that lacks hemoglobin and is therefore colorless. Leukocytes are larger in size and fewer in number than erythrocytes; normally the blood has about 8000 of them per mm 3. In contrast to erythrocytes, leukocytes can move about under their own power with ameboid movement.
The presence of  leukocytes in the urine is likely to mean that there is a bacterial  infection, quite possibly a urinary tract in … fection. +1 +2 or +3 leukocytes indicate bacteria are growing. Higher numbers may be present in people when there is a UTI or several other conditions: such as cancer, kidney infection, and cystitis, urethritis, or contamination, vaginal secretion.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Leukocytes in the urine are not always a diagnosis of infection present, the amount and degree of leukocytes present is key. +1 +2 or +3 leukocytes indicate bacteria are growing. Higher numbers may be present in people when there is a UTI or several other conditions: such as cancer, kidney infection, and cystitis, urethritis, or contamination, vaginal secretion.
Leukocytes are a type of white blood cell. When urine is positive for leukocytes, there are leukocytes in the urine. White blood cells in urine are typically a sign of infection. Purpose. Leukocytes are white blood cells, the body's defense mechanism against invaders such as infection and disease. When foreign materials enter the body, white blood cells attack it by destroying infectious agents or producing antibodies.
Leukocytes in urine are not a dangerous condition, but they are a sign that you are suffering from an infection or damage. Leukocytes are white blood cells (WBC) that work with the immune system to defend against infectious disease. Damage to the kidneys, ureters, urethra or bladder can cause leukocytes to appear. Bladder infections or inflammation of the urinary tract and ureters can also cause leukocytes to appear in the urine. Sexual intercourse can cause the transfer of bacteria that can cause an infection to form in the urinary tract.
Sponsored link. The presence of leukocytes in urine is generally indicative of a urinary tract infection. When a urinalysis is ordered, it may be ordered as part of a panel of multiple constitutes monitoring for abnormal levels; or as a single test called leukocyte esterase. 
A positive finding of the enzyme leukocyte esterase in urinalysis indicates the presence of white blood cells in the urine. This normally suggests inflammation of some sort, often from a urinary tract infection. Causes of Positive Results. Although a urinary tract infection is the most common cause of leukocyte esterase in urinalysis some other and rarer causes for the positive result with a negative microorganism culture do exist.
Shares & Saves. Save. Leukocytes are a type of white blood cell. When urine is positive for leukocytes, there are leukocytes in the urine. White blood cells in urine are typically a sign of infection. A urinalysis positive for leukoctyes is most commonly the result of a urinary tract infection. Purpose. Leukocytes are white blood cells, the body's defense mechanism against invaders such as infection and disease. When foreign materials enter the body, white blood cells attack it by destroying infectious agents or producing antibodies.