Capex is a contraction of the term capital expenditure, and refers to the expenditures made by a business to add new fixed assets, replace old fixed assets, and pay for their ongoing maintenance. 1 If an expenditure is greater than the capitalization limit of a business, and is for an asset whose utility will be used up over a period of time, then record it as a fixed asset and depreciate it over the useful life of the asset.
Capital Expenditures aka CapEx is the spending of money to buy or fix assets. CapEx is typically related to buildings, property, equipment. Many financial models are built to help determine growth and expansion plans that require spending money on equipment and other assets. 
Capital expenditure, or CapEx, are funds used by a company to acquire or upgrade physical assets such as property, industrial buildings or equipment. It is often used to undertake new projects or investments by the firm. This type of outlay is also made by companies to maintain or increase the scope of their operations. A capital expenditure (CAPEX) is the expenditure of funds or assumption of a liability in order to obtain physical assets ...
A capital expenditure is the use of funds or assumption of a liability in order to obtain physical assets that are to be used for productive purposes for at least one year. This type of expenditure is made in order to expand the productive or competitive posture of a business. A capital expenditure is recorded as an asset, rather than charging it immediately to expense. The fixed asset is then charged to expense over the useful life of the asset, using depreciation. For example, if you acquire a $25,000 asset and expect it to have a useful life of five years, charge $5,000 to depreciation expense in each of the next five years
Part of the Compliance glossary: A capital expenditure (Capex) is money invested by a company to acquire or upgrade fixed, physical, non-consumable assets, such as buildings and equipment or a new business. 
Definition. Capital expenditures are expenditures creating future benefits. A capital expenditure is incurred when a business spends money either to buy fixed assets or to add to the value of an existing asset with a useful life that extends beyond the tax year. Capital expenditures include acquiring fixed assets (tangible, e.g. machinery or intangible e.g. patents), fixing problems with an asset, preparing an asset to be used in business, restoring property so that value is added, or adapting it to a new or different use.
(December 2010). Capital expenditures (CAPEX or capex) are expenditures altering the future of the business. A capital expenditure is incurred when a business spends money either to buy fixed assets or to add to the value of an existing fixed asset with a useful life extending beyond the taxable year. In accounting, a capital expenditure is added to an asset account, thus increasing the asset's basis (the cost or value of an asset adjusted for tax purposes). CAPEX is commonly found on the cash flow statement under Investment in Plant, Property, and Equipment or something similar in the Investing subsection.
In terms of accounting, an expense is considered to be a capital expenditure when the asset is a newly purchased capital asset or an investment that improves the useful life of an existing capital asset. If an expense is a capital expenditure, it needs to be capitalized. A capital expenditure (CAPEX) is the expenditure of funds or assumption of a liability in order to obtain physical assets ...
An example of an asset upgrade is adding a garage onto a house, since it increases the value of the property, whereas repairing a dish washer merely keeps the machine in operation. Examples of capital expenditures are funds paid out for buildings, computer equipment, machinery, office equipment, vehicles, and software. This type of expenditure is made in order to expand the productive or competitive posture of a business. A capital expenditure is recorded as an asset, rather than charging it immediately to expense. The fixed asset is then charged to expense over the useful life of the asset, using depreciation. For example, if you acquire a $25,000 asset and expect it to have a useful life of five years, charge $5,000 to depreciation expense in each of the next five years