Best Answer: If you enjoy it, go for it! I'm a zumba instructor.. i'm only certified in zumba.. it's the only workout i find fun! I teach 3 times a week just at our local rec center and make $36/class .. a lot of instructors rent a room at a dance studio and charge per class, that way they make more.
Or, in the second scenario, you can become part of the ZIN (ZUMBA instructor network). You pay a monthly fee of $30 and you don’t need to go through the certification process again. That payment also includes ongoing training, CDs, and DVDs, and choreography for you to use in class. 
1. Depending on the class I teach, it's $22.50 or $25.00. Also a free membership, and I don't have to pay for CPR and AED. For mandatory meetings and similar stuff, there is an established hourly rate which is around $19.00. 0. The high-end gyms here in NY pay $50 per class. If it is a corporate client desires to hire my company, I bill $100 per class. My nursing homes I bill $75 per hour and they pay for other reasonable expenses associated with providing services to the nursing homes. It all depends on what you negotiate
The cost of taking Zumba Basic ranges from $225.00 to $285.00 per person. In addition to the course fee, students must also bear the cost of transportation to and from the host facility.Those who complete this course will be granted a one year license to teach Zumba classes. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the median annual wage of a fitness instructor is $31,090 as of May 2010. This amounts to just a little less than $15 per hour. BLS does not distinguish between the salary of a Zumba instructor when compared to that of other fitness professionals.
My Zumba teacher gets 1/2 of tuition for the classes. They pay $10 for a class and she gets $5. so if only one person comes she makes $5 that hour another week 20 come and she makes $50. At other Gyms she gets paid $10 per person in the room. I have a Zumba instructor at my studio who currently gets paid $50 for an hr class. He wants an increase in pay every time more students sign up. I said I would do $60 if we get 7 students but he wants to keep going up. In my opinion thats a ton of money for an hour.
As an owner of a fitness consulting business, I typcially start my instructors out at $25-30 per class, depending on the class. Some of my instructors are up to $40-45, mainly for special classes like yoga. 0. The high-end gyms here in NY pay $50 per class. If it is a corporate client desires to hire my company, I bill $100 per class. My nursing homes I bill $75 per hour and they pay for other reasonable expenses associated with providing services to the nursing homes. It all depends on what you negotiate
You are bearing the brunt of insurance/rent and so many more expenses. The gyms/studios here pay $25-$40 per hour for Zumba instructors. I say offer a flat rate and treat it like any other class/teacher. I have a Zumba instructor at my studio who currently gets paid $50 for an hr class. He wants an increase in pay every time more students sign up. I said I would do $60 if we get 7 students but he wants to keep going up. In my opinion thats a ton of money for an hour.
PLEASE GIVE INSIGHTS. Zumba® Fitness (Zumba®). I have one Zumba instructor who teaches two 1 hour classes per week. In addition to those hours we pay her for teaching, she puts down 6 - 8 hours per week for planning/prepping for those classes and for learning new songs and material. 
Funding and Scholarships. In order to become a Zumba instructor, candidates will have to pay for their initial certification class on their own. They will also have to pay for their own membership in the Zumba Instructor Network or retake the Basic certification course again each year. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the median annual wage of a fitness instructor is $31,090 as of May 2010. This amounts to just a little less than $15 per hour. BLS does not distinguish between the salary of a Zumba instructor when compared to that of other fitness professionals.