How long does a bottle of wine last unopened? For 95% of available wines, it's a good idea to open and drink them within 6 months to a year. Since it is unopened, it should be fine for a long time and as with most spirits, the alcohol level is enough to kill any bacteria. However, the main problem with alcohol is n … ot bacteria but oxidation. In any case, leaving it unopened will make it keep for years (particularly a whiskey).
Recently opened a bottle of sake? Wondering how long it will keep its freshness? Want to know what happens to the flavor over time? How about storing it once its been opened? 
What is in the Pimms to make it go off? And how long should I keep it open for before throwing it away? It doesn't say on the bottle that you should throw it away after a... show more At the weekend I had 2 (normal sized!) glasses of Pimms No.1 and a few hours later I concluded it had gone off as I was pretty unwell.
March 7, 2014 Blog » Wine Tips & Tricks » Drink All Week: Tips on Storing Open Wine. Articles, Beginner. Beer comes in a perfect single-serving size. For wine drinkers, however, it’s very unlikely to find a six pack of wine. So the next option is to figure out how to make a bottle of wine last all week. If you think about it; one bottle provides 5 glasses of wine and, if you spend $20 on a decent bottle, that’s only $4 per glass. It’s nice to know that fine wine is actually pretty affordable.
Basics After Opening. Re-cork the wine after every glass pour. Keep the open wine bottle out of light and stored under room temperature. In most cases a refrigerator goes a long way to keeping wine fresh longer; even red wines. When stored at colder temperatures the chemical processes slow down, including the process of oxidation that takes place when wine is exposed to oxygen. 1 Pinot Noir is one of the most sensitive red wines when exposed to air. 2  Old wine over 8-10 years – Once we drank a 10 year old pinot noir that went bad in 4 hours! 3  PS Shame on you for not finishing a 10 year old bottle! 4  Organic wine or sulfite-free wine are typically more fragile.
Storing Open Red Wine. It’s rare that I can’t polish off an open bottle of wine. The thought of abandoning the delicious nectar of gods and letting it go to waste is a tragedy beyond compare. Unfortunately, sometimes I’m left with no choice and must store my wine for later. 1 Pinot Noir is one of the most sensitive red wines when exposed to air. 2  Old wine over 8-10 years – Once we drank a 10 year old pinot noir that went bad in 4 hours! 3  PS Shame on you for not finishing a 10 year old bottle! 4  Organic wine or sulfite-free wine are typically more fragile.
Champagne keeps for three days, reds for five and rose tastes better after a WEEK: Infographic shows how long your bottle of wine will last once opened. 1  Fortified wines which have brandy added to them can last for a month. 2  Boxed wines have longer shelf life but must be binned after expiration date. 
The average bottle should keep for up to 3-4  years.   A bottle of vintage champagne … will keep for longer but 10 years is  normally the recommended maximum you should keep it. + 55 others found this useful. Diane Crim. Since it is unopened, it should be fine for a long time and as with most spirits, the alcohol level is enough to kill any bacteria. However, the main problem with alcohol is n … ot bacteria but oxidation. In any case, leaving it unopened will make it keep for years (particularly a whiskey).