A constitutional monarchy, limited monarchy or parliamentary monarchy (also called a crowned republic) is a form of government in which governing powers of the monarch are restricted by a constitution. In Thailand's constitutional monarchy, the monarch is recognized as the Head of State, Head of the Armed Forces, Upholder of the Buddhist Religion, and Defender of the Faith. The current King, Bhumibol Adulyadej, is the longest reigning current monarch in the world and in all of Thailand's history.
A constitutional monarchy is a form of government which the monarch  acts as the head of state, not the prime minister/president. The  prime minister is the head of governme … nt. Great example is the  United Kingdom Queen Elizabeth II. As well having Parliamentary  systems. There is no implication of shared power implicit in a constitutional monarchy. IN some cases, the constitutional monarch is essentially powerless and a figurehead, in others, the monarch enjoys-almost-unlimited power.
Confidence votes 1.5K. A constitutional monarchy is a form of constitutional government, where either an elected or hereditary monarch is the head of state, unlike in an absolute monarchy, wherein the king or the queen is the sole source of political power, as he or she is not legally bound by the constitution. There is no implication of shared power implicit in a constitutional monarchy. IN some cases, the constitutional monarch is essentially powerless and a figurehead, in others, the monarch enjoys-almost-unlimited power.
A constitutional monarchy is a democratic government that consists of a constitution and a monarch who functions as a non-party political head of state within the limits set by the constitution, written or unwritten. • Constitutional monarchy features a monarch who functions as the head of state. In a democracy, the head of state is someone elected by the eligible citizens of the state. • In a constitutional monarchy, the monarch is sovereign. In a democracy, the people remain
Absolute monarchy. Absolute monarchy or absolutism is a monarchical form of government in which the monarch has absolute power among his or her people. An absolute monarch wields unrestricted political power over the sovereign state and its people. 
Constitutional monarchy. A constitutional monarchy is a form of government established under a constitutional system which acknowledges an hereditary or elected monarch as head of state). As in most republics, a constitutional monarchy's executive authority is vested in the head of state. Origins The concept of constitutional monarchy owes its origin to the absolute monarchies of the later Middle Ages, where governmental authority was exercised by the monarch and his (or in rare occasions her) government.
Constitutional monarchy. In a constitutional monarchy the post of the head of state is usually passed (by some form of primogeniture) within a royal family. In a constitutional monarchy the head of state is normally the theoretical head of the executive, producing phrases like Her Majesty's Government. In some instances the monarch (or in states in the Commonwealth of Nations a governor-general) may chair the cabinet, though they play not role in policy formation.
A constitutional monarchy (also capitalised as Constitutional Monarchy) is a system of government established under a constitutional system which acknowledges a hereditary or elected monarch as a Head of state). In a constitutional monarchy the head of state is normally the theoretical head of the executive, producing phrases like Her Majesty's Government. In some instances the monarch (or in states in the Commonwealth of Nations a governor-general) may chair the cabinet, though they play not role in policy formation.
A constitutional monarchy is a form of government in which a monarch acts as head of state within the parameters of a written (i.e., codified), unwritten (i.e., uncodified) or blended constitution. While monarchy is unelected, unlike an elected presidency, Constitutional monarchy allows for certain powers of the monarch to be limited and balanced by an elected body in the form of a Parliament of elected ministers, and is therefore a democratic process drawn upon an enlightened basis for government.
A Constitutional Monarchy is where the monarch is the head of state and a representative of their country, but has virtually no power in running the country, or only has power in the event of an emergency. There is no implication of shared power implicit in a constitutional monarchy. IN some cases, the constitutional monarch is essentially powerless and a figurehead, in others, the monarch enjoys-almost-unlimited power.