Now, Rockstar is ready to reveal the total cost of all that effort. Speaking to Edinburgh’s own Scotsman newspaper on Sunday, GTA 5 art director Aaron Garbut placed the sum at an astounding £170 million (roughly $265m USD). As the last hurrah of the 7th-gen of consoles, Grand Theft Auto 5 arrives later this month looking to pull off the perfect final heist. Its target: your wallet. The date: September 17 th. The plan: to assemble the single greatest sandbox title in video gaming history
Have you ever wondered how much a game like Grand Theft Auto V costs to make? We don’t have official figures, but Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia suspects that the sum is around $137.5 million. 
For $265 million, GTA players could’ve also purchased: 1  66.3 million ‘Bleeder Burgers’ from GTA IV ‘s ‘Burger Shot’ eatery (at $4 a pop). 2  4.4 million copies of GTA 5 (at $60). 3  2650 ‘Calton Heights’ Apartments in GTA: San Andreas (at $100,000). As the last hurrah of the 7th-gen of consoles, Grand Theft Auto 5 arrives later this month looking to pull off the perfect final heist. Its target: your wallet. The date: September 17 th. The plan: to assemble the single greatest sandbox title in video gaming history
Needless to say, the game raked in the cash on its launch day. But just how much money are we talking about? Take-Two Interactive, the publisher of the title, recently announced that Grand Theft Auto V brought in a whopping $800 million of revenue on its first day of release. This is the highest first day retail sales of any game in the series, and it also happens to be the highest first day revenue in the history of the company. But that’s not all. GTA V’s first day haul of $800 million just shattered the previous record for the most revenue earned on launch day by a video game. The previous best was $500 million which was held by Call of Duty:Black Ops II. Unsurprisingly, the folks over at Take-Two Interactive can’t stop smiling
Take-Two has announced that Grand Theft Auto V generated approximately $800 million in sales worldwide during its first 24 hours on sale. According to Take-Two, this marks “the highest first day retail sales of any title in the history of the company and the Grand Theft Auto series.”. Grand Theft Auto V hit Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 on Tuesday, and its upcoming multiplayer component, Grand Theft Auto Online, will launch in October. For much more on GTA 5, be sure to read our review, and find a full walkthrough, cheats, secrets and much more in our GTA 5 wiki. Andrew Goldfarb is IGN’s news editor.
Yet, Grand Theft Auto 5 already has had no problems recouping the massive resources spent on creating and marketing the game. In its first day of release, the game pulled in $800 million in sales; besting the total its predecessor brought in across its first week by a wide gap. By the end of its third day in stores, the game crested past $1 billion in sales.
The math seems obvious at first. GTA 5, the current record holder sold $800 million in its first day. However, Call of Duty: Ghosts ' $1 billion total is referring to copies Activision sold to retailers (sell-in) while GTA 5 's $800 million applies to copies actually sold to consumers (sell-through). It's possible that consumers actually bought fewer copies of Ghosts than GTA 5.
Edit Page Last Edit: 3 months 15 days ago. Cash is scarce in the first few hours of GTA 5, and this page describes How to Make Money in GTA 5, including perfectly innocent ways, and straight up cheats. if you need a extra few dollars to afford that shiny Grenade Launcher or Super Heavy Armor, read on. Money is very hard to come by in the first few hours of GTA 5. When you need money quick, consider one of GTA 5’s 20 Robberies. Convenience stores and corner markets are prime, soft targets for a stick up.