Whether you plant Italian cypress trees in pots or in the ground, fall or winter are the two best times to do it. The trees go dormant in winter, and so uprooting them from their nursery pots during that time causes less stress for the plants than it would during the seasons of their active growth.
Pots and Soil. Container size depends on the size of an Italian cypress at planting. A good rule of thumb is to use a container that is 2 inches larger in diameter than the nursery pot in which the tree grows. As the tree increases in size, repot it in a larger container until the tree reaches the size you desire.
Place the Italian cypress into the prepared planting hole, and backfill soil around the roots. Trees may be between 1 and 5 feet tall, depending on the age of the tree you buy. You may wish to ask for a friend's assistance to handle larger, heavier trees.
Since you are going to grow your Italian cypress in a large pot it should be easy to keep them pest free just by using an insecticidal soap :-). add a comment. Reply by MagicallyMe (37): The mites can be washed off also just by used a strong stream of water from the garden hose. It is effective and safe.
A row of Italian cypress trees can accent the skyline. Italian cypress (Cupressus sempervirens) is an evergreen tree characterized by rich green needles and a narrow, pyramidal shape. The tree may grow to be between 40 to 60 feet tall, sometimes even reaching heights of up to 80 feet, with a spread of less than 10 feet.
Most garden centres will stock cypress trees of varying sizes and prices but, unless you want instant impact, consider buying a smaller tree as after the first year, the tree can grow at a rate of between 12-24 inches a year.
The most important consideration when growing Italian cypress trees in pots is that their soil dries out much quicker than it does when they grow in the ground. Although the trees are drought-tolerant and excess moisture can lead to diseases, they require water during extended periods of drought.