Beryllium is found in about 30 different mineral species. The most important are beryl (beryllium aluminium silicate) and bertrandite (beryllium silicate). Emerald and aquamarine are precious forms of beryl. The metal is usually prepared by reducing beryllium fluoride with magnesium metal. Uses. Beryllium is used in alloys with copper or nickel to make gyroscopes, springs, electrical contacts, spot-welding electrodes and non-sparking tools. Mixing beryllium with these metals increases their electrical and thermal conductivity.
Beryllium is found in over 100 minerals, but most are uncommon to rare. The more common beryllium containing minerals include: bertrandite (Be 4 Si 2 O 7 (OH) 2), beryl (Al 2 Be 3 Si 6 O 18), chrysoberyl (Al 2 BeO 4) and phenakite (Be 2 SiO 4). Precious forms of beryl are aquamarine, red beryl and emerald. Beryllium is most commonly extracted from the mineral beryl, which is either sintered using an extraction agent or melted into a soluble mixture. The sintering process involves mixing beryl with sodium fluorosilicate and soda at 770 °C (1,420 °F) to form sodium fluoroberyllate, aluminium oxide and silicon dioxide.
Beryllium is a chemical element known to have an atomic number of 4 and atomic symbol of Be. Used in ancient civilizations, beryllium as an element was discovered during the 1700s and 1800s. Contributing scientists include Rene-Just Hauy, Louis Nicolas Vauquelin, Antoine Bussy, and Friedrich Wohler. Facts About Beryllium. Fact #1: It is considered to be one of the lightest elements, in terms of weight. Fact #2: During the discovery of beryllium in the 1700s, it was first learned that the beryl mineral (when combined with emerald) produced a sweet-smelling substance.
Beryllium chloride is an inorganic compound with the formula BeCl 2. It is a colourless, hygroscopic solid that dissolves well in many polar solvents. Its properties are similar to those of aluminium chloride, due to beryllium's diagonal relationship with aluminium. 
Beryllium is a chemical element that has an atomic symbol of Be and atomic number of 4. Given its group on the periodic table, it is classified as an alkaline earth metal. This type of metal refers to elements that have the similar properties of being shiny and slightly reactive. Facts About Beryllium. Fact #1: It is considered to be one of the lightest elements, in terms of weight. Fact #2: During the discovery of beryllium in the 1700s, it was first learned that the beryl mineral (when combined with emerald) produced a sweet-smelling substance.
Beryllium brings unrivalled advantages to its end-use applications, whether used in its pure metallic form, combined or alloyed in small amounts with other metals or as a beryllia ceramic. The use of beryllium has improved safety and enabled technological breakthroughs previously thought unattainable. 
Beryllium is alloyed with copper (2% beryllium, 98% copper) to form a wear resistant material, known as beryllium bronze, used in gyroscopes and other devices where wear resistance is important. Other beryllium alloys are used in the windshield, brake disks and other structural components of the space shuttle. Beryllium oxide (BeO), a compound of beryllium, is used in the nuclear industry and in ceramics.
Beryllium is an industrial metal with some attractive attributes. It’s lighter than aluminum and 6x stronger than steel. It’s usually combined with other metals and is a key component in the aerospace and electronics industries. Beryllium is also used in the production of nuclear weapons. With that, you may not be surprised to learn that beryllium is one of the most toxic elements in existence. Beryllium is a Class A EPA carcinogen and exposure can cause Chronic Beryllium Disease, an often fatal lung disease. 
It is a divalent element which occurs naturally only in combination with other elements in minerals. Notable gemstones which contain beryllium include beryl (aquamarine, emerald) and chrysoberyl. As a free element it is a steel-gray, strong, lightweight and brittle alkaline earth metal. Beryllium is most commonly extracted from the mineral beryl, which is either sintered using an extraction agent or melted into a soluble mixture. The sintering process involves mixing beryl with sodium fluorosilicate and soda at 770 °C (1,420 °F) to form sodium fluoroberyllate, aluminium oxide and silicon dioxide.