The respiratory system is the system in the human body that enables us to breathe. The act of breathing includes: inhaling and exhaling air in the body; the absorption of oxygen from the air in order to produce energy; the discharge of carbon dioxide, which is the byproduct of the process. The chest cavity contracts thus increasing air pressure and causing the air in the lungs to be expelled through the upper respiratory tract. Exhalation, too, is passive. Air passes from the high pressure in the lungs to the low pressure in
The human respiratory system is composed of the nasal passages, the pharynx, larynx, the trachea, bronchi, and the lungs. It is responsible for the process of respiration that is vital to the survival of living beings. Respiration is the process of obtaining and using oxygen, while eliminating carbon dioxide. Let us look at its structure. The respiratory system in human beings can be divided into the upper respiratory tract that consists of nasal passages, pharynx, and larynx, and the lower respiratory tract that is composed of the trachea, the primary bronchi, and the lungs.
In humans and other mammals, the anatomical features of the respiratory system include trachea, bronchi, bronchioles, lungs, and diaphragm. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood. The respiratory system (called also respiratory apparatus, ventilatory system) is a biological system consisting of specific organs and structures used for the process of respiration in an organism.
Introduction to parts of the respiratory system and their function. Respiratory system consists of the organs that help to breathe. Respiration also known as breathing is the process which delivers oxygen from the external atmosphere to the body and removes the carbon dioxide from body and expels out. Bronchi: The bronchi are the two air tubes that branch off of from the trachea and carry atmospheric air directly into the lungs. Lungs: The main organ of the respiratory system is lungs. Lungs are the site in body where oxygen is taken into and carbon dioxide is expelled out.
Respiratory System. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level. Functions of Organs in Respiratory System. Respiration begins when oxygen enters into the body through the nose and the mouth. The oxygen then travels through the trachea and pharynx where the trachea divides into two bronchi.
Upper respiratory tract: This includes the nose, mouth, and the beginning of the trachea (the section that takes air in and lets it out). Lower respiratory tract: This includes the trachea, the bronchi, broncheoli and the lungs (the act of breathing takes place in this part of the system). The chest cavity contracts thus increasing air pressure and causing the air in the lungs to be expelled through the upper respiratory tract. Exhalation, too, is passive. Air passes from the high pressure in the lungs to the low pressure in
The respiratory system is the group of tissues and organs in your body that enable you to breathe. This system includes your airways, your lungs and the blood vessels and muscles attached to them that work together so you can breathe. The respiratory system's primary function is to supply oxygen to all the parts of your body. It accomplishes this through breathing: inhaling oxygen-rich air and exhaling air filled with carbon dioxide, which is a waste gas. The respiratory system is made up of airways (your nose, mouth, voice box, windpipe and bronchial tubes) and the lungs and the muscles and blood vessels connected to them.
Function of the Respiratory System. The function of the human respiratory system is to transport air into the lungs and to facilitate the diffusion of Oxygen into the blood stream. Its also receives waste Carbon Dioxide from the blood and exhales it. Parts of the Upper Respiratory Tract. 1  Mouth, nose & nasal cavity: The function of this part of the system is to warm, filter and moisten the incoming air. 2  Pharynx: Here the throat divides into the trachea (wind pipe) and oesophagus (food pipe). 3  Larynx: This is also known as the voice box as it is where sound is generated.