Dale Hawkins, a songwriter and singer whose rockabilly repertory included the 1957 hit “Susie Q,“ a bandstand classic for generations of rockers, died on Saturday in Little Rock, Ark. He was 73. The cause was colon cancer, his Web site said. He formed a band shortly after that. Mr. Hawkins recorded “Susie Q” for Checker, a subsidiary of the celebrated Chicago blues and R&B label Chess Records. He was one of the first white artists the company signed. He was also one of the first white artists to appear at the Apollo in New York and the Regal in Chicago.
Sometime after the recording, the master tape of Susie Q was sold to Checker Records in Chicago, which released it as a 45 RPM single in May 1957. The single peaked at numbers 7 and 27 on Billboard magazine 's Hot R&B Sides and Hot 100 charts, respectively. John Fogerty stated in a 1993 interview with Rolling Stone magazine that his purpose in recording Susie Q was to get the song played on KMPX, a funky progressive-rock radio station in San Francisco, which is why the song was extended to eight minutes in length.
Thanks to this, girls named Susie are automatically nicknamed Susie Q.. The guitar riff on the original version was created by James Burton, who was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001 as a sideman. The single was titled Susie Q (part 1).. The B-side was Susie Q (part 2).. This is one of the few Creedence songs where vocals of band members besides John Fogerty are heard. You can hear them in the second part of the song.
Susie Q  is a song by Louisiana-born singer and guitarist Dale Hawkins (1936–2010). John Fogerty stated in a 1993 interview with Rolling Stone magazine that his purpose in recording Susie Q was to get the song played on KMPX, a funky progressive-rock radio station in San Francisco, which is why the song was extended to eight minutes in length.
Dale Hawkins. James’ first substansive job came when he was about 15 years, when he was recording with Dale Hawkins, who was working the Louisiana Hayride. Sometime in 1956, he wrote Susie Q, along with Hawkins and some other musicians. They recorded it in 1955, at the KWKH radio studios in Shreveport, LA. James was never credited for what became a rock ‘n’ roll standard
Susie Q-Song Lyrics. 1  Written & originally performed by rockabilly singer / guitarist Dale Hawkins (born 8/22/38 in Goldmine Louisiana), he's also the first cousin of Ronnie Hawkins of The Band. 2  His version reached # 27 on the Top 40 charts in 1957. 3  Best known version was by Creedence Clearwater Revival (CCR). 1
Creedence Clearwater Revival is best remembered for the band's first hit single Susie Q, which had been a hit for Dale Hawkins in 1957. 
Susie Q is a song by Louisiana-born singer and guitarist Dale Hawkins (1936–2010). Perhaps the most famous cover version is by Creedence Clearwater Revival on their debut album released in 1968. 
Hawkins cut Susie Q at the KWKH Radio station in Shreveport, Louisiana. Susie Q was a late rockabilly song which captured the spirit of Louisiana and featured guitar work by James Burton, who also worked with Ricky Nelson, among others. John Fogerty stated in a 1993 interview with Rolling Stone magazine that his purpose in recording Susie Q was to get the song played on KMPX, a funky progressive-rock radio station in San Francisco, which is why the song was extended to eight minutes in length.