There are listings for ink cartridges for all kinds of printer brands including Dell, Canon, HP, Epson, Brother and Lexmark. The average selling price for one cartridge is $2.50 — not bad for something you planned to just throw away, right? If you’re new to selling on Ebay, check out this link to get started. ECycle Group and TonerBuyer pay approximately $3 for lower-end ink cartridges and more than $20 bucks for the more expensive models. All you have to do is complete their online forms.
I then remembered that I had a rewards check from Staples! Step 1: Return empty ink cartridges to Staples. They will send you a check once a month for $3 per cartridge. I had returned 4 cartridges a couple of months ago, so I had a check for $12 to spend at the store. This brought my $25.99 ink cartridge down to $13.99! Not too bad! Morale of the story: Don’t throw away your empty ink cartridges; they are worth money ($3 at Staples). Get the app. They might throw money at you through it! Plus, once you have the app, they will send your reward check directly to your app to get you your money quicker.
Yes, Wal-Mart carries Canon ink cartridges. The low end is about $13 for a black only cartridge, up to $54 for a combo pack of all colors and the black. 4.Fill the syringe bottle with 5ml of ink. Insert the needle in the filling hole and inject the ink. There may be a sponge inside the chamber, so make sure the needle goes all the way through to the bottom. The 34 cartridge takes up to 12ml of ink.
Best Answer: Not inkily. The truth is that you can usually buy a new printer with ink for less than buying ink replacements for your individual printer model. There are also $10 kits with a couple ink syringes for refilling up to 2 or 3 times per cartritge. Source(s): · 8 years ago.
An ink cartridge, commonly found in printers, is a small cartridge that holds ink and has a jet. It is used for printing gray scale or colored paper. It usually has a button o … n it that connects to the printer head and the cartridge cannot be pulled out. 4.Fill the syringe bottle with 5ml of ink. Insert the needle in the filling hole and inject the ink. There may be a sponge inside the chamber, so make sure the needle goes all the way through to the bottom. The 34 cartridge takes up to 12ml of ink.
Yes. Walmart does sell HP inkjet printers. You can find more information online at Walmart's website. The prices will vary from about $30 to over $180 depending on the quality of the printer. Wal-Mart does sell printers for desktop and laptop computers. Almost any printer can be hooked up and programmed to work on a laptop computer.Cannon, HP, Kodak and Lexmark are … the top brands to check out for laptop compatible printers.
Walmart sells the following printers: All in one printers, Laser printers, inkjet printers, Wi-fi (wireless) printers, value bundle printers. Some of the brands are: HP, Cano … n, Epson, Lexmark, Kodak, brother, to name a few. Prices start from $39. Wal-Mart does sell printers for desktop and laptop computers. Almost any printer can be hooked up and programmed to work on a laptop computer.Cannon, HP, Kodak and Lexmark are … the top brands to check out for laptop compatib
sorry, this does not work. Have a Lexmark AIOX X4270. Filled cartridge and printer said: remove tape from black cartridge. refill kits with 2 large squeeze bottles of ink at walmart are $9.97. It has a drill for a hole and a spout for ink. Also has a syringe if needed. Did not need mine. They also carry color refill kits
Yes, they will recycle ink cartridges, recycling ink cartridges is important because it is very difficult to break down the materials included in ink cartridges and is toxic. 4 people found this useful. Edit. 4.Fill the syringe bottle with 5ml of ink. Insert the needle in the filling hole and inject the ink. There may be a sponge inside the chamber, so make sure the needle goes all the way through to the bottom. The 34 cartridge takes up to 12ml of ink.
1.Hold the cartridge upside down so the outlet holes to the printer paper are on top. Cover each hole with a piece of tape, then turn the cartridge right-side up.     2.Make a hole in the top of the cartridge above each ink chamber. For most cartridges, simply poke a hole through the label with a toothpick. 4.Fill the syringe bottle with 5ml of ink. Insert the needle in the filling hole and inject the ink. There may be a sponge inside the chamber, so make sure the needle goes all the way through to the bottom. The 34 cartridge takes up to 12ml of ink.