A combination of the actions of flexion, abduction, extension and adduction, in that order, is known as circumduction. This is a composite action, involving two axes of rotation: the transverse axis and the antero-posterior axis, and both actions allowed at each axis. The actions of abduction and adduction were previously described with regard to movements relating to the body as a whole. However, they may also be used to describe actions of the fingers and toes away from (abduction) or toward (adduction) a reference point.
Motion, the process of movement, is described using specific anatomical terms. Motion includes movement of organs, joints, limbs, and specific sections of the body. The terminology used, describes this motion according to its direction relative to the anatomical position of the joints. Abduction refers to a motion that pulls a structure or part away from the midline of the body. In the case of fingers and toes, it refers to spreading the digits apart, away from the centerline of the hand or foot. Abduction of the wrist is also called radial deviation.
A movement of a body part away from the midline, either of the body as a whole or that of the hand or foot, is termed abduction (L., to carry away). A movement of the body part back toward the midline (i.e., to the anatomical position) is known as adduction. Lateral/Medial Rotation. The actions of abduction and adduction were previously described with regard to movements relating to the body as a whole. However, they may also be used to describe actions of the fingers and toes away from (abduction) or toward (adduction) a reference point.
The opposite term is extension, or straightening. Flexion decreases the angle between the bones of the limb at a joint, and extension increases it. Abduction, in functional anatomy, is a movement which draws a limb away from the median (Sagittal) plane of the body. It is thus opposed to adduction. Basically, with abduction you move a limb away from the front-to-back plane, for instance moving an arm or leg sideways away from the trunk. 
Abduction and Adduction. Abduction and adduction are two terms that are used to describe movements towards or away from the midline of the body. Abduction is a movement away from the midline – just as abducting someone is to take them away. For example, abduction of the shoulder raises the arms out to the sides of the body. Adduction is a movement towards the midline. Adduction of the hip squeezes the legs together. In fingers and toes, the midline used is not the midline of the body, but of the hand and foot respectively. Therefore, abducting the fingers spreads them out
38. In synovial joints, what is movement in or around all three planes. multiaxial. 39. What are the types of movements in synovial joints. gliding, angular movements, and rotation. 40. Flexion, extension, hyperextension, abduction, adduction and circumduction are all what type of movement. angular. 41. Intercarpal joints, intertarsal joints, and between articular processes of vertebrae are examples of what type of movement. gliding.
Abduction. Adduction is defined as motion that pulls a body part away from the midline of the body. In the case of fingers and toes, spreading the digits away from the centerline of hand or foot is also considered as abduction. • Adduction is the movement of digits toward the limb while abduction is the movement of digits away from the limb. • Adduction of wrist is called ulnar deviation, whereas abduction of wrist is called radial deviation. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Predator and Prey.
See also: List of abductors of the human body and List of adductors of the human body. Abduction and adduction refer to motions that move a structure away from or towards the centre of the body. The centre of the body is defined as the mid sagittal plane. These terms come from the Latin words with the same meaning. Abduction refers to a motion that pulls a structure or part away from the midline of the body. In the case of fingers and toes, it refers to spreading the digits apart, away from the centerline of the hand or foot. Abduction of the wrist is also called radial deviation.
Etymology: L, abducere, to take away. movement of a limb away from the midline or axis of the body. abduct, v. Compare adduction. Movement of an extremity on a transverse plane away from the axis or midline, where the axis lies on the frontal and sagittal planes. [L. abductio ]. movement sideways of the arm at the shoulder, of the leg at the hip, of a finger, thumb or toe away from the middle of the hand or foot; abductor a muscle with this action; opposite of
Adduction. Adduction is the movement of a body part toward the body’s midline. In the case of fingers or toes, adduction is the movement of digits toward the limb. Closing arms to the chest or bringing knees together are examples of adduction. Adduction of the wrist is referred to as ulnar deviation. • Adduction is the movement of digits toward the limb while abduction is the movement of digits away from the limb. • Adduction of wrist is called ulnar deviation, whereas abduction of wrist is called radial deviation. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Predator and Prey.