Although requirements vary by state, appraisers of residential real property usually must have at least an associate's degree, and appraisers of more complex residential or commercial property usually must have at least a bachelor's degree. In practice, however, most have
Appraisers estimate the cost and value of commercial or residential real estate properties, assuring that the appraisal process complies with local, state and federal regulations. They also record and maintain documents regarding all appraisals and review market data to ensure that appraisals are as current as possible.
Many appraisal companies will have a set fee for how much they charge for an appraisal, however, the size of your home, and the neighborhood in which it is located will often affect the cost of the appraisal.
According to MortgageNewsDaily.com, the national average cost for an appraisal by a licensed professional is between $300 and $400 and should require roughly two hours of inspection time to complete.
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. Appraisals that do not require the appraiser to go inside the home are less costly, but they are also less common. Most appraisals require full inspections of a home.
Assessors and appraisers tend to take the same courses for certification. The requirements to become a fully qualified appraiser or assessor of real estate are complex and vary by state and, sometimes, by the value or type of property.
Because an appraiser is required to physically inspect the appraised property and similar properties that have recently leased or sold, appraisals for remote sites are often more expensive. An appraisal may cost as little as $500 for a sale or as much as $5,000 for a lease. An appraisal usually takes two or six months from the time the appraisal instructions are issued until the appraisal is approved.