Oxygen was discovered in 1772 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, but he did  not publish his discovery until after Joseph Priestly had published  his independent discovery of oxygen i … n 1775. As a result, Priestly  is usually credited with the discovery. Year oxygen was discovered?   Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 17 … 74 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published.
Oxygen is pronounced as OK-si-jen. History and Uses: Oxygen had been produced by several chemists prior to its discovery in 1774, but they failed to recognize it as a distinct element. Joseph Priestley and Carl Wilhelm Scheele both independently discovered oxygen, but Priestly is usually given credit for the discovery. They were both able to produce oxygen by heating mercuric oxide (HgO). Priestley called the gas produced in his experiments 'dephlogisticated air' and Scheele called his 'fire air'. The name oxygen was created by Antoine Lavoisier who incorrectly believed that oxygen was necessary to form all acids. Oxygen is the third most abundant element in the universe and makes up nearly 21% of the earth's atmosphere.
Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 1774 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published. Antoine Lavoisier, a French chemist, also discovered oxygen in 1775, was the first to recognize it as an element, and coined its name oxygen - which comes from a Greek word that means acid-former. There is a historic dispute about who discovered oxygen.
First of the men who discovered oxygen was Carl Wilhelm Scheele, a Swede who, in 1772, isolated oxygen by burning nitrates and mercuric oxides together. Knowing oxygen is a combustible gas, he dubbed the new-found element as ‘fire-air’. Oxygen is the most important thing in the universe for us humans and it is only befitting that we be aware of the men who discovered oxygen labored to understand deeply the very element that we breathe in and breathe out every moment of our life.
Oxygen was discovered independently by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in Uppsala, in 1773 or earlier, and Joseph Priestley in Wiltshire, in 1774, but Priestley is often given priority because his work was published first. By mass, oxygen is the third-most abundant element in the universe, after hydrogen and helium. At standardized conditions for temperature and pressure, two atoms of the element bind to form dioxygen, a diatomic gas that is colorless, odorless, and tasteless, with the formula O 2.
Scheele was born in Stralsund, in western Pomerania, which was at the time part of Sweden. Scheele's father Joachim (or Johann) Christian Scheele, was a grain dealer and brewer from a respected German family. His mother was Margaretha Eleanore Warnekros. 
Two years later, one of the three men who discovered oxygen, Joseph Priestley achieved the same feat by exposing mercuric oxide to the sun. He described the isolated air as one that makes fire burn brighter and a rodent much livelier. A year later, he published these findings in his books concerning properties of air. Oxygen is the most important thing in the universe for us humans and it is only befitting that we be aware of the men who discovered oxygen labored to understand deeply the very element that we breathe in and breathe out every moment of our life.
Oxygen was discovered in 1772 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, but he did  not publish his discovery until after Joseph Priestly had published  his independent discovery of oxygen i … n 1775. As a result, Priestly  is usually credited with the discovery. Year oxygen was discovered?   Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 17 … 74 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published.
Report Abuse. Oxygen was independently discovered by Joseph Priestley in Wiltshire, in 1774, and Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in Uppsala, a year earlier, but Priestley is usually given priority because he published his findings first. · just now. Report Abuse. Oxygen was discovered for the first time by a Swedish Chemist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in 1772. Joseph Priestly, an English chemist, independently, discovered oxygen in 1774 and published his findings the same year, three years before Scheele published.