Roth IRA withdrawal Rules. Don’t treat your Roth IRA like an ATM! In general, you can make tax and penalty free withdrawals of the principal (contributions) at any time. However, the earnings from your principal cannot normally be withdrawn under age 59½ without paying the 10% early withdrawal penalty.
Roth IRA Withdrawal Rules. With a Roth IRA, contributions are not tax-deductible, but earnings can grow tax-free. Roth IRA withdrawal and penalty rules vary depending on your age. If you’re under age 59½ and your Roth IRA has been open five years or more, 1 your earnings will not be subject to taxes if you meet one of the following conditions: 1  You use the withdrawal (up to a $10,000 lifetime maximum) to pay for a first-time home purchase.
As a general rule, you can withdraw your contributions from a Roth IRA at any time without paying tax or penalty. If you withdraw money from a conversion too soon after that event, and before age 59½, you may incur a penalty. Example: You convert your traditional IRA, with a value of $20,000, to a Roth IRA, paying tax on the entire amount. Two years later, when you are under age 59½, you withdraw $5,000 from the Roth IRA, and the distribution comes from conversion money because you haven’t made any regular contributions to your Roth IRA.
It is normally subject to taxes and a 10% early-withdrawal penalty if you’re under age 59½ when you take the money. If you’re a first-time home buyer, however, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings from your Roth IRA without the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, even if you’re under age 59½. SEE ALSO: The Basics of Roth IRAs. The tax and penalty situation is based on order-of-withdrawal rules. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings.
5-Year Rule. Any earnings distribution prior to the first day of the fifth year after your first Roth was established will be taxed as ordinary income, at whatever your tax rate is at the time. Example: You open a Roth IRA on May 18, 2009. The 5-Year Rule will be satisfied as of January 1, 2014. Example: During 2011, you contribute $5,000 to a Roth IRA. You also convert $20,000 from a traditional IRA into your Roth IRA. Of that $20,000, $13,000 was taxable upon the conversion, and $7,000 was not because it came from nondeductible IRA contributions.
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution. Penalties on Conversions From a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. The penalty rules regarding conversions are a bit different than those for annual contributions, which may be taken at any time for any purpose free of income taxes and penalty.
The five year rule for your Roth IRA earnings starts on January 1st of the year you make your first contribution. That is when your clock starts. Because you can make a Roth IRA contribution up to April 15th of the next year, your five years technically would not have to be five calendar years. The five year rule for Roth IRA withdrawals is not something to be taken lightly. It can have serious repercussions on your earnings if you are penalized. Understanding the requirements of the five year rule for Roth IRA withdrawals is critical to keep from being penalized. Photo by Scot Campbell via Flickr.
Roth IRA 5 year rule. Withdrawals from your Roth IRA will only be classified as qualified distributions if it has been at least 5 years since you first opened and contributed to your Roth IRA, regardless of your age when you opened it. In general, you can make tax and penalty free withdrawals of the principal (contributions) at any time. However, the earnings from your principal cannot normally be withdrawn under age 59½ without paying the 10% early withdrawal penalty.
In order to withdraw your earnings from a Roth IRA tax and penalty free, not only must you be over 59 ½ years-old but your initial contributions must also have been made to your Roth IRA five years before the date when you start withdrawing funds. The five year rule for Roth IRA withdrawals is not something to be taken lightly. It can have serious repercussions on your earnings if you are penalized. Understanding the requirements of the five year rule for Roth IRA withdrawals is critical to keep from being penalized. Photo by Scot Campbell via Flickr.
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. 