Also, once you are a LPN you can be working while you get your RN, and most schools will take off at least one semester and credit it toward you getting you RN, in which it will take less time to get your RN(usually it will leave you only about 9 months of classes left to finish for your RN). 
To become a licensed practical nurse, individuals must complete an LPN education program and pass the National Council Licensure Examination for Practical Nurses (NCLEX-PN). Essential Information. Basic requirements for admission to a LPN program include a high school diploma or GED and possibly nursing assistant certification and the completion of certain classes. Students who complete LPN education programs are able to earn licensure and begin working within 1-2 years.
A: It takes 4 years to complete the RN to BSN programs. However, if you have completed your Associate's Degree in Nursing already, your credits for the two year education already achieved will be transferred and you will only have to invest two more years and receive your RN to BSN Degree. 
Education. If you enroll in a full-time licensed practical nurse (LPN) training program, you may be prepared and qualified to take your licensing exam in as little as 9-12 months. These programs are available from many community colleges, vocational schools, and universities, and they may range from 43-78 credit hours. Requirements for admission to an LPN training program vary by state and by school, but you typically must hold a high school diploma or have passed the General Educational Development (GED) exam.
Practical nursing programs may be completed in approximately one year of full-time enrollment and include classes and internships in hospitals or nursing homes. Requirements for admission to an LPN training program vary by state and by school, but you typically must hold a high school diploma or have passed the General Educational Development (GED) exam.
It depends in where you take the program. The average credit requirement for most community colleges is approximately 52 credits and it takes about one year to complete as a full-time student. Part time would take longer. If you start in September, you will finish the following September, and there is not break. The program will run through the summer. 
If your LPN program is also accredited, the curriculum will often count as one year's worth of credit hours (30 or so units). Most RN bridge programs will accept LPNs as advanced-placement students if they graduated from accredited LPN schools. Your home state may have differing rules. # 1 1. If your LPN school is state-approved only, the curriculum might not count for any credit hours whatsoever. Rather, the state-approval will only permit you to take NCLEX upon completion of the program.