Heat the lard in a large saucepan. Add in the onions and garlic and cook until translucent. In a blender, puree the peanuts then add in the oregano, cinnamon, anise, peppercorns, thyme and cloves and blend with the tomatoes.
[ˈmole] ; from Nahuatl mōlli, sauce) is the generic name for a number of sauces originally used in Mexican cuisine, as well as for dishes based on these sauces. Outside Mexico, it often refers specifically to mole poblano.
This is my version of mole sauce. It can hold its own against the mole at our great local Mexican restaurant. I usually double this recipe, but that's just me. The original recipe calls for 5 TBSP(yes, 5)of chili powder.
1 Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat, and cook the onion until tender. 2  Mix in cocoa powder, cumin, cilantro, and garlic. 3  Stir in the tomato soup and green chile peppers. 4  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 10 minutes. 5  Transfer to a gravy boat or pour directly over food to serve.
Directions. 1  Heat oil in a large saucepan over med. 2  low heat. 3  Add onion, garlic, oregano, cumin and cinnamon. 4  Cover and cook until onion is almost tender, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. 5  Mix in chili powder and flour, stir for 3 minutes. 6  Gradually whisk in chicken broth. 7  Increase heat to med. high. 8  Boil until reduced, about 35 minutes, ...
Ready In. 1  Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat, and cook the onion until tender. 2  Mix in cocoa powder, cumin, cilantro, and garlic. 3  Stir in the tomato soup and green chile peppers. 4  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 10 minutes.
In a large saucepan over medium high meat add 2 tbsp olive oil. Add onion and a pinch of salt. Cook until soft, about 4 minutes. Add garlic and cook another 2 minutes, being careful not to burn garlic. In a blender with tortillas add onion, garlic, chiles, peanut butter, chicken stock, cumin and oregano.
1 Heat oil in a large saucepan over med. 2  low heat. 3  Add onion, garlic, oregano, cumin and cinnamon. 4  Cover and cook until onion is almost tender, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. 5  Mix in chili powder and flour, stir for 3 minutes. 6  Gradually whisk in chicken broth. 7  Increase heat to med. high.