Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease of humans and other animals caused by parasitic protozoans (a group of single-celled microorganism) belonging to the genus Plasmodium. The parasites travel to the liver where they mature and reproduce. Five species of Plasmodium can infect and be spread by humans. Most deaths are caused by P. falciparum because P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria. The species P. knowlesi rarely causes disease in humans.
Preventing malaria. There is a significant risk of getting malaria if you travel to an affected area. It is very important you take precautions to prevent it. Malaria can often be avoided using the ABCD approach to prevention which stands for: 1  Awareness of risk – find out whether you are at risk of getting malaria. 2  Bite prevention – avoid mosquito bites by using insect repellent, covering your arms and legs and using a mosquito net
Malaria-symptoms, treatment and prevention. Malaria is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium. There are 5 species of Plasmodium which infect humans: 1  Plasmodium vivax. 2  Plasmodium falciparum. 3  Plasmodium malariae. 4  Plasmodium ovale. 5  Plasmodium knowlesi which is less common.
Based on the risk assessment, specific malaria prevention interventions should be used by the traveler. Often this includes avoiding mosquito bites through the use of repellents or insecticide treated bed nets, and specific medicines to prevent malaria. The interventions used to prevent malaria can be very effective when used properly, but none of them are 100% effective. If symptoms of malaria occur, the traveler should seek immediate medical attention. Malaria is always a serious disease and may be a deadly illness.
The selection of medicines to prevent malaria depends on the geographic region where you may be exposed to malaria and your health condition (such as being pregnant, being elderly or young, being sick, or having immunity or resistance to malaria, or having allergies or sensitivity to the medicine). 1 Medicine to prevent malaria is most effective if you take the recommended dosage exactly as prescribed and for the length of time required. 2  If you are to take the medicine once a week, take it on the same day of the week each week.
Malaria. Malaria is a mosquito-borne disease caused by a parasite. People with malaria often experience fever, chills, and flu-like illness. Left untreated, they may develop severe complications and die. In 2013 an estimated 198 million cases of malaria occurred worldwide and 500,000 people died, mostly children in the African Region.
How malaria is spread. The parasite is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected female Anopheles species mosquitoes. The parasites multiply in the liver and the bloodstream of the infected person. The parasite may be taken up by another mosquito when it bites an infected person. Malaria is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium. There are 5 species of Plasmodium which infect humans: 1  Plasmodium vivax. 2  Plasmodium falciparum. 3  Plasmodium malariae. 4  Plasmodium ovale. 5  Plasmodium knowlesi which is less common.
Prevention. Prevention of malaria involves protecting yourself against mosquito bites and taking antimalarial medicines. But public health officials strongly recommend that young children and pregnant women avoid traveling to areas where malaria is common. 1 Medicine to prevent malaria is most effective if you take the recommended dosage exactly as prescribed and for the length of time required. 2  If you are to take the medicine once a week, take it on the same day of the week each week.