Ductless, mini-split-system heat pumps (mini splits) make good retrofit add-ons to houses with non-ducted heating systems, such as hydronic (hot water heat), radiant panels, and space heaters (wood, kerosene, propane). Ductless mini-split systems are easier to install than some other types of space conditioning systems. For example, the hook-up between the outdoor and indoor units generally requires only a three-inch hole through a wall for the conduit.
1 Expect to pay $2,000-$5,000 to install a complete ductless mini-split air conditioning system in a 800-1,000-square foot home, or $5,000-$7,000 for a 2,000-square-foot house. 1 A ductless unit is a split system just like central air, only smaller and more flexible. 2  The compressor sits outdoors and is connected by a pair of refrigerated lines to one or more air handlers inside the house. 3  The hole in the wall for the lines varies, but is usually about 3 inches in diameter.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Split System Air Conditioner Installation project. For a basic 1 unit project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Split System Air Conditioner ranges between $2,218.50 - $2,891.54 per unit. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
How much for a new Mini Split A/C Installed. Ductless Mini Splits are amazing systems. By comparison they break down far less than Central Air Conditioning. Additionally, dollar for dollar they are far more efficient to run than central air. Prospective buyers of ductless mini split systems are typically well educated when it comes to knowing what they want. This goes for product look, effiiciency, location etc.
The Costs. The average cost to install a mini-split air conditioning system is $1,900. The maximum average cost to install a mini-split air conditioning system is $2,100. The minimum average reported cost for mini split-air conditioner installation is $1,700. Continue reading to see more cost considerations for all mini-split air conditioning systems. Furthermore, proper insulating must be done to maximize energy efficiency. When hiring an HVAC company or contractor to install a mini-split air-conditioning system, there are some specific factors that must be taken into account. The cost of the unit itself usually ranges between $1,100 and $1,400.
Ductless Mini Split Air conditioners systems are also often easier to install than other types of space mini air conditioning systems. For example, the hook-up between the outdoor and indoor units generally requires only a three-inch hole through a wall for the conduit. Welcome to the Installation Division, here you can purchase the installation of your mini split heat pump or mini split air conditioner aswell as parts and accessories. We have developed a network of Licensed HVAC technicians and we now can provide installation to our customers across the USA & Canada.
1 The homewyse Mini Split Air Conditioning System cost estimates do not include costs for new installation of, repairs to, or relocation of existing ducting, electrical connection, fuel supply line and exhaust vent systems. 2  Costs associated with permit acquisition and sign off are not included. Do you need to know the average cost to install Mini Split Air Conditioning Systems in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Mini Split Air Conditioning System job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update
Ductless Mini Split Air conditioner systems are also often easier to install than other types of space mini air conditioning systems. For example, the hook-up between the outdoor and indoor units generally requires only a three-inch hole through a wall for the conduit. Welcome to the Installation Division, here you can purchase the installation of your mini split heat pump or mini split air conditioner aswell as parts and accessories. We have developed a network of Licensed HVAC technicians and we now can provide installation to our customers across the USA & Canada.