web pages for current applications of advanced polymers. The basic building block of a plastic is the polymer molecule, a long chain of covalent-bonded atoms, such as the one shown on the right. Secondary bonds then hold groups of polymer chains together to form the polymeric material.
A polymer is a large molecule that is made up of repeating subunits connected to each other by chemical bonds. Do you need some examples of polymers? Here is a list of materials that are polymers, plus some examples of materials that are not polymers.
Intro to Polymers. The term polymer is commonly used today in the plastics and composites industry, and it is often used to imply the meaning of plastic or resin. In actuality, the term polymer means much more. A polymer is chemical compound where molecules are bonded together in long repeating chains.
Polymers are materials comprised of long molecular chains. Most polymers are carbon based and have relatively low melting points. Polymers have a very wide range of properties which allow for their extensive use in society. Uses include: car parts, food storage, electronic packaging, optical components, and adhesives.
Polymers are both man made and are naturally occurring. For example, rubber is a natural polymeric material that is extremely useful and has been used by man for thousands of years. Rubber has excellent elastic properties, and this is a result of the molecular polymer chain created by mother nature.
Polymers. The word polymer literally means many parts.. A polymeric solid material may be considered to be one that contains many chemically bonded parts or units which themselves are bonded together to form a solid. Two industrially important polymeric materials are plastics and elastomers.
Polymers are substances containing a large number of structural units joined by the same type of linkage. These substances often form into a chain-like structure. Polymers in the natural world have been around since the beginning of time. Starch, cellulose, and rubber all possess polymeric properties.