Called also sphygmic period. gestation period see gestation period. incubation period see incubation period. isoelectric period the moment in muscular contraction when no deflection of the galvanometer is produced. latency period. 1. latent period. 2. latency stage. latent period a seemingly inactive period, as that between exposure to an infection and the onset of illness (incubation period) or that between the instant of stimulation and the beginning of response (latency, def. 2). 
gestation period see gestation period. incubation period see incubation period. isoelectric period the moment in muscular contraction when no deflection of the galvanometer is produced. latency period. 1. latent period.2. latency stage. latent period a seemingly inactive period, as that between exposure to an infection and the onset of illness (incubation period) or that between the instant of stimulation and the beginning of response (latency, def. 2).
The time-delay, between the radiation exposures and the diagnosis of clinical cancer, is called the incubation period or the latency period.. We know for certain, from the study of the Atomic-Bomb Survivors in Japan, that the latency period varies enormously among individuals. 
Such infection is called subclinical infection. While latent or latency period may be synonymous, a distinction is sometimes made between incubation period, the period between infection and clinical onset of the disease, and latent period, the time from infection to infectiousness. Which is shorter depends on the disease. A person may be a carrier of a disease, such as Streptococcus in the throat, without exhibiting any symptoms. Depending on the disease, the person may or may not be contagious during the incubation period. During clinical latency, an infection is subclinical. With respect to viral infections, in clinical latency the virus is actively replicating
Virus latency is not to be confused with clinical latency during the incubation period when a virus is not dormant. Virus latency (or viral latency) is the ability of a pathogenic virus to lie dormant (latent) within a cell, denoted as the lysogenic part of the viral life cycle. A latent viral infection is a type of persistent viral infection which is distinguished from a chronic viral infection
Missing from the table (which will be corrected in the next edition) is the incubation period of Ebola virus, which is 2 to 21 days. I would also argue that the incubation period of HIV is not 1-10 years, but 2-4 weeks, the time until the prodromal symptoms occur. The characteristic symptom of HIV-1 infection, immunosuppression, occurs much later. In contrast to Ebolaviruses, poliovirus and norovirus are shed during the incubation period – in the feces, where they can infect others. Remarkably, viral incubation periods can vary from 1 or 2 days to years (Table; click to magnify).
The incubation period is the time from exposure to the causative agent until the first symptoms develop and is characteristic for each disease agent. Example: Shiga toxin-producing E. coli has an average incubation period of 3-4 days with a range from a minimum of 2 days to a maximum of 10 days. Walk through the steps to determine the most likely period of exposure for a point source outbreak of Hepatitis A in Alabama. The incubation range for Hepatitis A is 15-50 days and has an average incubation of 25-30 days. Use an average incubation period of 28 days.
The incubation period of mono is from 4 to 7 weeks. So if Josh gets the virus from Anabel, it could take as little as 4 weeks or as long as 7 (or anywhere in between) for Josh to have the first mono symptoms. Most times, a person is contagious during the incubation period. After all, they ARE carrying the organism.