Medical Definition of DEGREE. 1. : a measure of damage to tissue caused by injury or disease—see first-degree burn, second-degree burn, third-degree burn. 2. a: a title conferred on students by a college, university, or professional school on completion of a unified program of study b: an academic title conferred honorarily.
Definition of a Traditional College Degree. Originally, a traditional college degree meant a degree earned in a traditional academic field through full-time attendance at a college or university. Now, the definition sometimes includes part-time, on-campus college study. However, a traditional college degree does not currently include online degree programs.
The Latin word gradus, meaning “ step ” or “ degree, ” gives us the root grad. Words from the Latin gradus have something to do with steps. Anything grad ual happens slowly one step at a time. To de grade is to reduce from a higher to a lower degree. A grad e is a step in school made up of one year of work.
The first degree you study towards at university is called an undergraduate degree, eg, Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Laws. Certificates and diplomas are also undergraduate qualifications. An undergraduate student is one who is studying for for their first (bachelor’s) degree, or a certificate or diploma.
This is the British English definition of first degree. View American English definition of first degree. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for
Course. A course is the study of a particular topic within a wider subject area and is the basic building block of a qualification. Once you have decided on the degrees and subjects that interest you, you need to decide on the courses to enrol in for your first year.
Flora shouted back, `Thirty-three, university degree in fine art from Reading. It contained the basic details of Tony's life, from his university degree to his present post. Of course she wants to get on in the world like everyone else, but she doesn't think she needs a university degree to do it.