Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle.
(2) Renal Tubule. The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) , which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above. Within the glomerulus are glomerular capillaries that are located between the afferent arteriole bringing blood into the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole draining blood away from the glomerulus. The (outgoing) efferent arteriole has a smaller diameter than the (incoming) afferent arteriole.
(June 2011). The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle.
The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT), which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above. Within the glomerulus are glomerular capillaries that are located between the afferent arteriole bringing blood into the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole draining blood away from the glomerulus. The (outgoing) efferent arteriole has a smaller diameter than the (incoming) afferent arteriole.
There are two parts of a kidney nephron: the renal corpuscle, and the renal tubule. (1) Renal Corpuscle. The renal corpuscle is the part of the kidney nephron in which blood plasma is filtered. Within the glomerulus are glomerular capillaries that are located between the afferent arteriole bringing blood into the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole draining blood away from the glomerulus. The (outgoing) efferent arteriole has a smaller diameter than the (incoming) afferent arteriole.
The renal corpuscle of each kidney nephron has two parts-they are the Glomerulus, which is a network of small blood vessels called capillaries, and the Bowman's Capsule (also known as the Glomerular Capsule), which is the double-walled epithelial cup within which the glomerulus is contained. Within the glomerulus are glomerular capillaries that are located between the afferent arteriole bringing blood into the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole draining blood away from the glomerulus. The (outgoing) efferent arteriole has a smaller diameter than the (incoming) afferent arteriole.
3 Contributions. the flow of blood through the nephron is: enters through the afferent arteriole, then flows through the glomerulus and into the efferent arteriole. Blood then enters the peri … tubular capillaries and the vasa recta and then flows through the cortex and medulla of the kidneys close to the tubules Answer: so the flow is afferent arteriole, efferent arteriole, peritubular capillaries, vasa recta.
Nephron. o The nephron is the structural and functional unit of the kidney. It consists of a specialized tubular structure and closely associated blood vessels. Responsible for the formation of urine. o Each kidney contains 1,000,000 nephrons that filter the blood and form urine. About one third of the nephrons in a kidney must be functional to ensure survival of the organ. It is in the nephrons with their associated blood vessels that urine is formed. o FILTRATE IS NOT URINE – it is the same as blood plasma without the protein.
Term. Describe the structural and functional relationships between the nephron tubules and their associated blood vessels. Definition. Portions of the nephron that extend from the renal corpuscle to the collecting duct allow exchange between the tubule and the peritubular capillaries. The epithelial cells in different segments are structurally different. For example, the membranes have different permeabilities and contain different transporters.