Types of DNA Analysis. DNA analysis is the process in which genetic sequences are studied. It is used by law enforcement and medical personnel to identify a particular person or species, and even specific cancers and diseases. At one point the analysis process was very limited. The mitochondrial DNA analysis technique uses DNA that is extracted from the mitochondrion. STR analysis uses DNA from the cell’s nucleus. Typically, mtDNA is used to extract DNA from old evidence like hair, teeth and bones that no longer has any nucleic DNA material to use for STR analysis.
Forensic biology is used to determine what types of biological stains, such as blood or semen, are left at a crime scene and to link those stains to individuals through DNA analysis. 1  DNA Analysis. 2  Serology. 3  Biology Screening. 4  Pathology/Forensic Anthropology. 
The use of biological evidence in DNA and genetic analysis varies, with areas of study including blood typing, gender determination based on chromosome analysis (karyotyping), DNA profiling and, more recently, forensic DNA phenotyping. In the analysis of SNPs, which can consist of up the four alleles, the specific base present in the SNP must be established. This is achieved using DNA sequencing techniques. However DNA sequencing is not generally used in forensic science except in the analysis of mitochondrial DNA.
DNA Structure and Function. It is vital to understand the structure and function of DNA and how this relates to DNA analysis in forensic science. DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, is a molecule arranged into a double-helix, its structure first described by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953. In the analysis of SNPs, which can consist of up the four alleles, the specific base present in the SNP must be established. This is achieved using DNA sequencing techniques. However DNA sequencing is not generally used in forensic science except in the analysis of mitochondrial DNA.
In 1987, forensic DNA analysis made its first appearance in a US courtroom. Originally known as DNA fingerprinting, this type of analysis is now called DNA profiling or DNA testing to distinguish it from traditional skin fingerprinting. DNA is often left behind at a crime scene. It is present in all kinds of evidence, including blood, hair, skin, saliva, and semen. Scientists can analyze the DNA in evidence samples to see if it matches a suspect's DNA.
DNA Analysis: Traditional Techniques. From the crime scene, a piece of DNA evidence travels to a forensic laboratory. These labs vary quite a bit, both in terms of how they are structured and what kind of analyses they offer. Private forensic laboratories, some dedicated just to DNA analysis, also exist. Many labs have the ability to conduct testing on nuclear DNA, which is the copy of DNA that exists in the nucleus of every cell. But only a few labs offer more specialized techniques, such as Y-chromosome or mitochondrial DNA analysis.
Sources of DNA Evidence & DNA Extraction. In terms of forensic DNA analysis, there is a variety of possible sources of DNA evidence. The more useful sources include blood, semen, vaginal fluid, nasal secretions and hair with roots. In the analysis of SNPs, which can consist of up the four alleles, the specific base present in the SNP must be established. This is achieved using DNA sequencing techniques. However DNA sequencing is not generally used in forensic science except in the analysis of mitochondrial DNA.
Forensic science is any scientific field that is applied to the field of law. Forensic scientists are tasked with the collection, preservation, and analysis of scientific evidence during the course of an investigation. 
Purpose. To prove individual identity or genetic relationships. Method. Back in 1985, the first genetic fingerprint was a miracle of science. Today, DNA analysis is standard practice for defining paternity or maternity, predisposition to disease, embryonic health, criminal guilt or innocence, and so on. 
Genetics. The resulting DNA profile for a sample, which is a combination of individual STR genotypes, is compared to other samples. In the case of a forensic investigation, these other samples would include known reference samples such as the victim or suspects that are compared to the crime scene evidence. With paternity investigations, a child's genotype would be compared to his or her mother's and the alleged father(s) under investigation. RFLP analysis requires a biological sample about the size of a quarter, but PCR can be used to reproduce millions of copies of the DNA contained in a few skin cells. Since PCR analysis requires only a minute quantity of DNA, it can enable the laboratory to analyze highly degraded evidence for DNA.