Neuroglia are also important for the protection of neurones in the brain, and there are almost the same number of neuroglia cells as the number of neuron cells in the human brain. The structure of this cell is like a spider or an octopus, but there is no axon as in neurons. • Neuron has an axon but, not in neuroglia. • Neuroglia form myelin but those are present and functional in the axon of neurons. • Neuroglia form packaging media between nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord and but not the neurons.
1 Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 2  However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 3  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 4  There are many MORE (10-50 times more) glial cells in the brain compared to the number of neurons. There are a few ways in which glia cells are different from neurons: 1  Neurons have TWO processes called axons and dendrites....glial cells have only ONE. 2  Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 3
1 However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 2  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 3  There are many MORE (10-50 times more) glial cells in the brain compared to the number of neurons. There are a few ways in which glia cells are different from neurons: 1  Neurons have TWO processes called axons and dendrites....glial cells have only ONE. 2  Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 3 
• Neurons contain Nissl’s granules but not in Neuroglia. • Neuron has an axon but, not in neuroglia. • Neuroglia form myelin but those are present and functional in the axon of neurons. • Neuroglia form packaging media between nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord and but not the neurons.
by Naveen. Neurons vs Neuroglia. The nervous system is made up of two major types of cells known as neurons and neuroglia. However, many have an understanding that there are only neurons in the nervous system, and the supporting cells are forgotten. • Neuron has an axon but, not in neuroglia. • Neuroglia form myelin but those are present and functional in the axon of neurons. • Neuroglia form packaging media between nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord and but not the neurons.
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Cell Body. In many ways, the cell body is similar to other types of cells. It has a nucleus with at least one nucleolus and contains many of the typical cytoplasmic organelles. It lacks centrioles, however. Glial (Neuroglial) cells do not conduct nerve impulses, but, instead, support, nourish, and protect the neurons. Glial cells are far more numerous than neurons and, unlike neurons, are capable of mitosis.
Glial cells, sometimes called neuroglia or simply glia (Greek γλοία glue; pronounced in English as either /ˈɡliːə/ or /ˈɡlaɪə/), are non-neuronal cells that maintain homeostasis, form myelin, and provide support and protection for neurons in the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. In general, neuroglial cells are smaller than neurons; there are about 86 billion neurons and 85 billion nonneuronal (glial) cells in the human male brain. Glial cells comprise about half the total volume of the brain and spinal cord. The ratio differs from one part of the brain to another
The central nervous system (CNS) consists of neurons and glial cells. Glial cells are astrocytes, oligodendroglia, ependymal cells, and microglia. With H&E stains, the CNS resembles mesenchymal tissues in which cells are set in an extracellular matrix. Neurons come in all sizes. Motor neurons, which are the largest cells in the CNS, have a cell body measuring up to 135 microns. Granular neurons of the cerebellum, which are the smallest, measure 4 microns.