The Cell Nucleus: The cell nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is the command center of a eukaryotic cell and is commonly the most prominent organelle in a cell. The cell nucleus is only one type of cell organelle. The following cell structures can also be found in a typical animal eukaryotic cell: 1  Centrioles-help to organize the assembly of microtubules. 2  Chromosomes-house cellular DNA. 3  Cilia and Flagella-aid in cellular locomotion.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the nucleus is where the genetic information is stored. the information is then stored in the chromosomes which is know as DNA. Yes, because a nucleus is the brain of a cell. and since our body are made out of cells/ the DNA is definitely stored in the DNA. 5 people found this useful.
Nucleus. Nearly every single cell has a nucleus. (Only bacteria and blue-green algae lack a nucleus.) The nucleus controls and regulates the activities of cell. It is also where all genetic information is stored. Most nuclei* are surrounded by a cell membrane. The nucleus shown below is surrounded by a dark-blue membrane. 
The Cell Nucleus The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information processing and administrative center of the cell. This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many.
Plant Cell Nucleus The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information and administrative center of the cell. This organelle has two major functions. 
DNA Basics. The nucleus is a membrane bound organelle that contains the genetic information in the form of chromatin, highly folded ribbon-like complexes of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and a class of proteins called histones. 
These instructions are your DNA, which is stored in its very own cellular glove compartment-the nucleus. The nucleus is a membrane-bound structure that contains the genetic material of a cell. The plural of nucleus is nuclei. 
The Nucleus. The largest and most clearly visible of the cell's constituents is the nucleus. Within the nucleus, DNA molecules, the cell's genetic machinery, are stored, repaired, transcribed and eventually replicated. Around the outside of the nucleus is an envelope consisting of two layers of membrane