The commonest kynd o neep sellt as a vegetable in Europe an North Americae is maistlins white-skint apairt frae the tap 1–6 centimetres that growes abuin the grund an is purpie, reid, or greenish whauriver sunlicht has fawen. This pairt abuin the grund growes frae stem tissue, but is jyned wi the ruit. Evidents frae aboot 1500 BC shaws fermers o Indie growin kynds o wild neep for the ile frae its seeds. Neolithic evidents shaws it growein its lane in northren climes an frae B. campestris ruits. Thae fermers cultivatit the roond ruits we ken the day.
In Scotland, it is known as turnip, and in Scots as tumshie or neep (from Old English naep, Næp latin). Napus some areas of south East, scotland such As berwickshire And, roxburghshire still use the term, baigie possibly a derivative of the Original swedish. rutabaga In the U.S., the plant is also known as Swedish turnip or yellow turnip. The term swede is used instead of rutabaga in many Commonwealth Nations, including much of England, Wales, Australia, and New Zealand.
ASHRAE 90.2 is a Residential Energy Standard published by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) that provides guidance for meeting minimum energy efficiency requirements in low-rise residential buildings (single family to multi-family). It is unnecessarily complicated in some places, and in other places lacks needed explanation of specific terms used and where they apply in the code. This makes ASHRAE 90.2, as a building standard, not only difficult to understand but also to comply with and enforce.
NEEP. The nationally recognized Neighborhood Environmental Education Project (NEEP)’s innovative approach to environmental education offers a unique opportunity for you to supplement your science curricula. 
Neep. Remnant substance left over from vaporizing marijuana buds; usually light brown in color and smells vaguely of popcorn. Not particularly useful in and of itself but can be used in an isopropyl or butane extraction to make low-grade hash oil suitable for making potent edibles.
1 One well-known dish in which they have a prominent part is the Scottish neep purry or bashed neeps which are traditionally served with haggis. More example sentences. 1  One well-known dish in which they have a prominent part is the Scottish neep purry or bashed neeps which are traditionally served with haggis. 2  Granny Lean's Cornish pasties contained layers of carrots, neeps, potatoes and onion
In Scotland, on the other hand, a turnip or neep is a somewhat different vegetable. It's still a root, but the outside is purplish-green, and the inside is usually pale yellow or orange. It's quite a bit larger than the white variety, and its skin is thicker. It's a staple vegetable in Scottish cuisine. By Mike Lewis. Turnip (left) and neeps. Photo of neeps by Magnus Manske. You can't venture far in Scotland without coming across neeps. This distinctive root vegetable crops up in several Scottish recipes, and is also eaten as an accompaniment to other dishes.
A neep or tumshie is the ruit crap brassica rapa var. rapa that's aft growen in maumie climates athort the warld for its white, bulbous tapruit. Evidents frae aboot 1500 BC shaws fermers o Indie growin kynds o wild neep for the ile frae its seeds. Neolithic evidents shaws it growein its lane in northren climes an frae B. campestris ruits. Thae fermers cultivatit the roond ruits we ken the day.
The rutabaga, swede (from Swedish turnip), turnip, yellow turnip, or neep (Brassica napobrassica, or Brassica napus var. napobrassica, or Brassica napus subsp. rapifera) is a root vegetable that may have originated as a cross between the cabbage and the turnip. In the U.S., the plant is also known as Swedish turnip or yellow turnip. The term swede is used instead of rutabaga in many Commonwealth Nations, including much of England, Wales, Australia, and New Zealand.