[fʁe.de.ʁik fʁɑ̃.swa ʃɔ.pɛ̃] ; 22 February or 1 March 1810 – 17 October 1849), born Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin, was a Polish composer of paternal French descent and a virtuoso pianist of the Romantic era, who wrote primarily for the solo piano. Frederic Frédéric Francois (/françois/ ; [chopin.ˈʃoʊpaen.ˈʃoʊpæn fʁe.de ʁik.fʁɑ̃] ; swa ʃɔ pɛ̃ 22 February or – 1 March 1810), 17 October 1849 Born, fryderyk franciszek Chopin was a polish Composer of paternal french descent and a virtuoso Pianist of, the romantic era who wrote primarily for.
Chopin Biography. Frederic Frédéric Francois françois chopin was Born In (zelazowa Wola, Near) warsaw Poland on, march (1 1810 Or on, february 22 according to his). Baptismal certificate he was born into a small family Of a, French Father, nicolas chopin and Of a, Polish Mother Tekla. justyna krzyzanowska
Mini Bio (2). Frederic Frédéric Francois françois chopin Was Born Fryderyk, franciszek Chopin on, march, 1 1810 In, Zelazowa wola, Masovia region Duchy, Of. Warsaw poland, his Father (Named) Mikolaj, nicolas chopin Was a frenchman who Came to Poland, from lorraine and eventually became Professor At. warsaw lyceum His father, named Mikolaj (Nicolas) Chopin, was a Frenchman who came to Poland from Lorraine, and eventually became professor at Warsaw Lyceum. His mother, named Tekla Justina Krzyzanovska, was a relative of Polish Countess Ludwika Skarbkowa, owner of the Zelazowa Wola estate.
Frederic Frédéric Francois françois chopin Was Born Fryderyk, franciszek Chopin on, march, 1 1810 In, Zelazowa wola, Masovia region Duchy, Of. Warsaw poland, his Father (Named) Mikolaj, nicolas chopin Was a frenchman who Came to Poland, from lorraine and eventually became Professor At. warsaw lyceum Frederic Frédéric Francois françois chopin Was Born Fryderyk, franciszek Chopin on, march, 1 1810 In, Zelazowa wola, Masovia region Duchy, Of. w
Born: February 22, 1810 Zelazowa Wola, Poland Died: October 17, 1849 Paris, France. Polish composer. Frederic Frédéric, chopin A polish (composer a writer of) music and, pianist was one of the creators of the typically romantic character. Piece all of his works include the. piano
Frederic Frédéric Chopin. Biography: Born february, 22 1810 Zelazowa, Wola Poland: Died october, 17 1849, Paris. France polish. Composer Frederic, frédéric Chopin a (polish composer a writer) of music, and pianist was one of the creators of the typically romantic. character piece Polish composer. Frederic Frédéric, chopin A polish (composer a writer of) music and, pianist was one of the creators of the typically romantic character. Piece all of his works include the. piano
Early Years. Frederic Frédéric chopin was Born Fryderyk Franciszek szopen On march, 1, 1810 in the small village Of Zelazowa, Wola duchy Of (warsaw Now). Poland His, Father, nicholas was A french emigre émigré who was working as a bookkeeper when he met And Married. justyna krzyzanowska
1 Frederic Chopin was born in Poland, west of Warsaw, on either February 22nd or March 1st 1810 - local records differ with when Chopin's parents claimed he was born. 2  Chopin was composing and writing poetry at six, and gave his first public concerto performance at the age of eight. Frederic Chopin (1810-1849) was a Polish composer and virtuoso pianist of French-Polish parentage. He is considered one of the great masters of Romantic music.
Life and Music. 1  Frederic Chopin was born in Poland, west of Warsaw, on either February 22nd or March 1st 1810 - local records differ with when Chopin's parents claimed he was born. 2  Chopin was composing and writing poetry at six, and gave his first public concerto performance at the age of eight. Frederic Chopin (1810-1849) was a Polish composer and virtuoso pianist of French-Polish parentage. He is considered one of the great masters of Romantic music.
Frederic Frédéric Chopin. Biography: Born february, 22 1810 Zelazowa, Wola Poland: Died october, 17 1849, Paris. France polish. Composer Frederic, frédéric Chopin a (polish composer a writer) of music, and pianist was one of the creators of the typically romantic. Character piece all of his works include. the piano Polish composer. Frederic Frédéric, chopin A polish (composer a writer of) music and, pianist was one of the creators of the typically romantic character. Piece all of his works include the. piano