FACS: sorting cells based on flow cytometry data. The terms flow cytometry and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) are often used interchangeably. In practice, there are differences between the two methods. FACS is a derivative of flow cytometry that adds an exceptional degree of functionality. Using FACS a researcher can physically sort a heterogeneous mixture of cells into different populations. Flow cytometry is used extensively throughout the life and biomedical sciences, and can be applied in any scenario where a researcher needs to rapidly profile a large population of loose cells in a liquid media.
FACS or FaCS may refer to: 1  Fluorescence-activated cell sorting, applied in flow cytometry. 2  Facial Action Coding System, a procedure to systematically describe human facial expressions. 3  Families and Children Study, a longitudinal study in Great Britain. 
ACS is the world’s largest professional scientific and educational association of surgeons, with more than 80,000 members. Our mission is to improve the care of the surgical patient, and to safeguard standards of care in an optimal and ethical practice environment. There is also another category of membership known as  Associate Fellow .. This category was established to provide an opportunity for surgeons who are beginning surgical practice and who meet specific requirements to assume an active role in the College at an early stage in their careers.
Flow cytometry is routinely used in the diagnosis of health disorders, especially blood cancers, but has many other applications in basic research, clinical practice and clinical trials. A common variation is to physically sort particles based on their properties, so as to purify populations of interest. The acronym FACS is trademarked and owned by Becton, Dickinson and Company. Among the large majority of researchers who use this technology for sorting or analysis, this term has become genericized, much like Xerox for photocopy or Kleenex for facial tissue.
Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) is a specialized type of flow cytometry. It provides a method for sorting a heterogeneous mixture of biological cells into two or more containers, one cell at a time, based upon the specific light scattering and fluorescent characteristics of each cell. The acronym FACS is trademarked and owned by Becton, Dickinson and Company. Among the large majority of researchers who use this technology for sorting or analysis, this term has become genericized, much like Xerox for photocopy or Kleenex for facial tissue.
FACS is an acronym for Fellow of the American College of Surgeons, an indication that the bearer of such a title is a member of the American College of Surgeons (ACS). Many doctors and other medical professionals have a string of abbreviations after their names to indicate their credentials, areas of specialization and certifications. Most of us recognize M.D. and D.D.S. as medical doctor or doctor of dental surgery..
Mission Statement. The American College of Surgeons is dedicated to improving the care of the surgical patient and to safeguarding standards of care in an optimal and ethical practice environment. There is also another category of membership known as  Associate Fellow .. This category was established to provide an opportunity for surgeons who are beginning surgical practice and who meet specific requirements to assume an active role in the College at an early stage in their careers.
FACS is especially suited for the Truck Equipment and Job Shop/Manufacturing industries. With FACS you not only get a complete business management system, but you receive support, training, and program customization from Spokane Computer's staff of dedicated professionals. 
About ACS. The American College of Surgeons (ACS) is a scientific and educational association of surgeons that was founded in 1913 to improve the quality of care for the surgical patient by setting high standards for surgical education and practice. There is also another category of membership known as  Associate Fellow .. This category was established to provide an opportunity for surgeons who are beginning surgical practice and who meet specific requirements to assume an active role in the College at an early stage in their careers.