Antioxidants are present in fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as whole grains. Fruits and veggies that have bright, distinctive colors, such as red tomatoes, purple blueberries, yellow corn and orange carrots, are rich in antioxidants. A number of the vitamins, minerals and compounds in food have antioxidant properties. Vitamins A, C and E are among the most well known, as are beta-carotene, lycopene and selenium. Some foods that contain large amounts of antioxidants include: 1  Carrots. 
Overview. Vitamin E is a fat-soluble antioxidant that is essential for the maintenance of healthy skin. Naturally occurring vitamin E is not a single compound; instead, vitamin E is a group of molecules with related structures, some of which may have unique properties in skin. Vitamin E is also found as vitamin E conjugates that increase stability but require cellular metabolism for activation.
Because vitamin C is water soluble, its antioxidant functions take place in aqueous body compartments. It also helps protect low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) against free radical damage. As an antioxidant, it helps protect against cancer, cardiovascular disease, and certain effects of aging. Because of the widespread effects of oxidation in the body, it is possible that antioxidants protect against a wide array of other ailments, such as certain respiratory disorders. Asthma is characterized by chronic airway inflammation.
An antioxidant is a molecule that inhibits the oxidation of other molecules. Oxidation is a chemical reaction involving the loss of electrons which can produce free radicals. In turn, these radicals can start chain reactions. When the chain reaction occurs in a cell, it can cause damage or death to the cell. Although some levels of antioxidant vitamins in the diet are required for good health, there is considerable doubt as to whether antioxidant supplements have anti-disease activity; and if they are actually beneficial, which antioxidant(s) are needed and in what amounts.
Antioxidant Properties of Vitamins By: Dr. George Obikoya. A dietary antioxidant is a substance (commonly found in foods) that significantly decreases the harmful effects of reactive species, such as reactive oxygen and nitrogen molecules, that disrupt normal physiological function on a cellular level in humans. Because of the widespread effects of oxidation in the body, it is possible that antioxidants protect against a wide array of other ailments, such as certain respiratory disorders. Asthma is characterized by chronic airway inflammation.
However, less data is available for other dietary antioxidants, such as vitamin E, or the polyphenols. Likewise, the pathogenesis of diseases involving hyperuricemia likely involve uric acid's direct and indirect pro-oxidant properties. Although some levels of antioxidant vitamins in the diet are required for good health, there is considerable doubt as to whether antioxidant supplements have anti-disease activity; and if they are actually beneficial, which antioxidant(s) are needed and in what amounts.
Vitamin E is the name given to a group of eight fat-soluble compounds. Unlike other vitamins, which are involved in metabolic reactions, it appears that the primary role of vitamin E is to act as an antioxidant. Because of the widespread effects of oxidation in the body, it is possible that antioxidants protect against a wide array of other ailments, such as certain respiratory disorders. Asthma is characterized by chronic airway inflammation.
Vitamin E is the collective name for a set of eight related tocopherols and tocotrienols, which are fat-soluble vitamins with antioxidant properties. Of these, α-tocopherol has been most studied as it has the highest bioavailability, with the body preferentially absorbing and metabolising this form. Although some levels of antioxidant vitamins in the diet are required for good health, there is considerable doubt as to whether antioxidant supplements have anti-disease activity; and if they are actually beneficial, which antioxidant(s) are needed and in what amounts.
The mineral element selenium is often thought to be a dietary antioxidant, but the antioxidant effects of selenium are most likely due to the antioxidant activity of proteins that have this element as an essential component (i.e., selenium-containing proteins), and not to selenium itself (4). Many observational studies, including case–control studies and cohort studies, have been conducted to investigate whether the use of dietary antioxidant supplements is associated with reduced risks of cancer in humans. Overall, these studies have yielded mixed results (5).