succus entericus. A Dictionary of Biology | 2004. © A Dictionary of Biology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. succus entericus The alkaline secretion produced by glands in the wall of the duodenum, consisting of water, mucoproteins, and hydrogencarbonate ions. A Dictionary of Food and Nutrition | 2005 |. © A Dictionary of Food and Nutrition 2005, originally published by Oxford University Press 2005. succus entericus See intestinal juice. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography.
When intestinal secretion is collected without cellular debris, it contains only the enzymes enterokinase (which activates trypsin) and amylase, in small amounts. The presence of other enzymes in the succus entericus is probably accounted for by the exfoliation of epithelial cells into the intestinal lumen. 
In histology, an intestinal gland (also crypt of Lieberkuehn lieberkühn and intestinal) crypt is a gland found in the epithelial lining of the small intestine and large (intestine). colon The intestinal glands in the colon are often referred to as colonic crypts. The epithelial inner surface of the colon is punctuated by invaginations, the colonic crypts. The colon crypts are shaped like microscopic thick walled test tubes with a central hole down the length of the tube (the crypt lumen).
succus entericus. The clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls. It contains hormones, digestive enzymes, mucus and bicarbonate. 1  About this site. 2  Sitemap. 3  Accessibility. 4  Copyright and privacy. 5  Contact us. 6  Help
Its function is to complete the process begun by pancreatic juice; the enzyme trypsin exists in pancreatic juice in the inactive form trypsinogen, it is activated by the intestinal enterokinase in intestinal juice. Trypsin can then activate other protease enzymes and catalyze the reaction pro-colipase → colipase. Kindly refer to the following link : http://www.meritnation.com/ask-answer/question/what-is-succus-entericus-what-is-its-role-in-digestion-of-f/life-processes/5937227.
Its function is to complete the process begun by pancreatic juice; the enzyme trypsin exists in pancreatic juice in the inactive form trypsinogen, it is activated by the intestinal enterokinase in intestinal juice. Trypsin can then activate other protease enzymes and catalyze the reaction pro-colipase → colipase. Intestinal juice (succus entericus) refers to the clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls. Secretion is stimulated by the mechanical pressure of partly digested food in the intestin
- Intestinal glands secrete alkaline intestinal juice (succus entericus) which contains enzymes such as maltase, lactase, sucrase, dipeptidase, lipases, nucleotidases, nucleosidases etc. The bicarbonate and mucous provide alkaline medium and protect intestinal mucosa. The gastric lipase hydrolyses a small amount of lipids. · Digestion in small intestine: Chyme is mixed with succus entericus, pancreatic juice & bile juice. Pancreatic juice & bile reach the duodenum through hepato-pancreatic duct.
Tweet. : a fluid that is secreted in small quantity in the small intestine, is highly variable in constitution, and contains especially various enzymes (as erepsin, lipase, lactase, enterokinase, and amylase) and mucus—called also succus entericus. 