jugular foramen. n. A passage between the temporal bone and the occipital bone, containing the internal jugular vein, the inferior petrosal sinus, the glossopharyngeal, vagus, and accessory nerves, and the meningeal branches of the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries. intervertebral foramen. a passage for a spinal nerve and vessels formed by notches on the pedicles of adjacent vertebrae. jugular foramen. an opening formed by the jugular notches of the temporal and occipital bones.
Remember, the accessory nerve, cranial nerve XI passes through the jugular foramen and also through the foramen magnum. It’s got two roots. You’ve got the roots up here and the spinal roots, which pass through the foramen magnum. The jugular foramen has loads of structures that pass through it. It’s called the ‘jugular foramen’ for a reason, because the internal jugular passes through it. I’ve just flipped back to the base of the skull view. You can see what I’m doing here, base of the skull
a passage from the third to the lateral ventricle of the brain. intervertebral foramen. a passage for a spinal nerve and vessels formed by notches on the pedicles of adjacent vertebrae. jugular foramen. an opening formed by the jugular notches of the temporal and occipital bones. foramen lacerum. the irregular gap between the basioccipital, petrous temporal and sphenoid wing bones, making up a large, membrane-covered foramen in horses, but reduced to a slit in other domestic mammals
1 Any additional openings in bone that the nerve or its branches pass through. 2  Whether it is somatic or visceral, motor or sensory, general or special, and if it carries pre-or postganglionic parasympathetic fibers. 3  Several of the cranial nerves are quite simple in this regard. 4  Several are very complex (i.e., V, VII, IX). 
It’s this hole here. And what you’ve got, as you can see, you’ve got the second branch of the trigeminal, which passes through this. The foramen rotundum allows the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve to pass through. You can see that on either side, this branch here. The maxillary branch passes through the foramen rotundum. The jugular foramen has loads of structures that pass through it. It’s called the ‘jugular foramen’ for a reason, because the internal jugular passes through it. I’ve just flipped back to the base of the skull view. You can see what I’m doing here, base of the skull
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The nerves which passes through the jugular foramen are: glossopharyngeal nerve(IX), vagus nerve(X) and accessory nerve(XI). Spinal cord passes through the vertebral foramen of vertebrae C1-C7, T1-T12 and L1 (sometimes L2). Cauda equina (nerve roots of lower spinal cord) pass through the vertebral … foramen of vertebrae L3-L5 and the sacral canal. Spinal nerve roots pass through all of the intervertebral foramen and the sacral foramen.
The inferior petrosal sinus drains the cavernous sinus and courses in the petro-occipital fissure adjacent to the clivus prior to its exit through the pars nervosa and subsequent drainage into the jugular vein beneath the foramen. The pars vascularis is the posterolateral portion of the jugular foramen and is larger than the smaller anteromedial portion termed the pars nervosa. It contains: 1  jugular bulb: a venous expansion between the endocranial sigmoid sinus and the exocranial jugular vein. 2  vagus nerve (CN X). 3  spinal accessory nerve (CN XI)
2. the foramen, or opening, in the midline of the palate in the region where the premaxilla and maxillae join, which is situated palatal to the maxillary central incisors; contains branches of the right and left nasopalatine vessels and nerve. n an opening on the lateral aspect of the body of the mandible inferior to the apices of the mandibular second or first premolar. The mental vessels and nerve pass through this foramen to travel through the mandibular canal to supply the lip.