Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) is a laboratory technique used with in vitro fertilizaton (IVF). The technique involves injecting a single living sperm directly into the center of woman's egg. The ICSI Procedure. In conventional IVF, after a woman's eggs are retrieved, they are left in a petri dish with sperm in order to achieve natural fertilization.
How ICSI Works. Since ICSI is always used with in vitro fertilisation, the process starts with preparation for this procedure. The woman is given fertility drugs to stimulate egg follicle development and ovulation. Her mature ova are then retrieved to use during ICSI. In additional preparation for ICSI, sperm is collected from the man. ICSI is currently the most successful treatment for male infertility, with fertilisation rates of 60%-70% depending on quality of the sperm used. However, once the egg is fertilised, the success rates of ICSI in conjunction with IVF remain the same as conventional IVF – a 20%-25% chance of live birth.
Women who undergo the ICSI process, in which a single sperm is injected into an egg, are more likely to have a baby with problems including cleft palate, heart and lung conditions, cerebral palsy and blood disorders. In ICSI a single sperm is injected directly into each egg using a fine glass needle. The process helps couples hit by male infertility problems – for example, if the male partner has a low sperm count or damaged sperm.
When sperm is extracted directly from the testicle by a procedure called testicular sperm extraction (TESE) ICSI is always used. ICSI is also occasionally used in situations where there are a very low number of eggs to fertilize. The dish is housed in an incubator overnight to keep the egg and sperm at room temperature. They are left along for 16 to 20 hours at which point the embryologist can check the eggs to see if the sperm was able to fertilize the egg normally. ICSI (intracytoplasmic sperm injection).
ICSI. There are two ways to fertilize eggs in the laboratory. CONVENTIONAL INSEMINATION. When good fertilization is expected conventional insemination is used. With conventional insemination the sperm and egg are placed together in a nutrient solution inside of a petri dish. The dish is housed in an incubator overnight to keep the egg and sperm at room temperature. They are left along for 16 to 20 hours at which point the embryologist can check the eggs to see if the sperm was able to fertilize the egg normally. ICSI (intracytoplasmic sperm injection).
ICSI is used together with IVF treatment. The female partner is given fertility stimulating medications to produce a number of mature eggs, which are harvested in a minor surgical procedure and held in incubators in our laboratory. Fertilizing eggs through ICSI: 1  The embryologist removes follicle cells surrounding each egg using an enzyme solution. 2  This is necessary to make sure the egg is mature enough to be injected and for the embryologist to see what they are doing, and so that the egg can be gently grasped for the injection procedure.
Intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) differs from conventional in vitro fertilisation (IVF) in that the embryologist selects a single sperm to be injected directly into an egg, instead of fertilisation taking place in a dish where many sperm are placed near an egg. 
Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI). ICSI is a method used for fertilization of an egg during IVF. was first developed as a fertility treatment for couples in which the male had low sperm counts or low sperm motility. Without ICSI, these couples had a high rate of fertilization failure using standard IVF. 
Share. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) can be used as part of an in vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment to help you and your spouse to conceive a child. ICSI is the most successful form of treatment for men who are infertile and is used in nearly half of all IVF treatments (HFEA 2010) 