If an employer’s workforce exceeds 50 full-time employees for 120 days or fewer during a calendar year, and the employees in excess of 50 who were employed during that period of no more than 120 days were seasonal workers, the employer is not considered an applicable large employer. 
A: PPACA defines “seasonal employee” as retail workers employed exclusively during the holiday season and also by reference to a DOL regulation that existed before PPACA. Under that regulation, a “seasonal employee” is one who works “on a seasonal or other temporary basis,” which is defined as follows: 
Part-Time Employees. Employers often hire part-time or temporary workers to help with increased work demands or seasonal industry fluctuations that sometimes occur in certain industries. Generally, seasonal employees are hired to work on a part-time basis by companies that need extra help during a particular season, typically the Christmas season.
Laws concerning employee treatment, benefits, and policies of part-time, temporary, or seasonal employees are covered by both Federal and state laws. To learn more about employee rights, benefits and policies as they may apply to your specific case, check your state's employment laws. Generally, seasonal employees are hired to work on a part-time basis by companies that need extra help during a particular season, typically the Christmas season.
Temporary workers may work full-time or part-time, depending on the individual case. In some instances, temporary workers receive benefits (such as health insurance), but usually benefits are only given to permanent employees. Not all temporary employees find jobs through a temporary employment agency. Other companies, in need of short-term workers, contract with the temporary work agency to send temporary workers, or temps, on assignments to work at the other companies. Temporary employees are also used in work that has a cyclical nature, requiring frequent adjustments to staffing levels.
A seasonal employee is one who works only during a specific time period during the year for an employer. For example, many workers in the agriculture industry are seasonal, assisting the employer only for certain periods, such as planting or harvest. Under PPACA, a seasonal employee is any employee who works one hundred twenty (120) days a year or less for the employer. These days need not be consecutive. Thus, if an employee works only for the months of January, July, and October, then the employee is a seasonal employee. Seasonal employees are not considered full-time employees under PPACA. Since only full-time employees affect the employer mandates to which applicable large employers are subject, seasonal employees do not affect the employer mandates.
Part Time Employees Law & Legal Definition. Part-time employees typically work fewer hours in a day or during a work week than full-time employees; the latter are typically employed for 40 hours. Part-time workers may also be those who only work during certain parts of the year. 
Temporary work or temporary employment refers to a situation where the employee is expected to leave the employer within a certain period of time. Temporary employees are sometimes called contractual, seasonal, interim, casual staff, outsourcing, freelance; or the word may be shortened to temps. Other companies, in need of short-term workers, contract with the temporary work agency to send temporary workers, or temps, on assignments to work at the other companies. Temporary employees are also used in work that has a cyclical nature, requiring frequent adjustments to staffing levels.