Definition of Heterogeneous Mixtures. A mixture is a combination of two or more pure substances in which the original substances retain their chemical properties. In some mixtures, the initial substances cannot be detected after they have been mixed. 
Homogeneous Definition. Homogeneous refers to a substance that is consistent or uniform throughout its volume. Examples: Air is considered a homogeneous mixture of gases. 
A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the composition can easily be identified since there are two or more phases present. Air is a homogeneous mixture of the gaseous substances nitrogen, oxygen, and smaller amounts of other substances. Salt, sugar, and many other substances dissolve in water to form homogeneous mixture. Salt Water is a homogeneous mixture. A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture the composition of which can easily be identified since there are two or more phases present. Air is heterogeneous, because it is made up of different elements: Nitrogen, Oxygen, Neon, etc.
Homogeneous is a term in physical chemistry and material science that refers to substances and mixtures which are in a single phase. This is in contrast to a substance that is heterogeneous. The definition of homogeneous strongly depends on the context used. Generally it refers to smooth variation of properties with no discontinuities or jumps.
Definition of Homogeneous Mixture: A mixture which has uniform composition and properties throughout. For example, air is a homogeneous mixture of gases. A teaspoonful of table salt stirred into a glass of water also makes a homogeneous mixture. Definition of Homogeneous Catalyst: A catalyst that exists in the same phase as the reactants-usually liquid phase reactions, sometimes gas phase. Definition of Homogeneous Equilibrium: A reaction equilibrium in which the reactants and products are all in the same phase.
A homogeneous mixture is a mixture of more than one substance that is consistent throughout the mixture. A heterogeneous mixture is a mixture where there are varying concentra … tions of the substances throughout the mixture. Heterogeneous is unevenly mixed and homogeneous is evenly mixed. A homogeneous mixture is one in which different constituents are uniformly mixed and that has a uniform composition throughout. Brass, for example, is a homogeneous mixture of … copper and zinc.
Mixtures can either be homogeneous or heterogeneous. A homogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the composition is uniform and every part of the solution has the same properties. A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the components can be seen, as there are two or more phases present. One example of a mixture is air. Salt, sugar, and many other substances dissolve in water to form homogeneous mixtures. A homogeneous mixture in which there is both a solute and solvent present is also a solution. Mixtures can have any amounts of ingredients. The following table shows the main properties of the three families of mixtures.
-A homogeneous mixture (ie ketchup) appears uniform even though it is made up of different substances. The substances in homogeneous mixtures are evenly distributed throughout … . ex: If you examine 1 square centimeter of ketchup, you may find it to have 10% sugars, 85% tomato, and 5% preservatives. A homogeneous mixture is one in which different constituents are uniformly mixed and that has a uniform composition throughout. Brass, for example, is a homogeneous mixture of … copper and zinc.
A substance can be defined as homogeneous if it contains only one kind of compound or one element. Homogeneous is Latin for the same kind. Search the Dictionary. An example of a homogeneous substance would be pure silicon, which contains only silicon atoms. Other examples are pure water, which contains only the compound H 2 O, or pure table salt, which contains only the compound NaCl. Definition of Homogeneous Catalyst: A catalyst that exists in the same phase as the reactants-usually liquid phase reactions, sometimes gas phase. Definition of Homogeneous Equilibrium: A reaction equilibrium in which the reactants and products are all in the same phase.
A homogeneous mixture is a mixture that is not uniform in composition. The composition are not evenly distributed throughout the mixture. For instance, Salt dissolved in water or air. Hopefully, this helped :). A homogeneous mixture is one in which different constituents are uniformly mixed and that has a uniform composition throughout. Brass, for example, is a homogeneous mixture of … copper and zinc.