Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with these conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, it is very rare for females to have hemophilia.
In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, it is very rare for females to have hemophilia.
One of the most common hereditary bleeding disorders, hemophilia afflicts more than 17,000 people in the United States in either a mild, moderate or severe form. The hemophilia gene is carried by females on one of their X chromosomes and may be passed to their male offspring. This is why hemophilia is called the X-linked genetic condition. Women who are carriers of hemophilia have one X-chromosome with an abnormal copy of the hemophilia gene. 
Hemophilia Genetics. Hemophilia is carried on the X chromosome. It is called an X linked genetic disorder. A women who is a carrier for hemophilia has the genetic mutation on one of her X chromosomes as illustrated above. She will have another non mutated X chromosome that will usually somewhat compensate for the defect in the other.
Hemophilia is an inherited disease, most commonly affecting males, that is characterized by a deficiency in blood clotting. The responsible gene is located on the X chromosome, and since males inherit only one copy of the X chromosome, if that chromosome carries the mutated gene then they will have the disease. 
Females have two X chromosomes, while males have one X and one Y chromosome. Only the X chromosome carries the genes related to clotting factors. A male who has a hemophilia gene on his X chromosome will have hemophilia. When a female has a hemophilia gene on only one of her X chromosomes, she is a hemophilia carrier” and can pass the gene to her children. Sometimes carriers have low levels of clotting factor and have symptoms of hemophilia, including bleeding. 
Hemophilia is caused by an abnormal gene on the X chromosome. If a woman carries the abnormal gene on one of her chromosomes (females have a pair of X chromosomes), she will not have hemophilia herself, but she will be a carrier of the disorder. That means that she can pass the gene for hemophilia on to her children. Hemophilia is a rare hereditary (inherited) bleeding disorder in which blood cannot clot normally at the site of a wound or injury. The disorder occurs because certain blood clotting factors are missing or do not work properly. This can cause extended bleeding from a cut or wound.
The X and Y chromosomes are called sex chromosomes. The gene for hemophilia is carried on the X chromosome. Hemophilia is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. Females inherit two X chromosomes, one from their mother and one from their father (XX). Males inherit an X chromosome from their mother and a Y chromosome from their father (XY). 
Thus, males can have a disease like hemophilia if they inherit an affected X chromosome that has a mutation in either the factor VIII or factor IX gene. Females can also have hemophilia, but this is much rarer. In such cases both X chromosomes are affected or one is affected and the other is missing or inactive. A female with one affected X chromosome is a carrier of hemophilia. Sometimes a female who is a carrier can have symptoms of hemophilia. In addition, she can pass the affected X chromosome with the clotting factor gene mutation on to her children. Learn more about the inheritance pattern for hemophilia.