The easiest way to determine your computer's IP address is to visit WhatIsMyIP.com. The site will display your IP address and other information about your system. If the page does not appear, you may not have a working Internet connection and should try one of the methods below.
1 Note that there is a difference between your main IP address and the one that reflects your local network. 2  If your IP Address is in the format of 10.xxx.xxx.xxx Or 172.{16 - 31}.xxx.xxx Or 192.168.xxx.xxx, then you are likely looking at your local network IP address. 3  Your IP address is set in this form: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.
Your IP Address Is: { 157.55.39.251 } Your web browser announces your IP address to any web site, so our website can find your IP address simply by listening for this announcement... So one very quick way how to find your IP address is to point your browser to howtofindmyipaddress.com.
An IP address is a unique string of numbers that uniquely identifies a computer or server on the Internet. The address can be used for special functions, such as remotely accessing your computer. To find your IP address, try one of the following methods. Ad.
When you connect to the internet through your Internet Service Provider(ISP) you are assigned an IP address. Your IP address is similar to your mailing address, but for your computer, on the internet. While this address is used to route internet traffic to your computer it does not reveal your location.
In short, type IPCONFIG from the command prompt. Click Start and type CMD in the search box, then click on CMD.EXE. From there type IPCONFIG and you'll see a line near the top of the result that says IPv4 Address ..... That's what you're looking for.
Find your IP address. Your public IP address will be displayed at the top of the search results, sometimes in its own box. If you are using Ask, it is located at the top of the More Answers section. 1  Your public IP address will be four groups of up to three numbers, separated by periods.