Introduction Amplified fragment length polymor-phism (AFLP ®) analysis is a geneticmapping technique that uses selectiveamplification of a subset of restrictionenzyme-digested DNA fragments togenerate a unique fingerprint for aparticular genome. 
Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP®) analysis is a genetic mapping technique that uses selective amplification of a subset of restriction enzyme-digested DNA fragments to generate a unique fingerprint for a particular genome. The 48-capillary 3730 DNA Analyzer is the Gold Standard in medium-to-high throughput genetic analysis. Use this for DNA fragment analysis applications such as microsatellites, AFLP, SNP analysis, mutation detection and traditional DNA sequencing.
Although AFLP is commonly referred to as Amplified fragment length polymorphism, the resulting data are not scored as length polymorphisms, but instead as presence-absence polymorphisms. AFLP not only has higher reproducibility, resolution, and sensitivity at the whole genome level compared to other techniques, but it also has the capability to amplify between 50 and 100 fragments at one time. In addition, no prior sequence information is needed for amplification (Meudt & Clarke 2007).
are differences in restriction fragment lengths caused by SNPs or INDELs that create or abolish restriction endonuclease recognition sites. The AFLP technique is based on the selective PCR amplification of restriction fragments from a total digest of genomic DNA. Weaknesses of AFLP. 1  Proprietary technology is needed to score heterozygotes and ++ homozygotes. 2  Developing locus-specific markers from individual fragments can be difficult. 3  Need to use different kits adapted to the size of the genome being analyzed.
AFLP-PCR or just AFLP is a PCR-based tool used in genetics research, DNA fingerprinting, and in the practice of genetic engineering. AFLP not only has higher reproducibility, resolution, and sensitivity at the whole genome level compared to other techniques, but it also has the capability to amplify between 50 and 100 fragments at one time. In addition, no prior sequence information is needed for amplification (Meudt & Clarke 2007).
Developed in the early 1990s by Keygene, AFLP uses restriction enzymes to digest genomic DNA, followed by ligation of adaptors to the sticky ends of the restriction fragments. A subset of the restriction fragments is then selected to be amplified. AFLP not only has higher reproducibility, resolution, and sensitivity at the whole genome level compared to other techniques, but it also has the capability to amplify between 50 and 100 fragments at one time. In addition, no prior sequence information is needed for amplification (Meudt & Clarke 2007).
PCR-RFLP. Isolation of sufficient DNA for RFLP analysis is time consuming and labor intensive. However, PCR can be used to amplify very small amounts of DNA, usually in 2-3 hours, to the levels required for RFLP analysis. Therefore, more samples can be analyzed in a shorter time. An alternative name for the technique is Cleaved Amplified Polymorphic Sequence (CAPS) assay. is a difference in homologous DNA sequences that can be detected by the presence of fragments of different lengths after digestion of the DNA samples in question with specific restriction endonucleases.
Today, researchers are increasingly turning to AFLP-PCR in their DNA fingerprinting efforts. AFLP-PCR uses many of the same steps as RFLP, SSR, and RAPD, including restriction enzyme digestion of genomic DNA, PCR, and electrophoretic separation of DNA fragments. Of course, AFLP can also be used to study organisms whose genome has been sequenced. For example, AFLP has been used to study human DNA samples in criminal investigations and in paternity tests (Brinkman, 1991).
2. AFLP 2.1.Summary of the method Amplified Length Fragments Polymorphism is a recent DNA fingerprinting technique developed by Zabeau and Vos (1993); but see also Vos et al. (1995) and Vos and Kuiper, 1997). This method is based on PCR amplification of selected restriction fragments of a total digested genomic DNA. 