The process of vitamin B-12 absorption by the body is complex and can be disturbed rather easily. Here’s how it happens: Absorption of B-12 can actually start in the mouth, unlike most minerals and vitamins. Very small amounts of B-12 can make their way across the thin membranes in the mouth directly into the bloodstream. However, only pure crystalline B-12 can do this – the B-12 in foods can’t be absorbed this way.
Without intrinsic factor, vitamin B-12 can't be absorbed and leaves your body as waste. Lack of intrinsic factor may be due to an autoimmune reaction in which your immune system mistakenly attacks the stomach cells that produce it.
Vitamin B12, also known as cyanocobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin that is part of the B vitamin family. B vitamins help support adrenal function, help calm and maintain a healthy nervous system, and are necessary for key metabolic processes.
Eight substances make up the vitamin B complex, including thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, folic acid, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12. Poor absorption of these substances can result in diseases caused by vitamin B deficiencies, like beriberi, pellagra and pernicious anemia.
High doses of vitamin B-5, pantothenic acid, may inhibit your absorption of biotin, according to nutritionist Jane Higdon, co-author of the book An Evidence-Based Approach to Vitamins and Minerals: Health Benefits and Intake Recommendations.. Similarly, high doses of vitamin A can inhibit vitamin K absorption.
Background. Vitamin B12 is an essential water-soluble vitamin that is commonly found in a variety of foods, such as fish, shellfish, meat, eggs, and dairy products. Vitamin B12 is frequently used in combination with other B vitamins in a vitamin B complex formulation.
1 Vitamin B12 is better absorbed by the body when it is taken along with other B vitamins, such as niacin, riboflavin, vitamin B6, and magnesium. 2  A prescription form of vitamin B12 can be given by injection or as a nasal gel. 3  Vitamin B12 is also available in a form that dissolves under the tongue (sublingual).
Vitamin B-12, one of many B-complex vitamins, called cyanocobalamin, is absorbed from the terminal part of the small intestine, called Ileum.It gets bundled with a protein made by the cells in the stomach called Intrinsic factor.The deficiency of this protein in certain persons, causes pernicious anemia.