For customers calling us from outside Zambia our Contact Centre number is +260 211 366230 - 1 and is available 24 hours per day. Normal call rates apply when dialling this number. To contact our Barclays Bank Zambia Plc Head Office you can dial the switchboard number 0211 366150 and speak to our operator. Kindly be advised that normal call rates apply when dialling this number. This number is available from 08:00 to 16:45 from Monday to Friday. 
Complete a simple form and we contact you within 3 hours on a business day. Please note: In the UK, we support businesses with an annual turnover of over £5 million. If your turnover is less than this, please contact Business Banking (opens in a new window) or call 0800 515 4621.
Cookies Policy. Barclays uses cookies on this website. They help us to know a little bit about you and how you use our website, which improves the browsing experience and marketing – both for you and for others. They are stored locally on your computer or mobile device. To accept cookies continue browsing as normal. Please note: In the UK, we support businesses with an annual turnover of over £5 million. If your turnover is less than this, please contact Business Banking (opens in a new window) or call 0800 515 4621.
Close. Barclays uses cookies on this website. They help us to know a little bit about you and how you use our website, which improves the browsing experience and marketing – both for you and for others. They are stored locally on your computer or mobile devic
If you have a suggestion, enquiry or complaint, please contact us on 16222, Head to one of our branches or email us at yourvoice@barclays.com. Please do not include any confidential information in any emails you send to us. If you need to refer to specific account details, call or write to us instead. 
Barclays uses cookies on this website. They help us to know a little bit about you and how you use our website, which improves the browsing experience and marketing – both for you and for others. They are stored locally on your computer or mobile device. To accept cookies continue browsing as normal
Get the details about the factors considered. Factors that raised the rating for Barclays Bank Delaware include: 1  Length of time business has been operating. 2  Complaint volume filed with BBB for business of this size. 3  Response to 849 complaint(s) filed against business. 4  Resolution of complaint(s) filed against business. Please understand that you can file a complaint with the BBB now or at any time during this process. Read Complaints | Definitions | BBB Complaint Process | File a Complaint against Barclays Bank Delaware.
BBB has determined that Barclays Bank Delaware meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. Please understand that you can file a complaint with the BBB now or at any time during this process. Read Complaints | Definitions | BBB Complaint Process | File a Complaint against Barclays Bank Delaware.
Tel: +44 (0) 1606 563191 (from abroad). Email: newclient.team@barclays.com. If you are a new client to Corporate banking, complete a simple form and we will contact you within three hours on a business day. They help us to know a little bit about you and how you use our website, which improves the browsing experience and marketing – both for you and for others.