In 2007, David Jesus Torres, also known as Dahvie Vanity started a trio called Love the Fashion with Christopher Mongillo and Rebecca Fugate. The trio was originally nothing but a joke, but soon developed into Blood on the Dance Floor. Even before the duo's third album was released, recording began for Blood on the Dance Floor's fourth album. The duo collaborated with several artists for the album, including Gods Paparazzi, KatiKaine, Rusty Lixx, James Egbert, Lady Nogrady, JJ Demon, and Nick Nasty.
Blood on the Dance Floor. An electronica movement, consisting of Jayy Von Monroe and Dahvie Vanity. Their music is popular with 12-26 year-olds. Their music is meant to be fun, but also give out meaning. Blood on the dance floor. a electronica band started by scene idol dahvie vanity. they have released two cds and are not yet signed. they are known for their obscene pervertedness and catchy songs but are also the sex. used to consist of just dahvie vanity and chris but chris quit and they now have garrett ecstasy.
William Ruhlman of Allmusic observed, 'Blood on the Dance Floor' is an uptempo Jackson song in the increasingly hysterical tradition of ' Billie Jean ' and ' Smooth Criminal ' with Jackson huffing, puffing, and yelping through some nonsense about a stabbing ... over a fairly generic electronic dance track. The song is about a predatory woman by the name of Susie, who seduces Jackson before plotting to stab him with a knife. The composition explores a variety of genres ranging from rock to funk and Hi-NRG. Commentators compared Blood on the Dance Floor to music from Dangerous.
Blood on the Dance Floor was the only track from Blood on the Dance Floor: History in the Mix to appear on the set list of the HIStory World Tour. The music video for Blood on the Dance Floor was directed by Jackson and Vincent Paterson. The song is about a predatory woman by the name of Susie, who seduces Jackson before plotting to stab him with a knife. The composition explores a variety of genres ranging from rock to funk and Hi-NRG. Commentators compared Blood on the Dance Floor to music from Dangerous.
So if you're a fan of BoTDF you may be aware there are a lot of haters. People say things like blood on the dance floor sucks and I hate blood on the dance floor!. Congrats, you hate a band... and? Well, there's more to it... 
BOTDF is an abbreviation of the popular American Electronica group called Blood On The Dance Floor. Unfortunatly, their popularity is usually justified by illiterate fanboys/girls who listen to them with an almost religious regularity; and the group are despised by those who don't like their unique appearence and image. Blood On The Dance Floor is a Crunkcore monstrosity where they talk about parting, raping, killing, accusing while spraying their hair in different colours to look like they are superheroes.
Blood on the Dance Floor  is a song by Michael Jackson. The song was released as the first single from the remix album, Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix. The song is about a predatory woman by the name of Susie, who seduces Jackson before plotting to stab him with a knife. The composition explores a variety of genres ranging from rock to funk and Hi-NRG. Commentators compared Blood on the Dance Floor to music from Dangerous.
It's not that producers can't see what they like, or the potential in somebody, but what I do helps them to see their vision more. A Refugee Camp Mix of Blood on the Dance Floor appeared on Jackson's video collection, HIStory on Film, Volume II and Michael Jackson's Vision. The song is about a predatory woman by the name of Susie, who seduces Jackson before plotting to stab him with a knife. The composition explores a variety of genres ranging from rock to funk and Hi-NRG. Commentators compared Blood on the Dance Floor to music from Dangerous.
During the Lookin' Hot & Dangerous Tour, Blood on the Dance Floor and Star became hostile towards each other for a reason claimed by some as BOTDF were to make an entire album with Jeffree Star, but when they were to start the Recording Session(s), Star failed to show up and ditched them.. Even before the duo's third album was released, recording began for Blood on the Dance Floor's fourth album. The duo collaborated with several artists for the album, including Gods Paparazzi, KatiKaine, Rusty Lixx, James Egbert, Lady Nogrady, JJ Demon, and Nick Nasty.