The varied carpet beetle (Anthrenus verbasci) is a 3 mm-long beetle belonging to the family Dermestidae. This beetle in larval form is common in houses where it usually does little or no noticeable harm, but it is a feared pest in natural history museums, where it can seriously damage biological specimens.
The varied carpet beetle is a common type of carpet beetles and is widely scattered in the United States. The adults of varied carpet beetles are much smaller and are round in shape compared to black carpet beetles. They have a pattern of white, yellow and brown scales on the upper side of their wings.
Carpet beetles are persistent pests that can cause severe damage to your carpets, clothing, and other fabrics. Getting rid of carpet beetles takes patience and persistence, but the job can usually be done without calling professional exterminators. Here's what you need to know about ridding your home of these pests.
Several species of Carpet Beetles may damage fabrics. Four species are most commonly encountered-the black carpet beetle, varied carpet beetle, common carpet beetle, and furniture carpet beetle. Together, this group is usually considered more economically important as fabric pests than the clothes moths.
Carpet Beetle Infestation. Carpet beetles feed on a wide range of animal-based items, including silk, leather, fur, wool and animal hair. As a result, carpet beetles may infest carpets, upholstered furniture, blankets, coats, comforters, wool, pillows and clothing.
The varied carpet beetle is the second most common type of carpet beetles that may severely damage households. The varied carpet beetle has a same life cycle like a butterfly, egg, larva, pupa and adult. Larvae and adult, both types of varied carpet beetle could cause damage to carpets and fabrics.
Carpet beetles are insect pests of the dermestid family. Adults feed mainly on pollen and nectar, but the larvae feed on the animal protein keratin found in wool, other animal hair and feathers, and may also feed on stored grain products.
Carpet beetles thrive in homes, museums, warehouses and other places where food exists. The young beetles look like tiny, hairy worms, and they like to feed in dark, undisturbed places like behind baseboards, under furniture, and in closets. They are often confused with other pests like bed bugs and fleas.
1 Carpet beetles are drawn to fabric. 2  They can be found in the carpet, especially if that carpeting is in a closet or other dark location, but they are also drawn to clothing, upholstered furniture, and items made of fur or feathers.