Tweet. Mars Super Markets, the family-owned Rosedale, MD based independent, closed its Bel Air, MD unit on January 25 and plans to shutter three other Maryland stores in Baltimore (North Rolling Road), Riviera Beach and Aberdeen by around May 1. That would leave the company with 13 stores in the Baltimore area. 
The Fish Market (Better Known as) Centre Market (in earlier years-Marsh Market) 17 Market Place. In 1787 (by some accounts - 1763 by a lottery) , three markets were built by Baltimore, the largest being the Marsh market (AKA-Centre Market) . The other two were the Hanover Market in downtown and the Fell's Point Market
MARYLAND WHOLESALE PRODUCE MARKET 7460 Conowingo Ave., Jessup, MD 20794 In 1976, the Maryland Wholesale Produce Market began operation. The Maryland Food Center Authority leases space in the Market to privately-owned firms engaged in the wholesale distribution of fresh produce. 
Whole Foods Market was founded in Austin, Texas, when four local businesspeople decided the natural foods industry was ready for a supermarket format. Our founders were John Mackey and Renee Lawson Hardy, owners of Safer Way Natural Foods, and Craig Weller and Mark Skiles, owners of Clarksville Natural Grocery. The original Whole Foods Market opened in 1980 with a staff of only 19 people. It was an immediate success. At the time, there were less than half a dozen natural food supermarkets in the United States. We have grown by leaps and bounds since our first store opened.
Beginning in 1984, Whole Foods Market began its expansion out of Austin, first to Houston and Dallas and then into New Orleans with the purchase of Whole Food Company in 1988. In 1989, we expanded to the West Coast with a store in Palo Alto, California. The original Whole Foods Market opened in 1980 with a staff of only 19 people. It was an immediate success. At the time, there were less than half a dozen natural food supermarkets in the United States. We have grown by leaps and bounds since our first store opened.
About. A truly world-famous Baltimore Institution, the Faidley’s name rings out as far as that of Lexington Market itself. A truly unique culinary experience, and one that is essential to the taste and character of Baltimore, Faidley’s has a history stretching back to 1886. Now operated by the tireless Nancy Faidley Devine and husband Bill Devine, Faidley’s is as good today as it was fifty years ago.
1700 Pennsylvania Ave. Baltimore, MD 21217. Mon.  Sat. 7 a.m. - 6 p.m. Baltimore's first public market, erected in 1763 at Gay and Baltimore streets, was financed by a lottery. Eventually eleven markets sprung up throughout the city. More than half of those markets, though not the original one, remain in use today.
By 1993, annual sales had reached $100 million and were over $200 million by 1995. At the time of the merger with Whole Foods Market in 1996, Fresh Fields had 22 stores open in four different market areas: Washington/ Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York/New Jersey/Connecticut and Chicago. The original Whole Foods Market opened in 1980 with a staff of only 19 people. It was an immediate success. At the time, there were less than half a dozen natural food supermarkets in the United States. We have grown by leaps and bounds since our first store opened.
Wegmans Food Markets, Inc. is a privately held U.S. regional supermarket chain headquartered in Gates, New York, near Rochester. Wegmans has 85 stores in the mid-Atlantic and New England regions, in New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Massachusetts, and Virginia. The Westwood store is the chain's newest; and stores are scheduled to open in: Concordville PA on November 8, 2015, Midlothian, VA, in Spring 2016, Short Pump, VA in Summer 2016, Owings Mills, MD in Late Summer 2016, Charlottesville, VA in Fall 2016, Natick, MA in 2017, and Hanover Township, NJ in 2017.