If I have a latitude or longitude reading in standard NMEA format is there an easy way / formula to convert that reading to meters, which I can then implement in Java (J9)? One nautical mile (1852 meters) is defined as one arcminute of longitude at the equator. However, you need to define a map projection (see also UTM) in which you are working for the conversion to really make sense. share | improve this answer.
This calculator requires the use of Javascript enabled and capable browsers. This script will calculate the length of one degree of both latitude and longitude, for a specific latitude. Lengths for both are calculated in nautical miles, statute miles, feet, and meters. Enter the specific latitude. Click on Calculate. 
From a posting by Christopher Schmidt to the dev list on 2nd December 2006: So, for everyone's elucidation, here is the way to convert from latitude and longitude to a simple Mercator projection, in Javascript: LatLon to/from Mercator converting class based on script above, and proj4 implementation. 
A tool that you can use to convert coordinates from degrees, minutes, and seconds to decimal degrees is available at the following U.S. Government Web site: To convert Seconds to decimals, divide by 3600. As an example, a latitude of 122 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds North is equal to 122.7625 degrees North. To find a location on a map by using the latitude and longitude of that location, enter the coordinates in decimal degrees. If the coordinates that you want to enter are in degrees and minutes, convert the number of minutes to a decimal value.
@Thomas: Actually, you can be very close to the poles. I checked against a UTM calculation using equal x-and y-displacements of 1400 m (so the total displacement is 2 km). The results are good to 8.6 meters or better. The worst latitude (for this direction and amount of displacement) is 81 degrees: the approximation actually gets more accurate as you move north and its error stays below 10 meters until you get beyond 89.6 degrees! – whuber♦ Oct 27 '10 at 21:36. 32. I'm looking for an algorithm which when given a latitude and longitude pair and a vector translation in meters in Cartesian coordinates (x,y) would give me a new coordinate. Sort of like a reverse Haversine.
A degree of longitude at the equator is 111.2 kilometers. A minute is 1853 meters. A second is 30.9 meters. For other latitudes multiply by cos(lat). Distances for degrees, minutes and seconds in latitude are very similar and differ very slightly with latitude.
For the UTM to Latitude-Longitude conversion, simply enter the coordinates and the desired zone. For example, Zone 15 extends from 90 to 96 W, but if you enter easting 750000, northing 5000000, zone 15, you'll get latitude 45.111N, longitude 89.82W, that is, a longitude in Zone 16. These values appear in the output boxes, but they also appear in the input boxes for converting UTM to geographic coordinates. You can then click the conversion button and compare the geographic coordinates with your original input. Note: a discrepancy of .001 seconds equals about 3 cm.
While your comment is reasonable, it doesn't answer the user's question about converting the lat/lng degree difference to meters. – JivanAmara Sep 19 '13 at 4:37. add a comment |. up vote 0 down vote. To convert latitude and longitude in x and y representation you need to decide what type of map projection to use. As for me, Elliptical Mercator seems very well. One nautical mile (1852 meters) is defined as one arcminute of longitude at the equator. However, you need to define a map projection (see also UTM) in which you are working for the conversion to really make sense. share | improve this answer.