Because commercial real estate is considered an asset rather than an expense, the Internal Revenue Service won't let you write off its cost in the year you buy it. Instead, the agency requires you to decrease its value every year by a small amount to simulate its gradual loss of value as it deteriorates. Depreciation offsets income from your rental property on a dollar-for-dollar basis. For example, if you have $100,000 of income and $30,000 in depreciation, your taxable income becomes $70,000. If you're paying a 33 percent marginal tax rate, that would reduce your tax liability by $10,000.
DEFINITION of 'Commercial Real Estate'. Property that is used solely for business purposes. Examples of commercial real estate include malls, office parks, restaurants, gas stations, convenience stores and office towers. Commercial real estate is one of the three primary types of real estate. The other types are residential real estate, which is used for living purposes; and industrial real estate, which is used for manufacturing and production.
DEFINITION of 'Commercial Property'. Real estate property that is used for business activities. Commercial properties fall into many categories and include including industrial properties, shopping centers, farms, offices, or even vacant land. Next Up. Common examples of commercial property include the grocery store you regularly visit and the office buildings found near major urban centers. It is possible to monitor the trend in nationwide commercial property prices by following the Moody's Real Commercial Property Index
Commercial properties may refer to: 1  retail buildings. 2  office buildings. 3  warehouses. 4  industrial buildings. 5  apartment buildings. “ 6 mixed use” buildings, where the property may have a mix, such as retail, office and apartments. The best reason to invest in commercial over residential rentals is the earning potential. Commercial properties generally have an annual return off the purchase price between 6% and 12%, depending on the area, which is a much higher range than typically exists for single family home properties (1% to 4% at best).
Federal Income Taxes. You must pay federal tax on your income from commercial property. You can deduct any expenses associated with renting out the property. You only pay tax on the profits, not the gross income. Do not claim security deposits as income, because your intention is to return deposits to renters. 
by FreeAdvice staff. Commercial real estate is any non-residential property used solely for business purposes. If the real estate makes money, is rented out, used for investments, or falls into a number of other categories other than being a private residence, it can be considered commercial real estate. Even a single family home can be labeled commercial real estate if you buy the home for the purpose of renting it out and generating an income, or if you own the home and convert it into an income-generating property. Different Rules for Commercial Real Estate.
A commercial mortgage is a mortgage loan secured by commercial property, such as an office building, shopping center, industrial warehouse, or apartment complex. The proceeds from a commercial mortgage are typically used to acquire, refinance, or redevelop commercial property. 
At a high level, when people think of different types of commercial real estate, they typically think about shopping centers, office buildings, or warehouses. But the commercial real estate industry is much more precise when it comes to defining property types. Below is a list of different types of commercial real estate with a description of how each category is typically defined.
To better understand whether a given property will be classified as commercial real estate, and for more details about what rights or requirements may be associated with your commercial real estate holdings, consult an experienced lawyer for guidance. Even a single family home can be labeled commercial real estate if you buy the home for the purpose of renting it out and generating an income, or if you own the home and convert it into an income-generating property. Different Rules for Commercial Real Estate.