Melting point: the temperature at which a solid become a liquid. Boiling point: the temperature    The temperature at which something will melt (turn from solid to  liqu … id). 1  How to Polish Rocks by Hand or With a Rock Tumbler Rock collecting is a fun hobby and a great way to get children involved.
Igneous rocks are those rocks that have cooled from magma either deep within the Earth or near or on Earth's surface. The temperatures required to melt rock to form magma are enormous and originate from a number of processes. Roughly 20% of Earth's heat is left over from Earth's formation. 
The melting point (or, rarely, liquefaction point) of a solid is the temperature at which it changes state from solid to liquid at atmospheric pressure. At the melting point the solid and liquid phase exist in equilibrium. The melting point of a substance depends on pressure and is usually specified at standard pressure. When considered as the temperature of the reverse change from liquid to solid, it is referred to as the freezing point or crystallization point. The melting point of a pure substance is always higher and has a smaller range than the melting point of an impure substance or, more generally, of mixtures. The higher the quantity of other components, the lower the melting point and the broader will be the melting point range, often referred to as the pasty range.
Melting Points of Rocks. Igneous rocks form through the crystallization of magma. There is a considerable range of melting temperatures for different compositions of magma. All the silicates are molten at about 1200°C and all are solid when cooled to about 600°C. Often the silicates are grouped as high, medium and low-melting point solids. The pattern shown above where different kinds of minerals crystallize at different temperatures is further developed in the Bowen reaction series. The crystallization temperatures play a large role in the development of the different kinds of igneous rocks upon the cooling of magma.
Magma is a complex high-temperature fluid substance. Temperatures of most magmas are in the range 700 °C to 1300 °C (or 1300 °F to 2400 °F), but very rare carbonatite magmas may be as cool as 600 °C, and komatiite magmas may have been as hot as 1600 °C. Most magmas are silicate mixtures. At any given pressure and for any given composition of rock, a rise in temperature past the solidus will cause melting. Within the solid earth, the temperature of a rock is controlled by the geothermal gradient and the radioactive decay within the rock.
The presence of volatile phases in a rock under pressure can stabilize a melt fraction. The presence of even 0.8% water may reduce the temperature of melting by as much as 100 °C. Conversely, the loss of water and volatiles from a magma may cause it to essentially freeze or solidify. At any given pressure and for any given composition of rock, a rise in temperature past the solidus will cause melting. Within the solid earth, the temperature of a rock is controlled by the geothermal gradient and the radioactive decay within the rock.
Most magma that reaches the surface in volcanic eruptions comes from a part of Earth's mantle called the asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is a layer of solid rock that is near its melting point. Turning this solid rock into liquid magma means changing its temperature, pressure, and water content. Try your hand at melting rock to create magma. The first thing to try changing is the temperature. Your rock is a toasty 1,500 degrees Celsius, but it's still solid. Click on the words lower or raise to change the temperature your rock is subjected to inside Earth.
Similarly, liquid magma also turns into a solid &#8212 a rock &#8212 when it is cooled. Any rock that forms from the cooling of magma is an igneous rock. Magma that cools quickly forms one kind of igneous rock, and magma that cools slowly forms another kind. Of course, it takes a lot of heat to melt a rock. The high temperatures required are generally found only deep within the earth. The rock is pulled down by movements in the earth's crust and gets hotter and hotter as it goes deeper.
Melting and Freezing. When a solid turns into a liquid it is called melting. There is a temperature at which this happens called the melting point. As the energy in the molecules increases from a rise in temperature, the molecules start moving faster. Soon they have enough energy to break free of their rigid structure and start moving around more easily.
Let’s review: Under normal conditions, mantle rock like peridotite shouldn’t melt in the Earth’s upper mantle — it is just too cool. However, by adding water you can lower the melting point of the rock. Alternatively, by decompressing the rock, you can bring it to a pressure where the melting point is lower. 