This name can also be given in reference to the herb, which gets its name from Latin ros marinus meaning dew of the sea. It came into use as a given name in the 19th century. 
Hello, Guest. Despite appearances, Rosemary is not a “smoosh” name, not even a traditional one. The name derives from two Latin terms “ Ros ” meaning ‘dew’ and “Marinus” “meaning “of the sea”. The plant was termed ‘dew of the sea’ due to its salty texture and its ability to thrive in coastal climes. The name was long associated with George Clooney 's aunt, the great pop singer Rosemary; less pleasant associations are with the 1967 movie Rosemary's Baby. A common variation is Rosemarie; many parents are now looking to the stand-alone nickname Romy.
The name Rosemary is of English origin, and it means Herb . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
The name rosemary derives from the Latin for dew (ros) and sea (marinus), or dew of the sea. The plant is also sometimes called anthos, from the ancient Greek word ἄνθος, meaning flower. It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which includes many other herbs. The name rosemary derives from the Latin for dew (ros) and sea (marinus), or dew of the sea. The plant is also sometimes called anthos, from the ancient Greek word ἄνθος, meaning flower. Rosemary has a fibrous root system.
Meaning of Rosemary. English name. In English, the name Rosemary means-bitter rose.The name Rosemary originated as an English name. The name Rosemary is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-bitter rose. Origin-England
Origin of the name Rosemary: Combination name formed from the names Rose (horse; rose) and Mary. The name became popular at a time when flower names were coming into use, and it might therefore have originated as a borrowing of the name of the herb rosemary, which is derived from the Latin ros marīnus (dew of the sea). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
Rosemary /rose-mary/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ROHZ-mare-ee. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Rosemary is dew of the sea. Also a blend of Rose and Mary, or refers to the fragrant herb, which in folklore is the emblem of remembrance. Singer Rosemary Clooney. Shown below is the baby name popularity of Rosemary for girls. Rosemary reached its peak position of #91 in the U.S. during the years 1940-1949, and is currently at #575.
Rosemary is a very prominent first name for females (#204 out of 4276, Top 5%) and a slightly less prominent surname for all people (#97384 out of 150436, Top 65%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Rosemary for girls. Rosemary reached its peak position of #91 in the U.S. during the years 1940-1949, and is currently at #575.
Latin Meaning: The name Rosemary is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Rosemary is: Dew of the sea. As a compound of Rose and Mary: bitter rose. American Meaning: The name Rosemary is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rosemary is: Dew of the sea. As a compound of Rose and Mary: bitter ros