Spinach is an annual: It will die with the first frost. So no, spinach will not survive the temps you cite. It can be used in salads and numerous other dishes. Put the word Spinach into the search box on this Web site and you will get lots of advice and ideas and recipes about it. 1 It's important to seed as soon as you can to give spinach the required 6 weeks of cool weather from seeding to harvest. 2  Select a site with full sun to light shade and well-drained soil. 3  Sow seeds ½ inch to 1 inch deep, covering lightly with soil. 4  Sow about 12 seeds per foot of row, or sprinkle over a wide row or bed.
Seed spinach again in late summer for fall and early winter harvest. Spinach will survive over the winter (when plants are one-fourth to one-third grown) on well-drained soil and resume growth in spring for an early harvest. Spinach can be grown in hotbeds or protected cold frames for winter salads. Spinach will survive over the. winter (when plants are one-fourth to. one-third grown) on well-drained soil. and resume growth in spring for an. early harvest. Spinach can be grown. in hotbeds or protected cold frames for.
Spinach. Spinach growing in the garden is a welcome sign of spring. It is a source of Vitamin A. It is rich in iron, calcium and protein. Spinach can be grown as a spring and a fall crop. Crinkled leaved varieties tend to catch soil during rainfalls. Plant a plain leaved variety to avoid a gritty spinach when chewed. 
Temperatures between 26 and 31 degrees may harm the foliage but will not kill cold-temperature vegetables such as lettuce, broccoli, cabbage and cauliflower. Spinach, carrots, kale and parsley especially can survive cold weather. Comments. Submit. A frost of 32 degrees Fahrenheit or below will kill delicate vegetables such as tomatoes, peppers, beans, melons, peas and squash, notes the Texas A&M AgriLife Extension.
Lettuce and spinach are cool-weather crops that can be the first veggies to plant and the first to harvest in the springtime. Here are some tips for growing them in the garden. A variety of lettuces in the garden can be very decorative. Types: Lettuce is divided into two types, head and leaf. 
Bolting can be caused by stress, warm temperatures, or daylight longer than about 14 hours (which happens in many areas of the US around May). Because of this, spinach is best planted in early spring or fall, when it is cooler and the days are shorter. 1 It's important to seed as soon as you can to give spinach the required 6 weeks of cool weather from seeding to harvest. 2  Select a site with full sun to light shade and well-drained soil. 3  Sow seeds ½ inch to 1 inch deep, covering lightly with soil. 4  Sow about 12 seeds per foot of row, or sprinkle over a wide row or bed.
Peas are able to do just fine in temperatures as low as 28 F. If temperatures do not fall down below this mark, peas and pea seedlings will be just fine. Between 28 F. and 20 F. peas can survive the cold, but will suffer some damage. But this is assuming that the cold happens without an insulating blanket of snow. 
Spinach (Spinacia oleracea) is a hardy, cool-season crop that can be planted in early spring or fall throughout South Carolina. It can survive temperatures of 20 °F without injury, making it an excellent vegetable to harvest through the winter and into the spring, when given proper maintenance. Plant spinach in early spring to avoid high temperatures and long days, which cause the plants to bolt or form flower stalks. Soil temperature above 85 °F will inhibit seed germination. Plant spinach seed in rows 1 to 3 feet apart, spacing seed 2 inches apart in the row.
Spinach can survive a frost and does well in cool temperatures. (It has been known to survive temperatures as low as 20 degrees Fahrenheit). However, warm temperatures can cause bolting. Ideally spinach should be kept at temperatures between 40 degrees Fahrenheit and 75 degrees Fahrenheit.