Kawasaki disease is a rare childhood illness that affects the blood vessels. The symptoms can be severe for several days and can look scary to parents. But then most children return to normal activities. Kawasaki disease can harm the coronary arteries, which carry blood to the heart muscle. 
The cause of Kawasaki disease isn't known. The body's response to a virus or infection combined with genetic factors may cause the disease. However, no specific virus or infection has been found, and the role of genetics isn't known. Kawasaki disease can't be passed from one child to another. 
Updated:Feb 3,2015. Kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) is a children's illness characterized by fever, rash, swelling of the hands and feet, irritation and redness of the whites of the eyes, swollen lymph glands in the neck, and irritation and inflammation of the mouth, lips and throat. The cause of Kawasaki disease is unknown. It does not appear to be hereditary or contagious. Because the illness frequently occurs in outbreaks, an infectious agent (such as a virus) is the likely cause. It is very rare for more than one child in a family to develop Kawasaki disease.
Kawasaki disease, also known as Kawasaki syndrome, lymph node syndrome, and mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome, is an autoimmune disease in which the medium-sized blood vessels throughout the body become inflamed. It is largely seen in children under five years of age. As the cause(s) of Kawasaki disease remain unknown, the illness is more accurately referred to as Kawasaki syndrome. Like all autoimmune diseases, its cause is presumably the interaction of genetic and environmental factors, possibly including an infection.
Background. Kawasaki disease (KD), or Kawasaki syndrome, is an acute febrile vasculitic syndrome of early childhood. The disorder has also been called mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome and infantile periarteritis nodosa. Kawasaki disease (KD) (see the image below) is an acute febrile vasculitic syndrome of early childhood that, although it has a good prognosis with treatment, can lead to death from coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) in a very small percentage of patients. Pediatrics, Kawasaki disease.
Kawasaki disease is a sudden and time-limited (acute) illness that affects infants and young children. Affected children develop a prolonged fever lasting several days, a skin rash, and swollen lymph nodes in the neck (cervical lymphadenopathy). You might also find information on the diagnosis or management of Kawasaki disease in Educational resources and Patient support. General information about the diagnosis and management of genetic conditions is available in the Handbook.
Other theories. One theory is that Kawasaki disease may be an autoimmune condition (where the immune system attacks healthy tissues and organs). Other theories suggest Kawasaki disease may be a reaction to certain medications, or environmental pollutants such as chemicals or toxins (poisons). The cause of Kawasaki disease is not fully understood, but the condition is thought to be caused by an infection. The symptoms of Kawasaki disease are similar to those of
Without treatment, 15 to 25 percent of individuals with Kawasaki disease develop bulging and thinning of the walls of the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle (coronary artery aneurysms) or other damage to the coronary arteries, which can be life-threatening. You might also find information on the diagnosis or management of Kawasaki disease in Educational resources and Patient support. General information about the diagnosis and management of genetic conditions is available in the Handbook.
Causes. No one knows what causes Kawasaki disease, but scientists don't believe the disease is contagious from person to person. A number of theories link the disease to bacteria, viruses or other environmental factors, but none has been proved. Certain genes may increase your child's susceptibility to Kawasaki disease. 