Nerve cell. Definition. noun, plural: nerve cells. A neuron; a cell of the nervous system that transmits nerve impulses. Supplement. Nerve cells are cells of the nervous system that transmit nerve impulses coming from sensory cells or from other nerve cells. Also called: 1  neuron.
A neuron consists of a cell body (perikaryon) and its processes, an axon and one or more dendrites. Neurons function in the initiation and conduction of impulses. They transmit impulses to other neurons or cells by releasing neurotransmitters at synapses. n a nerve cell; the basic structural unit of the nervous system. There is a wide variation in the shape of nerve cells, but they all have the same basic structures: cell body, protoplasmic processes, axons, and dendrites. The neuron is the only body cell whose principal function is the
Neurons are nerve cells, or cells found in the nervous system. These are specialized cells designed to stimulate other cells in the body in order to communicate. Neurons are excitable, which means they function by using electrical stimulation. Nerve cells are the primary cells in the nervous system. They are responsible for relaying electrical messages to cells and tissues in other organ systems.
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). 
the basic nerve cell of the nervous system, containing a nucleus within a cell body and extending one or more processes. Neurons can be classified according to the direction in which they conduct impulses or according to the number of processes they extend. n a nerve cell; the basic structural unit of the nervous system. There is a wide variation in the shape of nerve cells, but they all have the same basic structures: cell body, protoplasmic processes, axons, and dendrites. The neuron is the only body cell whose principal function is the conduction of impulses.
Major subdivisions of the nervous system. It is best to begin by thinking in very general terms about the function of the nervous system. The nervous system is a network of millions of cells which communicate with one another by means of nerve impulses transmitted along axons of nerve cells. The best functional definition of an axon is that it is a nerve process which is capable of transmitting a nerve impulse (action potential) over some distance. The nervous system also contains cells which are not neurons and which do not DIRECTLY participate in the task of sending and receiving electrical signals.
1. nerve cell-a cell that is specialized to conduct nerve impulses. neuron. gangliocyte, ganglion cell-a nerve cell whose body is outside the central nervous system; damage to ganglion cells in the retina may play a role in the development of glaucoma. Nerve cells typically consist of a cell body, which contains a nucleus and receives incoming nerve impulses, and an axon, which carries impulses away from the cell body. Also called neuron. See more at cell.
Any of the cells of the nervous system. Nerve cells typically consist of a cell body, which contains a nucleus and receives incoming nerve impulses, and an axon, which carries impulses away from the cell body. Also called neuron. See more at cell.