Newly Industrialized Countries. A developing country, also called a less developed country or underdeveloped country, is a nation with an underdeveloped industrial base, and a low Human Development Index (HDI) relative to other countries. The term also implies homogeneity within such countries when wealth (and health) of the most and least affluent groups varies widely. Similarly, the term developed country incorrectly implies a lack of continuing economic development/growth in more-developed countries.
The world´s most impoverished and vulnerable countries. The least developed countries (LDCs) are a group of countries that have been classified by the UN as least developed in terms of their low gross national income (GNI), their weak human assets and their high degree of economic vulnerability. The term Least Developed Countries (LDCs) describes the world's poorest countries with following 3 criteria: Low-income criterion based on a three-year average estimate of the gross national income (GNI) per capita (under $750 for inclusion, above $900 for graduation). Human resource weakness criterion.
A least developed country (LDC) is a country that, according to the United Nations, exhibits the lowest indicators of socioeconomic development, with the lowest Human Development Index ratings of all countries in the world. There have been four United Nations conferences on LDCs, held every ten years. The first two were in Paris, in 1981 and 1991; the third was in Brussels in 2001. The Fourth UN Conference on Least Developed Countries (LDC-IV) was held in Istanbul, Turkey, 9–13 May 2011.
The United Nations Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States (UN-OHRLLS) coordinates UN support and provides advocacy services for Least Developed Countries. The classification (as of 24 January 2014) applies to 48 countries. There have been four United Nations conferences on LDCs, held every ten years. The first two were in Paris, in 1981 and 1991; the third was in Brussels in 2001. The Fourth UN Conference on Least Developed Countries (LDC-IV) was held in Istanbul, Turkey, 9–13 May 2011.
This may be by absolute numbers or country ranking. 1  countries that were more less-developed, and are less less-developed (also developing country). 2  countries that were less-developed, and are about the same (developing country). 3  countries that were less less-developed, and are more less-developed (developing country). The term also implies homogeneity within such countries when wealth (and health) of the most and least affluent groups varies widely. Similarly, the term developed country incorrectly implies a lack of continuing economic development/growth in more-developed countries.
Also, the general term less-developed country should not be confused with the specific least developed country. There is criticism of the use of the term developing country. The term implies inferiority of a developing country or undeveloped country compared to a developed country, which many countries dislike. The term also implies homogeneity within such countries when wealth (and health) of the most and least affluent groups varies widely. Similarly, the term developed country incorrectly implies a lack of continuing economic development/growth in more-developed countries.
Developing Nations. Developing nations range from the poorest in the world to those that have begun to build an industrial base, but have yet to achieve stable growth in production and income. These economies are also called underdeveloped, undeveloped, and, most commonly, less developed countries (LDCs). A number of these nations have large, growing urban populations and serious difficulties with unemployment, crime, and poverty in the cities. 
A country is classified as a Least Developed Country if it meets three criteria: 1  Poverty (adjustable criterion: three-year average GNI per capita of less than US $ 992, which must exceed $1,190 to leave the list as of 2012). There have been four United Nations conferences on LDCs, held every ten years. The first two were in Paris, in 1981 and 1991; the third was in Brussels in 2001. The Fourth UN Conference on Least Developed Countries (LDC-IV) was held in Istanbul, Turkey, 9–13 May 2011.
Page Content. Since 1971, the United Nations has recognized least developed countries (LDCs) as a category of States that are deemed highly disadvantaged in their development process, for structural, historical and also geographical reasons. Four United Nations Conferences on the LDCs were held in: 1981, 1990, 2001 and 2011. The Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries adopted the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020 - the so-called Istanbul Programme of Action (IPoA) .