Salmonella serovars are associated with human diseases that range from mild gastroenteritis to host-disseminated enteric fever. Human infections by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi can lead to typhoid fever, but this serovar does not typically cause disease in mice or other animals.
This spectrum can range from a gastroenteritis, enteric fever (caused by typhoid and paratyphoid serotypes), bacteremia, focal infections, to a convalescent lifetime carrier state. The type of infection depends on the serotype of Salmonella and host factors.
The virulence of specific strains in humans and other animals is frequently serovar specific. Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi causes typhoid fever in humans, but no disease is associated with experimental infections of mice (8). On the other hand, serovar Typhimurium and serovar Enteritidis possess a broad host specificity, causing disease in a variety of animals (14).
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. typhimurium) causes enteric disease in humans. It is a food-and water-borne pathogen that can be easily disseminated in a population: for instance outbreaks of salmonellosis can occur by contamination of salad. Although salmonellosis can be controlled by antibiotics, drug resistant and hypervirulent strains are difficult to combat.
Salmonellosis caused by Salmonella Enteritidis is the most common bacterial infectious cause of food-borne disease in the United States. Ninety-five percent of cases of Salmonella infection are food-borne; however, the incidence of direct contact exposure with animal carriers is on the rise.
[4]. Salmonellosis caused by Salmonella Enteritidis is the most common bacterial infectious cause of food-borne disease in the United States. [5] Ninety-five percent of cases of Salmonella infection are food-borne; however, the incidence of direct contact exposure with animal carriers is on the rise.
Fluoroquinolone resistance is an important factor in Salmonella typhi and was reported by the CDC to be 41.8% in 2004. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and chloramphenicol have a 13.2% prevalence of resistance in Salmonella typhi, while ampicillin, streptomycin, and sulfisoxazole are 11.8%.