In cellular biology, membrane transport refers to the collection of mechanisms that regulate the passage of solutes such as ions and small molecules through biological membranes, which are lipid bilayers that contain proteins embedded in them. 
Because of this, this membrane must have specific structures that allow certain molecules to be transported. Understanding this is crucial in fully understanding the description and function of the cell membrane. Passive transport involves diffusion and osmosis. Diffusion is related to nonpolar molecules and osmosis is related to water molecules.
Membrane Transport. There are a number of different ways that molecules can pass from one side of a cell membrane to the other. Some such means, like diffusion and osmosis, are natural processes that require no expenditure of energy from the cell and are called passive transport. When open, these pores allow specific molecules to pass through. There is one other class of transport proteins called ionophores. These are small, hydrophobic proteins that increase bilayer permeability for specific ions. Transport proteins are critical to cell life and cell interactions.
The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular
Vas deferens, urethra, and penis. The vas deferens transports sperm from the epididymis to the ejaculatory duct, which empties into the urethra; the urethra carries sperm thro … ugh the penis to the outside of the body and into the female reproductive tract. -masteringbiology.com. 3 people found this useful
Vas deferens, urethra, and penis. The vas deferens transports sperm from the epididymis to the ejaculatory duct, which empties into the urethra; the urethra carries sperm thro … ugh the penis to the outside of the body and into the female reproductive tract. -masteringbiology.com. 3 people found this useful. The Golgi bodies is the structure that is responsible for the  transportation and delivery of materials in cells. The Golgi bodies  (most comfortably called the UPS of the c … ell) which are green.
The surface of the cell contains molecules which recognize other molecules which may attach to or enter the cell. Cell Membrane Structure Membrane Processes The processes of diffusion and active transport are important in the movement of materials in and out of cells. Diffusion Diffusion or passive transport is the movement of materials from a region of higher to a region of lower substance concentration. Cell Membrane The cell membrane or plasma membrane performs a number of important functions for the cell. These functions include the separation of the cell from its outside environment, controlling which molecules enter and leave the cell, and recognition of chemical signals.
Water, carbon dioxide, and oxygen are among the few simple molecules that can cross the cell membrane by diffusion (or a type of diffusion known as osmosis). Diffusion is one principle method of movement of substances within cells, as well as the method for essential small molecules to cross the cell membrane. Proteins also function in cellular recognition, as binding sites for substances to be brought into the cell, through channels that will allow materials into the cell via a passive transport mechanism, and as gates that open and close to facilitate active transport of large molecules.