Tyrosine (abbreviated as Tyr or Y) or 4-hydroxyphenylalanine, is one of the 22 amino acids that are used by cells to synthesize proteins. It is a non-essential amino acid with a polar side group. Some of the tyrosine residues can be tagged (at the hydroxyl group) with a phosphate group (phosphorylated) by protein kinases. In its phosphorylated form, tyrosine is called phosphotyrosine. Tyrosine phosphorylation is considered to be one of the key steps in signal transduction and regulation of enzymatic activity.
How L-tyrosine benefits your body. Tyrosine is one of the most important amino acids, which is used in the synthesis of structural proteins. Although proteins are made up of different other amino acids but tyrosine is considered to be the most important one, because it is used in the production of neurotransmitters. 
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a birth defect in which people cannot process phenylalanine, an amino acid. As a result, their bodies cannot make enough tyrosine. Protein supplements containing tyrosine may be used to treat this disorder. However, information is limited. Further research is needed in this area. 
Dietary sources [edit]. Tyrosine, which can also be synthesized in the body from phenylalanine, is found in many high-protein food products such as chicken, turkey, fish, milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, cheese, peanuts, almonds, pumpkin seeds, sesame seeds, soy products, lima beans, avocados, and bananas. Some of the tyrosine residues can be tagged (at the hydroxyl group) with a phosphate group (phosphorylated) by protein kinases. In its phosphorylated form, tyrosine is called phosphotyrosine. Tyrosine phosphorylation is considered to be one of the key steps in signal transduction and regulation of enzymatic activity.
TYROSINE Overview Information. Tyrosine is one of the amino acids, which are the building blocks of protein. The body makes tyrosine from another amino acid called phenylalanine. Tyrosine can also be found in dairy products, meats, fish, eggs, nuts, beans, oats, and wheat. Tyrosine is used in protein supplements to treat an inherited disorder called phenylketonuria (PKU). 1 Phenylketonuria (PKU). 2  People with PKU are not able to process the amino acid phenylalanine, which is used by the body to make tyrosine. 3  Because of this, people with PKU can have low levels of tyrosine in the body.
Tyrosine is a nonessential amino acid the body makes from another amino acid called phenylalanine. It is an essential component for the production of several important brain chemicals called neurotransmitters, including epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. Thyroid hormone -- Tyrosine is a precursor to thyroid hormone, so it might raise levels too high when taken with synthetic thyroid hormones. Levodopa (L-dopa) -- Tyrosine should not be taken at the same time as levodopa, a medication used to treat Parkinson's disease.
— Tyrosine is a building block of protein. It’s used by the body to build lean muscle, which is why many people take Tyrosine as a bodybuilding supplement. — Tyrosine can be used to treat the genetic disorder phenylketonuria, or PKU, which inhibits lean muscle growth. Tyrosine is an amino acid. Our bodies produce Tyrosine from another amino acid called phenylalanine. We can also intake Tyrosine directly from milk, eggs, fish, nuts, beans, wheat, oats, and most dairy products.
1 People with PKU are not able to process the amino acid phenylalanine, which is used by the body to make tyrosine. 2  Because of this, people with PKU can have low levels of tyrosine in the body. 3  People with PKU are advised to consume 6 grams of tyrosine per 100 grams of protein to improve tyrosine levels in the body. 1 Phenylketonuria (PKU). 2  People with PKU are not able to process the amino acid phenylalanine, which is used by the body to make tyrosine. 3  Because of this, people with PKU can have low levels of tyrosine in the body.