This type of connective tissue proper, with the help of its extracellular fibers, tightly binds epithelia to underlying tissue and physically supports the blood vessels and nerves that supply the subepithelial area. Loose connective tissue is primarily located beneath epithelial membranes and glandular epithelium, binding these epithelia to other tissues, contributing to the formation of organs. Loose connective tissue (LCT) consists of.
Inside the Torso. The body's functions are conducted by organs. Each organ is a recognizable structure (for example, the heart, lungs, liver, eyes, and stomach) that performs specific functions. An organ is made of several types of tissue and therefore several types of cells (see Cells). For example, the heart (see Heart) contains muscle tissue that contracts to pump blood, fibrous tissue that makes up the heart valves, and special cells that maintain the rate and rhythm of heartbeat
All four tissue types are present in the stomach. The stomach is lined with EPITHELIAL type cells (simple columnar). Beneath the epithelial cells there is CONNECTIVE type tissue. Beneath this you will find (smooth) MUSCLE cells. There is also NERVOUS type tissue present in the wall of the stomach (myenteric and submucosal plexus).
The stomach is one of the organs that form the digestive system. The stomach contains various tissues, and each tissue is made of a particular type of cell. In order of increasing size and complexity: cells → tissues → organ (the stomach) → organ system (the digestive system). Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  Back. 5  Next. The stomach contains various tissues, and each tissue is made of a particular type of cell. In order of increasing size and complexity: cells → tissues → organ (the stomach) → organ system (the digestive system). Page: 1  1
It is present in almost every organ, forming a large part of skin, tendons, joints, ligaments, blood vessels, and muscles. The characteristics of connective tissue and the types of cells it contains vary, depending on where it is found in the body. Each organ is a recognizable structure (for example, the heart, lungs, liver, eyes, and stomach) that performs specific functions. An organ is made of several types of tissue and therefore several types of cells (see Cells).
Cardiac tissue is found in the heart. The types of tissues that make up your heart are cardiac muscle tissue, nerve tissue and blood tissue. The cardiac muscle tissue contract … s, making the heart pump. The nerve tissue brings messages that tell the heart how fast to beat. The blood tissue is carried from the heart to other organs of the body. Beneath the epithelial cells there is CONNECTIVE type tissue. Beneath this you will find (smooth) MUSCLE cells. There is also NERVOUS type tissue present in the wall of the stomach (myenteric and submucosal plexus).
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Connective Tissue: Is the blood in the walls of the stomach. Nervous Tissue: Controls acid production in the stomach. It also helps contract and coordinate stomach muscle. Epithelial Tissue: Protects the stomach against acid. It covers the inside of the stomach. It also has folds to increase surface area
1 Surrounding the mucosa is the submucosa layer of the stomach. 2  The submucosa is made up of various connective tissues, blood vessels, and nerves. 3  Connective tissues support the tissues of the mucosa and connect it to the muscularis layer. 