Changes to legislation: There are outstanding changes not yet made by the legislation.gov.uk editorial team to Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. Any changes that have already been made by the team appear in the content and are referenced with annotations. (1) This Act may be cited as the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. (2) This Act shall come into force on 1st July 1975 or such earlier day as the Secretary of State may by order appoint. (3) This Act shall not apply to Northern Ireland.
Section 8 of the Act, if a person can prove that the details of a spent conviction were published with a primary motive of causing damage to the subject (malice), then the publisher may be subject to libel damages regardless of whether the details were true or not. For example an offender who received a two-year prison sentence will see his/her conviction spent six years from date of conviction - (two year sentence + four year rehabilitation period).
Buenchico. No, it means you DON'T have to. The form is saying we require you to provide this information but we recognise that, under the provisions of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, you're not required to disclosed 'spent' convictions. Employment related to the 'administration of justice' is also exempted). In relation to the type of questions you're referred to, the Act states that you may lawfully 'answer accordingly' (i.e. lie). 'Ancillary matters' are also covered by the Act.
For adults, the rehabilitation period is one year for community orders, two years for custodial sentences of six months or less, four years for custodial sentences of over six months and up to and including 30 months, and seven years for custodial sentences of over 30 months and up to and including 48 months. For example an offender who received a two-year prison sentence will see his/her conviction spent six years from date of conviction - (two year sentence + four year rehabilitation period).
The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 supports the reformed offenders entering the workplace. Following a specified period of time – which varies according to the sentence – an offender’s cautions and convictions become ‘spent’ and the offender is regarded as rehabilitated. The new Rehabilitation periods for sentences that do not have buffer periods and where the rehabilitation period runs from the date of conviction (offenders who are under 18 at the date of conviction have the ‘buffer’ periods halved) are as follows: 1  Fine – 1 year. 2  Conditional Discharge – for the period of the order.
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act. The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 was brought in to support people who have been convicted of a criminal offence, and who have not offended again, in gaining employment. Under the Act convictions become ‘spent’ or ignored after a specified rehabilitation period
The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (c.53) of the UK Parliament enables some criminal convictions to be ignored after a rehabilitation period. Its purpose is that people do not have a lifelong blot on their records because of a relatively minor offence in their past. For example an offender who received a two-year prison sentence will see his/her conviction spent six years from date of conviction - (two year sentence + four year rehabilitation period).
For offenders who are under the age of 18 when convicted, their rehabilitation period is half of what an adult's rehabilitation period would be. A conviction that is spent and need not be divulged under British law may not be so considered elsewhere. For example an offender who received a two-year prison sentence will see his/her conviction spent six years from date of conviction - (two year sentence + four year rehabilitation period).