In order to test for a synthetic or semi-synthetic opioid a specific test is required. For example to find oxycodone there would have to be a specific test for oxycodone and oxycodone alone. A basic drug test is a five panel test looking for PCP, THC (marijuana), amphetamines, cocaine, and OPIATES. 2) Semi-synthetic opioid's-these drugs are NOT naturally occurring substances and are NOT opiates. Examples include hydrocodone, oxycodone, oxymorphone, hydromorphone, and diacetylmorphine (heroin). These drugs are built on opiates and have similar chemical structures
Types of Opiates. Naturally occurring opiates are morphine and codeine. Semi-synthetic or opioids include heroin, hydrocodone, hydromorphone (Dilaudid), meperidine (Demerol) and oxycodone (Percodan). Synthetic opiods include fentanyl (Sublimaza), methadone (Dolophine), propoxyphene (Darvon) and pentazocine (Talwin). All opiate drugs have similar effects to varying degrees.
Opiates are highly addictive drugs that are commonly prescribed for moderate to severe pain. While the drugs are prescriptions, it is easy to become addicted and use the drugs in an inappropriate manner. Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate drug that is used to fight pain from injuries or surgeries. When it is abused, the drug can become a serious problem for many individuals.
Profile. Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate manufactured by modifying the chemical thebaine, an organic chemical found in opium. 1 It is the active ingredient in a number of commonly prescribed pain relief medications such as Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox
Percocet. Home » Percocet. Percocet is the brand name for acetaminophen and oxycodone and is a powerful narcotic used to treat moderate to severe pain. The synthetic opioid is one of the most commonly prescribed painkillers. Percocet is available in capsules and tablets. 
Oxycodone is a type of semi-synthetic opiate drug. It uses the opioid compound found in codeine, which can result in addiction. If you or one of your loved ones are struggling with an oxycodone addiction, contact us today at Best Drug Rehabilitation. While the drugs are prescriptions, it is easy to become addicted and use the drugs in an inappropriate manner. Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate drug that is used to fight pain from injuries or surgeries. When it is abused, the drug can become a serious problem for many individuals.
Oxycodone (OxyContin) Profile Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate manufactured by modifying the chemical thebaine, an organic chemical found in opium. 1 It is the active ingredient in a number of commonly prescribed pain relief medications such as Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox. 
While oxycodone is a type of opiate, it is also a semi-synthetic drug. This means that while it originates from the opium poppy, it is actually created from codeine compounds rather than directly from the plant. While the drugs are prescriptions, it is easy to become addicted and use the drugs in an inappropriate manner. Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate drug that is used to fight pain from injuries or surgeries. When it is abused, the drug can become a serious problem for many individuals.