Beneath the hoof wall is the Hoof Horn which is attached to the sensitive laminae and attached to the third phalanx, a major bone in the hoof. At the top of the hoof is the coronary band, the source of nutrition for the hoof wall, similar to the cuticle of the fingernail. The wall of the hoof grows from the epithelium covering the coronary dermis, which consists of the horn tubules embedded in the intertubular horn that is attached to the coffin bone and hoof cartilage's. The three basic layers of the structure consist of the stratum externum,meduim and internum.
Share. Views: 45750. Laminitis (also termed founder) is inflammation of the laminae of the foot-the soft tissue structures that attach the coffin or pedal bone of the foot to the hoof wall. The inflammation and damage to the laminae causes extreme pain and leads to instability of the coffin bone in the hoof. In more severe cases it can lead to complete separation of and rotation of the pedal bone within the hoof wall. Laminitis is a crippling condition which can be fatal in severe cases.
Laminitis inflammation of the laminae (the inside lining of the hoof) Lead change The lead is the foreleg of the horse that is farthest in front during a canter. A good rider can signal the horse to change his lead. Lope A slow canter, used mostly in Western disciplines. Laminae -- Membrane lining the hoof, some of which contain the blood vessels that feed the hoof, that attaches the hoof to the bones. Navicular -- Boat-shaped bone behind the coffin bone. Pastern -- Part of the leg between the coronet and the fetlock. laminae-A part of the hoof. See insensitive laminae and sensitive laminae. ... Think of laminae and lammelar structures as being like hooks and loops attaching and suspending the coffin bone within the hoof , Moyer says. LAMINITIS: Inflammation of the laminae of the foot, which serve to attach the coffin bone to the hoof wall; also known as founder
Download our Laminitis, EMS & PPID summary. Laminitis is inflammation of the laminae, the velcro-like connections between the pedal/coffin bone and the hoof, causing pain and lameness. Frequently the laminae connections start to separate and break down, allowing the pedal/coffin bone and hoof capsule to rotate or sink in relation to each other-this rotation and/or sinking is called founder or chronic laminitis.
Laminitis is a condition of the foot that can become very painful in horses. It is when the coffin bone and the inner hoof wall begin to separate from each other. The coffin bone is attached to the hoof wall by two interlocking layers of connecting tissues called laminae. If the tissues for whatever reason get inflamed or the blood supply is disturbed then the attachment between the laminae will fail and the hoof wall will become separated from the rest of the foot.
The white line is the lamina of the horse. The lamina connects the protective outer layering of the hoof-the hoof wall-to the sensitive internal structures of the hoof-namely, the corium. A horse's lamina is naturally a thin line of velcro-like attachment that is amazingly strong...it can only give way internally. It almost literally cannot be physically separated from the hoof wall -- unless it becomes stretched due to metabolic insults to the horse...
The photo to the left shows a slice through the corium and laminae-the corium is on the bottom side of the photo and the laminae on the top. The corium was attached to the coffin bone and the laminae connect the coffin bone to the hoof wall. 
The exact mechanisms that cause this weakening are still being researched, but there are many processes at work. When a horse has laminitis, this means the lamina are inflamed. Foundering is when the lamina gives way and the coffin bone loses attachment and appears to rotate, or sink in the capsule (a sinker). If the metabolic problem has resolved, as the hoof grows you will see a tighter growth near the coronet band-this is where the lamina is once again tightly connected. A horse's lamina is naturally a thin line of velcro-like attachment that is amazingly strong...it can only give way internally. It almost literally cannot be physically separated from the hoof wall -- unless it becomes stretched due to metabolic insults to the horse...
Laminae are composed of 500 - 600 vertical folds of keratinized epidermal tissue, the primary epidermal laminae, which are contiguous with the inner hoof wall, and interdigitated folds of connective tissue, the primary dermal laminae, which are contiguous with the distal phalanx. 