Slate. Slate is a very fine-grained metamorphic rock form composed of minute mica flakes. It shows excellent rock cleavage and has found many uses for its uniform flat plates. It has been extensively used for roof and floor tiles. It has been used for blackboards and is the standard material for the beds of pool tables
New Zealand occurrences-northwest Nelson. Slate is a low grade metamorphic rock generally formed by the metamorphosis of mudstone / shale, or sometimes basalt, under relatively low pressure and temperature conditions. 
Phyllite is a type of foliated metamorphic rock created from slate that is further metamorphosed so that very fine grained white mica achieves a preferred orientation. It is primarily composed of quartz, sericite mica, and chlorite. 
Slate is a metamorphic rock that forms from mudstone or shale. The mudstone or shale normally contains clay or volcanic ash. Slate is unique in that it does not require any type of cementation to hold its particles together. Slate is used for different varieties of flooring and roofing. School children used pieces of slate as a writing board to practice their math and writing during the 1800s. Slate can easily be broken into neat, thin sheet because of its foliation.
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated metamorphic rock that is created by the alteration of shale or mudstone by low-grade regional metamorphism. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock. The tectonic environment for producing slate is usually a former sedimentary basin that becomes involved in a convergent plate boundary.
In the coal mining industry of the Appalachian Basin, the word slate is still used by many miners to in reference to the shale that forms the roof and floor of a mine and for fragments of shale that are separated from the coal in preparation plants. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock. The tectonic environment for producing slate is usually a former sedimentary basin that becomes involved in a convergent plate boundary.
Slate Macro (~ 6 cm long and ~ 4 cm high). Slate is a fine-grained, foliated, homogeneous metamorphic rock derived from an original shale-type sedimentary rock composed of clay or volcanic ash through low-grade regional metamorphism. It is the finest grained foliated metamorphic rock. Slate is mainly composed of the minerals quartz and muscovite or illite, often along with biotite, chlorite, hematite, and pyrite and, less frequently apatite, graphite, kaolinite, magnetite, tourmaline, or zircon as well as feldspar.
The color of slate is largely determined by the amount of iron it contains, but it is normally a shade of gray. Slate normally forms in basins between convergent plate boundaries. Often, slate is used to describe shale but the two are different in that shale is actually converted into slate. Slate is used for different varieties of flooring and roofing. School children used pieces of slate as a writing board to practice their math and writing during the 1800s. Slate can easily be broken into neat, thin sheet because of its foliation.
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated metamorphic rock that is created by the alteration of shale or mudstone by low-grade regional metamorphism. It is popular for a wide variety of uses such as roofing, flooring and flagging because of its durability and attractive appearance. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock. The tectonic environment for producing slate is usually a former sedimentary basin that becomes involved in a convergent plate boundary.
Slate can also contain abundant quartz and small amounts of feldspar, calcite, pyrite, hematite and other minerals. Most slates are gray in color and range in a continuum of shades from light to dark gray. Slate also occurs in shades of green, red, black, purple and brown. The color of slate is often determined by the amount and type of iron and organic material that are present in the rock. The tectonic environment for producing slate is usually a former sedimentary basin that becomes involved in a convergent plate boundary.