The Capybara is the largest rodent in the world. It is a member of the guinea pig family and actually just looks like a giant guinea pig. Somewhere in the area of 40 to 70 pounds and lives in marshy habitat. I know I saw one on TV they are huge. 
For the video game developer, see Capybara Games. The capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris) is a large rodent of the genus Hydrochoerus of which the only other extant member is the lesser capybara (Hydrochoerus isthmius). The capybara is the largest rodent in the world. Close relatives are guinea pigs and rock cavies, and it is more distantly related to the agouti, chinchillas, and the coypu. Native to South America, the capybara inhabits savannas and dense forests and lives near bodies of water. The capybara is not a threatened species and is hunted for its meat, hide and also for a grease from its thick fatty skin which is used in the pharmaceutical trade.
Capybara, The World's Largest Rodent. A capybara, the world's largest species of rodent, was seen from a distance at a wastewater treatment plant in Paso Robles, Calif.
Well, it’s actually pretty cute looking in its own disproportionate way. The Baluchistan Pygmy Jerboa is the world’s smallest species of rodent with a weight of less than an ounce at around .132o oz, a body length of 1.7 inches, and a tail length of up to three inches. 
4:15PM BST 21 Jun 2013. Melanie Typaldos, 57, shares her home in Texas with her pet Gary-the world's largest rodent. The computer programmer and her husband, Richard Loveman, 54, even let the giant guinea pig-known as a capybara-sleep in their bed. The capybara has become part of the family and enjoys nothing more than swimming with his owners in the swimming pool, which was built to remind the pet of his natural habitat. Melanie says: Although some people might find it strange, it’s really no different than having a dog or a cat.
1 The largest living rodent is the capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), native to most of the tropical and temperate parts of South America east of the Andes, always near water. 2  Full-grown capybaras can reach 1.5 m (4.9 ft) long and 0.9 m (3.0 ft) tall at the shoulder and a maximum weight of 105.4 kg (232 lb). 1 The largest species in terms of weight is the hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius), native to the rivers of sub-Saharan Africa. 2  They can attain a size of 4,500 kg (9,900 lb), 4.8 m (16 ft) long and 1.66 m (5.4 ft) tall.
No, it’s a capybara, the largest rodent in the world! Standing 2 feet (60 centimeters) tall at the shoulder and built somewhat like a barrel with legs, the “capy” has long, light brown, shaggy hair, a face that looks like a beaver’s, no tail, and slightly webbed feet. 
World's Deadliest: Anaconda Devours World's Largest Rodent. The green anaconda can grow up to 20 feet long and weigh a whopping 200 pounds. That's a big body to feed. And the world's largest rodent, the capybara, is the perfect entree. 1  Featured Videos.