ICT headquarters is located in a new office building just south of Jefferson Blvd. in Playa Vista about ten minutes from LAX: USC Institute for Creative Technologies. 
Its tuition and fees are $50,210 (2015-16). The University of Southern California’s central campus, referred to as the University Park campus, is located in Los Angeles’s Downtown Arts and Education Corridor. USC has other campuses in L.A. in addition to sites around Southern California and in Sacramento, Calif., and Washington. Summary. University of Southern California is a private institution that was founded in 1880. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 18,740, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 226 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.
In recent decades, the university has also leveraged its location in Los Angeles to establish relationships with research and cultural institutions throughout Asia and the Pacific Rim. An engine for economic activity, USC contributes approximately $5 billion annually to the economy of the Los Angeles county area. Chaffey College was founded in 1883 in the city of Ontario, California, as an agricultural college branch campus of USC under the name of Chaffey College of Agriculture of the University of Southern California. USC ran the Chaffey College of Agriculture until financial troubles closed the school in 1901.
USC also has programs and centers in Marina Del Rey, Orange County, Sacramento, Washington, D.C., Catalina Island, Alhambra and around Southern California. Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, staffed by USC faculty from the Keck School of Medicine, is often referred to as USC’s third campus. An anchor institution in Los Angeles, a global center for arts, technology and international business, USC's diverse curricular offerings provide extensive opportunities for interdisciplinary study, and collaboration with leading researchers in highly advanced learning environments.
Located within minutes of Los Angeles’ city center and the Downtown Arts and Education Corridor, USC’s University Park and Health Sciences campuses are easy to reach by major freeways as well as L.A. Metro buses and Metrolink rail. 1  University Park Campus. 
Besides its main campus at University Park, USC also operates the Health Sciences Campus about 2 miles (3.2 km) northeast of downtown. In addition, the Children's Hospital Los Angeles is staffed by USC faculty from the Keck School of Medicine and is often referred to as USC's third campus. Chaffey College was founded in 1883 in the city of Ontario, California, as an agricultural college branch campus of USC under the name of Chaffey College of Agriculture of the University of Southern California. USC ran the Chaffey College of Agriculture until financial troubles closed the school in 1901.
On Campus. USC’s two primary campuses, both located in the heart of Los Angeles, welcome thousands of guests and visitors each year. The 229-acre University Park campus, home to the USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School, and most of USC’s professional schools, is adjacent to Exposition Park with its world-class museums and recreational facilities.
The Faculty Practice has moved from the University Village to its new location in the Engemann Student Health Center. Our new office is located on the northwest corner of USC campus—just east of the Jefferson Boulevard and Vermont Avenue intersection, next to Parking Structure B. We are located on the fourth floor. 
For more, see the full timeline of key events in USC's history. Located in the heart of Los Angeles, USC’s University Park campus is part of the city’s Downtown Arts and Education Corridor and is home to the USC Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences and many professional schools. An anchor institution in Los Angeles, a global center for arts, technology and international business, USC's diverse curricular offerings provide extensive opportunities for interdisciplinary study, and collaboration with leading researchers in highly advanced learning environments.