From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymphadenopathy or lymphadenitis refers to lymph nodes which are abnormal in size, number or consistency and is often used as a synonym for swollen or enlarged lymph nodes. Common causes of lymphadenopathy are infection, autoimmune disease, or malignancy. 
hilum of lymph node. Definitions: 1. the depressed area of the surface of a lymph node through which the efferent lymphatics emerge from the medulla and through which blood vessels enter and leave the node. Synonyms: hilum nodi lymphoidei. The definition information for hilum of lymph node is provided by Stedman's.
lymphadenopathy. [limfad′inop′əthē]. any disorder characterized by a localized or generalized enlargement of the lymph nodes or lymph vessels. A generic term for lymph node enlargement of any aetiology, benign or malignant. n a swelling of the lymph nodes that is associated with HIV infection and AIDS. See acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). lymphadenopathy, regional, n the involvement of nodes draining a specific region (e.g., submental nodes draining the middle of the lower lip, floor of the oral cavity, skin of the chin).
lymphadenopathy. An enlargement of a lymph gland. The preauricular lymph node located 1 cm in front of the external ear drains the orbital region and is sometimes involved with eyelid and conjunctival infection (e.g. adult inclusion conjunctivitis, follicular conjunctivitis). n a swelling of the lymph nodes that is associated with HIV infection and AIDS. See acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). lymphadenopathy, regional, n the involvement of nodes draining a specific region (e.g., submental nodes draining the middle of the lower lip, floor of the oral cavity, skin of the chin).
Hilar lymph node. Definition. noun, plural: hilar lymph nodes. Any of the lymph nodes in the hilum or the triangular depression or indented region at the junction of each lung and its bronchi. Supplement. Hilar lymph nodes collect lymph from the pulmonary nodes, and drain to the tracheobronchial nodes. 
hilar lymph nodes. Synonyms: bronchopulmonary lymph nodes. The definition information for hilar lymph nodes is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 
n a disease process that involves a lymph node or nodes. lymphadenopathy, generalized, n the involvement of all or several regionally separated groups of lymph nodes by a systemic disorder. n a swelling of the lymph nodes that is associated with HIV infection and AIDS. See acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). lymphadenopathy, regional, n the involvement of nodes draining a specific region (e.g., submental nodes draining the middle of the lower lip, floor of the oral cavity, skin of the chin).
Hilar Lymph Nodes. Hilar Lymph Nodes: Hilar lymph nodes are glands that are a part of the immune system and are located where the lungs meet the bronchi. Summary Information: Hilar Lymph Nodes. Hilar Lymph Nodes: Hilar lymph nodes are glands that are a part of the immune system and are located where the lungs meet the bronchi. Hilar lymph nodes consist of lymphatic tissues enclosed by a fibrous capsule.