One of the results of this process is the forming of an in-group and out-group bias. These terms are very self-explanatory. A person becomes more favorably inclined towards the members of his or her own group (in-group bias) and treats the members of other groups less favorably (out-group bias). 
The outgroup homogeneity bias or out-group homogeneity effect is one's perception of out-group members as more similar to one another than are in-group members, e.g. they are alike; we are diverse. 
Ingroup bias, sometimes known as in-group favoritism, in-group–out-group bias or intergroup bias, refers to a pattern of favoring members of one’s in-group over out-group members. This can be expressed in evaluation of others, allocation of resources and many other ways. 
People will put themselves into the in-group and all other people are in the out-group.. This leads in-group members to favor their group over the out-group and is called in-group, out-group bias (Devine, 1996). Sports fans of any kind favor their teams fans over the other teams fans. The fans of the opposing team are not seen as friends or equals, they are the enemy. 
The tendency of people to favor their own group, known as ingroup bias, has been found in cultures around the world (Aberson, Healy, & Romero, 2000; Brewer, 1979, 1999). One of the most startling aspects of ingroup bias is how easily it is triggered. 
It is this ingroup favoritism, or ingroup bias, that it is popularly known as, that forms the basis of discrimination. If one believes that a person belongs to the same group as he is, he will have positive views of him, and thus, will give him preferential treatment; but obviously, at the cost of others. Ingroup Bias Examples. When it comes to ingroup bias or ingroup favoritism, people from one's own group are viewed positively and given better treatment, thus resulting in discrimination against people who are not a part of that group.
(February 2015). In-group favoritism, sometimes known as in-group–out-group bias, in-group bias, or intergroup bias, refers to a pattern of favoring members of one's in-group over out-group members. This can be expressed in evaluation of others, in allocation of resources, and in many other ways. Social identity theory argues that one of the key determinants of group biases is the need to improve self-esteem. The desire to view one's self positively is transferred onto the group, creating a tendency to view one's own group in a positive light, and by comparison, outside groups in a negative light.
― Marilynn Brewer. By definition, ingroup bias, or in-group bias, refers to a preference for one's ingroup, i.e., a social group with which the person readily associates himself, over the outgroup, i.e., a social group with which the person does not identify. Simply put, it refers to favoritism toward one's own group. Ingroup Bias Examples. When it comes to ingroup bias or ingroup favoritism, people from one's own group are viewed positively and given better treatment, thus resulting in discrimination against people who are not a part of that group.
Several factors go into ingroup bias. The first is the group attribution error, in which members of the group credit successes to their personalities, and failures to situational factors. Studies on ingroup bias have shown that smaller groups tend to exhibit stronger ingroup bias, perhaps in an attempt to protect themselves from outsiders.