Title insurance is crucial for a home buyer because it protects you and the lender from the possibility that your seller doesn't -- or previous sellers didn't -- have free and clear ownership of the house and property and, therefore, can't rightfully transfer full ownership to you. Usually your closing agent or attorney will choose your title insurer for you, from one of the five major U.S. title insurance underwriters. You will probably need to shell out a one-time fee of around $1,000 for title insurance.
Why do buyers need title insurance. Without a title insurance policy, there is no protection for the buyer. Any hidden problems not disclosed by public records or a mistake in tile examination might hold the buyer accountable for any prior issues relating to the property. By definition, title insurance is A policy issued by a title company after searching the title and which insures against loss resulting from defects of title to a specifically described parcel of real property or from the enforcement of liens existing against it at the time the policy is issued.
Your lender wants a policy, too. He or she won't even loan you money unless you buy a separate lender's title insurance policy to cover the bank's interest in your property. The lender's policy should be for the amount of the mortgage. Title insurance is a one-time, up-front investment with rates based on the purchase price of your home and the type of policy you buy.
Title insurance for mortgage lenders title insurance is called a Loan Policy. Most lenders require a Loan Policy when they issue a mortgage loan. The Loan Policy is usually based on the dollar amount of the loan and it protects the lender’s interests in the property should a problem with the title arise. Title insurance for property owners, called an Owner’s Policy, is usually issued in the amount of the real estate purchase. It is purchased for a one-time fee at closing and is valid for as long as the owner or his heirs have an interest in the property.
Answer by Savemoney101. Confidence votes 1.3K. Buyer's Title Insurance Buyer's Title Insurance, also known as an Owner's Policy or Fee Policy, protects the new owner of the property from the history of the property during the duration of their ownership, whether it be 1 year or 100 years. 
Generally, title insurance guards homeowner and lender interests if problems with a property's title create ownership problems resulting in loss of that property. For example, a homebuyer could take title to her home only to be sued by one of the home's former owners who makes claims to owning the property. Negotiating Title Insurance. Deciding to have title insurance on a property is often smart, even when paying cash for the property. Additionally, in real estate just who pays for what costs is often negotiable between buyers and sellers.
It is best to have a title policy to ensure there are no liens on the property/land. In some cases builders will contribute towards buyer's closing costs, so the title insurance policy would be paid for by the builder. We specialize in new construction and have worked with many buyers on building or buying a new construction inventory home from a builder. Hickory & Do, Agent, , Be careful......a buyer should receive title insurance...but.....a builder might not provide it...check with an attorney to make sure.....but....it IS possible to sell a builder home without title insurance if you are paying cash....use care....use an experienced real estate agent.
Costs. Title insurance policy costs vary and are usually one-time premiums paid at a property's closing. Title insurance policies often are based directly on the value of the home being insured. For example, title insurance for a $500,000 single-family home in San Francisco ranges from $900 to $1,900. Negotiating Title Insurance. Deciding to have title insurance on a property is often smart, even when paying cash for the property. Additionally, in real estate just who pays for what costs is often negotiable between buyers and sellers.
The title is what gives you ownership of a property. As a buyer you want a clear or clean title — one that doesn't have liens for unpaid taxes against it, or claims of ownership by a faraway aunt or uncle, or a surprise easement through the backyard to reach power lines or a cell phone tower. Title insurance is a one-time, up-front investment with rates based on the purchase price of your home and the type of policy you buy.
Alex, typically the seller pays for the owners title insurance policy and the buyer pays for the lenders title policy if they have financing to purchase to property. This is because the seller is proving the the buyer that the title is free and clear and the buyer is doing the same for the lender. Alex, Typically speaking the seller buys title insurance for the buyer, and the buyer buys title insurance for their lender. The seller has no need for title tinsurance as they are conveying the property. This is why title and escrow companies handle the sale.