The muscles of the leg that move the foot and toes are divided into anterior, lateral, superficial-and deep-posterior compartments. The anterior compartment includes the tibialis anterior, the extensor hallucis longus, the extensor digitorum longus, and the fibularis (peroneus) tertius.
Tibialis anterior. The tibialis anterior muscle is the largest muscle located in the anterior (front) compartment of the leg. The blood supply to the tibialis anterior muscle comes primarily from the anterior tibial artery and its branches.
Compartment syndrome is a condition in which pressure increases within a muscle compartment of the lower leg, cutting off blood supply to the area and causing swelling and pain. Any exercise, but particularly running, increases the blood supply to the muscles of the lower legs.
The tibialis anterior muscle is the largest muscle located in the anterior (front) compartment of the leg. The blood supply to the tibialis anterior muscle comes primarily from the anterior tibial artery and its branches.
Anterior compartment syndrome can be acute or chronic. Acute compartment syndrome is sudden onset and causes considerable pain. It is often due to an injury or impact to the big tibialis anterior muscles at the front of the leg which swells up.
Compartments of the lower leg. The posterior compartment of the leg is further subdivided into a deep part and a superficial part. The deep part is located behind the tibia and contains the tibialis posterior muscle and three other muscles that execute downward flexion, as well as inversion of the foot.
The most superficial muscle of the posterior compartment of the lower leg. It has two thick bellies that collectively form the prominence of the posterior part of the leg often referred to as the calf. This muscle spans both the knee and the ankle joints; it flexes the leg and plantar flexes the foot.
Some of the muscles that move the foot start higher up in the leg, and smaller muscles work right in the foot itself. The leg is divided into compartments: the anterior, lateral, and posterior compartments. The muscles in these compartments help move the ankle and the foot: Anterior compartment: This compartment lies in front of the tibia and fibula and is surrounded by fascia.