Unlike the individual vertebrae in other regions of the spine, the vertebrae in the sacral region as well as the coccyx are fused. The coccyx (also called the tailbone) is located at the base of the spine and is composed of four fused vertebrae. Ligaments attach the coccyx to the sacral hiatus at the synovial sacro-coccygeal joint. 1  See also: Anatomy of the Coccyx (Tailbone). The sacral region (sacrum) is at the bottom of the spine and lies between the fifth segment of the lumbar spine (L5) and the coccyx (tailbone).
Overview of Coccyx (Tailbone) Pain. When a person has pain in or around the tailbone area, this condition is called coccydynia (pain of the coccyx). The coccyx, more commonly known as the tailbone, is the small bone located at the very bottom of the spine. It’s fused by a layer of cartilage, and is not fully fused with the spine until adulthood. 
The coccyx is the very bottom portion of the spine. It represents a vestigial tail (hence the common term tailbone) and consists of three or more very small bones fused together. The coccyx is made up of between three and five separate or fused vertebrae. The coccyx articulates with the sacrum through a vestigial disc, and is also connected to the sacrum with ligaments (see Figure 1). There is very limited movement between the coccyx and the sacrum. In This Article: 1  Coccydynia (Tailbone Pain). 2  Anatomy of the Coccyx (Tailbone).
Patient Comments Read 40 Comments Share Your Story. The coccyx, or tailbone, is the triangular bony structure located at the bottom of the vertebral column between the buttocks. It is composed of three to five bony segments held in place by joints and ligaments. 
The coccyx (or tailbone) is located at the bottom of the pelvis, in between the glutes (or butt cheeks) . The coccyx is a vestigial tail and is the last section of the spinal column. The coccyx (or tailbone) is located at the bottom of the pelvis, in between the glutes (or butt cheeks) . :).
Coccyx. The coccyx, also known as the tailbone, is a small, triangular bone resembling a shortened tail located at the bottom of the spine. It is composed of three to five coccygeal vertebrae or spinal bones. Medically Reviewed on February 26, 2015 by Healthline Medical Team. The coccyx, also known as the tailbone, is a small, triangular bone resembling a shortened tail located at the bottom of the spine.
The coccyx (/ˈkɒksɪks/ KOK-siks; plural: coccyges or coccyxes), commonly referred to as the tailbone, is the final segment of the vertebral column in humans and apes, and certain other mammals such as horses. The coccyx is formed of either three, four or five rudimentary vertebrae. It articulates superiorly with the sacrum. In each of the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body and articular and transverse processes; the last piece (sometimes the third) is a mere nodule of bone.
A coccyx injury results in pain and discomfort in the tailbone area (the condition is called coccydynia). These injuries may result in a bruise, dislocation, or fracture (break) of the coccyx. Although they may be slow to heal, the majority of coccyx injuries can be managed with cautious treatment. The coccyx is the triangular bony structure located at the bottom of the vertebral column. It is composed of three to five bony segments held in place by joints and ligaments. Most tailbone injuries are caused by trauma to the coccyx area. 1  A fall onto the tailbone in the seated position, usually against a hard surface, is the most common cause of coccyx injuries.