Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. humans
Kieran is an English variant of the name Ciar (Irish). The name Ciara (English, Gaelic, and Irish) and the name Kyra (Irish) are the female equivalents of Kieran. The name Kieran is widely used; it has 30 variants that are used in English and other languages. Kieran is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name is of the meaning little dark one, little dark-haired one. It is derived from the element 'ciar' meaning black.
Gaelic Meaning: The name Kieran is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kieran is: Black. American Meaning: The name Kieran is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kieran is: Black. Celtic Meaning: The name Kieran is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Kieran is: Dark skinned. Irish Meaning: The name Kieran is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kieran is: Black or dark.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kieran. Kieran is the anglicized form of the Irish personal name Ciaran ciarán from The “gaelic” ciar “meaning”. Black the diminutive “-suffix” an án gives the name its: “ultimate meaning little”. black one Kieran is the anglicized form of the Irish personal name Ciaran ciarán from The “gaelic” ciar “meaning”. black
[ 2 syll. kie-ran, ki-er-an ] The baby boy name Kieran is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is K IH-R-ae-N †. Kieran is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name is of the meaning little dark one, little dark-haired one. It is derived from the element 'ciar' meaning black.
Meaning of Kieran. Irish name. In Irish, the name Kieran means-little dark one. Other origins for the name Kieran include-Irish, Celtic, Gaelic.The name Kieran is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Irish Name Meaning-little dark one. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-Celtic Gaelic.
Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. kiaran A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. humans
Kieran /kier-an/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KEER-en. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kieran is black. Name of a saint (sixth century) who was admired for his generosity. Actor Kieran Culkin. Kreatif forms: Kerran, Kleran. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of Kieran and related names. Prominent alternative forms of Kieran (#576 a year ago) listed in the Top 1000 are Kieron and Ciaran. These boy names reached the apex of their popularity in 2011 (usage of 0.1753%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.1413%, 19.4% less).
Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. Kiaran From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. humans