The muskrat's name probably comes by folk etymology from a word of Algonquin origin, muscascus (literally it is red, so called for its colorings), or from the Abenaki native word moskwas, mòskwas as seen in the Archaic english name for the, animal. musquash The muskrat is found in wetlands over a wide range of climates and habitats. It has important effects on the ecology of wetlands and is a resource of food and fur for humans. The muskrat is the largest species in the subfamily Arvicolinae, which includes 142 other species of rodents, mostly voles and lemmings. Muskrats are referred to as  rats  in a general sense because they are medium-sized rodents with an adaptable lifestyle and an omnivorous diet.
The muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus), the only species in genus Ondatra and tribe Ondatrini, is a medium-sized semiaquatic rodent native to North America, and is an introduced species in parts of Europe, Asia, and South America. The muskrat is found in wetlands over a wide range of climates and habitats. It has important effects on the ecology of wetlands and is a resource of food and fur for humans. The muskrat is the largest species in the subfamily Arvicolinae, which includes 142 other species of rodents, mostly voles and lemmings. Muskrats are referred to as  rats  in a general sense because they are medium-sized rodents with an adaptable lifestyle and an omnivorous diet
Widespread and abundant taxa are included in this category, on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. A young / baby of a muskrat is called a 'kitten, nestling, pinkie or pup'. The females are called 'doe' and males 'buck'. A muskrat group is called a 'colony, horde, pack, plague or swarm'. It is this attribute of the muskrat that has given it its name. The size of an average muskrat is around 16 - 24 inches (40 - 60 cm). The size of its tail is almost double its body size and it weighs about 1.5 - 4 lb (0.7 - 1.8 kg). An adult muskrat is just a little longer than the brown rat but it weighs four times the weight of brown rat
Muskrats take their food out to their feeding platforms. They often leave a pile of shells called a midden.. When a Muskrat builds a lodge, it helps a lot of animals besides itself. Lodges can also be the home of snakes, turtles, frogs, toads, and Canada Geese. Raccoons are also known to den in old Muskrat holes. When Muskrats eat large numbers of cattails (called an eat-out), they open up areas of shallow water. This animal also builds feeding platforms (places to eat) with the same types of materials as the lodge, only much smaller. Denver Division of Animal Control. Muskrats build a house, called a lodge, out of aquatic plants, especially cattails. It can be up to eight feet across and five feet high. A muskrat lodge looks a lot like a Beaver lodge. Muskrats also burrow holes in stream or pond banks. At least one entrance hole will always be above the water line
Muskrats live in marshes, or alongside ponds, lakes, rivers, and streams. Muskrats build a house, called a lodge, out of aquatic plants, especially cattails. It can be up to eight feet across and five feet high. A muskrat lodge looks a lot like a Beaver lodge. Muskrats also burrow holes in stream or pond banks. At least one entrance hole will always be above the water line. This animal also builds feeding platforms (places to eat) with the same types of materials as the lodge, only much smaller. Denver Division of Animal Control. Muskrats build a house, called a lodge, out of aquatic plants, especially cattails. It can be up to eight feet across and five feet high.
Because different states have laws against trapping muskrats, it’s imperative that you contact your wildlife center to find out about the requirements of capturing one. Considering that muskrats live in groups, you will need a trap that can catch several of them in one day. One of the problems when you have a pond on your property is that muskrats can be very damaging to it. They can dig tunnels close to it, damage the vegetation and contaminate the water with urine, feces or themselves if they die near it.
The Muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus), is a semi-aquatic, medium-sized rodent. It is found in North America and has also been recently introduced in Asia, South America, and Europe. The main habitat of muskrat is wetlands but this animal can successfully adapt to different habitats and climates. It is this attribute of the muskrat that has given it its name. The size of an average muskrat is around 16 - 24 inches (40 - 60 cm). The size of its tail is almost double its body size and it weighs about 1.5 - 4 lb (0.7 - 1.8 kg). An adult muskrat is just a little longer than the brown rat but it weighs four times the weight of brown rat