Regardless of these genetic variants, most of the bears in any region are black in color. Some bears have a white patch on their chests. They have a short, inconspicuous tail, longish ears, a relatively straight profile from nose to forehead, and small, dark eyes. 
The American black bear (Ursus americanus) is a medium-sized bear native to North America. It is the continent's smallest and most widely distributed bear species. Black bears are omnivores with their diets varying greatly depending on season and location. They typically live in largely forested areas, but do leave forests in search of food. A small primitive bear called Ursus abstrusus is the oldest known North American fossil member of the genus Ursus, dated to 4.95 mya. This suggests that U. abstrusus may be the direct ancestor of the American black bear, which evolved in
GENERAL DESCRIPTION. The American Black Bear (Ursus americanus) is a large-bodied, muscular animal that is quite agile. Black bears can run up to 35 miles per hour. New Jersey's adult male black bears, called boars, weigh on average 400 pounds. Their weight can range from 150 pounds to over 600 pounds. Most black bears in New Jersey are black, but there has been one documented black bear in the state that is cinnamon brown in color. About fifteen percent (15%) of New Jersey's bears also have a white chest blaze.
Range. The American black bear is distributed throughout North America, from Canada to Mexico and in at least 40 states in the U.S. They historically occupied nearly all of the forested regions of North America, but in the U.S. they are now restricted to the forested areas less densely occupied by humans. In the northern areas, they can be found in the tundra, and they will sometimes forage in fields or meadows. Black bears tend to be solitary animals, with the exception of mothers and cubs. The bears usually forage alone, but will tolerate each other and forage in groups if there is an abundance of food in one area.
Black Bear. The black bear was designated the official state animal of New Mexico in 1963. A black bear's head is the symbol of the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish. Smokey Bear (selected by the U.S. Forest Service as spokesman and symbol for fire prevention) was found as a cub cowering in an injured tree after a 17,000 acre forest fire in the Lincoln National Forest near Capitan. 
The bear nest is called a den.. A black bear's winter den can be as simple as a dirt scrape, as cozy as the hole under an overturned tree's roots, or as secluded as the inside of a one-hundred-foot-tall hollow tree trunk with the entrance in the top of the tree. Sometimes a mother bear will choose a warm dark cave in which to have her babies.
Female black bears give birth to two or three blind, helpless cubs in mid-winter and nurse them in the den until spring, when all emerge in search of food. The cubs will stay with their very protective mother for about two years. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Black bears are North America's most familiar and common bears. They typically live in forests and are excellent tree climbers, but are also found in mountains and swamps. Despite their name, black bears can be blue-gray or blue-black, brown, cinnamon, or even (very rarely) white.
The term 'bear' describes either male or female bears. Infant bears, male or female, are called 'cubs'. Other terms used in English to indicate the sex of an adult bear are 'boar' (male) or 'sow' (female), as well as 'he-bear' or 'she-bear' (cubs are also sometimes referred to as 'he-cubs' or 'she-cubs'). A group of bears can be referred to as a 'sleuth' or 'sloth'. The adjective, 'ursine' applies to either sex of bear; the word can be traced back to Latin, ursus, meaning 'a bear'. 'A koala might appear to show ursine characteristics, but it is a marsupial, and not related to any species of bear.'.
Along with the brown bear, it is one of only two of the eight modern bear species not considered globally threatened with extinction by the IUCN. American black bears often mark trees using their teeth and claws as a form of communication with other bears, a behavior common to many species of bears. A small primitive bear called Ursus abstrusus is the oldest known North American fossil member of the genus Ursus, dated to 4.95 mya. This suggests that U. abstrusus may be the direct ancestor of the American black bear, which evolved in North America.
BLACK BEAR CUBS. Baby black bears are born and live in the safety of the mother's den during winter. The average cub litter size is 1 to 3. Babies are born blind. A black bear baby weighs between one half to one pound at birth. 