From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Virus latency (or viral latency) is the ability of a pathogenic virus to lie dormant (latent) within a cell, denoted as the lysogenic part of the viral life cycle. A latent viral infection is a type of persistent viral infection which is distinguished from a chronic viral infection. Latency is the phase in certain viruses' life cycles in which, after initial infection, proliferation of virus particles ceases. However, the viral genome is not fully eradicated. More serious ramifications of a latent infection could be the possibility of transforming the cell, and forcing the cell into uncontrolled cell division. This is a result of the random insertion of the viral genome into the hosts own gene and expression of host cellular growth factors for the benefit of the virus.
Latent Infections by HSV. In a latent infection the viral genome is maintained intact in specific sensory neurons where it is genetically equivalent to that present in a viral particle, but the highly regulated productive cycle cascade of gene expression, so characteristic of herpesvirus infections, does not occur. 
In latent infections, overt disease is not produced, but the virus is not eradicated. This equilibrium between host and parasite is achieved in various ways by different parasites and hosts. Immature viral measles virus nucleocapsids are produced. Latent viral infections affect the incidence and pathogenesis of acute viral disease in several ways. A reactivated virus may spread and initiate an epidemic among susceptible contacts eg.
Other examples of a latent virus include the HIVs. The latent form of HIV is particularly insidious from the point of view of treatment, because the drugs traditionally given to treat AIDS are effective only against the actively replicating form of the virus. Bacteriophage lambda is not associated with disease. However, other viruses that can establish a latent relationship with the host are capable of causing disease. Examples of viruses include the Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (also dubbed HSV 1) and retroviruse
Latent viruses and diseases. Latent viruses are those viruses that can incorporate their genetic material into the genetic material of the infected host cell. Because the viral genetic material can then be replicated along with the host material, the virus becomes effectively silent with respect to detection by the host. Bacteriophage lambda is not associated with disease. However, other viruses that can establish a latent relationship with the host are capable of causing disease. Examples of viruses include the Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (also dubbed HSV 1) and retroviruses
A person with a latent infection can still pass the virus on to others. A latent infection is a situation in which a virus is present in the body, but it remains dormant. Some infections are never fully flushed from the body and become latent. Herpes simplex, which often causes cold sores, is a type of latent infection. Fever is a potential warning sign of an infection. A latent infection is a situation in which a virus is present in the body, but it remains dormant, not causing any overt symptoms.
One example is Herpes Virus family, Herpesviridae, all of which establish latent infection. Herpes virus include Chicken-pox virus and Herpes simplex viruses (HSV-1, HSV-2), all of which establish episomal latency in neurons and leave linear genetic material floating in the cytoplasm. More serious ramifications of a latent infection could be the possibility of transforming the cell, and forcing the cell into uncontrolled cell division. This is a result of the random insertion of the viral genome into the hosts own gene and expression of host cellular growth factors for the benefit of the virus.