Foods to Increase Nitric Oxide Level. Along with foods containing NO, you should also consume foods that contain amino acid L-arginine, and foods rich in vitamin C and E. The amino acid L-arginine helps to produce nitric oxide when it enters the blood vessels. Vitamins C and E help maintain its levels. Advertisement. Nitrogen Monoxide or Nitric Oxide (NO) is a gas that is generated in the body naturally, during chemical reactions. It is essential for our health. This chemical compound plays an important role in various metabolic processes taking place in the body. It acts as a neurotransmitter in the human body
Nitric Oxide supplements actually include arginine—not nitric oxide. Arginine is naturally found in foods such as spinach, sesame seeds, crab, shrimp and white meat turkey. What it’ll do for you: Nitric Oxide’s main job is to deliver messages between the body’s cells. 
Some foods that contain nitric oxide are walnuts, brazilnuts, peanuts, some seafoods, milk, milk products and especially soybeans and chickpeas. Confidence votes 41. Some foods that contain nitric oxide are walnuts, brazilnuts, peanuts, some seafoods, milk, milk products and especially soybeans and chickpeas. Caution: Milk ,Milk products, and chick peas may be a contributing factor to health conditions and a slow metabolic rate.
PREVIOUS ANSWER: foods that contain nitric oxide are walnuts, brazilnuts, peanuts, some seafoods, milk products and especially soybeans and chickpeas. These foods do not actu … ally contain Nitric Oxide but rather the amino acid L-Arginine. Confidence votes 41. Some foods that contain nitric oxide are walnuts, brazilnuts, peanuts, some seafoods, milk, milk products and especially soybeans and chickpeas. Caution: Milk ,Milk products, and chick peas may be a contributing factor to health conditions and a slow metabolic rate.
11. Pomegranates are one of the best nitric oxide foods that you can consume. It’s also a great testosterone booster as well. They have performed well in every study on the topic, showing to increase testosterone levels by 22% and reduce the thickness of arterial plaque by 30%. 
Here are the top 10 nitric oxide foods : 1. Beets – Beetroot juice contains nitrates that are shown to decrease blood pressure and improve athletic performance. 2. Collard greens – Green leafy vegetables are high in nitrate content. 3. Nuts – Walnuts and Brazil nuts are rich in L-Arginine and vitamin E that are important for NO production. 4. Spinach – Contains high nitrate content and one of the excellent nitric oxide foods. 
Vitamin E rich foods are also a great source of food to have on hand when trying to increase nitric oxide production. Some of the best sources of vitamin E are the following: 1  Corn, olive, safflower, and sunflower oils. 2  Mackerel. 3  Salmon. 4  Nuts. 5  Soft margarine. 6  Watercress. 7  Brussels sprouts. 
Strawberries and melons are the fruits that help you produce the most nitric oxide, and other fruits, including raspberries, cherries, bananas, raisins, prunes and figs, also provide some nitric oxide. These are small amounts, however, with a banana providing less than 5 milligrams of nitrates in each 100-gram serving. Beets on table. Photo Credit pilipphoto/iStock/Getty Images. Nitric oxide plays a number of beneficial roles in the body, including increasing blood flow to your brain, lowering blood pressure levels and limiting the formation of blood clots. Foods don't actually contain nitric oxide. Some foods do contain nitrates, which your body can turn into nitric oxide