Civil partnerships, granted under the Civil Partnership and Certain Rights and Obligations of Cohabitants Act 2010, give same-sex couples rights and responsibilities similar, but not equal, to those of civil marriage. Civil partnerships, introduced by the Civil Partnership and Certain Rights and Obligations of Cohabitants Act 2010, give same-sex couples rights and responsibilities similar, but not equal to, those of civil marriage.
Tweet. The Civil Partnership Act became 'live' on 1st January 2011. Same-sex couples can now enter a Civil Partnership in Ireland, which carries an extensive range of marriage-like rights and obligations. These rights and obligations also apply to almost all foreign same-sex civil marriages and civil partnerships. Civil partnership is a different legal union to that of civil marriage. However, civil partners will enjoy most of the same rights and responsibilities of a married couple. The way you enter into a civil partnership and a civil marriage are almost identical.
A civil partnership is a relationship between two people of the same sex, formed when they register as civil partners of each other, which ends only on death, dissolution or annulment. Part 2 of the Act relates to England and Wales, Part 3 to Scotland and Part 4 to Northern Ireland. A civil partnership is formed once both individuals have signed the civil partnership document in the presence of a registrar and two witnesses. Under the standard procedure, before registration, each party will usually have to give notice to the appropriate authority.
The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013 legalised full same-sex marriage in England and Wales starting from March 2014, although civil partnership also remains available. A civil partnership is formed once both individuals have signed the civil partnership document in the presence of a registrar and two witnesses. Under the standard procedure, before registration, each party will usually have to give notice to the appropriate authority.
Civil Partnership Act 2005. This Act is effective from 5 December 2005. It allows same-sex couples to register a Civil Partnership, which gives legal recognition of their relationship and rights and obligations similar to those of married couples. The Act also recognises legal same-sex relationships, which took place in certain other countries. 
(f) The rights of a qualifiying co-habitant. Under the law as it stood prior to the commencement of the Civil Partnership Act 2010, co-habitants had no automatic property rights, no rights of occupation in the property that was their home and no rights of inheritance or financial support. The range of orders that a court may make when dissolving a civil partnership is provided for by Part 12 of the Act of 2010 and replicates the provisions in force in relation to applications for judicial separation and divorce.
Civil Partnership. The Civil Partnership Act 2004 was passed by the Westminster Parliament in November 2004, and came into effect on December 5th 2005. Under the Act, same-sex couples can register a civil partnership, which has almost the same legal effects, rights and obligations as marriage does for mixed-sex couples. For that reason, civil partnership is sometimes called ‘gay marriage’. 
Part 8 of the Act of 2010 provides for the succession rights of civil partners and provides that civil partners have a legal right share to one half of the estate of the other in the event that one other dies testate. The range of orders that a court may make when dissolving a civil partnership is provided for by Part 12 of the Act of 2010 and replicates the provisions in force in relation to applications for judicial separation and divorce.
“the Act” means the Civil Partnership and Certain Rights and Obligations of Cohabitants Act 2010; “the Act of 2004” means the Civil Registration Act 2004; “civil partnership law proceedings” has the same meaning as in section 139 of the Act; “cohabitation proceedings” means proceedings under Part 15 of the Act, and. reference to registration of a civil partnership includes, in the case of a civil partnership recognised by virtue of section 5 of the Act, registration of a legal relationship as referred to in that section. Venue.