Myocyte: A muscle cell. From myo-, muscle + -cyte, cell = muscle cell. Remaining young at heart is a desirable but elusive goal. Unbeknown to us, however, myocyte regeneration may accomplish just that.. (Nature 415, 240, 2003).
Cardiac Myocytes and Sarcomeres. The cardiac myocyte is a specialized muscle cell that is approximately 25 μ in diameter and about 100 μ in length. The myocyte is composed of bundles of myofibrils that contain myofilaments (Figure 1)
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. The striated cells of cardiac and skeletal muscles are referred to as muscle fibers. A cell from the biceps brachii muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomeres. The myofibrils of smooth muscle cells are not arranged into sarcomeres. The sarcomeres are composed of thin and thick filaments. Thin filaments are made of actin and attach at Z lines which help them line up correctly with each other.
Cardiac muscle consists of interlacing bundles of cardiomyocytes (muscle cells). Like skeletal muscle it is striated with narrow dark and light bands, due to the parallel arrangement of actin and myosin filaments that extend from end to end of each myocyte. 
Cardiac muscle cells or cardiomyocytes (also known as myocardiocytes or cardiac myocytes) are the muscle cells (myocytes) that make up the cardiac muscle. Each myocardial cell contains myofibrils, which are specialized organelles consisting of long chains of sarcomeres, the fundamental contractile units of muscle cells. Cardiomyocytes show striations similar to those on skeletal muscle cells, but unlike multinucleated skeletal cells, they contain only one nucleus. Cardiomyocytes make up the atria (the chambers in which blood enters the heart) and the ventricles (the chambers where blood is collected and pumped out of the heart). These cells must be able to shorten and lengthen their fibers and the fibers must be flexible enough to stretch.
There are three types of myofilaments: 1  Thick filaments, composed of protein molecules called myosin. 2  In striations of muscle bands, these are the dark filaments that make up the A band. 3  Thin filaments are composed of protein molecules called actin. A cell from the biceps brachii muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomeres. The myofibrils of smooth muscle cells are not arranged into sarcomeres. The sarcomeres are composed of thin and thick filaments. Thin filaments are made of actin and attach at Z lines which help them line up correctly with each other.
You can dissolve an embryonic heart into its individual cell types with trypsin, an enzyme that destroys the protein glue between the cells. Plate these cells in a dish and you will see some cells-called myocytes-that beat independently. The cells shown here are from the chick embryo. A single cell beats when a complex series of gates-called ion channels-open and close in an organized manner. 
Medical Definition of MYOCYTE. : a contractile cell; specifically: a muscle cell. What made you want to look up myocyte? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible). View Seen & Heard Highlights from Around the Site. Test Your Vocabulary! Test Your Vocabulary! 
There are two types of cells within the heart: the cardiomyocytes and the cardiac pacemaker cells. Cardiomyocytes make up the atria (the chambers in which blood enters the heart) and the ventricles (the chambers where blood is collected and pumped out of the heart). These cells must be able to shorten and lengthen their fibers and the fibers must be flexible enough to stretch.