See Prices. Lantus (insulin glargine) is a long-acting insulin analogue that replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body. Insulin helps to control blood sugar levels in diabetes mellitus, including diabetes type 1 and diabetes type 2. See Prices. Humalog 50/50 (insulin lispro) is a mix of long-and short-acting insulins used to treat diabetes mellitus, including diabetes type 1 and diabetes type 2. It replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body to help control blood sugar levels, and the mix allows twice-daily dosing with a faster effect.
Lantus Insulin at VetRxDirect – While this site caters to medicine for pets, it sells what appears to be the same Lantus insulin that others offer to humans — a 10ML vial at a price of $281.49 on our last visit. (www.vetrxdirect.com). 5. Lantus Insulin at VetRxDirect – While this site caters to medicine for pets, it sells what appears to be the same Lantus insulin that others offer to humans — a 10ML vial at a price of $281.49 on our last visit. (www.vetrxdirect.com). 6.
A: Lantus (insulin glargine) is a manmade version of human insulin that is long acting. Lantus works continuously with a relatively constant blood sugar lowering effect for 24 hours. Lantus is used to treat type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Lantus (Insulin Glargine) Dosage. Lantus is a long-acting insulin that works slowly over about 24 hours. You may have to use Lantus in combination with another type of insulin or with a type of oral diabetes medicine to keep your blood sugar under control.
Thanks for your Reply! Report This | Share this:Anyone know the cost the Lantus Insulin Pen Or....My insurance won't cover my Lantus Solostar Pens; I pay $183.20 for a box of five. I also take Victoza at a whopping $372.15 out-of-pocket (same insurance won't cover it). Report This | Share this:Anyone know the cost the Lantus Insulin Pen Or....I've never bought the pens but have paid about 150.00 a vial for Lantus. I don't use Humalog. I use Humalin 70/30 which i can get for 25.00 at Walmart.
Lantus. Lantus (insulin glargine) is a long-acting insulin analogue that replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body. Insulin helps to control blood sugar levels in diabetes mellitus, including diabetes type 1 and diabetes type 2.
News reports indicate that the cost of Lantus, a top-selling insulin produced by Sanofi, has gone up twice already this year, first 10 and then 15 percent. In addition, Novo Nordisk has also increased the price of Levemir, another common insulin treatment, by 10 percent. 9/27/14: the last time I had paid the full retail insurance price for Lantus was in January. The cost was 170$, with my insurance co-pay it was 35$, Due to a change in health insurance I had to buy a bottle of Lantus today and pay the full price of 234$.
The other day I checked on the price of Lantus; back in June 2014, it cost me $200 a vial. Now it’s going to run me $285! And this is from one of the cheapest of pharmacies in Philadelphia, PA. Obamacare’s culpability for rising drug cost is mostly just a red herring. 9/27/14: the last time I had paid the full retail insurance price for Lantus was in January. The cost was 170$, with my insurance co-pay it was 35$, Due to a change in health insurance I had to buy a bottle of Lantus today and pay the full price of 234$.
1 If changing patients from once daily TOUJEO (insulin glargine) 300 Units/mL to once daily LANTUS, the recommended initial LANTUS dose is 80% of the TOUJEO dose that is being discontinued. 2  This dose reduction will lower the likelihood of hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 