Popularity of the Name Konner. The spelling of Konner first appeared on the U.S. male naming charts in 2003 (not surprisingly, that year Connor was the 43rd most popular name in America). As we’ve already mentioned, American parents have a penchant for making up new spellings (it’s a bit tiresome, but ok).
Konner has 1 variant: Konor. Konner is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a somewhat prominent last name for both adults and children (#109328 out of 150436, Top 73%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Konner for boys. Konner entered the list in 2003 and reached its apex rank of #728 in the U.S. in 2009, and is at #919 currently. (2014 Birth Statistics).
You've come to the right place. Our baby name guide presents the most popular baby names, celeb baby names, and thousands of names that are searchable by origin and gender. Our guide also includes baby name meanings and lets you keep a list of your favorite names to help you make this important decision. Photo: Thinkstock / The Bump
What does Connor mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Connor is of Irish origin. The meaning of Connor is lover of hounds. It is also of Scottish origin, where its meaning is wise and English origin, where its meaning is hound, wolf lover.
Konner is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ko-nner. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 919 in baby name popularity for boys with 232 occurrences. It ranked 17812 in popular baby names for girls with 5 occurrences. View the Konner Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Konner has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Konner to other names. Konner is a variant spelling of Connor. 
[ 2 syll. kon-ner, ko-nn-er ] The baby boy name Konner is pronounced K AE-N-er †. Konner is of Celtic origin. Konner is a variant transcription of Connor (English and Irish). Konner is somewhat popular as a baby boy name. The name's popularity has been rising since the 2000s; before that, it was of only sporadic use
The Irish Baby Names list has more than 1,700 names for you to choose from, together with their meanings. You can rate your favorite names, add your comments, browse the list, or use the Advanced Search Tool above to find the most popular Irish baby names among our users. 
Konner /kon-ner/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys means desiring. Konner is an alternate spelling of Konnor: see also Connor. Compare last name Kanner. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Konner for boys. Konner entered the list in 2003 and reached its apex rank of #728 in the U.S. in 2009, and is at #919 currently. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Origin of the name Connor: Anglicized form of the Irish Gaelic Conchobhar, a compound name composed of the ele-ments conn (wisdom, counsel, strength) or con (hound, dog) and cobhair (aid). “High, will, desire” and “hound lover” are other definitions attributed to the name. Var: Conner. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Konner. Konner is an Americanized respelling of Connor (American parents are famous for turning C names into K names and they also have a knack for switching up vowels). There are two possible origins for the name Connor – one is Irish Gaelic and one is Anglo-Saxon. The spelling of Konner first appeared on the U.S. male naming charts in 2003 (not surprisingly, that year Connor was the 43rd most popular name in America). As we’ve already mentioned, American parents have a penchant for making up new spellings (it’s a bit tiresome, but ok).