Definition. Fabricated by synthesis and not produced naturally or organically. Examples of synthetic materials include certain fabrics, building supplies, and oils. The suede covering the sofa was synthetic and that's why the store was able to sell it at such a reasonable price .
Author: Robert Weldon. A synthetic gem material is one that is made in a laboratory, but which shares virtually all chemical, optical, and physical characteristics of its natural mineral counterpart, though in some cases, namely synthetic turquoise and synthetic opal, additional compounds can be present. Flux growth (solution process). Today some synthetic gems, such as emerald, ruby, sapphire, alexandrite, and spinel can be created through a flux-growth process. Flux is a solid material that, when melted, dissolves other materials in the same way that water dissolves sugar. As the dissolved chemical solution gradually cools, synthetic crystals form
Synthetic marijuana is far more powerful, and it just depends on the compounds that are in the synthetic cannabinoid. The compounds itself, it's almost like a DNA, like little piece of DNA, and some of the analogs could be 1 to 800 times more powerful, some are 25 times more powerful, some are 5 times. Courtesy DEA. Much like Frankenstein's monster, synthetic marijuana was created in a lab and resulted in a perversion of its original subject: the effects of THC, the component of marijuana that provides the high sensation.
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds that are artificially made (synthesized). Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized from other raw materials. Semi-synthetic oils (also called 'synthetic blends') are blends of mineral oil with no more than 30% synthetic oil designed to have many of the benefits of synthetic oil without matching the cost of pure synthetic oil.
Full Definition of SYNTHETIC. 1. 2. : attributing to a subject something determined by observation rather than analysis of the nature of the subject and not resulting in self-contradiction if negated — compare analytic. 3. 4. 16 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  synthetic. 2  synthetic ammonia process. 3  synthetic aperture radar. 4  synthetic a priori. 5  synthetic detergent. 6  synthetic division. 7  synthetic fiber. 8  synthetic geometry. 9  synthetic iron oxide. 10  synthetic judgment. 11  synthetic medium. 12  synthetic philosophy. 13  synthetic photograph. 14  synthetic resin. 15  synthetic rubber. 16  synthetic seniority.
synthetic. adj. 1. (Chemistry) (of a substance or material) made artificially by chemical reaction. 2. not genuine; insincere: synthetic compassion. 3. (Linguistics) denoting languages, such as Latin, whose morphology is characterized by synthesis. 3), polysynthetic. 5. Also, syn•thet′i•cal. Logic. of or pertaining to a noncontradictory proposition in which the predicate is not included in, or entailed by, the subject. 6. noting a gem mineral manufactured so as to be physically, chemically, and optically identical with the mineral as found in nature.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature, because, in general, it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties to those found in traditional mineral oils. Semi-synthetic oils (also called 'synthetic blends') are blends of mineral oil with no more than 30% synthetic oil designed to have many of the benefits of synthetic oil without matching the cost of pure synthetic oil.
syn•thet•ic. 1. of, pertaining to, proceeding by, or involving synthesis (opposed to analytic). 2. pertaining to or denoting compounds, materials, etc., formed through a chemical process by human agency, as opposed to those of natural origin: synthetic fiber; synthetic drugs. 3), polysynthetic. 5. Also, syn•thet′i•cal. Logic. of or pertaining to a noncontradictory proposition in which the predicate is not included in, or entailed by, the subject. 6. noting a gem mineral manufactured so as to be physically, chemically, and optically identical with the mineral as found in nature.