Beans are a good source of iron, protein and fiber. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Iron, an essential mineral, exists naturally in animal products and some plant foods, including beans and other legumes. Iron Content. A 1-cup serving of boiled black or pinto beans provides 3.6 mg of iron. A 1 cup serving of boiled navy or lima beans provides 4.5 mg of iron, and a 1 cup serving of boiled kidney beans provides 5.2 mg of iron. Other legumes also provide good iron sources. A 1 cup serving of boiled black-eyed peas provides 1.8 mg of iron and a 1 cup serving of boiled lentils provides 6.6 mg of iron
1 Two (2) or more servings a day. 2  Legumes, which is another name for beans, peas, and lentils, are all good sources of fiber, protein, iron, calcium, zinc, and B vitamins. 3  This group also includes chickpeas, baked and refried beans, soy milk, tempeh, and texturized vegetable protein. Legumes are all good sources of fiber, protein, iron, calcium, zinc, and B vitamins, and other nutrients that may prevent cancer and heart disease. 1 Lima beans are good sources of dietary fiber, manganese, folate, protein, potassium, iron, copper, phosphorus, magnesium, and vitamin B1 (thiamin). 2  Lima beans can help lower your bad cholesterol, reduce your risk of heart attack, give you energy, stabilize blood sugar, and provide antioxidant benefits.
Black beans emerged from our food ranking system as an excellent source of molybdenum. In addition, they are a very good source of folate and dietary fiber. Our food ranking system also qualified black beans as a good source of copper, manganese, vitamin B1, phosphorus, protein, magnesium, and iron. In the case of protein, for example, a one cup serving of cooked black beans provided about one third of a day's protein requirement. 
Dried beans and dark green leafy vegetables are especially good sources of iron, even better on a per calorie basis than meat. Iron absorption is increased markedly by eating foods containing vitamin C along with foods containing iron. Vegetarians do not have a higher incidence of iron deficiency than do meat eaters. Fortunately, many vegetables, such as broccoli and bok choy, which are high in iron, are also high in vitamin C so that the iron in these foods is very well absorbed. Commonly eaten combinations, such as beans and tomato sauce or stir-fried tofu and broccoli, also result in generous levels of iron absorption.
Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1. Iron-Rich Foods. Very good sources of heme iron, with 3.5 milligrams or more per serving, include: 1  3 ounces of beef or chicken liver. 2  3 ounces of clams, mollusks, or mussels.
Toss cooked pinto beans with minced onions and garlic for a tasty and iron-rich side dish. Add pinto beans to your favorite minestrone soup recipe or stir them into a pot of chili. Pinto beans pair nicely with noodles so add them to a pasta salad, along with fresh cucumbers, tomatoes and onions. Both canned and prepared dried pinto beans are a healthy addition to your diet, though homemade beans are usually much lower in sodium than canned versions. A 1-cup serving of canned pinto beans contains slightly more than 3 milligrams of iron. One cup of boiled pinto beans supplies you with 3.57 milligrams of iron
1 Legumes, which is another name for beans, peas, and lentils, are all good sources of fiber, protein, iron, calcium, zinc, and B vitamins. 2  This group also includes chickpeas, baked and refried beans, soy milk, tempeh, and texturized vegetable protein. Legumes are all good sources of fiber, protein, iron, calcium, zinc, and B vitamins, and other nutrients that may prevent cancer and heart disease. 1 Lima beans are good sources of dietary fiber, manganese, folate, protein, potassium, iron, copper, phosphorus, magnesium, and vitamin B1 (thiamin). 2  Lima beans can help lower your bad cholesterol, reduce your risk of heart attack, give you energy, stabilize blood sugar, and provide antioxidant benefits.