The frequency of a haircut depends on the style and health of the hair. Some stylists will allow people to make two appointments: a consultation and an appointment to actually get a haircut. Long hair should be trimmed every 6 weeks. The quality of a person's hair often dictates how often it should get cut. Long hair requires a trim at least every six weeks to avoid split ends. Some people may not get a haircut when they are trying to grow their hair long. This is a mistake, as the hair will often end up looking unhealthy.
Men with longer hair especially need to be clear about how much hair they want cut off. Most will tell the barber just to keep the hair off their collar. This gives a neat, professional look. Men with longer hair might also ask for a layered cut, which gives more movement and dimension to longer hairstyles. 
Long hair is delicate hair; it’s been on your head for years, and it needs gentle treatment. It also needs the occasional trim to stay healthy and free of split ends, but you can get away with longer periods between cuts. Mark your calendar for an overall cut every 10 to 12 weeks. Long curls, on the other hand, can often go as long as 12 to 14 weeks without a cut because curls don’t reveal their whole length as straight or wavy locks do. Keep a close eye on your ends if you’re sporting long curls or a full Pam Grier natural cut; breakage and split ends can affect all hair textures.
Short hairstyles work well for thin hair because the shorter the hair is, the thicker it appears. You can see here how well thin hair works in short styles. Short hairstyles need to be cut and maintained more frequently, about every 2 to 6 weeks depending on how fast your hair grows. Curly Hair. Thick, curly hair can go longer in between cuts if it is kept healthy, because it needs to grow longer for the increased length to be noticeable. If you’re trying to save money or grow your hair out long, it’s easy to go too long in between haircuts or trims. How often you should cut your hair depends on your hair texture and the style you want. Set up a maintenance schedule that keeps your hair healthy and attractive. Thin Hair. It’s hard to find hairstyles for thin hair that look good because there is less hair to sty
If you color or highlight your long hair, it is even more likely to have damage. Regular haircuts will help keep your hair strong and healthy. Long hair should be trimmed at least every 8 to 12 weeks. If you notice more breakage or split ends, it could be cut as frequently as every 6 to 8 weeks. Be specific with your hair stylist when you're getting your haircut. Cavan Images/Iconica/Getty Images. Knowing how often to cut your hair has a lot to do with your hair goals and the chemical processes you put your hair through on a regular basis. This guide should help you set up your own haircut schedule, without making you want to pull your hair out.
1 If you are sporting a longer haircut and want to maintain it that way, you should get a trim not later than 5-6 weeks. 2  Delaying any haircut for more than 6 weeks would bring about split ends which are unhealthy for hair growth. He fills us in completely on the haircut routine men need to follow: 1  You know you really need a haircut when your hair begins to fall onto your ears and creeps down to your nape. 2  If you have a short hairstyle and want to maintain that, you should get a trim every 3-4 weeks.
Since trims keep your hair looking its best, every month or two is a better bet, again depending on the style of your hair. Most men should get their hair cut about every five weeks, whether they have closely cropped hair or a longer style. Women with short hair should visit a hairdresser every four weeks, otherwise their style may begin to lose its shape. This is especially true of blunt bobs. Long hair requires a trim at least every six weeks to avoid split ends. Some people may not get a haircut when they are trying to grow their hair long. This is a mistake, as the hair will often end up looking unhealthy.
But how often do you really need to get a haircut? Some think the answer is every four weeks, others do it just a few times a year. According to Meri Kate O'Connor, senior colorist and educator at Eva Scrivo Salon in New York City, the answer is somewhere in between. You should get your hair cut every six to eight weeks, recommends Meri Kate. The reason is simple, but little-known: By trimming your hair, you prevent the hair cuticle from splitting. When the split goes up the hair shaft, it becomes so thin that it breaks — that's when people get breakage, warns Meri Kate