A carillon-like instrument with fewer than 23 bells is called a chime. American chimes usually have one to one and a half diatonic octaves. Many chimes are automated. The first bell chime was created in 1487. 
For other uses, see Chime. A set of nine chime bars, tuned diatonically. A chime bar or resonator bell is a percussion instrument consisting of a tuned metal bar similar to a glockenspiel bar, with each bar mounted on its own wooden resonator. Chime bars are played with mallets again similar to a glockenspiel. Chime bars can be arranged on a table to be played by a single player, or played by a group in a similar fashion to handbells, with each member holding a chime in one hand and a mallet in the other. They are used from professional music to classrooms.
2) Mounting as a xylophone-style bar-percussion instrument. Rest the chimes on a pair of padded supports which contact the chimes at a distance of 22% of overall chime length from each end (again, the “support point” in the Paint-by-Numbers chart). Position the chimes with the holes facing upward. A few years ago Experimental Musical Instruments put out a book on making wind chimes. In that book I included a photo and a few words about a set of chimes in which the body of air enclosed in tube is tuned to resonate with the chime tone.
Description. With a name that means, the hitting of one body against another, instruments in the percussion family are played by being struck, shaken, or scraped. In the orchestra, the percussion section provides a variety of rhythms, textures and tone colors. Percussion instruments are classified as tuned or untuned. Percussion. With a name that means, the hitting of one body against another, instruments in the percussion family are played by being struck, shaken, or scraped. In the orchestra, the percussion section provides a variety of rhythms, textures and tone colors
Percussion instruments are classified as tuned or untuned. Tuned instruments play specific pitches or notes, just like the woodwind, brass and string instruments. Untuned instruments produce a sound with an indefinite pitch, like the sound of a hand knocking on a door. Chimes are a tuned instrument consisting of a set of 12 to 18 metal tubes hung from a metal frame. The chimes, or tubular bells, sound like a church bell when they are struck with a mallet.
A chime bar or resonator bell is a percussion instrument consisting of a tuned metal bar similar to a glockenspiel bar, with each bar mounted on its own wooden resonator. Chim … e bars are played with mallets again similar to a glockenspiel. BJ Sullivan. On a guitar this refers to harmonic tones that sound chime like. An example would be produced by plucking the string while lightly touching the string above the 12 … th fret and releasing the touch on the string as soon as it is plucked. 5 people found this useful.
Percussion instruments produce sound when they are struck or shaken. Their name, percussion, means the hitting of one body against another.. In the orchestra, the percussion section provides rhythm and tone color. Percussion instruments are made from many materials, but usually consist of either a solid material or a stretched membrane (thin material). Drums, the most well-known members of the percussion family, come in many shapes and sizes, but are all constructed with a membrane stretched across a frame or hollow container. Chimes are a tuned instrument consisting of a set of 12 to 18 metal tubes hung from a metal frame. The chimes, or tubular bells, sound like a church bell when they are struck with a mallet.