Filing and Payment: The State Occupancy Fee, as well as the Municipal Occupancy Tax, if applicable, is collected from the customer by the hotel and reported and paid to the New Jersey Division of Taxation. Inquiries concerning the State Occupancy Fee or Municipal Occupancy Tax should be directed in writing to: New Jersey Division of Taxation, Regulatory Services Branch, P.O. Box 269, Trenton, New Jersey 08695-0269; or via email.
Long-Term Care is a term that is used to describe an array of services that are available to people with prolonged illnesses, disabilities or cognitive disorders. LTC services include health, medical, personal care, and social services, as described below. We shall use the term MDB. This describes how long the policy will pay daily benefits. Depending on state regulations, the period can be as short as one year (in New Jersey, the minimum is two years) or as long as lifetime benefits (unlimited).
The State Occupancy Fee is imposed on the room rentals that are currently subject to the 7% New Jersey sales tax and is in addition to the sales tax. Inquiries concerning the State Occupancy Fee or Municipal Occupancy Tax should be directed in writing to: New Jersey Division of Taxation, Regulatory Services Branch, P.O. Box 269, Trenton, New Jersey 08695-0269; or via email.
The Municipal Occupancy Tax will be reported and paid to the Division of Taxation in the same manner as the State Occupancy Fee, which is reported on the HM-100. Sample Municipal Ordinance: Visit the New Jersey League of Municipalities to view a draft of a sample ordinance. Inquiries concerning the State Occupancy Fee or Municipal Occupancy Tax should be directed in writing to: New Jersey Division of Taxation, Regulatory Services Branch, P.O. Box 269, Trenton, New Jersey 08695-0269; or via email.
If you owe it on the purchase, you probably owe it on the rental. The rental and lease of most tangible personal property is subject to sales and use tax in New Jersey, and the duration of the rental/lease period impacts the collection/remittance of sales tax. Short-term rentals. The lessor must collect from the renter sales tax on the short term rental or lease (periods of six months or less) of property. Each rental payment is subject to tax and the payment is due with the leasing agency’s next sales and use tax return. Long
Presently, the cost for long-term care in New Jersey may exceed more than $65,000 a year. The current average length of stay in a long-term care facility is 2 years. We shall use the term MDB. This describes how long the policy will pay daily benefits. Depending on state regulations, the period can be as short as one year (in New Jersey, the minimum is two years) or as long as lifetime benefits (unlimited).
The Occupancy Fee/Tax is not imposed on the charge for the rental of a room in a hotel/motel for the purpose of assembly (e.g. a meeting, seminar, wedding, etc). Inquiries concerning the State Occupancy Fee or Municipal Occupancy Tax should be directed in writing to: New Jersey Division of Taxation, Regulatory Services Branch, P.O. Box 269, Trenton, New Jersey 08695-0269; or via email.
Hotel occupancy. Hotel occupancy is the use, or right to use, a room in a hotel. The room rate or rental charge is the amount that guests must pay to stay in the hotel room (or to have the right to use the hotel room). This amount is taxable at the full state and local sales tax rate. See Tax Bulletin Sales Tax Rates, Additional Taxes, and Fees (TB-ST-825) . Hotel operators must collect sales tax on the room rate or rental charge for hotel occupancy, unless the charge is $2.00 or less per day. A room remarketer (such as an Internet travel site) is considered to be a hotel operator and must collect sales tax on the charge to its customers for hotel occupancy.