All people with achondroplasia have short stature. The average height of an adult male with achondroplasia is 131 centimeters (4 feet, 4 inches), and the average height for adult females is 124 centimeters (4 feet, 1 inch). About 80 percent of people with achondroplasia have average-size parents; these cases result from new mutations in the FGFR3 gene. In the remaining cases, people with achondroplasia have inherited an altered FGFR3 gene from one or two affected parents.
In this article. Dwarfism is a condition of short stature. It is defined by the advocacy group Little People of America (LPA) as an adult height of 4 feet 10 inches or under, as a result of a medical or genetic condition. Although other groups may extend the criteria for certain forms of dwarfism to 5 feet, the average height of an adult with dwarfism is 4 feet. There are two main categories of dwarfism -- disproportionate and proportionate. The most common form of dwarfism, achondroplasia occurs in about one out of 26,000 to 40,000 babies and is evident at birth. People with achondroplasia have a relatively long trunk and shortened upper parts of their arms and legs.
Narrowing of the spinal canal. Achondroplasia is one of the most common causes of short stature today. People with Achondroplasia have an average body size but disproportionate (shorter) limbs. The average height of a male is 4'4 and a female is 4'1. This is due to the long bones growing more slowly as opposed to the rest of the body, both in the womb and throughout childhood. Young children with Achondroplasia may have hearing, speech or breathing problems, but all of these are treatable.
Dwarfism (UK : /ˈdwɔːfɪsəm/ ; US : /ˈdwɔrfɪzəm/) occurs when an individual person or animal is short in stature resulting from a medical condition caused by slow growth. In humans, dwarfism is sometimes defined as an adult height of less than 4 feet 10 inches (58 in; 147 cm).
Hypotonia, or low muscle tone, is common in dwarfs, but intelligence and lifespan are usually normal. Defining dwarfism by height alone is problematic because short stature in itself is not a disorder. For example, pygmies have adult male heights of less than 150 cm (4 feet 11 inches) on average. In humans, dwarfism is sometimes defined as an adult height of less than 4 feet 10 inches (58 in; 147 cm).
The average height for a female with achondroplasia is 4 feet. Researchers have studied the use of growth hormone in people with achondroplasia. The found that it does increase height by a couple inches when given during childhood, however, they do not believe that it affects the overall adult height. According to Little People of America, dwarfism is a medical or genetic condition that usually results in an adult height of 4'10 or shorter for men and 4' 7 or shorter for women. Dwarfism is usually caused by genetic disorders
A typical defining characteristic of dwarfism is an adult height of less than 147 cm (4 ft 10 in). Since those with dwarfism have such a wide range of physical characteristics, variations in individuals are identified by diagnosing and monitoring the underlying disorders. In humans, dwarfism is sometimes defined as an adult height of less than 4 feet 10 inches (58 in; 147 cm).
Hypochondroplasia is similar to another skeletal disorder called achondroplasia, but the features tend to be milder. All people with hypochondroplasia have short stature. The adult height for men with this condition ranges from 138 centimeters to 165 centimeters (4 feet, 6 inches to 5 feet, 5 inches). The height range for adult women is 128 centimeters to 151 centimeters (4 feet, 2 inches to 4 feet, 11 inches).
Achondroplasia is defined by central nervous system defects as well as the prior physical symptoms. Average height for an adult man or woman diagnosed with achondroplasia is about 120 centimeters (47.2 inches), although technically a maximum of 148 centimeters (58.2 inches) is also considered achondroplastic. Achondroplastic people typically have a long trunk and smaller upper legs and upper arms. 