Gilead expanded its move into respiratory therapeutics in 2007 by entering into a licensing agreement with Parion for an epithelial sodium channel inhibitor for the treatment of pulmonary diseases, including cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and bronchiectasis. In 2004, Gilead launched Truvada, a fixed-dose combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine. In November 2005, George W. Bush urged Congress to pass $7.1 billion in emergency funding to prepare for the possible bird flu pandemic, of which $1 billion is solely dedicated to the purchase, and distribution of Tamiflu.
Mount Gilead--literally, Mount of the Gilead--may refer to some particular height which we have now no means of identifying (Genesis 31:23). The name Jebel Jil`ad is still, indeed, applied to a mountain South of Nahr ez-Zerqa and North of es-Salt; but this does not meet the necessities of the passage as it stands. The name Gilead is sometimes used to denote the whole country East of the Jordan (Genesis 37:25; Joshua 22:9; 2 Samuel 2:9, etc.). Again, along with Bashan, it indicates the land East of Jordan, as distinguished from the Moab plateau (Deuteronomy 3:10; Joshua 13:11; 2 Kings 10:33).
Gilead is later mentioned as the homeplace of the prophet Elijah. King Tiglath-pileser III of Assyria says he established the province of Gal'azu (Gilead). Gilead (Arabic: جلعاد Ǧalʻād ‎) is also used to refer to the mountainous land extending north and south of Jabbok. It is used more generally for the entire region east of the Jordan River. From its mountainous character, it is called the mount of Gilead (Genesis 31:25). It is called also the land of Gilead (Numbers 32:1), and sometimes simply Gilead (Psalms 60:9; Genesis 37:25). As a whole, it included the tribal territories of Gad, Reuben, and the eastern half of Manasseh (Deut 3:13; Num 32:40).
From its mountainous character it is called the mount of Gilead (Genesis 31:25). It is called also the land of Gilead (Numbers 32:1), and sometimes simply Gilead (Psalms 60:7; Genesis 37:25). It comprised the possessions of the tribes of Gad and Reuben and the south part of Manasseh (Deuteronomy 3:13; Numbers 32:40). The name Gilead is sometimes used to denote the whole country East of the Jordan (Genesis 37:25; Joshua 22:9; 2 Samuel 2:9, etc.). Again, along with Bashan, it indicates the land East of Jordan, as distinguished from the Moab plateau (Deuteronomy 3:10; Joshua 13:11; 2 Kings 10:33).
There are quite a few Gileads mentioned in the Bible: 1  Probably the most familiar Gilead is the mountainous area east of the Jordan, predominantly between the rivers Arnon and Jabbok but also applied to a larger area (Judges 20:1, 10:4). 1 Probably the most familiar Gilead is the mountainous area east of the Jordan, predominantly between the rivers Arnon and Jabbok but also applied to a larger area (Judges 20:1, 10:4).
Question: What is the balm of Gilead?. Answer: A balm is an aromatic, medicinal substance derived from plants. Gilead was an area east of the Jordan River, well known for its spices and ointments. The balm of Gilead was, therefore, a high-quality ointment with healing properties. The balm was made from resin taken from a flowering plant in the Middle East, although the exact species is unknown. It was also called the balsam of Mecca.
Profile. Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, and commercializes therapeutics to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases. 
In 1990, Gilead entered into a collaborative research agreement with Glaxo for the research and development of genetic code blockers, also known as antisense. This collaboration was terminated in 1998, and Gilead's antisense intellectual property portfolio was sold to Isis Pharmaceuticals. In 2004, Gilead launched Truvada, a fixed-dose combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine. In November 2005, George W. Bush urged Congress to pass $7.1 billion in emergency funding to prepare for the possible bird flu pandemic, of which $1 billion is solely dedicated to the purchase, and distribution of Tamiflu.