The thickness of the gravel base for an asphalt driveway should be at least 8 inches. Plan to install the rocks in 4-inch layers and compact each layer. To prevent the edges of the asphalt from cracking or chipping, make the gravel base 6 inches wider than the asphalt pavement. 
General Gravel Driveway Information-Gravel layers should be at least 3-8 thick. -Gravel driveway surface should be crowned or sloped to a bank. Ideal Grade Percentage 2-5% Minimum 1% Maximum 11%. Calculate Grade Percentage: Difference in Elevation in feet divided by horizontal length in feet x 100. Driveways that are constructed on clay should have 12-16 of clay removed and 8 of fill sand placed with at least 6 of gravel. Another solution is to place a 4-6 layer of 2 rock between the clay and your driveway gravel, this will help lock up to prevent rebound.
3. Convert your estimated rock depth in inches to feet by dividing the number of inches by 12. For example, if you decide on a depth of 4 inches of rock, the conversion is 0.33 feet. If you decide on a depth of 6 inches of rock, the conversion is 0.5 feet. Calculate the cubic feet. To figure the cubic feet, you multiply the square feet by the depth of rock. For example, a 1,200-square-foot driveway with a depth of 0.5 feet of rock is 600 cubic feet.
Driveway Layers. A gravel drive should have a first layer of baseball-sized stones at least 4 inches deep. According to Tim Carter of AskTheBuilder.com, each layer thereafter should be 4 inches thick and in gradually smaller stone. To start a driveway with sand and limestone mix, put down at least 8 inches and compact it to 6 inches with a roller. If money is a consideration, TractorPoint.com suggests using crushed asphalt as a base, topped with 2 to 3 inches of crushed stone. A top dressing of stone may be needed later for appearanc
6. Measure the width of the drive so that it corresponds with the plan you have made. This may be an appropriate step to consider the width you will build in. A minimum width for a typical residential driveway is about eight feet, but even for a single lane drive, ten or twelve feet is better. 10. Grade the fill material or existing soil so that your slab of concrete will be the correct depth, or thickness. Usually driveways are at least four inches thick; for heavier vehicles or difficult to stabilize soil conditions, thicker concrete is suggested.
Concrete cures to required strengths in 28 days. Driveway concrete is recommended to have 4000 PSI. The concrete will achieve approximately 70% of its required strength in 7 days, which would be about 2800 to 3000 PSI. That is sufficient strength for you to drive a standard family vehicle on the concrete.
In many cases a 4-inch thickness may be adequate, but 5 or even 6 inches of full-depth asphalt will assure you of a stronger, stable driveway under a wider range of climate and loads. As an option, some contractors use 6 to 8 inches of compacted aggregate, or gravel, as a base for 3 inches of asphalt pavement. 