High PTH levels may be caused by: 1  A parathyroid gland growth (hyperplasia) or a parathyroid tumor. 2  A low level of calcium in the blood. 3  Some types of cancer, such as of the lung, kidney, pancreatic, or ovarian cancer. Low PTH levels may be caused by: 1  Damage to the parathyroid gland, which can by caused by neck surgery or radiation treatments. 2  A rare disease, such as sarcoidosis or histiocytosis X. 3  An overdose of vitamin D or calcium. 4  Cancer, such as lymphoma or multiple myeloma. 5  A low magnesium level
Results. A parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood. The test is used to help identify hyperparathyroidism, to find the cause of abnormal calcium levels, or to check the status of chronic kidney disease. Low PTH levels may be caused by: 1  Damage to the parathyroid gland, which can by caused by neck surgery or radiation treatments. 2  A rare disease, such as sarcoidosis or histiocytosis X. 3  An overdose of vitamin D or calcium. 4  Cancer, such as lymphoma or multiple myeloma. 5  A low magnesium level
Although values differ with different institutions, the average parathyroid hormone (PTH) Level ranges between 10 and 65 pg/ml. An increase in the level of PTH is one factor that can lead a doctor to suspect hyperparathyroidism. 
When the calcium level in the blood is too high, the cells of the parathyroids make less parathyroid hormone (or stop making it altogether), thereby, allowing calcium levels to decrease. This feed-back mechanism runs constantly, thereby maintaining calcium (and parathyroid hormone) in a very narrow normal range. Under the presence of parathyroid hormone, bones will give up their calcium in an attempt to increase the blood level of calcium. Under normal conditions, this process is very highly tuned and the amount of calcium in our bones remains at a normal high level.
Parathyroid Hormone. Guide. A parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood. This test is used to help identify hyperparathyroidism, to find the cause of abnormal calcium levels, or to check the status of chronic kidney disease. PTH controls calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood. 
When the calcium level in the blood is too high, the cells of the parathyroids make less parathyroid hormone (or stop making it altogether), thereby allowing calcium levels to decrease. This feed-back mechanism runs constantly, thereby maintaining calcium (and parathyroid hormone) in a very narrow normal range. Learn how parathyroid glands work by making parathyroid hormone to control blood and bone calcium. This page of Parathyroid.com discusses the normal function of parathyroid glands, how parathyroid glands monitor and control blood calcium and what it means to have high blood calcium.
When blood-calcium levels are too high, the parathyroid glands produce less PTH. But sometimes one or more of these glands produce too much hormone, leading to abnormally high levels of calcium (hypercalcemia) and low levels of phosphorus in your blood. 
Parathyroid hormone (PTH), also known as parathormone, is a hormone released by the parathyroid glands. The four parathyroid glands are located in your neck, next to the thyroid gland. These glands are responsible for managing calcium, vitamin D, and phosphorus levels in the blood and bones. 
The so-called intact PTH is the most frequently ordered parathyroid hormone test. It is used to help diagnose the cause of a low or high calcium level and to help distinguish between parathyroid-related and non-parathyroid-related causes. 1 If calcium levels are high and PTH levels are high, then the parathyroid glands are producing inappropriately high amounts of PTH. 2  A health practitioner may order X-rays or other imaging studies to help determine the cause and evaluate the severity of hyperparathyroidism.