Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper (cooked and dried unripe fruit), green pepper (dried unripe fruit) and white pepper (ripe fruit seeds). Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a traditional medicine. Black pepper is the world's most traded spice. It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
Both black and white pepper come from the shrub classified as Piper nigrum. Piper nigrum is one of about 1,000 species in the Piper genus that is part of the larger family of peppers called Piperaceae. The word pepper originated from the Sanskrit word pippali, meaning berry. Pepper is now grown in Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, and Kampuchea as well as the West coast of India, known as Malabar, where it originated. The United States is the largest importer of pepper.
Assorted colored peppercorns. White peppercorns are made from the same fruit as the black and the green varieties, but the fruit is allowed to fully ripen, whereupon it turns red. The fruits are soaked to soften the flesh, which is eventually removed, leaving just the whitish seed, which is then dried. Some of the best peppercorns in the world come from the Malabar coast in the Indian state of Kerala. The color of the various peppercorns you see in the store are a result of either when the tiny fruits are harvested, or else the type of processing they undergo after picking.
Peppercorns are actually a tiny fruit, the drupe (a fruit with a single seed in the middle) of a flowering vine known as piper nigrum, grown in tropical regions, native to the Indian subcontinent and in Southeast Asia. Some of the best peppercorns in the world come from the Malabar coast in the Indian state of Kerala. The color of the various peppercorns you see in the store are a result of either when the tiny fruits are harvested, or else the type of processing they undergo after picking. Piper nigrum. Photo by Vengolis
Black pepper (Piper nigrum) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning. When dried, the fruit is known as a peppercorn. Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a traditional medicine. Black pepper is the world's most traded spice. It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
About this species. Black pepper fruits are the source of one of the world's most widely and frequently used spices. Black, white and green peppercorns all come from Piper nigrum and are popularly used as a hot and pungent spice for flavouring food. The fruits of Piper nigrum are used to make black pepper. This hotly pungent spice is one of the earliest known and most widely used spices in the world today. It is used as flavouring, particularly for savoury foods, meat dishes, sauces and snack foods.
Answer: White pepper comes from black pepper, which is the dried berry of the woody, climbing vine Piper nigrum. While growing on the vine, the peppercorn ripens from green to yellow to red. To make black pepper, the peppercorns are picked and dried. 
White, black and green peppercorns all come from the same vine. They grow in clusters (like grapes), and are harvested in various stages of growth. Green peppercorns are young when they are picked and dehydrated or preserved, with a resulting mild flavor. Pink peppercorns and Sichuan peppercorns are not true peppercorns. Pink peppercorns are soft, fragile berries with a sweet-sharp flavor. Sichaun pepper is the berry of the mountain ash tree, with a pungent, cold flavor instead of the usual heat of a peppercorn.
Description. Black pepper comes from the berries of the pepper plant. Black pepper, green pepper and white peppercorns are actually the same fruit (Piper nigrum); the difference in their color is a reflection of varying stages of development and processing methods. 