Map of the Roman Empire-Thessalonica. Thessalonica. L-5 on the Map. Ancient Thessalonica - (Thessaloniki) formerly `Thermae' (hot springs). It was named after wife of Cassander of Macedon, she was the daughter of Philip and sister of Alexander the Great. During the Roman Empire Thessalonica was the capital of Amphaxitis, Macedonia, and it was a large and flourishing city. During the first three centuries of the Christian era, Thessalonica was the capital of the whole country between the Adriatic and the Black Sea; and even after the founding of Constantinople it remained practically the metropolis of Greece, Macedonia, and Illyricum.
), also known as Thessalonica, Salonika or Salonica, is the second-largest city in Greece and the capital of Greek Macedonia, the administrative region of Central Macedonia and the Decentralized Administration of Macedonia and Thrace. It is an influential city for the northern parts of the country and is the capital of the region of Central Macedonia and the Thessaloniki regional unit. The Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace is also based in Thessaloniki, being that the city is the de facto capital of the Greek region of Macedonia.
It was the capital of the Macedonian Province. Today Thessaloniki (also known by its anglicized name, Salonica) is Greece’s second largest city. Thessalonica is located along the Egnatian Way, a Roman road going from Albania to Constantinople. This road was 19 feet wide and paved with stone slabs or packed sand. 
Zoar. Bible Cities: ThessalonicaAncient Thessalonica THESSALONICA was a city and prominent seaport of Macedonia, situated at the head of the Thermaic Gulf. It was the capital of the second part  of Macedonia under the Romans, and the residence of the Roman governor. - Ancient Geography Thessalonica in Easton's Bible Dictionary a large and populous city on the Thermaic bay. It was the capital of one of the four Roman districts of Macedonia, and was ruled by a praetor. It was named after Thessalonica, the wife of Cassander, who built the city.
After the fall of the kingdom of Macedon in 168 BC, Thessalonica became a city of the Roman Republic. It grew to be an important trade-hub located on the Via Egnatia, the Roman road connecting Byzantium (later Constantinople), with Dyrrhachium (now Durr s in Albania), and facilitating trade between Europe and Asia. During the first three centuries of the Christian era, Thessalonica was the capital of the whole country between the Adriatic and the Black Sea; and even after the founding of Constantinople it remained practically the metropolis of Greece, Macedonia, and Illyricum.
Thessaloniki, Greece is considered as one of the most visited cities in the country and people from all over the world visit Thessaloniki to experience the cultural heritage of the country. The location of Thessaloniki is easily accessible from several major parts of the country. The city belongs to the region of Makedonia Central in northern Greece. It is bordered by Chalkidiki on the south, Imathia on the west, Kilkis on the north and Serres on the north-east. 
History and Biblical Significance. Thessalonica was located at the intersection of two major Roman roads, one leading from Italy eastward (Ignatia Way) and the other from the Danube to the Aegean. Thessalonica s location and use as a port made it a prominent city. In 168 B.C. it became the capital of the second district of Macedonia and later it was made the capital and major port of the whole Roman province of Macedonia (146 B.C.). In 42 B.C., after the battle at Philippi, Thessalonica was made a free city. 
Thessalonica (4 folders). Thessalonica (modern Thessaloniki also called Salonika) is located 187 mi. [300 km.] north of Athens (as the crow flies). In the days of the apostle Paul it was the capital of the province of Macedonia and was a free city.. In ancient times Thessalonica was about the midpoint of the Via Egnatia – the famous Roman Road that ran for 493 mi. [790 km.] from Dyrrhachium and Apollonia on the Adriatic Sea eastward to Kypsela that is located east of the Hebrus River.
Best Answer: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thessalonik... Thessaloniki thessaloníki is the second largest city Of greece and capital of The macedonia region Of. Greece it was built in 315.B. c By kassander after the name of his wife and sister Of alexander The.Great it has been the most important city Of macedonia ever. since Thessaloniki thessaloníki is the second largest city Of greece and capital of The macedonia region Of. greece