Skeletal, the muscle type attaching to bones can be consciously controlled and therefore is a voluntary type. The three muscle types we will view are then: Skeletal-voluntary muscles attached to skeletal elements and cartilage. Cardiac-involuntary muscles making up the myocardium of the heart. This is a high magnification view of a striated muscle type ! Remember, cardiac and skeletal are striated types! Muscle types are also described as voluntary or involuntary. These terms imply some muscles are controlled voluntarily while others are not. Think about this for a moment! You can control the muscles moving your fingers but you cannot consciously control contractions of muscles in your heart or stomach
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual.
The heart is made of a unique muscle type known as cardiac and it never tires. But the body also has many other paired muscles, some voluntary that are attached to the skeleton and help the body move, some involuntary that work the internal organs and cannot be controlled. 
There are three types of muscle tissue— smooth, skeletal, and cardiac. Each has its own distinctive function, and therefore, its own distinctive structure, but all muscles allow movement of some kind. Skeletal Muscle. Skeletal muscle is called voluntary because you can control this type of muscle. You can voluntarily choose to move them. These muscles attach to bones, move the skeleton, and are found in the arms, legs, neck, or anywhere you can voluntarily move a body part. 
Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary. Cardiac and smooth muscles contract without conscious thought and are termed involuntary, whereas the skeletal muscles contract upon command. Skeletal muscles in turn can be divided into fast and slow twitch fibers.
Muscle is a bundle of tissue that is capable of contracting. The primary functions of muscles are to generate force and cause motions. Your body has more than 600 different types of muscles. Muscles also contribute to 40 to 50 percent of your weight. Some muscles can be controlled consciously, while others are controlled automatically by your ... Skeletal Muscle. When people talk about muscles, they are usually referring to skeletal muscle. This type of muscle is attached to your bones through tendons, and it is the most abundant tissue in your body. The contraction of skeletal muscle causes the diverse movements of your skeleton. Skeletal muscle is a type of muscle that you can control voluntarily. The pectoralis major, biceps brachii, deltoid, rectus abdominis, and gastrocnemius are examples of skeletal muscle
A voluntary muscle, often called a skeletal muscle, is one of three types of muscle in the body. Most voluntary muscles are used to move bones, though some, such as the muscles in the face, are used to create movements below the skin. The tongue is a voluntary muscle. A voluntary muscle also is called a skeletal muscle. A slight movement by one or more of the 43 facial muscles results in one of the many different expressions that humans can make.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Generally, skeletal muscle is voluntarily controlled and smooth muscle is not. Some structures have a combination of both. For example, the bladder is made up of smooth muscle and consists of some skeletal muscle at the sphincter which is capable of holding it until you are ready. 