Kangaroo Paw plant is stunning with long, flattened leaves and beautiful brilliant green flowers that are 10 centimeters long. Kangaroo Paws bloom in fan-like clusters at the end of long stems. Each Kangaroo Paw flower has a bright red ovary which, with the unusual paw-shaped flowers, gives the flower its common name. Rare yellow Kangaroo Paws are also seen sometimes. 1 The genus name, Anigozanthos is derived from the Greek word 'anises', meaning unequal or oblique, and 'anthos', meaning flower, an allusion to the division of the Kangaroo Paw flower into six unequal parts.
The kangaroo paw was given it's name because of the plants bright red ovary and its paw shaped flowers. The red and green kangaroo paw only occurs naturally in southwest Western Australia. The specific spots are from Shark Bay to Scott's River and at Mt. Barker. The red and green kangaroo paw makes a great plant for the home garden because of its unusual shape and bright colors. They also make great cut flowers because they last long in water. It is also exported to various places around the world.
Tall kangaroo paw (Anigozanthos flavidus). These perennials are endemic to dry sandy, siliceous areas of southwest Australia, but they occur as well in a variety of other environments and soil types. They are grown commercially in Australia, the United States, Japan and Israel. The plant grows from short, underground, horizontal rhizomes
Botanical name: Anigozanthos flavidus. Description: Kangaroo Paw is a popular landscape plant which originates in Western Australia. It is a soft-wooded perennial which forms clumps of shiny green, long strap-like foliage which can grow to 600mm in length. The flowers are tubular and encased in a furry covering. 
Home Products Specialty Crops. Kangaroo Paw is the common name for a group of Australia rhizomatous herbaceous perennials in the genus Anigozanthos. This genus is in the Haemodoraceae, a family which is represented by 13 genera, primarily restricted to the southern Hemisphere. (Lophiloa-a small perennial bog plant is found in the eastern USA).
Macropidia fuliginosa. Kangaroo paw is the common name for a number of species, in two genera of the family Haemodoraceae, that are endemic to the south-west of Western Australia. These perennial plants are noted for their unique bird attracting flowers. 
Kangaroo paw. Another beautiful summer flower, which is famous for its amazing ability to attract birds and all sorts of insects, goes by the name of Kangaroo paw, a flower that we usually find in Australia, especially in the lower western part of the continent. The Macropidia genus has only one species called the Black Kangaroo Paw, and it’s botanically referred to as Macropidia fuliginosa. It has erect leaves in the form of a strap and its flowers bloom in late spring and summer.
Kangaroo Paws. The colour and form of kangaroo paws make them one of the most rewarding Australian native plants for the home garden. Kangaroo paws are also very good cut flowers. They are exported to many parts of the globe and are grown commercially in the USA, Israel and Japan. Kangaroo paws belong to the genus Anigozanthos, which has 11 species
Kangaroo paws (Anigozanthos spp.) are flowering perennials native to Australia. The leaves are sword-shaped, and the flowers are borne on fuzzy, tubular inflorescences that give the plant its common name. Kangaroo paw grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11.
Anigozanthos is a small genus of Australian plants in the Bloodwort family Haemodoraceae. The 11 species and several subspecies are commonly known as kangaroo paw and catspaw depending on the shape of their flowers. These perennials are endemic to dry sandy, siliceous areas of southwest Australia, but they occur as well in a variety of other environments and soil types. They are grown commercially in Australia, the United States, Japan and Israel.