1 Voluntary, (vol-un-tary) muscles are the ones that you can control. 2  Most of them move your bones around. 3  If you want to run, walk, ride a bike, wave your arms around, or eat your favourite sandwich, it is your voluntary muscles which move your arms, legs and body around. Some are attached from one part of an organ to another part (such as the muscles in your heart). Muscles come in four different shapes. 1  Spindle-shaped muscles-like your biceps and triceps in your upper arms-are thick in the middle and thinner at the ends. 2  You can see the shape when you bend your arm up.
The Web's Best Sites. Muscle is one of the four major tissue types in animalsthe other three types are epithelial, connective, and nervous tissue. Vertebrates have three types of muscle tissue: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac. Skeletal muscle is the most prevalent muscle type and makes up a large portion of body weight. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, such as the stomach, muscle..
Dictionary. Definition of involuntary muscle. a muscle that contracts without conscious control and found in walls of internal organs such as stomach and intestine and bladder and blood vessels (excluding the heart)Similar Words: smooth muscle Hyponyms: myometrium, musculus sphincter ani internus.
Types of Muscles. 1  Skeletal Muscles-These are the muscles we use to move around. 2  They cover our skeleton and move our bones. 3  Sometimes they are called striped muscles because they come in long dark and light bands of fibers and look striped. 1 These muscles work without us having to think about them. 2  Cardiac Muscle-This is a special muscle that pumps our heart and blood through our body. 3  Shivering is caused by hundreds of muscles expanding and contracting to produce heat and make us warmer.
Childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) is a motor speech disorder. Children with CAS have problems saying sounds, syllables, and words. This is not because of muscle weakness or paralysis. The brain has problems planning to move the body parts (e.g., lips, jaw, tongue) needed for speech. 
Definition of MUSCLE for Kids. 1. : a tissue of the body consisting of long cells that can contract and produce motion. 2. : an organ of the body that is a mass of muscle tissue attached at either end (as to bones) so that it can make a body part move. 1. a: a body tissue consisting of long cells that contract when stimulated and produce motion b: an organ that is essentially a mass of muscle tissue attached at either end to a fixed point and that by contracting moves or checks the movement of a body part. 2.
Muscles are responsible for maintaining posture, physical movement (sitting, walking, eating, etc), and movement of internal organs (such as keeping the heart pumping to circulate blood and moving food through the digestive system). The word muscle is derived from the Latin term musculus, meaning little mouse. This Latin term could be due to the shape of some muscles or because muscles contracting under the skin can look like a mouse moving under a rug. Tendons connect our soft contracting muscle to our hard bones. There are around 650 skeletal muscles in the human body. It is only found in the heart and is responsible for keeping the heart pumping. Muscle makes up around half of the total human body weight. Muscle tissue is also around 15% denser than fat tissue. It takes 17 muscles in the face for us to smile and 43 muscles to frown.
Learn some fun muscle facts for kids. The muscles in our body are responsible for keeping our heart beating and for all our physical movements. It is only found in the heart and is responsible for keeping the heart pumping. Muscle makes up around half of the total human body weight. Muscle tissue is also around 15% denser than fat tissue. It takes 17 muscles in the face for us to smile and 43 muscles to frown.
Full Definition of MUSCLE. 1. a: a body tissue consisting of long cells that contract when stimulated and produce motion b: an organ that is essentially a mass of muscle tissue attached at either end to a fixed point and that by contracting moves or checks the movement of a body part. 2. a: muscular strength: brawn
Cardiac muscle: A type of muscle tissue that is found only in the heart and is distinguishable from the two other forms of muscle, smooth muscle (that moves internal organs, such as the bowels, and vessels, such as the artery walls) and skeletal muscle (that powers joints). 