Holt Program Title 118 Chapter Title FIGURE 1 EXTERNAL STRUCTURES OF A PERCH 6. Referring to Figure 2, use scissors to cut on one side from the corner of themouth to the front lower edge of the gill cover. Then remove the operculum. CAUTION: Use scissors and other sharp instruments with extreme care.
Anatomy of the Perch. The Yellow Perch (Perca flavens) is a common fresh-water fish found throughout North America. It is a generalized fish, without a great degree of specialization, and therefore makes a good representative for fish anatomy.
BONY FISH DISSECTION – PERCHFind the following structures on the PerchDorsal, anal, caudal, pectoral, and pelvic finsLateral line – helps detect water-borne vibrations Swim (air) bladder – functions in regulating the buoyancy of the fish Esophagus-a short tube leading from the pharynx to the stomach.
Obtain a perch & rinse off the excess preservative. Place the perch in your dissecting pan. Label the anterior, posterior, dorsal, and ventral sides of the perch on Figure 1. Use your tape measure to determine the total length, fork length, and girth of your fish. Record this in Table 1.
Fish scales. thin, flexible plates, that provide a flexible armor to protect the fish. They are used in growth and age studies. The scales of perch are called ctenoid because the exposed portion bears tiny, spiny structures called cteni (teeth).
Part of the reason for the large numbers of fish is due to how well adapted they are to life in an aquatic environment. In this laboratory you will observe the internal and external structures of a perch, a typical bony fish. You will see how its structures make it ideally suited to living
The fish in the class Osteichthyes have bony skeletons. There are three groups of the bony fish --- ray-finned fish, lobe-finned fish, and the lung fish. The perch is an example of a ray-finned fish. Its fins have spiny rays of cartilage &/or bone to support them. Fins help the perch to move quickly through the water and steer without rolling. The perch also has a streamline body shape that makes it well adapted for movement in the water. All ray-finned fish have a swim bladder that gives the fish buoyancy allowing them to sink or rise