If you live in the South and already own solar panels, it could take you just under three years to make up the cost of the $3,000 Tesla Powerwall battery. But if you live in the Pacific Northwest and don't have solar panels, it could take you at least 16 years to make up the cost of buying Tesla's new home battery. There are a lot of variables and some tricky math involved to figure out whether the Tesla Powerwall battery makes sense for you. You can hook it up to solar panels, then recharge it using free energy from the sun. Or -- if your power company charges more for electricity during peak hours -- you can charge up the battery during cheaper hours, then go all-battery when electricity costs are higher. To keep it simple, let's tackle one at a time.
The downside is that the system remains pricey. For an average home, the battery storage system can run $10,000 to $25,000. But with long-term financing options and declining solar photovoltaic prices, the cost can end up penciling out at a price that's competitive with electricity from HECO, said Saturnia.
I decided to build a simple, low-cost solar battery that we could use on both camping trips and in case of power failures for some basic lighting, gadget recharging, and other uses. The solar panel supplies the energy, while the battery stores it (obviously), and the charge controller is basically a switch that turns on and off to charge the battery when it’s low, and prevent overcharging when “full”.
They didn't want to give it to me, but I was firm and they relented. Their estimate was $6000 and the batteries last about 5 years. $6000 every 5 years is expensive! That's $1200 per year, or $100 per month just for the use of the battery. I will never save $100 a month in gas to pay for the battery in a hybrid. 
And it's important to get it right. A battery bank can be composed of a single battery or multiple, interconnected batteries that work as one large battery at a required voltage and amp-hour capacity. At Wholesale Solar, we've put together 12V, 24V, or 48 Volt battery banks for use with most any application. 
Therefore, the upfront cost of the solar panels per watt are Costpanels = $600/75 watts = $8/watt Or, by multiplying numerator and denominator by 1000, Costpanels = $600/75 watts = $8000/kilo-watt. As determined from a survey of current market prices, it costs about $600 to purchase and install a 75 watt panel. So, for example, if you use 10 kilowatt-hours a day, and the cost of power is about 10 cents per kilowatt-hour, then you electrical costs would be about $1 per day (ten times 10 cents), or $30 per month. Also, we need to know how long the sun shines each day on average.
Batteries and Enclosures. Often it makes sense to use batteries obtained locally, such as the golf cart or L-16 type by Trojan, Interstate, Deka, US battery, etc. For smaller systems we offer sealed batteries, and for larger systems we offer Solar-One batteries which feature a 10 year warranty and Free shipping. 
Worry-free energy monitoring and real-time insights. With the MySolarCity app, you can monitor your battery backup system 24/7 to see the state of your charge. And you can check out how much power your solar system is producing, your battery is storing and your home is consuming by the minute. During the day, solar energy charges your battery while it powers your home. As day transitions to night, your battery backup system keeps things running smoothly, so if the grid goes down, the essential devices in your home will not.
See If You Qualify. With the MySolarCity app, you can monitor your battery backup system 24/7 to see the state of your charge. And you can check out how much power your solar system is producing, your battery is storing and your home is consuming by the minute. During the day, solar energy charges your battery while it powers your home. As day transitions to night, your battery backup system keeps things running smoothly, so if the grid goes down, the essential devices in your home will not.
Deep-cycle batteries also work in what is called ‘cycles’ providing a power charge during each cycle. The cycles can perform anywhere from 50 to 80 percent discharge. Batteries are often kept at a 50 percent discharge in order to extend the life or amount of cycles that the battery provides. On the other hand there are also solar powered batteries that help power electronics in cars and other big appliances. These batteries use short, high-current bursts of energy to send electricity to whatever it’s trying to power.