Employment and Salary Outlook. Accounting clerk jobs were projected to grow at an average rate compared to other professions, according to the BLS. The organization published an employment growth rate of 14% from 2010-2020 for all bookkeeping, accounting and auditing clerks. Job Description. Accounting clerks are responsible for reviewing and maintaining accounting records. They enter balances and calculate interest on loans, bank accounts and credit accounts using accounting spreadsheets and databases.
Accounting Clerk Salary. (United States). An average Accounting Clerk in the United States can expect to take home roughly $14.76 per hour. Cash earnings for Accounting Clerks — which occasionally include more than $2K from bonuses and more than $3K from profit sharing — stretch from around $24K to approximately $44K. 
Accounting Clerk I Job Description The following is a full job description for Accounting Clerk I. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Accounting Clerk I along with statistics. Requirements and Responsibilities For Accounting Clerk I. Performs routine accounting activities such as maintenance of the general ledger, preparation of various accounting statements and financial reports and accounts payable or receivable functions.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Accounting Clerk II in the United States is $40,812, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Accounting Clerk II in the United States are expected to make less than $40,812. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Accounting Clerk I in the United States is $35,098 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Accounting Clerk I in the United States are expected to make less than $35,098. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $35,098. 1  Salary. 
Supports accounting operations by filing documents; reconciling statements; running software programs. This accounting clerk sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements. Accounting Clerk Job Duties: 1  Maintains accounting records by making copies; filing documents. 2  Reconciles bank statements by comparing statements with general ledger. 3  Maintains accounting databases by entering data into the computer; processing backups.
Accounting Clerk Job Description. Easy-to-use accounting clerk job description. The duties and responsibilities will vary from company to company but the primary job activities and requirements for an accounting clerk position are clearly detailed in this job description. You can adapt this practical job description for your own specific use and be sure that the job is clearly defined in terms of job tasks and responsibilities. ACCOUNTING CLERK JOB DESCRIPTION. General Purpose. Performs a range of general clerical, accounting and bookkeeping support functions in an organization.
The duties for accounting clerks working in large companies are usually more specialized. A manager may assign an accounting clerk to handle one part of the accounting process. Many large companies hire several accounting clerks to handle different duties. For example, a manager may assign an accounting clerk to handle only accounts receivable duties. Therefore, this accounting clerk applies the payments of customers, balances accounts and contacts customers on past-due accounts. The specific duties of an accounting clerk depend on the size of the firm and industry. The duties of accounting clerks can merge with those of a bookkeeper or an entry-level accountant.
Average Accounting Clerk salaries for job postings nationwide are 55% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 