A neurological examination, also called a neuro exam, is an evaluation of a person's nervous system that can be performed in the doctor's office. It may be performed with instruments, such as lights and reflex hammers, and usually does not cause any pain to the patient.
Your health care team will perform a series of tests to determine the neurological level and completeness of your injury. Spinal cord injuries of any kind may result in one or more of the following signs and symptoms: 1  Loss of movement. 2  Loss of sensation, including the ability to feel heat, cold and touch.
Differences between neurological and rehabilitation definitions of spinal cord injury levels. Doctors use two different definitions for spinal cord injury levels. Given the same neurological examination and findings, neurologists and physiatrists may not assign the same spinal cord injury level.
The next most common neurologic level of spinal cord injury is the thoraco-lumbar junction with 11% of cases reporting neurological impairment at T12-L1. Injuries to the thoracic spine accounted for 32% of all injuries reported.
In human, the spinal cord ends at L2 vertebral level. The tip of the spinal cord is called the conus. Below the conus, there is a spray of spinal roots that is frequently called the cauda equina or horse's tail. Injuries to T12 and L1 vertebra damage the lumbar cord.
In general, neurologists define the level of injury as the first spinal segmental level that shows abnormal neurological loss. Thus, for example, if a person has loss of biceps, the motor level of the injury is often said to be C4.
Your ability to control your limbs after spinal cord injury depends on two factors: the place of the injury along your spinal cord and the severity of injury to the spinal cord. The lowest part of your spinal cord that functions normally after injury is referred to as the neurological level of your injury.
Neurological Level of Spinal Cord Injury. A significant proportion, 55% of cases admitted to spinal units involve the cervical segments C1-C7. This type of impairment is referred to as tetraplegia (or quadriplegia). Injury at the thoracic, lumbar or sacral levels, are referred to as paraplegia.
Using this level, you can identify your specific behaviors that you are good at, such as negotiating, making schedules etc. 3) Capability: This level comes above the behavior. Using this level you can identify what the overall capability is that your behavior translates to, such as marketing, time management etc.
Neurological level is usually described as the normal level immediately above the damaged level. By definition, the level of neurological lesion refers to the lowest segment of the spinal cord with normal sensory and motor function on both sides of the body.