For at least 48 hours after your injection, avoid jogging, strenuous activity, high-impact sports, or standing for longer than 1 hour at a time. Call your doctor at once if you have severe pain or swelling around the knee after the injection. Sodium hyaluronate is injected directly into your knee joint. A healthcare provider will give you this injection. Sodium hyaluronate is usually given once every week for 3 to 5 weeks.
1 A typical prescription may cost $592 or more for 3 syringes (2ml) of Hyalgan 20mg/2ml. 2  You cannot fill this prescription in a regular pharmacy. 3  Your doctor, hospital, or clinic will provide this medication. 4  This drug is likely to be covered under your medical benefit if you have insurance. 1 It may be expensive. 2  A typical prescription may cost $592 or more for 3 syringes (2ml) of Hyalgan 20mg/2ml. 3  You cannot fill this prescription in a regular pharmacy. 4  Your doctor, hospital, or clinic will provide this medication.
This prescription is provided by a doctor and is generally not available at a pharmacy. This drug is administered by your healthcare practitioner (HCP), which usually means: 1  It may be expensive. 2  A typical prescription may cost $592 or more for 3 syringes (2ml) of Hyalgan 20mg/2ml. 1 It may be expensive. 2  A typical prescription may cost $592 or more for 3 syringes (2ml) of Hyalgan 20mg/2ml. 3  You cannot fill this prescription in a regular pharmacy. 4  Your doctor, hospital, or clinic will provide this medication.
Choose Strength for: Hyalgan-Brand Version. The lowest prices for Hyalgan from online pharmacies and prescription discount cards! Before you buy Hyalgan, compare the best prices on Hyalgan from licensed, top-rated pharmacies in the U.S., Canada, and internationally. Find the lowest cost Hyalgan from the best pharmacy. Strength. 
I went to a convention a few weeks ago and was on my feet most of the day. There is no way I could have done that before the injections. Comment from: Joy, 55-64 on Treatment for less than 1 month (Patient) Published: May 14. After my 1st injection, my knee got so swollen and stiff, I couldn't bend it. It hurt, and I said never again. I had to have people get me out of my car when I arrived at work, could not bear weight & suffered so much. But it took all 5 injections until I got any relief. Comment from: iabar, 45-54 on Treatment for 6 months - 1 year (Patient) Published: October 23. I had a terrible reaction. The hyalgan rolled out of the joint.
Hyalgan is supplied in 2-mL vials (one injection per vial) or prefilled syringes, and Synvisc is supplied in 2-mL prefilled syringes. The recommended injection schedule is one injection per week for five weeks for Hyalgan, and one injection per week for three weeks for Synvisc. Repeat courses of viscosupplementation can be performed after six months. A knee joint can be injected several ways. The average wholesale price for five vials of Hyalgan is $661.00 ($132.20 per vial). For a package of three prefilled syringes of Synvisc, the average wholesale price is $620.00. 22 Third-party reimbursement is variable, but Medicare and most insurance companies now cover viscosupplementation.
This video shows me having a Hyalgan injection for treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. If you are squeamish about needles and medical procedures then you might want to skip this one. 
I've been receiving these injections for 5 years. I had been going every six months, but now let a year go by this time. I recommend every six months. I found the series of 3 works as well as the five. I had to have people get me out of my car when I arrived at work, could not bear weight & suffered so much. But it took all 5 injections until I got any relief. Comment from: iabar, 45-54 on Treatment for 6 months - 1 year (Patient) Published: October 23. I had a terrible reaction. The hyalgan rolled out of the joint.