Do you get a refurbished Apple iPhone when you need a replacement phone? I had a problem with my iPhone and Apple replaced it for me with a new one. In most cases, they will try to give you a refurb. You can contest it and try to get a new one, but it depends in the situation. In my case, they gave me a brand spankin new 3G when my 2G crashed.
O.P. I'm aware that if you break your shiny new phone then you can take it to an Apple store and they'll usually offer you a refurbished unit for a reasonable price. I was in the Perth Apple store yesterday and I saw them offer a customer a refurb iPhone 5 for $269. 
Apple does not send out used phones as replacements. They DO send our refurbs and they will NOT tell you if it is new or a refurb. That is standard procedure for all corporations everywhere. This is the same as the iPods, or any other repair Apple does on an Apple product. For example, if you had your iPhone for 11 months, and had it replaced by Apple at that point. You have 1 month of the original warranty left. However, the replacement has 90 days of coverage.
#15. It should be a refurbished unit, but you will not be able to tell the difference, and it make no difference what so ever on resale, or daily use. The only other thing you can do, is return the phone to the carrier, and then go buy a new one at apple. It's unfair that you could have paid like $600 for a brand new iPhone which turns up defective and they replace it with a second hand one. That's like the biggest slap in the face ever. samven582 said: ↑. yup.
Although refurbished phones are certified by Apple to be fully functional and operational, some iPhone vendors or sellers may not be able to determine if a particular iPhone is refurbished. In some cases, iPhone vendors may try to sell you an iPhone under the impression that the device is new and has never been used. 1 If the device has been refurbished and is Apple Certified, then Apple will modify the serial number to begin with the number 5.. 2  Locate the third digit of the serial number. 3  The third digit indicates the last digit of the year in which the iPhone was manufactured.
1 All refurbished iPhones that are Apple Certified have a 1-year limited warranty through Apple, with the option to extend your warranty up to 2 years. 2  Contact Apple directly to verify that the warranty is applicable to your device, especially if you purchased the iPhone from a third-party. 1 If the device has been refurbished and is Apple Certified, then Apple will modify the serial number to begin with the number 5.. 2  Locate the third digit of the serial number. 3  The third digit indicates the last digit of the year in which the iPhone was manufactured.
Apple decided that the phone couldn't be fixed so they sent me a new one. Today I received my replacement from Apple, and it appears that they sent me a used iPhone. The current call timer shows 1 hour, 1 minute of use and the lifetime timer show 4 hours and 37 minutes. This is the same as the iPods, or any other repair Apple does on an Apple product. For example, if you had your iPhone for 11 months, and had it replaced by Apple at that point. You have 1 month of the original warranty left. However, the replacement has 90 days of coverage.
Level 10 (169,810 points). They can replace it with a new or refurbished iPhone at their option. Typically they will use refurbished units, but you would not be able to tell the difference between new or refurbished service stock. Regards.
2 - Apple backs its refurbished products with the same warranty as new. If its a service replacement it assumes the same warranty as the one it is replacing, or 90 days whichever is longer. Many retailers only give a 7, 14 or 30 day warranty at most on refurbished products. Many sell them as is. This is the same as the iPods, or any other repair Apple does on an Apple product. For example, if you had your iPhone for 11 months, and had it replaced by Apple at that point. You have 1 month of the original warranty left. However, the replacement has 90 days of coverage.