N. fowleri is found in warm freshwater ponds, lakes and rivers, and in the very warm water of hot springs. It was first discovered in 1965, and first identified in Australia. N. fowleri occurs in three forms – as a cyst, a trophozoite (ameboid), and a flagellate. It does not form a cyst in human tissue. Trophozoites encyst due to unfavorable conditions. Factors that induce cyst formation include a lack of food, overcrowding, desiccation, accumulation of waste products, and cold temperatures. N. fowleri has been found to encyst at temperatures below 10 °C (50 °F).
Naegleria fowleri has been identified in freshwater specimens worldwide. Naegleria fowleri is not found in salt water. In the United States, the majority of Naegleria fowleri infections have occurred after swimming in freshwater located in southern states. In 2012, infection with Naegleria fowleri occurred in a child after swimming in a Minnesota lake. Previous water testing has shown that Naegleria fowleri is commonly found in warm freshwater venues. Therefore, recreational water users should assume a low level of risk when entering all warm freshwater.
Naegleria fowleri is a thermophilic (warmth loving) ameba that occurs naturally in the environment worldwide. It is commonly found in warm bodies of fresh water, such as ponds, lakes, rivers, and hot springs. 
Naegleria is an ameba (single-celled living organism) commonly found in warm freshwater (for example, lakes, rivers, and hot springs) and soil. Only one species (type) of Naegleria infects people: Naegleria fowleri. You cannot get infected from drinking water contaminated with Naegleria. The ameba can be found in: 1  Bodies of warm freshwater, such as lakes and rivers. 2  Geothermal (naturally hot) water, such as hot springs. 3  Warm water discharge from industrial plants. 4  Geothermal (naturally hot) drinking water sources. 5  Swimming pools that are poorly maintained, minimally-chlorinated, and/or un-chlorinated.
Naegleria fowleri is found around the world. In the United States, the majority of infections have been caused by Naegleria fowleri from freshwater located in southern-tier states. The ameba can be found in: 1  Bodies of warm freshwater, such as lakes and rivers. 2  Geothermal (naturally hot) water, such as hot springs. 3  Warm water discharge from industrial plants. 4  Geothermal (naturally hot) drinking water sources. 5  Swimming pools that are poorly maintained, minimally-chlorinated, and/or un-chlorinated.
The Naegleria fowleri amoeba is found in warm, fresh waters such as lakes, streams and canals that are up to 115 degrees Fahrenheit in temperature. The brain-eating amoeba Naegleria fowleri has officially been found in the St. Bernard Parish, La. water supply following last week's death of 4-year-old who got the lethal infection when playing on a slip 'n slide.
Naegleria fowleri is found all around the world. In the United States, it is more likely to occur in the southern states but has caused infections in 18 states, including Minnesota. The ameba grows best in warm or hot water. 1 Generally, this happens when people go swimming or diving in warm freshwater, such as lakes or rivers. 2  The ameba travels up the nose to the brain where it destroys the brain tissue. 3  More rarely, infections have been reported when people flush their sinuses with tap water contaminated with Naegleria fowleri.
Naegleria fowleri are found world wide in warm freshwater, either naturally geothermic pools or warm bodies of water created by industry such as industrial cooling water (4). Although they ideally grow at 37 o C, the temperature of their human hosts, below 27 o C, N. fowleri are able to survive by encysting. Although humans are a known host of N. fowleri, since infections are so rare, it is expected there is an alternative, primary host such as fish, amphibians or reptiles. N. fowleri are known parasitize fish and antibodies to different Naegleria species have been found in many wild animals (3).
Naegleria fowleri is a species of the genus Naegleria, belonging to the phylum Percolozoa. Trophozoites encyst due to unfavorable conditions. Factors that induce cyst formation include a lack of food, overcrowding, desiccation, accumulation of waste products, and cold temperatures. N. fowleri has been found to encyst at temperatures below 10 °C (50 °F).