Serogroup B meningococcal (MenB) vaccine can help prevent meningococcal disease caused by serogroup B. Other meningococcal vaccines are recommended to help protect against serogroups A, C, W, and Y. Top of Page. Risks of a vaccine reaction. With any medicine, including vaccines, there is a chance of reactions. These are usually mild and go away on their own within a few days, but serious reactions are also possible. More than half of the people who get serogroup B meningococcal vaccine have mild problems following vaccination.
On June 14, 2012, the FDA approved a new combination vaccine against two types of meningococcal disease and Hib disease for infants and children 6 weeks to 18 months old. The vaccine, Menhibrix, will prevent disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups C and Y and Haemophilus influenzae type b. 
Page 3 of 11 FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BEXSERO ® is a vaccine indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B. BEXSERO is approved for use in individuals 10 through 25 years of age. 2.3 Use of BEXSERO with other Meningococcal Group B Vaccines Sufficient data are not available on the safety and effectiveness of using BEXSERO and other meningococcal group B vaccines interchangeably to complete the vaccination series.
---------------INDICATIONS AND USAGE--------------------- BEXSERO is a vaccine indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B. BEXSERO is approved for use in individuals 10 through 25 years of age. 2.3 Use of BEXSERO with other Meningococcal Group B Vaccines Sufficient data are not available on the safety and effectiveness of using BEXSERO and other meningococcal group B vaccines interchangeably to complete the vaccination series.
Top of Page. Outbreaks of meningococcal disease are rare in the United States; only about 2 to 3 out of every 100 cases are related to outbreaks. However, the onset of an outbreak is unpredictable and the outcomes can be emotionally devastating to affected communities and organizations. Vaccination. During an outbreak caused by serogroup A, C, W, or Y meningococcal disease, vaccination with a quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine is routinely recommended for those 2 months or older identified as being at increased risk because of the outbreak.
Earlier this year, the Novartis Bexsero vaccine was approved for use in the European Union and in Australia. The vaccine is the first to protect against MenB. Meningococcal disease is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis. On the CDC web page, Serogroup B Meningococcal Vaccine Questions and Answers, the agency answers the question, “Why is the vaccine not approved for use in the United States?” by directing it to Novartis and their plans to seek licensure in the United States.
Indication. BEXSERO is a vaccine indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B. BEXSERO is approved for use in individuals 10 through 25 years of age. Approval of BEXSERO is based on demonstration of immune response, as measured by serum bactericidal activity against three serogroup B strains representative of prevalent strains in the United States.
Meningococcal disease is a serious illness caused by a type of bacteria called Neisseria meningitidis. It can lead to meningitis (infection of the lining of the brain and spinal cord) and bacteremia or septicemia (infections of the blood). Risks of a vaccine reaction. With any medicine, including vaccines, there is a chance of reactions. These are usually mild and go away on their own within a few days, but serious reactions are also possible. More than half of the people who get serogroup B meningococcal vaccine have mild problems following vaccination.
The FDA is announcing the approval of Trumenba, the first vaccine approved in the United States to prevent invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B in individuals 10 through 25 years of age. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about 500 total cases of meningococcal disease were reported in the United States in 2012; of those cases, 160 were caused by serogroup B.