Adults in the U.S. are encouraged to get 10% to 35% of their day's calories from protein foods. That's about 46 grams of protein for women, and 56 grams of protein for men. It's not hard to get this amount if you eat two to three servings of protein-rich foods a day, according to the CDC. 1  A small 3-ounce piece of meat has about 21 grams of protein. And nursing women need 20 grams more protein a day than they did before pregnancy to support milk production, says Antonucci. You would get 10 grams in one Greek yogurt or a half-cup of cottage cheese, so it doesn't add up to a lot of food.
Eat three or four servings of protein daily and you'll be well on your way to eating right for a healthy pregnancy and baby. (Your prenatal daily requirement of 70 grams is the equivalent of two glasses of milk, a 5-ounce chicken breast, and two cups of yogurt, for example.). Learn how to avoid fish that are high in mercury and how you can get the omega-3 fatty acids you need during pregnancy –... 10 fast foods a pregnant woman could love (and five to avoid). Discover quick and tasty snacks you can eat on the go when you're pregnant, and five convenience foods that should be banned fr...
Individualized Needs. Your individualized protein needs during pregnancy are based on your pre-pregnancy body weight. The Institute of Medicine encourages pregnant women to consume at least 1.1 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight, or about 0.5 gram of protein per pound of body weight each day. According to the Institute of Medicine, pregnant women should aim for at least 71 grams of protein per day, regardless of which trimester they are in.
How much protein you need. Pregnant women: about 70 grams (g) of protein per day. Non-pregnant women: about 45 g. You don't have to get the recommended amount of protein every day. Instead, aim for that amount as an average over the course of a few days or a week. Learn how to avoid fish that are high in mercury and how you can get the omega-3 fatty acids you need during pregnancy –... 10 fast foods a pregnant woman could love (and five to avoid). Discover quick and tasty snacks you can eat on the go when you're pregnant, and five convenience foods that should be banned fr...
Protein needs for pregnant women are significantly higher than for non-pregnant women, especially during the second and third trimesters, due to the increased protein demands of a rapidly growing fetus. Eating a variety of protein-rich foods throughout the day will help you meet these increased needs. According to the Institute of Medicine, pregnant women should aim for at least 71 grams of protein per day, regardless of which trimester they are in.
Protein in Foods. Meeting your daily protein needs during the second trimester of pregnancy should be fairly easy, since a variety of healthy foods are rich in protein. Examples include lean meats, skinless poultry, eggs, low-fat dairy foods, soy products, seitan, legumes, nuts and seeds. According to the Institute of Medicine, pregnant women should aim for at least 71 grams of protein per day, regardless of which trimester they are in.
As a general guideline, the CDC's average requirement of protein for women ages 19 to 70 is 46 grams per day. But, as you can see from this chart, you'll need to increase that if you're expecting or training for a marathon. Check out the chart below to see how much protein you should be eating each day. 
Protein — Promote growth. Protein is crucial for your baby's growth, especially during the second and third trimesters. How much you need: 71 grams a day. Good sources: Lean meat, poultry, fish and eggs are great sources of protein. Other options include dried beans and peas, tofu, dairy products, and peanut butter. 
You need protein for your muscles, bones, and the rest of your body. Exactly how much you need changes with age: 1  Babies need about 10 grams a day. 2  School-age kids need 19-34 grams a day. 3  Teenage boys need up to 52 grams a day. 4  Teenage girls need 46 grams a day. 5  Adult men need about 56 grams a day. 6  Adult women need about 46 grams a day (71 grams, if pregnant or breastfeeding)