The first number represents the percentage of nitrogen in the product; the second number, P 2 O 5; the third, K 2 O. Fertilizers do not actually contain P 2 O 5 or K 2 O, but the system is a conventional shorthand for the amount of the phosphorus (P) or potassium (K) in a fertilizer. A fertilizer or fertiliser (in British English) is any material of natural or synthetic origin (other than liming materials) that is applied to soils or to plant tissues (usually leaves) to supply one or more plant nutrients essential to the growth of plants.
To calculate the pounds of nitrogen in a 50-lb bag of 10-10-10 fertilizer, multiply 50 by 0.10. Do the same for calculating the amounts of phosphate and potash. A 50-lb bag of 10-10-10 contains a total of 15 lbs of nutrients: 5 lbs nitrogen, 5 lbs phosphate and 5 lbs potash. All fertilizer labels have three bold numbers. The first number is the amount of nitrogen (N), the second number is the amount of phosphate (P 2 O 5) and the third number is the amount of potash (K 2 O).
Confidence votes 7.8K. Most fertilizers contain Nitrogen [N], Phosporus [P], and Potassiuk [K]. Some fertilizers are customized for specific plants and therefore have other compounds needed by those special plants. 
However, organic and inorganic fertilizers do so via different materials. Organic fertilizers contain only plant-or animal-based materials that are either a byproduct or end product of naturally occurring processes, such as manures, leaves, and compost. Inorganic fertilizer, also referred to as synthetic fertilizer, is manufactured artificially and contains minerals or synthetic chemic
Fertilisers make crops grow faster and bigger so that crop yields are increased. They're minerals, which must first dissolve in water so that plants can absorb them through their roots. Fertilisers provide plants with the essential chemical elements needed for growth particularly nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. The proportions of these elements in a fertiliser are often shown as N:P:K = 15:30:15
Fertilisers contain minerals such as nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus, which help plants to grow. Fertilisers increase crop yields but cause the problem of 'eutrophication' when they're washed by rainwater into rivers and lakes. Most chemical fertilisers are made by the reaction of an acid with an alkali. They're minerals, which must first dissolve in water so that plants can absorb them through their roots. Fertilisers provide plants with the essential chemical elements needed for growth particularly nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium.
these make sugar!   - err... plants make sugar via photosynthesis, which is when the plant converts CO2 (carbon dioxide) and water with su … nlight, to glucose. As for what do fertilisers contain, have a look at the ingredients part on the bag next time. Fertilizers contains heaps of nitrogen, ammonia and phosphorus as well as other chemicals, which are very nutritious for plants and promote growth. 1 person found this useful. 
Inorganic fertilizers usually contain only a few nutrients – generally nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and some sulfur, either singly or in combination, explained Penhallegon. These nutrients are in a concentrated form readily available to plants. – Fertilizers provide one or more of the chemical elements necessary for plant growth and development. Organic fertilizers such as manures, compost or bone meal are derived directly from plant or animal sources.
In the case of nitrogen, the recycling of nitrogen from dead to living plants is often the only source of nitrogen in the soil. To make plants grow faster, what you need to do is supply the elements that the plants need in readily available forms. That is the goal of fertilizer. Most fertilizers supply just nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium because the other chemicals are needed in much lower quantities and are generally available in most soils. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium availability is the big limit to growth. The most important are: 1  Carbon, hydrogen and oxygen-Available from air and water and therefore in plentiful supply. 2  Nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium (a.k.a. potash) - The three macronutrients and the three elements you find in most packaged fertilizers. 3  Sulfur, calcium, and magnesium-Secondary nutrients.
Complete fertilizer is a term used to identify fertilizers that contains nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium. In the national home garden trade, most fertilizers are complete. However, in Colorado the majority of gardens do not need phosphorus or potassium. 