Phenolphthalein is an indicator that changed color within a range of a ph of 8.2 to 10.0 it turns pink in basic solutions. It has the formula of C20H14O4 and has three aromatic rings. (Ω)Carlos S · 8 years ago. Best Answer: it is used as an indicator during neutralization reaction. if poured on acid and base solution and turns pink it means that neutralization reaction has been completed.
Medical Definition of PHENOLPHTHALEIN. : a white or yellowish white crystalline compound C20H14O4 that is used in analysis as an indicator because its solution is brilliant red in alkalies and is decolorized by acids and that is used in medicine as a laxative. Definition of PHENOLPHTHALEIN. : a white or yellowish-white crystalline compound C20H14O4 used in analysis as an indicator because its solution is brilliant red in alkalies and is decolorized by acids and in medicine as a laxative. See phenolphthalein defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Phenolphthalein is a mild acid that can be used for medical and scientific purposes. When used in medicine, this compound is most commonly recognized as an ingredient in over-the-counter laxatives. When added to a solution for this sort of chemical testing, phenolphthalein is colorless. Phenolphthalein will not generally dissolve in water but it can be dissolved by alcohols such as ethanol and ether. The solutions that contain phenolphthalein for chemical testing are therefore usually alcohol based.
Noun. 1. phenolphthalein-a laxative used in many preparations under various trade names; also used as an acid-base indicator in titrations involving weak acids and strong bases because it is brilliant red at high alkalinity and colorless below pH 8. laxative-a mild cathartic.
Phenolphthalein Definition: Phenolphthalein is an organic compound often used as an pH indicator. Phenolphthalein turns pink in pH greater than 8.3 and colorless in acidic solutions. The chemical formula for phenolphthalein is C 20 H 14 O 4. 
Phenolphthalein is an organic compound (C20H14O4) used as an acid-base indicator. The compound is colorless in acidic solution and pinkish in basic solution (with the transition occuring around pH 9). 
Phenolphthalein is often used as an indicator in acid–base titrations. For this application, it turns colorless in acidic solutions and pink in basic solutions. Phenolphthalein is slightly soluble in water and usually is dissolved in alcohols for use in experiments. It is a weak acid, which can lose H + ions in solution. The phenolphthalein molecule is colorless, and the phenolphthalein ion is pink. When a base is added to the phenolphthalein, the molecule ⇌ ions equilibrium shifts to the right, leading to more ionization as H + ions are removed. This is predicted by Le Chatelier's principle
phenolphthalein. 1. an acid-base indicator dye; it is colorless below pH 8.5, but turns red above pH 9.0. 2. in monogastric animals, a cathartic administered orally, usually with a bulk laxative such as agar. When ingested by ruminants causes the urine to change color to red on exposure to air.