The majority of today's desktop processors should not exceed temperatures of 35°C and most run between 21°-32°C. Below is a chart listing many types of processors and their average temperatures. Keep in mind, this is only to give our users a general idea of what their processor should be running at. If you believe your computer is running too hot, you can skip to the bottom of this document for information about the safe temperature range for your processor. Continuing to use a computer that has a processor that is exceeding its temperature will reduce the life expectancy of the processor. Note: Depending on your computer's hardware layout, the thermal sensors may not be positioned in an optimal location.
You can look up temperature specifications for your specific laptop's Intel or AMD processor, but most CPUs' maximum temperatures are around 100° Celsius (212° Fahrenheit). Programs to Test Your Laptop's CPU Temperature. Several free temperature monitoring programs are available that can show you the CPU temperature as well as other system details like processor load, voltages, and more.
1 In addition to showing the temperature and load of the processor, it also shows the CPU's TjMax or safe maximum operating temperature and how far from this maximum temp your processor is running at. Programs to Test Your Laptop's CPU Temperature. Several free temperature monitoring programs are available that can show you the CPU temperature as well as other system details like processor load, voltages, and more.
The Safe Operational Range. While a hard drive that runs between 5 and 60 degrees Celsius (40 to 140 Fahrenheit) is considered within safe operational range, hard dives that run between 35 and 45 degrees Celsius (95 to 113 Fahrenheit) have the lowest failure rates over prolonged exposure. Hard drives running under 20 degrees Celsius (68 Fahrenheit) are more than four times as likely to fail as those running at 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit). If the hard drive is operating above the safe range there is likely a cooling problem within the laptop.
Answer: Using a free monitoring program, you can check your laptop's internal temperature to see if it's running too hot and in danger of overheating. Programs to Test Your Laptop's CPU Temperature. Several free temperature monitoring programs are available that can show you the CPU temperature as well as other system details like processor load, voltages, and more.
Your laptop hard drive should run anywhere in the range between 5 and 60 degrees Celsius (40 to 140 Fahrenheit) without experiencing any major issues. Laptop hard drives may run hotter than the desktop counterparts, but this difference is not related to any functionality in the hard drive. Hard drives running under 20 degrees Celsius (68 Fahrenheit) are more than four times as likely to fail as those running at 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit). If the hard drive is operating above the safe range there is likely a cooling problem within the laptop.
The appropriate operating temperature of your processor depends on its manufacturer, top clock speed, where the sensor is located, and what programs it is currently running. However, this document should give you a general idea of what temperatures are acceptable under certain conditions. Continuing to use a computer that has a processor that is exceeding its temperature will reduce the life expectancy of the processor. Note: Depending on your computer's hardware layout, the thermal sensors may not be positioned in an optimal location.
The biggest clue that your laptop is not running at an ideal temperature is if you're experiencing any symptoms of overheating, such as the fan constantly running and the computer frequently freezing. Programs to Test Your Laptop's CPU Temperature. Several free temperature monitoring programs are available that can show you the CPU temperature as well as other system details like processor load, voltages, and more.
Oct 16, 2013 - 12:15 AM. IDLE temperature (meaning the laptop is not doing anything) around 30-50 degrees celcius is perfectly normal. Idle temperature varied depending on what kind of processor and cooling setup you have. FULL LOAD temperature (meaning the laptop is working hard) can vary anywhere from 50-100+ degrees celcius. There is some misconception here... IDLE temperature (meaning the laptop is not doing anything) around 30-50 degrees celcius is perfectly normal. Idle temperature varied depending on what kind of processor and cooling setup you have.