Hallway widths. Subject to provision of adequate door opening widths (as detailed in the table below), the minimum width of any hallway/landing in a dwelling is 900mm. This may reduce to 750mm at ‘pinch points’ (e.g. beside a radiator) as long as the reduced width is not opposite, or adjacent to, a doorway. 
What is the average width of a hallway? Building codes for a single family dwelling typically require hallways to be a minimum of 3 ft (36 inches) in width. A hallway that is 5 ft (60 inches) in width comfortably al … lows for the passage of two people. As a side note, the width of a typical wheelchair is 22 inches. + 90 others found this useful
Confidence votes 118. Building codes for a single family dwelling typically require hallways to be a minimum of 3 ft (36 inches) in width. A hallway that is 5 ft (60 inches) in width comfortably allows for the passage of two people. As a side note, the width of a typical wheelchair is 22 inches
How wide should the doorways and hallways be in your home? The width you need depends on the kind of access you're looking for. Minimum clear width for a wheelchair is 36 inches for a hall and 32 inches for a door. Minimum clear space for a T-shaped turn of 180 degrees is 36 inches in all directions. Minimum passage width for one wheelchair and one ambulatory person is 48 inches. Many mobility scooters are as narrow as 21. Standard doorways in a new home are usually either 2'4, 2'6 or 2'8 wide, and according to North Carolina building code, the minimum width of a hallway is 36. The width you need depends on the kind of access you're looking for. 1 
The wide hallways are those that are four feet wide and up. Of course the size of the house must be considered too. A large hallway shouldn’t be used in a small house and vice versa. Among designers, the 4 foot wide hallway is suited for houses at least 2,000 square feet. A 32 inch wide hallway is the recommended minimum for people on wheelchairs, but that is just the minimum. 36” or 48” is better. The minimum turn space is 48 inches. For a 180 degree turn it is 60 inches.
The ceiling usually isn’t a factor, but over 10.5 ft will look nice. Another popular design is a 5 ft landing (the top of the stairs). This is best paired off with hallway dimensions 6 foot wide heading to the bedroom. There are many ways this space can be used. A 32 inch wide hallway is the recommended minimum for people on wheelchairs, but that is just the minimum. 36” or 48” is better. The minimum turn space is 48 inches. For a 180 degree turn it is 60 inches.
Both ADA requirements and Specially Adapted Housing Minimum Property Requirements specify a minimum hallway width of 48, with a minimum doorway width of 36. Standard doorways in a new home are usually either 2'4, 2'6 or 2'8 wide, and according to North Carolina building code, the minimum width of a hallway is 36. The width you need depends on the kind of access you're looking for. 1  Minimum clear width for a wheelchair is 36 inches for a hall and 32 inches for a door. Minimum clear space for a T-shaped turn of 180 degrees is 36 inches in all directions. Minimum passage width for one wheelchair and one ambulatory person is 48 inches. Many mobility scooters are as narrow as 21
We a have really wide L shaped hallway in our lower level that is 5 feet wide. In one leg I placed a bench across from built-in bookcases (not out of the 5ft width) and in the second leg, I have a three drawer chest. Still plenty of room to carry things past. If the house is more than 3,000 is better to use wider hallways, specially if the hall is long. IMHO it depends on the size of the house since 6 or 12 can make a difference in the final s. footage of the house. You do not want to waste space in the hallways on a tiny house
Measure the width of your hallway. Most halls are about 3' wide. We find that a 2'3 wide runner is a comfortable width for a hallway this wide. This leaves you about 4 to 5 inches of floor showing on each side. Most standard runners come this width, or close to it. If your hallway is extra wide, you may need a wider runner. For runners in wide halls, leaving about a 6 inches of floor showing in each side is comfortable. Choose the closest width that is available in the runner you desir