“I walk through the fire / Run through the rain / I’ll wait for forever / If love is your name.”. The song doesn’t stretch Tyler as a vocalist — he more stylizes his way through “Love Is Your Name.” The oft-used cliche that a song is “like nothing else on the radio” holds true with Tyler’s first single. Fans of the singer and country music were expecting that, but not like this.
Listening to Tyler's lyrics, you might think that he wrote this song with the wisdom of age and experience. It easily could have been penned by someone who had beaten drug addiction and undergone a comeback.
Tyler's real name is Steven Tallarico. His first band was called The Strangeurs, but they had to change their name because of a band called The Strangers. They became Chain Reaction, and Tallarico became Steven Tally. After Chain Reaction split up, he formed Aerosmith and became Steven Tyler.
Tyler wrote this with Marti Frederiksen, who has worked with Aerosmith since the mid-1990s. That song was my first pop hit, Frederiksen recalled to The Boombox. I don't know what happened that day, but it all came to me and Steven in a few hours. We were at his house and I remember he was on the phone.
Steven Tyler isn’t the first rocker to give country a try, but on “Love Is Your Name,” he becomes the first to work along the genre’s edges. The folky debut single from the Aerosmith singer’s upcoming album is a what one imagines the sonic progeny of a Lady Antebellum and Mumford & Sons union would sound like.
Though he’s best-known as a legendary rocker, Steven Tyler ‘s “Love Is Your Name” lyrics are returning country music to its roots. The Aerosmith frontman is getting set to release his first-ever country album, and he chose “Love Is Your Name” as the lead single to test the waters.
By Bryan Wawzenek March 26, 2013 11:28 AM. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. Mark Mainz, Getty Images. As Aerosmith ’s machine-gun mouthpiece, Steven Tyler has sung his share of double entendres – more than a few of which landed in this list of the Top 10 Steven Tyler Lyrics.
The leadoff track from Aerosmith’s reunion album was first heard on the Joe Perry Project’s debut (although Tyler's lyrics are new additions on this rendition). This line was a reference to the band’s “second chance” with Perry and guitarist Brad Whitford back in the saddle. Hear ‘Let the Music Do the Talking’.