If you are installing a hardwood floating floor (or any floating floor such as cork or laminate), you should install the floor AFTER the kitchen cabinets are installed. Floating floors are clicked together and not adhered to the floor. You can read more about floating floors here. 
The safest solution is to not put it under the cabinets. I just did a job last month in a kitchen where the construction worker ex boyfriend installed the laminate under the cabinets and after three months the floor failed. Laminate floor in a kitchen is still a horrible idea. Hardwood in the kitchen is a bad idea. At least with hardwood, more than likely with a leak, the floor can still be salvaged. With laminate, it'll be a total loss & to me, that's junk.
Answer: The general Floor-Before-Or-After question is one that plagues many homeowners and the answer can be fluid when factors change. In your particular situation, the short answer is that you will want to install the hardwood flooring before putting in the kitchen cabinets and appliances. Here are some reasons why. It is no fun to replace hardwood, tile or vinyl with the cabinets over the top. So it is not a cost issue... Mr. Ryner tells us that he began his construction career in the mid-1970s and built his first home 6 months later. He focused on entry level spec homes as well as custom construction.
Your contractor should have either put the floor under the cabinets OR installed plywood to equal the finished floor height of the rest of the kitchen floor. Normally, if a contractor doesn't want to inccrease material costs by running hardwood, tile or stone under the cabinets, the cabinets will be installed on a piece of plywood that is the same height as the finished floor so appliances can be removed for repair or replacement in the future.
Rob – In general, the flooring should go under the cabinets – assuming it’s hardwood or tile and it’s nailed or glued. With a floating floor, you install after and cabinets should be raised by adding plywood underneath them before the cabinets are installed. This assumes that the floating floor has a significant height. If it’s vinyl/linoleum and it’s only 1/8″ then it’s not necessary. My name is Debbie Gartner, and I'm known as The Flooring Girl.. I own my own flooring store called Floor Coverings International, and we serve Westchester NY and Fairfield CT counties.We install hardwood flooring, carpet, tile flooring, laminate, bamboo and cork flooring. We also refinish hardwood floors.
The flooring that is hidden under cabinets gives you (or a future homeowner) lots of options should you someday wish to change the cabinet layout. Keep in mind that the flooring contractor is just going to install the hardwood and not apply any finish. The headline should have stated, Best game plan: Put in flooring before cabinets. A--Your builder must be a baseball fan. He is way out in left field on this one. Installing hardwood flooring around cabinets can be done, but I couldn't think of a harder way to do the job.
The Allure is a floating floor and it can withstand 200 pounds per square inch. The cabinets however have a box base and should not be installed over the plank flooring. You will need to leave the expansion space (1/8 inch minimum - 1/4 inch optimum) and then add a piece of moulding or quarter round. Best wishes on your project. Best Answer.
Flooring goes in last. Accommodate for the flooring thickness in your toekicks. If you are going to put in a hardwood floor and it is a total of 1 1/2 and you want 4 toe kick, then the kick should be 5 1/2 tall, and the cabinets should be 37 1/2 tall from the concrete. Once the flooring is in, you have 36 cabinets and a 4 toe kick. From contributor D: Depends on the type of flooring. There is no one good answer to the question. I'd never install on top of laminate flooring, but then I'd never use that material anyway.
Q--I have decided to use solid 3/4-inch-thick hardwood flooring in my new kitchen. The flooring contractor wants to install the wood before the cabinets are installed. My builder prefers to install the cabinets first and then the floor. He also says it is cheaper. The headline should have stated, Best game plan: Put in flooring before cabinets. A--Your builder must be a baseball fan. He is way out in left field on this one. Installing hardwood flooring around cabinets can be done, but I couldn't think of a harder way to do the job.