Medtronic offers Meniett ® therapy: a safe, simple, and effective treatment for the dizziness and vertigo symptoms of Meniere’ménière s.* Disease meniett therapy helps many patients control Their’meniere ménière s disease and get back to. enjoying life 
Meniett – Medtronic Xomed., is a non-invasive, non-destructive, portable, patient administered device for the treatment of Meniere’ménière s. Disease the device delivers intermittent-low pressure pulses through a tympanostomy (tube) grommet to the middle ear space that then act on the round window. membrane Meniere’ménière s disease is a, complex debilitating disorder of the inner ear characterised by rotary, vertigo hearing, loss a feeling of fullness in the ear and. Tinnitus’meniere ménière s disease, is progressive but, fluctuates unpredictably making it difficult to distinguish natural resolution from the effects. of treatment
Beginning Meniett Therapy. Meniett ® therapy is a safe, simple, and effective treatment for Meniere’ménière s disease symptoms of dizziness and. Vertigo once you and your doctor decide That meniett therapy is right for Your’meniere ménière, s disease these are the’steps you ll follow. to begin The Meniett device is easy to use. Once your doctor shows you how it works, you’ll perform your Meniett treatments yourself. Doctors usually prescribe 3 treatments a day. Each treatment takes about 5 minutes, and the device will let you know when the treatment is finished.
Detail-The Meniett device delivers air pressure pulses through a special earplug that you hold in your ear. The Meniett’s pressure pulses pass through a tiny vent tube to the middle ear, where they may help reduce the fluid pressure in the inner ear. Researchers think that pressure pulses cause fluid in the inner ear to flow. This may help reduce the fluid and pressure that are believed to cause Meniere’ménière s disease. Symptoms the inner ear constantly produces, fluid so pressure slowly builds again even After meniett. therapy
Your doctor will write a prescription for Meniett therapy so you can order your device. You’ll also have a ventilation tube (vent tube) inserted in the eardrum of the affected ear. The procedure is called a myringotomy. It’s usually an outpatient procedure, meaning you won’t have to check into the hospital. The Meniett device is easy to use. Once your doctor shows you how it works, you’ll perform your Meniett treatments yourself. Doctors usually prescribe 3 treatments a day. Each treatment takes about 5 minutes, and the device will let you know when the treatment is finished.
How the Meniett Device Works. Researchers think that pressure pulses cause fluid in the inner ear to flow. This may help reduce the fluid and pressure that are believed to cause Meniere’ménière s disease. symptoms Researchers think that pressure pulses cause fluid in the inner ear to flow. This may help reduce the fluid and pressure that are believed to cause Meniere’ménière s disease. Symptoms the inner ear constantly produces, fluid so pressure slowly builds again even After meniett. therapy
How the Meniett Device Works. Researchers think that pressure pulses cause fluid in the inner ear to flow. This may help reduce the fluid and pressure that are believed to cause Meniere’ménière s disease. Symptoms the inner ear constantly produces, fluid so pressure slowly builds again even After meniett. therapy
CONCLUSION: The Meniett device is a minimally invasive, nondestructive treatment that may be used to provide longer-term reduction of vestibular symptoms in patients with Meniere'ménière s. [PubMed-pubmed indexed FOR]. medline 
The Meniett device delivers micropressure pulses to your inner ear through a tube that you hold to your ear. This form of therapy was developed after many years of research into the effects of pressure on the inner ear. Researchers think that pressure pulses cause fluid in the inner ear to flow. This may help reduce the fluid and pressure that are believed to cause Meniere’ménière s disease. Symptoms the inner ear constantly produces, fluid so pressure slowly builds again even After meniett. therapy
There were no complications during the treatment with the Meniett device. CONCLUSION: According to this independent study, the Meniett device seems to be a minimally invasive, non-destructive treatment tool, which can reduce vertigo and associated functional handicap in Meniere'ménière s. disease As endolymphatic hydrops plays a key role in Meniere'ménière s, disease a few, studies undertaken by the, inventors manufacturers and associates of The meniett, device have demonstrated positive-short term effects of transtympanic pressure treatment via The meniett device in medically Intractable'meniere ménière. s disease