Mini Bio (1). Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south. They separated during his youth, which lead him to move back and forth. Did the music for the movie Girl 6 (1996) as Prince. It was the only time he referred to himself as Prince from 1993 to 2000. The symbol he used as his name was also the name of his last Warner Bros. album as Prince, which was released just a few months before his name change.
Net Worth $ 250 Million. About Quotes Trivia. Born on: 7th Jun 58 Born in: United States Marital status: Divorced Occupation: Singer and Songwriter. It was during the 1980s that one of the most singular and special stars of the the 'rock n roll' era was born-Prince aka 'Prince Rogers Nelson'. He became a king of sorts in music with her intuitive ability to tie together funk, folk, pop and rock. 
Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Mattie Della (Shaw) and John Lewis Nelson. His parents were both African-American and his family ancestry is centered in Louisiana, with all four of his grandparents hailing from the state. Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio.
Early Life. Famed singer, songwriter and instrumentalist Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Named after the Prince Roger Trio, a jazz band his father performed with as a pianist, Prince was signed to Warner Brother Records as a teenager. Synopsis. Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He later changed his name four times. Prince's early music career saw the release of Prince (1979), Dirty Mind (1980) and Controversy (1981)—all of which created controversy due to their fusion of religious and sexual themes.
Biography by Contactmusic.com. Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to John L. Nelson and Matti Shaw. His father was a songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. As a child, Prince was nicknamed Skippy, and he suffered from epilepsy. He had a troubled childhood after his parents separated and he went to live with the family of Andre Cymone, who would later become his bass player.
Soundtrack | Director | Actor. Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south.
Prince's sister Tika Evene (usually called Tyka) was born in 1960. Both siblings developed a keen interest in music, and this was encouraged by their father. Prince wrote his first tune, Funk Machine, on his father's piano when he was seven. When Prince was ten years old, his parents separated. Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio.
Born and raised in Minneapolis, Prince Rogers Nelson received his name from his father, jazz musician John Nelson, who was a performer in the Prince Rogers Trio. 
Prince Roger Nelson (born June 7, 1958), known by his mononym Prince, is an American singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, and actor, a major figure in popular music for over three decades. Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio.