Definition. In traditional grammar, the term active voice refers to a type of sentence or clause in which the subject performs or causes the action expressed by the verb. 1 The sentence 'The bag was picked up by John' is in the passive voice because the subject of the sentence, bag, is the passive receiver of the action. . . .  2 Try to use the active voice. 3  But realize that there are times when you will need to use the passive.
Look at this example of the active voice: Active voice is a quality of a verb that describes when its subject is acting out the verb. When the opposite is true (i.e., the subject of the sentence is being acted upon by the verb), it is said to be in passive voice. Look at this example of the passive voice: If a verb is in the active voice, its subject perform the action of the verb. Examples of active verbs (active verbs shaded): Sometimes, it's a little trickier to spot whether the subject carried out the action of the verb.
Active voice is used in a clause whose subject expresses the agent of the main verb. That is, the subject does the action designated by the verb. A sentence whose agent is marked as grammatical subject is called an active sentence. In contrast, a sentence in which the subject has the role of patient or theme is named a passive sentence, and its verb is expressed in passive voice.
1 When a verb is in the active voice, the subject of the sentence is also the doer of the action.  2 The sentence 'John picked up the bag' is in the active voice because the subject, John, is also the thing or person doing the action of 'picking up.'. 1 The sentence 'The bag was picked up by John' is in the passive voice because the subject of the sentence, bag, is the passive receiver of the action. . . .  2 Try to use the active voice. 3  But realize that there are times when you will need to use the passive.
In active voice the subject of the sentence does the acting, e.g., The cook fried the egg.. In passive voice the subject of the sentence is acted upon, e.g., The egg was fri … ed.. Active voice is preferable unless the identity of the actor is unknown-e.g., we don't know who fried the egg-or unimportant. You can change the active voice to the passive voice by changing an object to a subject, as follows: let us say that your original sentence is Fred has eaten dinner. That is t … he active voice. Dinner is the object. In the passive voice dinner becomes the subject, so the sentence becomes, dinner has been eaten.
ACTIVE / PASSIVE VOICE. In most English sentences with an action verb, the subject performs the action denoted by the verb. These examples show that the subject is doing the verb's action. Because the subject does or acts upon the verb in such sentences, the sentences are said to be in the active voice. To change a sentence from active to passive voice, do the following: 1. Move the active sentence's direct object into the sentence's subject slot. 2. Place the active sentence's subject into a phrase beginning with the preposition by. 3.
The passive voice swaps the subject of a sentence in its active voice with the object of the same sentence by using any form of the auxiliary verb 'to be' along with the past participle of the main verb. You can change the active voice to the passive voice by changing an object to a subject, as follows: let us say that your original sentence is Fred has eaten dinner. That is t … he active voice. Dinner is the object. In the passive voice dinner becomes the subject, so the sentence becomes, dinner has been eaten.
Active voice is a grammatical voice common in many of the world's languages. It is the unmarked voice for clauses featuring a transitive verb in nominative–accusative languages, including English and most other Indo-European languages. That is, the subject does the action designated by the verb. A sentence whose agent is marked as grammatical subject is called an active sentence. In contrast, a sentence in which the subject has the role of patient or theme is named a passive sentence, and its verb is expressed in passive voice.
1 The sentence 'John picked up the bag' is in the active voice because the subject, John, is also the thing or person doing the action of 'picking up.'.  2 The sentence 'The bag was picked up by John' is in the passive voice because the subject of the sentence, bag, is the passive receiver of the action. 1 The sentence 'The bag was picked up by John' is in the passive voice because the subject of the sentence, bag, is the passive receiver of the action. . . .  2 Try to use the active voice. 3  But realize that there are times when you will need to use the passive.
To know whether you are writing in the active or passive voice, identify the subject of the sentence and decide whether the subject is doing the action or being acted upon. 1  Passive Voice: the subject is the receiver of the action. 2  The tax return (subject) was completed (action) before the April 15 deadline by Mr. Doe. 