A test is considered biased when the scores of one group are significantly different and have higher predictive validity, which is the extent to which a score on an assessment predicts future performance, than another group. Most test biases are considered cultural bias. Cultural bias is the extent to which a test offends or penalizes some students based on their ethnicity, gender or socioeconomic status. 
Cultural bias is the phenomenon of interpreting and judging phenomena by standards inherent to one's own culture. Numerous such biases exist, concerning cultural norms for color, location of body parts, mate selection, concepts of justice, linguistic and logical validity, acceptability of evidence, and taboos.
The problem of cultural bias is central to social and human sciences, such as economics, psychology, anthropology and sociology, which have had to develop methods and theories to compensate for or eliminate cultural bias. In brief, any normative belief of a human being seems to be caused by culture, and thus can be reasonably isolated as a cultural bias. See goodness and value theory. People who read English often assume that it is natural to scan a visual field from left to right and from top to bottom.
Cultural Bias is interpreting and judging perceived through someone's own culture. In other words, a person may be biased towards someone else because they do not fit into that persons own culture, or they may be different. Bias is a just one view point. It is the point of view of or in  another words the inclination of a person, group, organisation or  thing but not the only possible one.  …  Bias is uneven, unlevelled or unbalanced.   Bias is very often controversial but not always.
Cultural bias. Cultural bias is the phenomenon of interpreting and judging phenomena by standards inherent to one's own culture. The phenomenon is sometimes considered a problem central to social and human sciences, such as economics, psychology, anthropology, and sociology. 
Defining Cultural Bias. Cultural bias in testing refers to a situation where the scores on a test are significantly higher or lower between cultural groups and are better able to predict the future performance of one cultural group than the rest of the population. The difference in the test scores is due to cultural bias in the test, not the ability of the LGBT students. Since the test is culturally biased toward LGBT students, the professor should not give the assessment to this population, since it does not produce results that accurately reflect the abilities of
Cultural bias is interpreting and judging phenomena in terms particular to one's own culture. This is a danger in any field of knowledge that claims objectivity and universality, such as philosophy and the natural sciences. In brief, any normative belief of a human being seems to be caused by culture, and thus can be reasonably isolated as a cultural bias. See goodness and value theory. People who read English often assume that it is natural to scan a visual field from left to right and from top to bottom.
Cultural bias in testing occurs when the test scores of people from one group are significantly different due to cultural differences. Learn more about cultural bias in testing from examples and test your knowledge with a quiz. The difference in the test scores is due to cultural bias in the test, not the ability of the LGBT students. Since the test is culturally biased toward LGBT students, the professor should not give the assessment to this population, since it does not produce results that accurately reflect the abilities of
Lesson Summary. Cultural bias in testing refers to a situation where the scores on a test are significantly higher or lower and are better able to predict the future performance of one cultural group than it is the rest of the population. The difference in the test scores is due to cultural bias in the test, not the ability of the LGBT students. Since the test is culturally biased toward LGBT students, the professor should not give the assessment to this population, since it does not produce results that accurately reflect the abilities of
Cultural bias in testing refers to a situation in which a given test is inappropriate for a certain audience as it does not test the student's actual knowledge of a taught subject or includes details tied to a culture that the student is unfamiliar with. 