Croup is usually deemed to be due to a viral infection. Others use the term more broadly, to include acute laryngotracheitis, spasmodic croup, laryngeal diphtheria, bacterial tracheitis, laryngotracheobronchitis, and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis. Spasmodic croup is caused by the same group of viruses as acute laryngotracheitis, but lacks the usual signs of infection (such as fever, sore throat, and increased white blood cell count). Treatment, and response to treatment, are also similar.
Croup is a term used to describe a variety of respiratory inflammatory conditions that affect the upper respiratory tract, cause swelling, increased mucus production and is usually more common in children. Croup is usually mild and lasts less than a week. More severe cases are due to difficulty breathing caused by swelling in the upper part of the windpipe. 11. 85% of children examined at the emergency room have mild croup.
Croup is caused by an acute viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. It is also called laryngotracheobronchitis since it affects the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. This infection results in inflammation, increased mucus production, and swelling of the upper airways. 
Croup is a viral infection of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea) associated with signs of a respiratory infection, such as a runny nose or cough. It's also a very common ailment of childhood. Usually the first indication of croup is a cough that sounds like the bark of a dog or seal. Your child may have trouble breathing because the tissue around the larynx is inflamed, constricting the windpipe, and because the bronchial passages are blocked with mucus. Croup lasts for five or six days and is highly contagious to other children. It usually affects children between the ages of 3 months and 6 years (the average age is 2 years), whose small windpipes and bronchial passages are most vulnerable to blockage. Most cases are mild and can be managed at home.
Croup is common in children and is thought to be triggered after a viral infection. Croup causes swelling in the throat and windpipe (trachea) and causes hoarseness, a barking cough and noisy breathing. Croup usually gets better by itself but sometimes drugs are used to try and improve this condition. 
Viral croup or acute laryngotracheitis is caused by parainfluenza virus, primarily types 1 and 2, in 75% of cases. Other viral causes include influenza A and B, measles, adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). Spasmodic croup is caused by the same group of viruses as acute laryngotracheitis, but lacks the usual signs of infection (such as fever, sore throat, and increased white blood cell count). Treatment, and response to treatment, are also similar.
Croup is an infectious pediatric illness of the respiratory system that involves the vocal cords (larynx), the windpipe (trachea), and the upper airways of the lungs (bronchial tubes). The majority of a child's symptoms reflect involvement of the larynx. 1 Less often croup is caused by bacteria. 2  Croup is contagious, especially during the first few days of illness. 3  A cough that sounds like a barking seal and a harsh raspy Darth Vader sound during inhalation are symptoms of croup.
The main symptoms of croup are a barking cough which has been described to sound similar to a barking seal or sea lion, which may begin suddenly during the night. The barking cough of croup is due to swelling and inflammation around the vocal chords and windpipe (i.e., the larynx and trachea). Croup is usually mild and lasts less than a week. More severe cases are due to difficulty breathing caused by swelling in the upper part of the windpipe. 11. 85% of children examined at the emergency room have mild croup.
Croup (or laryngotracheobronchitis) is a respiratory condition that is usually triggered by an acute viral infection of the upper airway. The infection leads to swelling inside the throat, which interferes with normal breathing and produces the classical symptoms of a barking cough, stridor, and hoarseness. Spasmodic croup is caused by the same group of viruses as acute laryngotracheitis, but lacks the usual signs of infection (such as fever, sore throat, and increased white blood cell count). Treatment, and response to treatment, are also similar.
Croup is a swelling of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea). Croup can be caused by allergies, bacteria, or inhaled irritants, but it's usually the result of a virus. Most of the time, the culprit is the parainfluenza virus, but other viruses – respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) , adenovirus, influenza, and measles, for example – can also trigger croup. Croup is most common in children between the ages of 3 months and 5 years, although a child can get croup at any age. The illness shows up most frequently in the colder months – between October and March.