The NCAA is a behemoth of an organization composed of 1,200 member schools broken into three divisions (each with its own board of directors), and those divisions are made up of regional athletic conferences (represented by even more boards of directors). Also involved was an 18-person board composed solely of university presidents, a senior NCAA staff team, and leaders from various councils within the organization. One major milestone was a Division I Governance Dialogue, held in conjunction with the NCAA annual convention in January 2014.
Mission Statement of NCAA*. Core Ideology: The NCAA's core ideology consists of two notions: core purpose-the organization's reason for being-and core values-essential and enduring principles that guide an organization. 
That’s what the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) was looking to do when its leadership team brought in our firm, Ideas for Action, LLC, more than two years ago to examine its governance structure. Also involved was an 18-person board composed solely of university presidents, a senior NCAA staff team, and leaders from various councils within the organization. One major milestone was a Division I Governance Dialogue, held in conjunction with the NCAA annual convention in January 2014.
NISOA is always actively seeking qualified soccer officials to join our organization to serve intercollegiate soccer. We require at least three years of officiating experience at the high school level or higher with particular emphasis on demonstrated experience and capability with the diagonal system of control. The National Intercollegiate Soccer Officials Association (NISOA) is an organization of more than 5,000 soccer officials which trains, certifies and provides qualified soccer referees for the college soccer community throughout the country.
Instead an organization named the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) governed women's collegiate sports in the United States. By 1982, however, all divisions of the NCAA offered national championship events for women's athletics and most members of the AIAW joined the NCAA. 1 The National Collegiate Players Association (NCPA) is a group started by former UCLA football players with the purpose of organizing student-athletes. 2  Their goal is to change NCAA rules they view as unjust.
The organization is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. In 2014 the NCAA generated almost a billion dollars in revenue. 80 to 90% of this revenue was due to the Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. This revenue is then distributed back into various organizations and institutions across the United States. 1 The National Collegiate Players Association (NCPA) is a group started by former UCLA football players with the purpose of organizing student-athletes. 2  Their goal is to change NCAA rules they view as unjust.
NCAA Jobs. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a nonprofit made up of roughly 1,280 institutions, conferences, organizations and people who organize and monitor athletics in the U.S. and Canada. The NCAA is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, though not all of its positions are located in this office. Since the NCAA is a governing body for more than 1,200 member institutions, conferences, and organizations, many of these members use the NCAA’s job pages to advertise their own openings. [adsense_id=”1″]. The NCAA says is oversees 89 different championship tournaments in 23 collegiate sports.
Who We Are. The National Collegiate Athletic Association is a membership-driven organization dedicated to safeguarding the well-being of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout life. 
Our governance structure consists of legislative bodies – made up of volunteers from our member schools – that govern each division, as well as a group of committees that set association-wide policy. 
The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a non-profit association which regulates athletes of 1,281 institutions; conferences; organizations; and individuals. 1 The National Collegiate Players Association (NCPA) is a group started by former UCLA football players with the purpose of organizing student-athletes. 2  Their goal is to change NCAA rules they view as unjust.