Serpentine soil is a magnesium rich, calcium, potassium and phosphorus poor soil that develops on the regolith derived from ultramafic rocks. Ultramafic rocks also contain elevated amounts of chromium and nickel which may be toxic to plants. As a result, a distinctive type of vegetation develops on these soils. Talc carbonation reactions occur in ultramafic rocks at lower greenschist through to granulite facies metamorphism when the rock in question is subjected to metamorphism and the metamorphic fluid has more than 10% molar proportion of CO 2 (carbon dioxide).
Rockhound. Mafic is a term used to describe an igneous rock that is usually dark in color, with a chemistry that may be high in magnesium and iron, like basalt. Mafic is also a term used to describe a type of magma that is high in calcium, magnesium and iron, and relatively low in silica, compared to felsic magma.
Mafic is used for silicate minerals, magmas, and rocks which are relatively high in the heavier elements. The term is derived from using the MA from magnesium and the FIC from the Latin word for iron, but mafic magmas also are relatively enriched in calcium and sodium. Common rock-forming mafic minerals include olivine, pyroxene, amphibole, biotite mica, and the plagioclase feldspars. Mafic magmas are usually produced at spreading centers, and represent material which is newly differentiated from the upper mantle. Common mafic rocks include basalt and gabbro
Mafic. A term used to describe an igneous rock that has a large percentage of dark-colored minerals such as amphibole, pyroxene, and olivine. Also used in reference to the magmas from which these rocks crystallize. Mafic rocks are generally rich in magnesium and iron (think MAgnesium and FerrIC). Maar. A maar is a small, shallow volcanic crater with steep sides that forms in an explosive volcanic eruption that is triggered when rapidly ascending magma contacts groundwater at a shallow depth and a steam explosion occurs.
Ultramafic (also referred to as ultrabasic rocks, although the terms are not wholly equivalent) are igneous and meta-igneous rocks with a very low silica Mg O, high Fe O, low potassium, and are composed of usually greater than 90% mafic minerals (dark colored, high magnesium and iron content). Talc carbonation reactions occur in ultramafic rocks at lower greenschist through to granulite facies metamorphism when the rock in question is subjected to metamorphism and the metamorphic fluid has more than 10% molar proportion of CO 2 (carbon dioxide).
Felsic, on the other hand, is used for silicate minerals, magmas, and rocks which have a lower percentage of the heavier elements, and are correspondingly enriched in the lighter elements, such as silicon and oxygen, aluminum, and potassium. Common rock-forming mafic minerals include olivine, pyroxene, amphibole, biotite mica, and the plagioclase feldspars. Mafic magmas are usually produced at spreading centers, and represent material which is newly differentiated from the upper mantle. Common mafic rocks include basalt and gabbro
A Mafic rock is a type of igneous rock that is rich in Iron and Magnesium instead of silica. The rocks are also darker in color like Basalt. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. Mafic is also a term used to describe a type of magma that is high in calcium, magnesium and iron, and relatively low in silica, compared to felsic magma.