Live typhoid vaccine (oral). 1  Four doses: one capsule every other day for a week (day 1, day 3, day 5, and day 7). 2  The last dose should be given at least 1 week before travel to allow the vaccine time to work. 3  Swallow each dose about an hour before a meal with a cold or lukewarm drink. Live typhoid vaccine (oral). 1  Should not be given to children younger than 6 years of age. 2  Anyone who has had a severe reaction to a previous dose of this vaccine should not get another dose. 3  Anyone who has a severe allergy to any component of this vaccine should not get it.
This vaccine works by exposing you to a small amount of the bacteria, which causes your body to develop immunity to the disease. Typhoid vaccine will not treat an active infection that has already developed in the body, and will not prevent any disease caused by bacteria other than Salmonella typhi. Untreated typhoid infection may lead to kidney failure, or intestinal bleeding caused by perforation (forming of a hole), which can be fatal. If the infection spreads to the gallbladder, the infected person may become a chronic carrier of the bacteria that causes typhoid.
Be the first to review this Drug. Typhoid (also called typhoid fever) is a serious disease caused by Salmonella typhi bacteria. Untreated typhoid infection may lead to kidney failure, or intestinal bleeding caused by perforation (forming of a hole), which can be fatal. If the infection spreads to the gallbladder, the infected person may become a chronic carrier of the bacteria that causes typhoid.
Like any vaccine, the typhoid vaccine may not provide protection from disease in every person. You should not receive this vaccine if you have a fever with any type of infection or illness, or a weak immune system caused by disease or by using certain medicines such as chemotherapy. Untreated typhoid infection may lead to kidney failure, or intestinal bleeding caused by perforation (forming of a hole), which can be fatal. If the infection spreads to the gallbladder, the infected person may become a chronic carrier of the bacteria that causes typhoid.
Uses of This Medicine. Typhoid fever is a serious disease that can cause death. It is caused by a germ called Salmonella typhi, and is spread most often through infected food or water. Typhoid may also be spread by close person-to-person contact with infected persons (such as occurs with persons living in the same household). 
Descriptions. Typhoid fever is a serious disease that can cause death. It is caused by a germ called Salmonella typhi, and is spread most often through infected food or water. Typhoid may also be spread by close person-to-person contact with infected persons (such as occurs with persons living in the same household)
Typhoid (typhoid fever) is a serious disease. It is caused by bacteria called Salmonella Typhi. Typhoid causes a high fever, fatigue, weakness, stomach pains, headache, loss of appetite, and sometimes a rash. If it is not treated, it can kill up to 30% of people who get it. Live typhoid vaccine (oral). 1  Should not be given to children younger than 6 years of age. 2  Anyone who has had a severe reaction to a previous dose of this vaccine should not get another dose. 3  Anyone who has a severe allergy to any component of this vaccine should not get it.
Vivotif (Typhoid Vaccine Live Oral Ty21a) is indicated for immunization of adults and children greater than 6 years of age against disease caused by. Routine typhoid vaccination is not Salmonella typhirecommended in the UnitedStates of America. Vivotif Package Insert USA – Updated September 2013 – Increase of Upper Specification Limit Vivotif ® Typhoid Vaccine Live Oral Ty21a. Vivotif (Typhoid Vaccine Live Oral Ty21a) is a live attenuated vaccine for oral administration only. The vaccine contains the attenuated strain Salmonella typhi Ty21a (1,2). Vivotif is manufactured by the Crucell Switzerland LTD