The rate of discontinuation for adverse events in patients assigned to a fixed dose of 20 mg/day Lexapro was 10%, which was significantly different from the rate of discontinuation for adverse events in patients receiving 10 mg/day Lexapro (4%) and placebo (3%). The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of Lexapro demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of Lexapro, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg (see Clinical Studies).
Individual doses of Lexapro can range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day. For elderly people or people with liver problems, the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Dosing Recommendations for Lexapro. The recommended starting dose of Lexapro for adults or adolescents (age 12 to 17 years old) with depression or adults with generalized anxiety disorder is 10 mg once a day. Your healthcare provider may choose to increase the dose if symptoms continue, or decrease it if side effects occur
For both citalopram and escitalopram, elderly patients have a higher exposure due to age-related decline in metabolism and elimination. The maximum dose of both medicines has therefore been restricted in patients older than 65 years. Citalopram and escitalopram may have an additive effect to other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Coadministration of citalopram and escitalopram with medicines that prolong the QT interval is therefore contraindicated. These include: 1  class IA and III antiarrhythmics (eg, amiodarone, dronedarone, quinidine).
Geriatric Use. Approximately 6% of the 1144 patients receiving escitalopram in controlled trials of Lexapro in major depressive disorder and GAD were 60 years of age or older; elderly patients in these trials received daily doses of Lexapro between 10 and 20 mg. Escitalopram is excreted in human breast milk. Limited data from women taking 10-20 mg escitalopram showed that exclusively breast-fed infants receive approximately 3.9% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of escitalopram and 1.7% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of desmethylcitalopram.
Special Populations. 10 mg/day is the recommended dose for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Lexapro should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment. Initial Treatment. Adolescents. The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A flexible-dose trial of Lexapro (10 to 20 mg/day) demonstrated the effectiveness of Lexapro [see Clinical Studies ]. If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of three weeks. Adults
The single-and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of escitalopram are linear and dose-proportional in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day. Biotransformation of escitalopram is mainly hepatic, with a mean terminal half-life of about 27-32 hours. The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of Lexapro demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of Lexapro, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg (see Clinical Studies).
The dosage range for depression for citalopram is 20-40 mg/day, this is according to the new FDA recommendations. Previously, the dosage was 20-60 mg/day. For escitalopram the range is 10-20 mg day. When treating elderly patients, the dose of citalopram is reduced to a range of 10-20 mg/day. For escitalopram, the dose should be from 5 to 10 mg/day. Regarding dosage forms, both drugs are available as tablets and capsules. Citalopram is available as 10 mg, 20 mg scored and 40 mg scored tablets
For people who are taking Lexapro for the treatment of depression or generalized anxiety disorder, dosage recommendations typically range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day. Dosing Recommendations for Lexapro. The recommended starting dose of Lexapro for adults or adolescents (age 12 to 17 years old) with depression or adults with generalized anxiety disorder is 10 mg once a day. Your healthcare provider may choose to increase the dose if symptoms continue, or decrease it if side effects occur