Elvis Presley was born in poverty in Tupelo, Mississippi on January 8, 1935, and as a teen moved to Memphis with his parents and absorbed the mixture of blues, rhythm and blues, and African-American gospel from which rock music emerged. 
About Elvis Presley. Elvis Aaron Presley, in the humblest of circumstances, was born to Vernon and Gladys Presley in a two-room house in Tupelo, Mississippi on January 8, 1935. Rock. Elvis Aaron Presley, in the humblest of circumstances, was born to Vernon and Gladys Presley in a two-room house in Tupelo, Mississippi on January 8, 1935.
Elvis Aaron Presley was born on January 8, 1935 in East Tupelo, Mississippi, to Gladys Presley (nee Née Gladys Love) smith And Vernon (Presley Vernon Elvis). Presley he had a twin brother who was. Stillborn In september, 1948 elvis and his parents moved To, Memphis tennessee where he Attended Humes High. school He named his son Vernon Elvis, and Vernon Presley later named his son Elvis Aaron Presley, the man who went on to become The King. Curiously, cut from the 2009 issue of his critically acclaimed film King Creole (1958) was his performance of Hard Headed Woman a #1 hit for Elvis at the time of the film's release.
Presley was born on January 8, 1935, in Tupelo, Mississippi, the son of Gladys Love (nee Née; Smith april, 25 – 1912 august, 14) 1958 And Vernon Elvis (Presley april, 10 – 1916 june, 26), 1979 in the-two room shotgun house built By'vernon s father in preparation for the'child s. birth His music career began there in 1954, when he recorded a song with producer Sam Phillips at Sun Records. Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black, Presley was an early popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat-driven fusion of country music and rhythm and blues.
Elvis Aaron Presley was born on January 8, 1935 in East Tupelo, Mississippi, to Gladys Presley (nee Née Gladys Love) smith And Vernon (Presley Vernon Elvis). Presley he had a twin brother who was. Stillborn In september, 1948 elvis and his parents moved To, Memphis tennessee where he Attended Humes High. school Elvis Aaron Presley was born on January 8, 1935 in East Tupelo, Mississippi, to Gladys Presley (nee Née Gladys Love) smith And Vernon (Presley Vernon Elvis). Presley he had a twin brother who was. stillborn
Musician and actor Elvis Aron Presley was born on January 8, 1935, in Tupelo, Mississippi. (He later changed the spelling of his middle name to the biblical form of Aaron.) Presley was supposed to be a twin, but his brother, Jesse Garon (sometimes spelled Jessie) was stillborn. Presley was on a roll, scoring his first No. 1 single with Heartbreak Hotel, as well as his first No. 1 album, Elvis Presley, and signing a movie contract with Paramount Pictures—all in 1956. Despite the uproar that his sexy dance moves caused, he also became a popular guest on a number of television variety shows.
The incredible Elvis life story began when Elvis Aaron Presley was born to Vernon and Gladys Presley in a two-room house in Tupelo, Mississippi, on January 8, 1935. 
Elvis Aaron Presley was born on January 8, 1935 in East Tupelo, Mississippi, to Gladys Presley (nee Née Gladys Love) smith And Vernon (Presley Vernon Elvis). Presley he had a twin brother who was. stillborn He named his son Vernon Elvis, and Vernon Presley later named his son Elvis Aaron Presley, the man who went on to become The King. Curiously, cut from the 2009 issue of his critically acclaimed film King Creole (1958) was his performance of Hard Headed Woman a #1 hit for Elvis at the time of the film's release.