Unlike type A flu viruses, type B flu is found only in humans. Type B flu may cause a less severe reaction than type A flu virus, but occasionally, type B flu can still be extremely harmful. Influenza type B viruses are not classified by subtype and do not cause pandemics. 1 | 2 | 3. Flu, or influenza, is a contagious respiratory in fection caused by a variety of flu viruses. Symptoms of flu involve muscle aches and soreness, headache, and fever.
Type A flu is the most common type of influenza. Type A influenza symptoms include respiratory symptoms like coughing and sneezing and a runny nose, as well as influenza symptoms like headache, muscle aches, and fever. 
There are three types of influenza viruses: A, B and C. Human influenza A and B viruses cause seasonal epidemics of disease almost every winter in the United States. The emergence of a new and very different influenza virus to infect people can cause an influenza pandemic. Influenza type C infections cause a mild respiratory illness and are not thought to cause epidemics.
There are three types of flu viruses: A, B, and C. Type A and B cause the annual influenza epidemics that have up to 20% of the population sniffling, aching, coughing, and running high fevers. Type C also causes flu; however, type C flu symptoms are much less severe. Flu, or influenza, is a contagious respiratory in fection caused by a variety of flu viruses. Symptoms of flu involve muscle aches and soreness, headache, and fever.
Influenza, commonly known as the flu , is an infectious disease caused by the influenza virus. Symptoms can be mild to severe. The most common symptoms include: a high fever, runny nose, sore throat, muscle pains, headache, coughing, and feeling tired. 
Although initially symptoms of influenza may mimic those of a cold, influenza is more debilitating with symptoms of fatigue, fever, and respiratory congestion. Colds can be caused by over 100 different virus types, but only influenza viruses (and subtypes) A, B, and C cause the flu. In addition, colds do not lead to life-threatening illnesses like pneumonia, but severe infections with influenza viruses can lead to pneumonia or even death.
Influenza type A viruses are very similar in structure to influenza viruses types B and C. The virus particle (also called the virion) is 80–120 nanometers in diameter and usually roughly spherical, although some rare filamentous forms can occur. For example, the H5N1 virus designates an influenza A subtype that has a type 5 hemagglutinin (H) protein and a type 1 neuraminidase (N) protein. There are 18 known types of hemagglutinin and 11 known types of neuraminidase, so, in theory, 198 different combinations of these proteins are possible.
Type A Influenza: Introduction. Type A Influenza: Type A influenza is a subtype of the influenza virus that can cause cause serious illness and result in pandemics. Influenza is viral respiratory infection. 
Causes of the flu. The flu is caused by influenza virus types A, B, and C. Both type A and type B flu viruses are responsible for the seasonal outbreaks of flu. Type A flu viruses are found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and horses. Influenza B viruses circulate widely only among humans. Influenza (also known as the flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu vaccination each year.