Regionally and Nationally Accredited. Penn Foster Career School is regionally accredited for non-degree granting postsecondary programs by the Commission on Secondary Schools of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. Benefits of Choosing Penn Foster: 1  Brand. 2  Penn Foster is one of the world's largest and most respected online education providers. 3  Content. 4  Penn Foster programs are job-focused. 5  We offer training for employment in the fastest-growing fields in business, technology, healthcare, and the trades.
Penn Foster partners with hundreds of secondary & post-secondary schools, employers, and youth organizations. Penn Foster works with numerous organizations across the country, providing them with career-focused high school diploma solutions designed to improve organizational and student outcomes. 
Enroll in one of Penn Foster's schools to receive an affordable education. For full details on accreditation for each of our schools, click here. Take a look at our complete list of programs below. Find out how you can receive a career-focused education that suits your budget and lifestyle. 
Penn Foster High School is regionally accredited for grades 9 through adult by the Commission on Secondary Schools of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. Penn Foster High School is licensed by the Pennsylvania State Board of Private Licensed Schools. Benefits of Choosing Penn Foster: 1  Brand. 2  Penn Foster is one of the world's largest and most respected online education providers. 3  Content. 4  Penn Foster programs are job-focused. 5  We offer training for employment in the fastest-growing fields in business, technology, healthcare, and the trades.
Penn Foster College is a U.S. for-profit, nationally accredited distance education private college. The school was founded in 1890, and was known as International Correspondence Schools, or ICS. It is headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona. Penn Foster College provides students with the opportunity to earn bachelor's degrees, Associate degrees, and undergraduate certificates through online courses and instruction.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Penn Foster Career School is a U.S. for-profit, regionally and nationally accredited online career school. The school was founded in 1890, and was known as International Correspondence Schools, or ICS. It is headquartered in Scranton, PA. Students of Penn Foster Career School can study online at a pace that is right for them. Penn Foster Career School offers over 50 Career Diploma Programs and over 30 Certificate Programs.
Penn Foster College is nationally accredited by the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC). Penn Foster College’s Veterinary Technician Associate Degree is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) through their Committee on Veterinary Technician Education and Activities (CVTEA). Penn Foster College provides students with the opportunity to earn bachelor's degrees, Associate degrees, and undergraduate certificates through online courses and instruction.
Penn Foster College is licensed by the Arizona State Board for Private Postsecondary Education, authorizing Penn Foster College to award Associate of Science Degrees, Bachelor of Science Degrees, and Undergraduate Certificates. Penn Foster College provides students with the opportunity to earn bachelor's degrees, Associate degrees, and undergraduate certificates through online courses and instruction.
Penn Foster is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Secondary Schools for our high school and vocational technical programs. Penn Foster is accredited by the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC), which is listed by the U.S. Department of Education as a nationally recognized accrediting agency. Penn Foster is licensed by the Pennsylvania State Board of Private Licensed Schools.