Three species of maple trees are predominantly used to produce maple syrup: the sugar maple (Acer saccharum) , the black maple (A. nigrum) , and the red maple (A. rubrum) , because of the high sugar content (roughly two to five percent) in the sap of these species. Maple syrup is a syrup usually made from the xylem sap of sugar maple, red maple, or black maple trees, although it can also be made from other maple species. In cold climates, these trees store starch in their trunks and roots before the winter; the starch is then converted to sugar that rises in the sap in the spring
Southern Sugar Maple. Southern sugar maple (Acer barbatum) is often used as a substitute for sugar maple (Acer saccharum) in the South. This heat-tolerant, deciduous tree grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant zones 7 through 9. It generally reaches only 20 to 25 feet tall and 20 to 40 feet wid
Types of Maple Trees. Out of all the species of maple trees, most are found in Europe, Asia, Latin America and North Africa. Some species of maple can also be found in Pacific coasts of Canada and Rocky Mountains. Only one variety that is Acer laurinum can be found in southern hemisphere. Acer saccharum, Sugar Maple. The best source of “maple syrup,” sugar maple is another one of types of maple trees known for its clear sap and bright yellow to orange colored leaves. Sugar maple trees have an amazing affinity of coloring evenly during fall.
Sugar Maple Trees. Sugar maple trees (Acer saccharum) should be grown in zones 3-8, in an area of your yard that is well-drained and gets full to partial sun. Famous as the source of maple syrup, sugar maple trees can reach 80' or more in height, with a spread of up to 60'. Red Maple Trees. The fall foliage of red maples, or swamp maple trees  (Acer rubrum spp.), unfortunately sometimes makes a liar out of the trees' name. That's why it's best to stick with cultivars known for their fall color consistency, such as 'Autumn Blaze' .
Chalk Maple. Chalk, or Chalkbark, maple (Acer leucoderme) is another variation of the sugar maple that is grown in the South (USDA zones 5 through 8). It is a smaller tree, reaching 25 to 30 feet tall and 15 to 30 feet wide, making it a good choice for patios and decks. Southern sugar maple (Acer barbatum) is often used as a substitute for sugar maple (Acer saccharum) in the South. This heat-tolerant, deciduous tree grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant zones 7 through 9.
Sugar Maple (hard maple, rock maple) Sugar maple (Acer saccharum) is the most abundant of the seven maple species found in New York State, and is common throughout New England, the Lake States, Mid-Atlantic states, and several Canadian provinces. The leaves of sugar maple are simple (single) and like the buds are in an opposite arrangement on the twigs (Figure 1). They are usually five-lobed although certain trees may possess leaves with three, four, or five lobes. Leaves are dark green on the top surface and paler underneath.
If you've eaten real maple syrup, you've tasted the sap of the sugar maple (Acer saccharum). Maple species are found throughout the United States -- they are valued for their hardiness and beautiful fall color -- but the sugar maple is most abundant in the Northeast, Lake states and mid-Atlantic states. Southern sugar maple (Acer barbatum) is often used as a substitute for sugar maple (Acer saccharum) in the South. This heat-tolerant, deciduous tree grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant zones 7 through 9.
Sugar Maple trees come in specific varieties that are found throughout most of North America and grow in most soil conditions. The leaves of a Sugar Maple are a star shape with well-defined veins running from a center vein to the outer edges of the leaf. During the fall different species of the tree will display brilliant colors. Sugar Maples in areas that experience a full winter season are often tapped for maple syrup
Fourteen of these are indigenous to the United States. In Minnesota, the four species used for producing maple syrup are: sugar maple (hard maple) Acer saccharum; red maple (soft maple) Acer rubrum; silver maple (soft or cutleaf maple) Acer saccharinum; and boxelder (Manitoba maple) Acer negundo. Most maple syrup is made from sugar maple sap