A parliamentary system is a system of democratic governance of a state in which the executive branch derives its democratic legitimacy from, and is held accountable to, the legislature (parliament); the executive and legislative branches are thus interconnected. In a parliamentary system, with a collegial executive, power is more divided. In the 1989 Lebanese Taif Agreement, in order to give Muslims greater political power, Lebanon moved from a semi-presidential system with a strong president to a system more structurally similar to classical parliamentary government.
In a parliamentary system the prime minister is chosen by the legislature. This helps to ensure that there is some form of cooperation between the legislature and the executive. Often, it is necessary to form coalitions in the legislature in order to gain the votes needed to choose a prime minister. The majority party is elected by the people of the country as representatives to what they want thus giving the people a direct voice in their government. The parliamentary is then led by the party leader of the majority. Sure he can do anything he wants but he does have the vote of confidence to think of.
Overall, presidential form of government is better than parliamentary form of government. Being more democratic compared to parliamentary form of government, presidential government is better and favorable for the people as they can participate directly in choosing their leader. The majority party is elected by the people of the country as representatives to what they want thus giving the people a direct voice in their government. The parliamentary is then led by the party leader of the majority. Sure he can do anything he wants but he does have the vote of confidence to think of.
In modern political theory, a parliament is the legislature within a parliamentary system of government. Historically, parliaments include various kinds of deliberative, consultative, judicial assemblies. Generally a parliament has three functions: representation, legislation, and oversight (i.e. , hearings, inquiries). 
This is in contrast to a presidential system in a democracy, where the head of state often is also the head of government, and most importantly, the executive branch does not derive its democratic legitimacy from the legislature. In a parliamentary system, with a collegial executive, power is more divided. In the 1989 Lebanese Taif Agreement, in order to give Muslims greater political power, Lebanon moved from a semi-presidential system with a strong president to a system more structurally similar to classical parliamentary government.
Parliamentary is Better! A Parliamentarian style of government is better than a Presidential style of government because of the efficiency of the government with restraints to prevent against a dictatorship or a totalitarian rule. When a Prime Minister is elected to office he is elected by the party with the majority. The majority party is elected by the people of the country as representatives to what they want thus giving the people a direct voice in their government. The parliamentary is then led by the party leader of the majority. Sure he can do anything he wants but he does have the vote of confidence to think of.
The President leads the executive branch of government. In a parliamentary democracy, you have a Prime Minister, who is first elected as a member of parliament, then elected Prime Minister by the other members of the parliamentary legislature. However, the Prime Minister remains a part of the legislature. Some countries with a parliamentary system are constitutional monarchies, which still have a king and queen. A few examples of these are the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Japan. It is important to remember that both of these systems of government are democracies. Ultimately, the citizens who vote have the voice.
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. Parliamentary democracy is a representative democracy where government is appointed by, or can be dismissed by, representatives as opposed to a presidential rule wherein the president is both head of state and the head of government and is elected by the voters.
In a few parliamentary republics, such as Botswana, South Africa and Suriname, as well as German states, the head of government is also head of state, but is elected by and is answerable to the legislature. In a parliamentary system, with a collegial executive, power is more divided. In the 1989 Lebanese Taif Agreement, in order to give Muslims greater political power, Lebanon moved from a semi-presidential system with a strong president to a system more structurally similar to classical parliamentary government.