A pit latrine generally consists of three major parts: a hole in the ground, a slab or floor with a small hole, and a shelter. The shelter is often known as an outhouse. The pit is typically at least 3 meters (10 feet) deep and 1 m (3.2 feet) across. A basic pit latrine can be improved in a number of ways. One includes adding a ventilation pipe from the pit to above the structure. This improves airflow and decreases the smell of the toilet. It also can reduce flies when the top of the pipe is covered with mesh (usually made out of fiberglass).
A slit-trench latrine consists of a relatively shallow trench which is narrow enough to stand with one leg on either side (for the slit-trench latrine). This type is used either by squatting, with the users' legs straddling the pit, or by various arrangements for sitting or leaning against a support structure. It is also shallow, with a depth of about 150 mm. This type of latrine is often used in the initial phases of emergencies and is a simple improvement on open defecation fields. A rule of thumb in emergency sanitation provision is to allow 0.25 m 2 of land per person per day. This means 2,500m 2 per 10,000 people per day, or nearly two hectares per week
Latrine. The word latrine can refer to a toilet or a simpler facility used as a toilet, generally without bowl. It can be a communal trench in the earth in a camp, a simple pit, or more advanced designs, including pour-flush systems or ecological latrines. The term is derived from the Latin lavatrina meaning bath. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: latrine (Noun). a very simple toilet facility, usually just a pit or trench. See also the slang terms john and johnny house.
Confidence votes 4. A Latrine is location where men/women can relieve themselves. In the Army bathrooms were called the latrine, in the Navy and Marines it was called the Head. Usually a group bathroom sufficient for squad use. A water sealed latrine is a pit latrine that has like a wall of water to stop smells or odors. Latrines are pits dug in the ground and that's where you rid of human waste. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
The word latrine can refer to a toilet or a simpler facility which is used as a toilet within a sanitation system. It is also shallow, with a depth of about 150 mm. This type of latrine is often used in the initial phases of emergencies and is a simple improvement on open defecation fields. A rule of thumb in emergency sanitation provision is to allow 0.25 m 2 of land per person per day. This means 2,500m 2 per 10,000 people per day, or nearly two hectares per week
The term is derived from the Latin lavatrina, meaning bath. It is nowadays still commonly used in the term  pit latrine . For most people, it has the connotation of something being less advanced and less hygienic than a toilet. It is also shallow, with a depth of about 150 mm. This type of latrine is often used in the initial phases of emergencies and is a simple improvement on open defecation fields. A rule of thumb in emergency sanitation provision is to allow 0.25 m 2 of land per person per day. This means 2,500m 2 per 10,000 people per day, or nearly two hectares per week
A pit latrine or pit toilet is a type of toilet that collects human feces in a hole in the ground. They use either no water or one to three liters per flush with pour-flush pit latrines. A basic pit latrine can be improved in a number of ways. One includes adding a ventilation pipe from the pit to above the structure. This improves airflow and decreases the smell of the toilet. It also can reduce flies when the top of the pipe is covered with mesh (usually made out of fiberglass).