On August 22, 2012, the SEC issued a final rule on conflict minerals pursuant to Dodd-Frank Section 1502. The rule describes the assessment and reporting requirements for issuers whose products contain conflict minerals. These minerals – tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold – are used in a wide range of products across numerous industries. 
1 The successful way to comply with existing and upcoming Conflict Minerals regulations (USA, EU). 2  Work faster, more efficiently and more accurately by using the iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform (iPCMP) to fulfill your due diligence obligations across the supply chain. 1
Read More: Consumer Advocacy, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Conflict Minerals, Imperialism, Congo, Impact News. Diana Buckhantz, JWW Board Member, is traveling with four other JWW delegates in Congo’s eastern provinces. They will work with survivors of t... 
The Securities and Exchange Commission today adopted a rule mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to require companies to publicly disclose their use of conflict minerals that originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country. The regulatory reform law directed the Commission to issue rules requiring certain companies to disclose their use of conflict minerals that include tantalum, tin, gold, or tungsten if those minerals are “necessary to the functionality or production of a product” manufactured by those companies.
Profit from the mineral trade is one of the main motives for armed groups on all sides of the conflict in eastern Congo-the deadliest since World War II. Armed groups earn hundreds of millions of dollars per year by trading four main minerals: the ores that produce tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. Home › Our Initiatives › Conflict Minerals. For more than a century, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been plagued by regional conflict and a deadly scramble for its vast natural resources.
Conflict minerals 1 Dodd–Frank Section 1502 and the SEC’s final rule In recent years, there has been an increasing international focus on “conflict minerals” emanating from mining operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. Dodd–Frank Section 1502 defines “conflict minerals” as cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold and wolframite, as well as their derivatives and other minerals that the US Secretary of State may designate in the future.
Conflict minerals have fueled and continue to help sustain armed violence in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (Congo), linking them to the deadliest conflict globally since World War II. 1 The U.N. Group of Experts on Congo found in 2015 that gold continued to be a source of funding for armed groups and Congo’s army. 2  A study from the Enough Project found that armed groups made an estimated $185 million from conflict minerals in 2008.
The most commonly mined conflict minerals are cassiterite (for tin), wolframite (for tungsten), coltan (for tantalum), and gold ore, which are extracted from the Eastern Congo, and passed through a variety of intermediaries before being purchased by multinational electronics companies. Other conflict minerals being illicitly exported from the Congo include cobalt, tungsten, cassiterite, and coltan (which provides the tantalum for mobile phones, and is also said to be directly sustaining the conflict).
The term “Conflict Minerals” is defined in the conflict minerals rules and refers to tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (the Conflict Minerals or 3TG). 
2. Conflict minerals, as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold, regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 