Description: Arsenic's name comes from the Greek term for an arsenic compound, orpiment (arsenic trisulfide). Arsenic is a metalloid element, which, like phosphorus, has two main forms. One is a brittle, gray metallic form and the other is a yellow, non-metallic solid. Yellow arsenic is the more reactive and unstable of the pair. Arsenic is stable, being unaffected by air, water, most acids and alkalis. Arsenic has no liquid phase; the solid sublimes directly into a vapor. Arsenic has semiconductor properties and is used in making transistors. It is also used in alloys, glass production, pyrotechnics and wood preservatives. An arsenic-gallium compound is used in making lasers.
The phosphorus ion P-is highly reactive. In fact, the high bond energy is what powers almost all cellular activity. (See Adenosine TriPhosphate, commonly called ATP.) Pho … sphorus, however, also tends to bond with oxygen, creating less active phosphate radicals (PO4). Its atomic number is 33, and it's atomic weight is 74.92. It is very brittle and crystalline; arsenic changes from a s … olid to a gas when heated.   It is poison.     It's a type of poison that can kill you if taken in large doses or over a period of time if taken in smaller doses.
Arsenic appears in three allotropic forms: yellow, black and grey; the stable form is a silver-gray, brittle crystalline solid. It tarnishes rapidly in air, and at high temperatures burns forming a white cloud of arsenic trioxide. Arsenic is a member of group Va of the periodic table, which combines readily with many elements. The metallic form is brittle, tharnishes and when heated it rapidly oxidizes to arsenic trioxide, which has a garlic odor. The non metallic form is less reactive but will dissolve when heated with strong oxidizing acids and alkalis. Applications
Reaction of arsenic with air. Arsenic is stable in dry air, but the surface oxidizes slowly in moist air to give a bronze tarnish and finally a black covering to the element. When heated in air, arsenic ignites arsenic trioxide - actually tetraarsenic hexaoxide, As 4 O 6. This is accompanied by phosphorescence under some conditions. Arsenic reacts under controlled conditions with the halogens fluorine, F 2, chlorine, Cl 2, bromine, Br 2, and iodine, I 2, to form the respective trihalides arsenic(III) fluoride, AsF 3, arsenic(III) chloride, AsCl 3, arsenic(III) bromide, AsBr 3, and arsenic(III) iodide, AsI 3.
1 Answer. 0. Arsenic (As), tarnishes in the air, and when heated quickly oxidizes to arsenous oxide. When arsenic and some minerals containing arsenic are heated, they will sublime (transfer from a solid to a gaseous state, skipping the liquid state). more. 
Hydrogen peroxide production is also increased, which might form reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress. These metabolic interferences lead to death from multi-system organ failure (see arsenic poisoning) probably from necrotic cell death, not apoptosis. 
Arsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in conjunction with sulfur and metals, and also as a pure elemental crystal. Arsenic is a metalloid. It can exist in various allotropes, although only the gray form has important use in industry. A broad variety of sulfur compounds of arsenic are known. Orpiment (As2S3) and realgar (As4S4) are somewhat abundant and were formerly used as painting pigments. In As 4 S 10, arsenic has a formal oxidation state of +2 in As 4 S 4 which features As-As bonds so that the total covalency of As is still 3.
Arsenic: reactions of elements. Arsenic is stable in dry air, but the surface oxidizes slowly in moist air to give a bronze tarnish and finally a black covering to the element. When heated in air, arsenic ignites arsenic trioxide - actually tetraarsenic hexaoxide, As 4 O 6. This is accompanied by phosphorescence under some conditions. Arsenic reacts under controlled conditions with the halogens fluorine, F 2, chlorine, Cl 2, bromine, Br 2, and iodine, I 2, to form the respective trihalides arsenic(III) fluoride, AsF 3, arsenic(III) chloride, AsCl 3, arsenic(III) bromide, AsBr 3, and arsenic(III) iodide, AsI 3.