Michelangelo Gratton/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Ammonium lactate cream is a combination of lactic acid and ammonium hydroxide. It is used as a moisturizer to treat pruritus (itching), ichthyosis (dry, scaly skin), and xerosis (a form of eczema). The generic name for ammonium lactate cream is ammonium lactate topical. It is sold under the brand names Amlactin, Kerasal AL, Lac-Hydrin, and Laclotion.
Ammonium lactate is a combination of lactic acid and ammonium hydroxide. Ammonium lactate is a moisturizer. Ammonium lactate is used to treat dry, scaly, itchy skin. Ammonium lactate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow all directions on your medicine label and package. Tell each of your healthcare providers about all your medical conditions, allergies, and all medicines you us
Lac-Hydrin (ammonium lactate) Cream is used to treat dry, scaly, itchy skin. It is a moisturizer. This medication is available in generic form. Common side effects include stinging, burning, and redness. Apply a dose of Lac-Hydrin Cream to the affected areas and rub in thoroughly. 
Ammonium Lactate 12 Lotion is used for many dry and scaly skin cases as well as body acne. Ammonium Lactate Lotion 12% is considered to be a generic lotion or cream for such brand names of skin care products such as Lac Hydrin, Hydrolac, and AmLactin (all of which are made up of Ammonium Lactate). If you want to try out a brand name of ammonium lactate lotion, you can check AmLactin 12 Lotion which is a very good choice for a brand name version of ammonium lactate 12 lotion.
Doctor writing a prescription Photo Credit ognianm/iStock/Getty Images. Ammonium lactate lotion is a prescription lotion designed to heal excessively dry, chapped, irritated skin, or scaly skin. It also provides temporary relief of the itching associated with these conditions. Composed of an alpha-hydroxy acid, it is effective at hydrating the outer layer of the skin. Ingredients. Ingredients found in commonly prescribed 12 percent ammonium lactate lotion include mineral oil, glyceryl stearate, PEG-100 stearate, propylene glycol, polyoxyl 40 stearate, glycerin, magnesium aluminum silicate, laureth-4, cetyl alcohol, methyl and propyl parabens, methylcellulose, fragrance and water.
A: Your question regards what ammonium lactate cream 12% is used for. Ammonium lactate is classified as a topical skin protectant and is approved to treat moderate to severe xerosis (dryness of the skin) and ichthyosis vulgaris (condition resulting in dry scaly skin). Ammonium lactate is a moisturizer. Ammonium lactate is used to treat dry, scaly, itchy skin. Ammonium lactate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow all directions on your medicine label and package.