Mulch Installation Costs. For professional mulch installation, you might pay anywhere between $160 and $270, although this won’t include the cost to buy or deliver mulch. This is determined by the square footage of area you need covered along with labor and delivery costs. Covering a few garden beds might require only a few bags of mulch. However, if you want to cover a large portion of your front or backyard, you probably should buy in bulk. The average price of bulk mulch is between $15 and $65 per cubic yard, though some bags are priced to cover more than one cubic yard.
1 The use of a blower truck to install landscape mulches typically saves 10 to 15% of material over hand applied mulch. 2  For instance: On an average 50 yard property, mulch savings can be 5 yards @ the average $55 per yard installed price. 3  That’s savings of $275 on material costs for that one property alone. 1 A typical landscape contractor’s mulch installation rate is between $50 and $70 per yard; whereas, mulches using our blower services are installed between $35 and $45 per yard depending on your mulch material selection.
The cost of mulch   Basically, what you will need to do is convert cubic yards to cubic feet, determine the cost per cubic foot, and then multiply by two.   One cubi … c yard is a volume equivalent to the space inside a box that is three feet wide, three feet high, and three feet deep. Confidence votes 35. Cost of 1 Yard of Mulch You can pay about $25 a yard to have the mulch deliverd and spread it yourself. normally landscapers charge the same amount to spread it as it costs to buy it. ex. one yard of black may cost 29$ plus 20$ to deliver-they would charge 49$ to spread it.
Average Cost per square foot for Mulch Installation in Richmond. The average cost to Install Mulch in Richmond 2015 is $0.51 to $0.98 per square foot. Always make sure to make all hiring decisions carefully and to make sure the contractor is fully insured, bonded and licensed. It is a good idea to check references and verify prior work quality. To Install Mulch in Richmond you should expect to pay in the range of $101.86 to $196.10. What we use to calculate Richmond Mulch Installation estimates is average material costs, average hourly labor wages and labor productivity rates.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Mulch Installation project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Mulch ranges between $0.47 - $1.07 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Mulch Prices. Mulch is usually purchased by the yard. One yard of mulch costs $35 to $50 for one yard. When a “yard” is referred to in landscape terms people are most often referring to a cubic yard, meaning one yard by one yard by one yard, 27 cubic feet. A yard is measured by volume, not by weight. One yard of mulch weighs about one third of what one yard of sand weighs
1 Highlandgardens.org, for example, offers one cubic yard of their double-shredded premium hardwood oak bark, in natural brown color for $59.95; if more than 2 yards is purchased, the cost goes down to $42.99 per yard. 1 The cost of mulch is going to depend on the supplier, the amount of mulch, and the type that you decide to buy. 2  Most suppliers are going to charge anywhere from as little as $24 to as much as $60 per yard of mulch. 3  However, most purchases should be between $28 and $40