Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) sets Ocean Sport Clamming Seasons. Watch this page for announcements of scheduled openings as information becomes available. Tentative Dates & Tides: Dates will be confirmed by safety tests just prior to the digs. In Washington waters, the Pacific razor clam (Siliqua patula) grows to a maximum length of six inches, although clams 3 to 5 inches in length are most often harvested. Clams seven inches long have been recorded, but are very rare. The life expectancy for Washington clams is five year
Here is a GREAT video, by David Campiche of the Shelburne Inn and Restaurant on how to clean your razor clams! Anyone interested in taking up razor clam digging can get some tips from WDFW’s Great Getaways webpage at http://wdfw.wa.gov/fishing/vacation/coast_razor_clamming.html. All diggers age 15 or older must have an applicable 2015 license to harvest razor clams on any beach. 
Friday.Then comes the switch to morning tides on Saturday along with four more days of digging.Low tides are -0.5 feet at 7:55 a.m. Saturday; -0.7 feet at 8:42 a.m. Sunday, -0.6 feet at 9:31 a.m. Monday and -0.3 feet at 10:21 a.m. Tuesday.Additional digs will be announced soon. Each digger’s limit must be in a separate container.A three-day razor clam license costs $8.60 while an annual license is $13. LONG BEACH, Wash. — Razor clam digging switches to morning tides beginning Saturday along the Washington coast. Digging resumed on Monday. Low tide Thursday is -0.5 feet at 6:42 p.m. followed by -0.4 feet at 7:26 p.m. Friday. Then comes the switch to morning tides on Saturday along with four more days of digging
For all other questions and comments, e-mail us at: fishpgm@dfw.wa.gov. Razor Clams. Beaches in Washington with razor clam fisheries include: Long Beach, which extends from the Columbia River to Leadbetter Point. Twin Harbors Beach, which extends from the mouth of Willapa Bay north to the south jetty at the mouth of Grays Harbor
Tides are from the Columbia River Entrance (N. Jetty). Tides are for razor clamming. All tides may differ from other published Oregon tide tables. When clamming always arrive two hours early. All Oregon tide tables will vary based upon many factors and are just predictions. These Oregon tide tables are for public use. 
Razor clams are found primarily on the intertidal coastal beaches (those that are exposed at low tide) from a +3 foot level to a -2 foot tide level. The Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) divides the harvest areas into five major management zones (see map): 
questions, e-mail us at: fishregs@dfw.wa.gov. For all other questions and comments, e-mail us at: fishpgm@dfw.wa.gov. Razor Clams. Beaches in Washington with razor clam fisheries include: Long Beach, which extends from the Columbia River to Leadbetter Point. Twin Harbors Beach, which extends from the mouth of Willapa Bay north to the south jetty at the mouth of Grays Harbor. OLYMPIA Elevated levels of marine toxins have prompted state shellfish managers to postpone the start of razor clam digging on ocean beaches this fall. The Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) will not schedule razor clam digs on any of the state’s ocean beaches until tests show the clams are safe to eat.