It would be nice to anthropomorphize that animals can appreciate our art and music but we really have no hard evidence to support these claims. If animals do appreciate beauty in their own way, we really haven't found a way to test it. parrots. They have taught elephants to paint. The question is not whether they communicate an appreciation of beauty to humans, but do they have it. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
Perhaps we should consider that aesthetics, or a sense of beauty, evolved before man in the course of pre-human evolution and rather like any other evolutionary process it is possible that human aesthetic appreciation evolved from a similar appreciative sense in animals. He provided an account of animal aesthetics advocating that non human animals have a sense of aesthetics. He theorised that a sense of beauty in the human animal may be a continuation of aesthetic preferences
In the same manner as various animals have some sense of beauty, though they admire widely-different objects, so they might have a sense of right and wrong, though led by it to follow widely different lines of conduct. Darwin recognised that birds have a sense of beauty that is almost as developed as that of humans. Below in this extract from the Descent of Man wherein he writes that birds would not have evolved their beautiful plumage and beautiful songs had these attributes not be appreciated by female birds. SENSE OF BEAUTY. He provided an account of animal aesthetics advocating that non human animals have a sense of aesthetics. He theorised that a sense of beauty in the human animal may be a continuation of aesthetic preferences in animals.
I wonder do any other animals See Beauty, is man the only one to appreciate how something looks. Apart from mating which dosent count for this question, I put that one under urge not beauty. Add your answer. Source. Apart from mating which dosent count for this question but by removing that, you've taken away the primary reason for, and estimation of, beauty. So, for your purposes, beauty is some quality that something like a landscape or a structure or a piece of art has.
This applies to the most intelligent animals. great apes, elephants, dolphins. parrots. They have taught elephants to paint. The question is not whether they communicate an appreciation of beauty to humans, but do they have it. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
There are two directions of further development. One is extension: the opening of the aesthetic sense to perceiving beauty beyond the species limit -- in other animals -- and also down to the first order of beauty, that created accidentally by chemical processes. This will require some distancing of the aesthetic sense from its sexual bind. The only author I found to be of help in clarifying my question was Charles Darwin. (1) The idea that the sense of beauty [11] arises in a context of utility without yet being per se a sense of utility or reducible to utility lies at the heart of Darwin's account of animal aesthetics.
• Humor: No other creature is able to appreciate, create and express humor. Not only does it require creativity, but humor also requires the ability to detach oneself from one’s surroundings to see the odd, surreal or ironic. • Appreciation of beauty: Man is able to appreciate all kinds of beauty. Simply put, the physical differences between the human brain and that of animals are insufficient to explain the “horsepower” described above. Three aspects of the human brain demonstrate this point. • Weight: Human beings do not have the heaviest brains in overall weight, or even weight in proportion to their bodies. • Anatomy: Correlations differ between man’s brain and that of animals. • Cerebral Cortex: The nerve center of the human brain is only slightly more complex than that of animals
• A sense of morality: Animals always take the path of least resistance. They do not have a conscience or sense of right and wrong. On the other hand, mankind will go so far as to control his thoughts based on what he considers right or wrong. Simply put, the physical differences between the human brain and that of animals are insufficient to explain the “horsepower” described above. Three aspects of the human brain demonstrate this point. • Weight: Human beings do not have the heaviest brains in overall weight, or even weight in proportion to their bodies. • Anatomy: Correlations differ between man’s brain and that of animals. • Cerebral Cortex: The nerve center of the human brain is only slightly more complex than that of animals
I think, however, that we can be more confident one way or the other by developing a better functional understanding of beauty and looking for similar brain/hormone structures/connections in other animals. It's pretty likely that dogs see beauty-in other dogs, because that's how sexual attraction works. ScholasticSpastic wrote:Humans see beauty.Humans are animals.Thus, animals see beauty-at least some of them. True, but not very convincing, as dogs are not very closely related to humans, except that both are mammals.