Taxonomy. The modern day giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis), an even toed ungulate (the same as cattle, camels, sheep, goats and even hippopotamus – but not horses), is the world’s tallest animal and largest ruminant (animals that partly digest their food and then regurgitate it to chew as ‘cud’). But is there just one ‘giraffe species’ or are there many? It is widely accepted that there are a number of (sub)species of G. camelopardalis though there is increasing evidence to suggest that some of these nine (sub)species may be separate species in their own right.
Tallest animal. Giraffes are the tallest living animals in the world, according to the Smithsonian National Zoological Park. A giraffe's neck alone is 6 feet (1.8 meters) long and weighs about 600 lbs. (272 kilograms). The animal's legs are also 6 feet long. In full, females grow up to 14 feet (4.3 m) tall and weigh up to 1,500 lbs. (680 kg), while males grow up to 18 feet (5.5 m) tall and weigh up to 3,000 lbs.
Female giraffes become sexually mature around 3 or 4 years old. The gestation or pregnancy period for a female giraffe is about 14 - 15 months. A female giraffe will give birth to a calf that stands about 6 feet tall and weighs approximately 150 lbs. Giraffes use their long necks to reach for leaves high in trees. They only have seven vertebrae in their necks, the same as humans. Not many animals will attack adult giraffes, but young giraffes may be attacked by lions, leopards, hyenas and other predators. Giraffes were at one time believed to be a combination of a camel and a leopard. The species name camelopardalis is derived from this mistake.
The giraffe's scattered range extends from Chad in the north to South Africa in the south, and from Niger in the west to Somalia in the east. Giraffes usually inhabit savannas, grasslands, and open woodlands. The giraffe has an extremely elongated neck, which can be up to 2 m (6 ft 7 in) in length, accounting for much of the animal's vertical height. The long neck results from a disproportionate lengthening of the cervical vertebrae, not from the addition of more vertebrae. Each cervical vertebra is over 28 cm (11 in) long.
Giraffe Manor in Nairobi, a popular hotel, which also serves as a sanctuary for Rothschild giraffes. The giraffe is a protected species in most of its range. The Biggest Animals Kingdom | Giraffe | Giraffe has its first origin of the name known in the Arabic words Zarafa (زرافہ), probably some African languages. species name is the Latin word for giraffe. Located on both sides of the head, a big giraffe, rolling his eyes to teach him a panoramic view from a great height. Giraffes see in color, and their hearing and smell are also sharp. Prehensile tongue giraffe is about 50 cm (20 inches). The upper lip is a giraffe, a tenacious and is useful when searching for food.
Not many animals will attack adult giraffes, but young giraffes will be attacked by lions, leopards, hyenas and other predators. The giraffe was long believed to be a combination of a camel and a leopard. The species name camelopardalis is derived from this mistake. 1 N ot many animals will attack adult giraffes, but young giraffes will be attacked by lions, leopards, hyenas and other predators. 2  T he giraffe was long believed to be a combination of a camel and a leopard. 3 
The giraffe's prehensile tongue is about 50 cm (20 in) long. It is purplish-black in colour, perhaps to protect against sunburn, and is useful for grasping foliage, as well as for grooming and cleaning the animal's nose. The upper lip of the giraffe is also prehensile and useful when foraging. The giraffe has an extremely elongated neck, which can be up to 2 m (6 ft 7 in) in length, accounting for much of the animal's vertical height. The long neck results from a disproportionate lengthening of the cervical vertebrae, not from the addition of more vertebrae. Each cervical vertebra is over 28 cm (11 in) long.
kingdom: animalia phylum: chordata Class: mammalia Order: Artiodactyla Family: Giraffidae Genus: Giraffa Species: Camelopardalis. 2 people found this useful. Edit. All domestic dogs, including pitbulls, belong to the same subspecies: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Carnivors Family: Canidae Genus: Ca … nis Species: C. lupus Subspecies: C. l. familiaris.