Your body produces hormones such as estrogen and progesterone. These hormones are found in the pituitary gland, the hypothalamus and the ovaries. They send signals to one another to trigger menstruation and ovulation. When the hormonal signals are deregulated, it can cause an early (or irregular) menstrual cycle. Here are some reasons that cause the change in hormonal levels: 1  Stress: Fatigue, too much worrying, and anxiousness can cause the hormonal imbalance.
Being very underweight or obese causes hormonal changes, and these can trigger early or later periods, or even skipping periods. A condition called hypopitutitarism can cause the pituitary gland to slow. It may not produce enough of a particular hormone, or it may produce none at all.
As with pregnancy, this time of life happens when hormone levels in the body begin to shift. Irregular periods can start as early as 10 years before menopause sets in (usually when a woman is in her late 40s or early 50s).
Stress is the most common cause of irregular periods. Cortisol, the stress hormone, has a direct impact on how much estrogen and progesterone, two sex hormones, gets produced by the body. If you have too much cortisol in your bloodstream, the time and flow of your cycle could change.
Whether there is a delayed or early menstrual period, menstruation or menstrual bleeding is a sign that a woman is not pregnant and will be on her most fertile period five days before or one or two days after the ovulation phase.
An early period or a late period may be due to factors other than pregnancy. Irregular periods are common in women approaching perimenopause and menopause. There are many other causes of early period or late period which women need to be aware of as well. For example, extreme weight loss and gain can affect menstruation. This is because hormones levels fluctuate during excessive weight gain or loss resulting in hormone level changes.
There are instances when spotting or early period symptoms may not be due to an early period. If this happens, sexually active women may have to consider the fact that they might be pregnant. Spotting instead of a period is an almost certain indication of implantation bleeding.