This kibble has mashed up insects along with vitamins and minerals to create a balanced diet for your hedgie. Many owners and breeders still feed kitten food to their hedgehogs but this is not recommended due to the higher protein kitten food contains. Hedgehog food is available at most pet stores or online. Pet hedgehogs are unlike most other exotic pets. Not only do they eat a very unique food but they are covered with tiny little spikes and roll into balls when scared.
If you are unable to order your hedgehog's food online and your local pet store doesn't carry a quality hedgehog kibble then the next best thing is to feed a holistic or high quality chicken cat food with a small kibble. This is why many people opted, and may still choose, to feed a cat food over a hedgehog kibble. Another reason why people may feed cat food to hedgehogs is that they simply continue to feed whatever the pet store or breeder fed after taking their new hog home.
This is based on quality of ingredients, the fat and protein content, as well as our personal experience and that of other hedgehog breeders and owners.Second Tier Foods are those foods that are considered acceptable for hedgehogs. They are fairly good or decent in quality overall, but not ideal. This is not a complete list-it includes the foods that are most commonly used and easy to find, as well as others that are less well known. Some of these foods are available at chain pet stores (PetCo, Petsmart), while some are only sold at private/local pet and farm supply stores.
What to Feed Your Hedgehog. There are a few different primary food options for hedgehogs. Again, while they eat mainly insects in the wild, the main portion of your hedgehog’s diet should be dry foods that have a similar fat to protein ratio. Insects. 1  Crickets, silkworms or mealworms are the best types of insects for pet hedgehogs. 2  Ensure that the insects are farm-raised. 3  Never feed your hedgehog insects from your garden or from a bait shop.
All of the following dry cat foods are recommended for hedgehogs. This is not a complete list-it includes the foods that are most commonly used and easy to find, as well as others that are less well known. Some of these foods are available at chain pet stores (PetCo, Petsmart), while some are only sold at private/local pet and farm supply stores.
http://www.acana.com/ - The cat foods are all low enough for hedgehogs, at 35%! The fat is a bit high, but can be used for runners or mixed with a lower fat food. The dog foods are appropriate as well, if broken up. This brand is owned by the same company as Orijen and is just as high recommended. 
The kibble you feed your hedgehog should also contain a meat as the primary ingredient and a meat or meat meal as the secondary ingredient. This will insure your hedgehog is getting the high protein diet it would otherwise get eating strictly insects and scavenging in the wild. Many breeders agree that it is best to give your hedgehog a variety of foods. This is often done for a few reasons. If you hedgehog is picky he may one day decide he doesn't like a certain food. If you are feeding it more than one food it will be able to eat some of the other foods.
Food. Hedgehogs are opportunistic scavengers, while they may mainly eat insects in the wild, they will also eat anything that presents itself to the hedgehog. These opportunistic foods include bird eggs, lizards, snakes, small mammals, carrion, and even their own children if they feel threatened. Many breeders agree that it is best to give your hedgehog a variety of foods. This is often done for a few reasons. If you hedgehog is picky he may one day decide he doesn't like a certain food. If you are feeding it more than one food it will be able to eat some of the other foods.
The African Pygmy hedgehog, or common pet hedgehog, is a small, solitary and mostly nocturnal mammal with quills. Hedgehogs appeal to people looking for an unusual, quirky pet that is also cuddly, quiet and odorless. Typical costs: 
This is based on quality of ingredients, the fat and protein content, as well as our personal experience and that of other hedgehog breeders and owners.Second Tier Foods are those foods that are considered acceptable for hedgehogs. Some of these foods are available at chain pet stores (PetCo, Petsmart), while some are only sold at private/local pet and farm supply stores.Top Tier Foods are those foods that are considered among the best options