Whether intertwining yoga and meditation time for a short 20-minute session, or going for an extended workout-longer than an hour, both can do wonders for flexibility, muscle strength and result in numerous other health benefits. (1). In addition, yoga practiced in shorter sessions works well when fitting a workout into a busy schedule. Short duration yoga sessions allow portable workouts-they can be done pretty much anywhere-so long as a yoga mat is handy.
A yoga session can be as long or as short as your schedule allows. At times, you might only need five or 10 minutes to shut your office door and practice breathing exercises and a few different poses to energize your body midday. Or, borrow a yoga DVD from the library. Some yoga classes are more intensive and will last up to 90 minutes. Express yoga classes cater to those with busy schedules and might be as short as 30 minutes. Sixty-minute long classes are also common.
Class Time. The time that a yoga class runs is completely up to the teacher and the type of yoga that you're practicing. Some yoga classes are more intensive and will last up to 90 minutes. Express yoga classes cater to those with busy schedules and might be as short as 30 minutes. Sixty-minute long classes are also common. To find out how long a particular class will run, contact the studio or instructor directly so you know how to plan your schedule around class
A typical yoga class for beginners will last one hour to 1 1/2 hours, but class times can vary depending on multiple factors such as class level, type of class, preferences of the teacher, needs of the students and sought-after objectives. 
1 The total yoga session for small children should not be more than 15 minutes. 2  Allow children who are 6 and older to hold poses and do exercises for up to 1-1/2 minutes, or 90 seconds. 3  Older kids can often endure yoga sessions up to 25 minutes. Kids' bodies are still developing, so poses should not be held for too long, and the overall yoga session should match their age and ability. 1  Allow children 5 years old and younger to spend up to 1 minute or 60 seconds on each exercise or pose.
Short Yoga Sessions (60 minutes or less). The benefits of yoga sessions lasting less than 1 hour mirror those of longer sessions in many ways. They can drastically improve flexibility and joint mobility when made a regular part of someone’s weekly exercise routine. (1). In addition, yoga practiced in shorter sessions works well when fitting a workout into a busy schedule. Short duration yoga sessions allow portable workouts-they can be done pretty much anywhere-so long as a yoga mat is handy.
1 Be sure to pick a time when you know there will be no interruptions or distractions, such as early in the morning or late at night. 2  You can practice yoga for however long you like. 3  It might be anything from a few rounds of sun salutations to a full 90 minutes session. 
Create a session of your own that moves through a few simple yoga poses to wake yourself up every morning, or to calm down after a stressful day. Practice a daily Sun Salute routine that you can repeat for as briefly as five minutes. According to a TimeOut New York round-up of yoga classes around New York City, typical yoga classes in a studio last 60 to 90 minutes. Ninety-minute sessions can be a little more challenging, and are usually recommended for more advanced yogi
When trying to gauge how to fit yoga into a busy life, there is nothing wrong with adopting a mix match of short and long sessions. Fitting three 20-minute yoga sessions during the week and one longer 60-minute session on the weekend into one’s routine will go a long way! (1). In addition, yoga practiced in shorter sessions works well when fitting a workout into a busy schedule. Short duration yoga sessions allow portable workouts-they can be done pretty much anywhere-so long as a yoga mat is handy.