Australian Resources and Deposits. Lead was the first metal mined in Australia at Glen Osmond in South Australia in 1841. In 1876, lead-silver ore was discovered and mined at Thackaringa, near Broken Hill in New South Wales, but the mines closed in 1877. Silver mines flourished nearby at Silverton, Umberumberka, the Pinnacles and Purnamoota. Lead ore also is produced at Rosebery and Hellyer in Tasmania; Elura in New South Wales; Browns in the Northern Territory; and Pillara, Goongewa, Scuddles and Gossan Hill in Western Australia.
The following is a list of the top metals and minerals mined in Western Australia: lead, gold, copper, coal, iron ore, nickel, diamonds, bauxite (for alumina), salt, uranium … and silver. Asbestos also used to be mined, but is now banned.   Top metals and minerals mined in Australia:   LeadGoldCopperCoalIron .... 
Noted deposits include those at Freiberg, Saxony; Cornwall,The Mendips, Somerset, Derbyshire, and Cumberland, England; the Sullivan Mine of British Columbia; and Broken Hill, Australia. Galena also occurs at Mount Hermon in Northern Israel. The Galena crystal group on the left, is an example which was found at Leadhills in the Glengonnar Mine. Galena is the natural mineral form of lead sulfide. It is the most important lead ore mineral.Galena is one of the most abundant and widely distributed sulfide minerals.
It is the most important ore of lead and an important source of silver. Galena is one of the most abundant and widely distributed sulfide minerals. It crystallizes in the cubic crystal system often showing octahedral forms. It is often associated with the minerals sphalerite, calcite and fluorite. Galena is the official state mineral of the U.S. states of Missouri and Wisconsin; the former mining town of Galena, Kansas takes its name from deposits of this mineral. Derbyshire in the UK was one of the main areas where galena was mined.
Cubic galena with calcite from Jasper County, Missouri, USA (size: 5.1×3.2×2.8 cm). Galena also was a major mineral of the zinc-lead mines of the tri-state district around Joplin in southwestern Missouri and the adjoining areas of Kansas and Oklahoma. Galena is also an important ore mineral in the silver mining regions of Colorado, Idaho, Utah and Montana. Galena is the official state mineral of the U.S. states of Missouri and Wisconsin; the former mining town of Galena, Kansas takes its name from deposits of this mineral. Derbyshire in the UK was one of the main areas where galena was mined.
Of the rest, lead in ores and concentrates goes mainly to Japan for further processing, while refined lead is sent to Taiwan, South Korea, Indonesia, India and Malaysia. Australia is also at the forefront of technological development in lead mining and processing. Lead ore also is produced at Rosebery and Hellyer in Tasmania; Elura in New South Wales; Browns in the Northern Territory; and Pillara, Goongewa, Scuddles and Gossan Hill in Western Australia.
Galena is a primary mineral. Most of the lead minerals, such as Cerussite and Anglesite are secondary mineral s formed from Galena. Impurities in the structure of Galena, such as silver and bismuth, may change Galena's cleavage properties. The Mineral galena. Galena is the most common mineral containing lead, and has been well-known throughout the centuries. It is often well crystallized and forms in many interesting and distinct crystal shapes.
The main lead mineral in Galena (PbS) and there are also deposits of cerrussite and anglesite which are mined. Galena is mined in Australia, which produces 19% of the world's new lead, followed by the USA, China, Peru' and Canada. Some is also mined in Mexico and West Germany. World production of new lead is 6 million tonnes a year, and workable reserves total are estimated 85 million tonnes, which is less than 15 year's supply. 
Welcome to the Galena google satellite map! This place is situated in Northampton, Western Australia, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 27° 50' 0 South, 114° 41' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Galena. See Galena photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Galena in Australia.