There were three (or four) phases to the colonisation of South Africa. Initially, colonisation was by an influx of Bantu peoples from the north-east, who took over land prev … iously occupied by the indigenous Khoi and San people. The Bantu moved south until they reached the Kei river.
Imperialism was imposed by the Europeans as they colonized Sub-Saharan Africa. For hundreds of years the Europeans traded gold and salt with huge trading empires that had developed in Africa. For hundreds of years they continued trading but in the late 1800s Europeans began to colonize Africa.
Prior to the Scramble for Africa, or the official partition of Africa by the major European nations, African econolnies were advancing in every area, particularly in the area of trade. The ainl of colonialisln is to exploit the physical, human, and econol11ic resources of an area to benefit the colonizing nation.
(Answer #5). Colonization made an immediate and long-standing impact on all parts of Africa. West Africa was particularly affected by the slave trade. European slave traders made deals with corrupt tribal chiefs to find slaves, and that kind of betrayal leaves a legacy. In other ways, the presence of Euoprean influences and religion changed West Africa in the same way as other colonies throughout the world.
Ehiedu E. G. Iweriebor – Hunter College. Between the 1870s and 1900, Africa faced European imperialist aggression, diplomatic pressures, military invasions, and eventual conquest and colonization. At the same time, African societies put up various forms of resistance against the attempt to colonize their countries and impose foreign domination.
Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Portugal, and Spain were competing for power within European power politics. One way to demonstrate national preeminence was through the acquisition of territories around the world, including Africa.
By 1900 much of Africa had been colonized by seven European powers—Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, and Italy. After the conquest of African decentralized and centralized states, the European powers set about establishing colonial state systems.
By the early twentieth century, however, much of Africa, except Ethiopia and Liberia, had been colonized by European powers. The European imperialist push into Africa was motivated by three main factors, economic, political, and social.