Once you've purged, separate must-keep papers into three categories: those you need to keep for one calendar year, those you need to keep for a longer period and hard-to-replace documents like birth and marriage certificates. (See chart: What records to keep, how long to keep them .) Then decide on a home for each.
If you failed to report income, however, the IRS can come after your business for up to six years. If the business took a deduction for a worthless security or bad debt, the IRS can pursue the issue for seven years. To be safe, a business should keep tax records in its permanent files.
How long to keep records. You must normally keep records for at least 6 years from the end of the last company financial year they relate to. You may need to keep records longer if: 1  they show a transaction that covers more than one of the company’s accounting periods.
Often swamped with paperwork, many entrepreneurs wonder how long you should keep business records. The answer depends a great deal upon whom you ask and what the record pertains to in your business. The IRS sets some basic record retention standards for tax records.
Anti-discrimination laws require companies with a certain number of employees to keep job application records for at least three years. Employee records should be kept while the person is employed by the company and at least seven years after the termination of employment.
For example your company is obliged to keep all information relevant for VAT purposes for as long as six years. That means that any emails dealing with VAT must be kept for that period as a minimum. Of course financial records aren’t the only pieces of information subject to these kinds of laws.
According to the IRS, here’s how long you should keep those records: Permanently: 1  general ledgers and journals. 2  payroll records, including W-2s, 940s, 941s. 3  year-end financial statements. 4  tax returns and supporting documents. 5  articles of incorporation, bylaws, meeting minutes, etc. 6  retirement plan records.
Why should I keep records? Good records will help you monitor the progress of your business, prepare your financial statements, identify sources of income, keep track of deductible expenses, keep track of your basis in property, prepare your tax returns, and support items reported on your tax returns.