USAA FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK ROUTING ABA NUMBER. 314074269 routing number is a 9-digit number designed and assigned to Usaa Federal Savings Bank by The American Bankers Association (ABA) to identify the financial institution upon which a payment was drawn.
314074269 is a routing number of USAA FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK. Check detailed information about 314074269. This bank routing number is required for electronic funds transfer. Bank routing number of USAA FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK is the first nine digits of the number along the bottom left section of your check. The routing number for checking, savings and money market accounts identifies the financial institution where the account was opened and is located.
To receive a wire transfer to an USAA deposit account use ABA/Routing number 314074269. There is no fee for incoming wires. Help your peers evaluate Usaa Federal Savings Bank, enter your comment about your experience with Usaa Federal Savings Bank below.
Details Hidden. USAA Federal Savings Bank's ABA number is 314074269. Unique ABA numbers are assigned to each financial institution by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Used to move funds electronically from one financial institution to another, they are sometimes called Bank Transit Routing numbers.
Routing numbers depend on the type of transaction made such as reorder Usaa Federal Savings Bank checks, receive incoming domestic or international wire transfers, use the number for wire transfers to your Usaa Federal Savings Bank account, or to set up direct deposits.
Click to Show. USAA Federal Savings Bank's ABA number is 314074269. Unique ABA numbers are assigned to each financial institution by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Used to move funds electronically from one financial institution to another, they are sometimes called Bank Transit Routing numbers.
The bank routing number for USAA Federal Savings Bank may also necessary for bank account validation. Unique ABA numbers or routing numbers are assigned to each financial institution in the U.S. with some banks having more than one assigned routing number.
The USAA Federal Savings Bank routing number may be obtained by looking at a current check from the bank or deposit slip. For wire transfers, the bank may not use the same routing number. Please contact the bank to get the appropriate account information and transfer information for incoming wiring instructions.