1 One lender may use the lowest of the income figures for the last two years. 2  Another may use the most recent year’s income as shown on your tax return. 3  Some may even average the two years income or take 120% of the lowest year’s income. 1 Another may use the most recent year’s income as shown on your tax return. 2  Some may even average the two years income or take 120% of the lowest year’s income. 3  They may or may not then add back expenses shown on your returns.
If you’re self-employed or have variable income, expect the underwriting process to be a bit more involved. You may, for example, have to submit copies of your past one or two tax returns. The lender may then count the average of your last two year’s income or the lower of the two numbers. 
Self Employment Income-Lenders are very careful in reviewing self-employed borrowers. Two years minimum ownership is necessary because two years is considered a representative sample. Lenders use a 2-year average monthly income figure from the Adjusted Gross Income on the tax returns. A lender may also add back additional income for depreciation and one-time capital expenses. Self-employed borrowers often have difficulty qualifying for a mortgage due to large expense write offs.
Mortgage lenders request a tax-return transcript from the IRS to verify income. Applying for a mortgage requires providing several types of financial documents to the lender for underwriting purposes. Qualification for a mortgage and your total loan amount depend on your income. Mortgage lenders verify your tax-return information by requesting a tax transcript from the IRS. By using tax transcripts, the document is automatically mailed to the lender by the IRS, allowing no possibility for alteration by the applicant.
Proof of Income. Besides proof of income, a mortgage lender uses your tax return to determine your debt-to-income ratio. If you make $50,000 per year, have $70,000 worth of student loan debt and apply for a $200,000 mortgage, chances are your debt-to-income ratio is too high. If you file an amended return after you apply for a mortgage, the lender may need proof that you paid any tax you owe and an official reason for the amendment. Filing an amended tax return could delay approval of a loan application.
For self-employed borrowers, what used to be the godsend was stated income loans.. In a stated income loan prior to the housing crisis, the lender did not verify the borrower's income using tax returns or W-2s. Nowadays, though, most mortgage lenders want to see at least two years of a self-employed borrower's Schedule C, the tax form that reports income or loss from a business. If income increases between year one and year two, the lender averages the two. If the second year's income is lower, the lender will use that number. With tax day approaching, self-employed professionals planning to apply for a mortgage in the next few years should discuss the issue with their accountant now. If buying or refinancing a home is in your three-year plan, don't write off every business expense you can write off, Ruffner advises.
Whether you have 1 year or 10 years accounts, the figure used is the same. For those looking for a sole trader mortgage or working in a partnership, the figure is either your share of the net profit when using accounts, or the ‘total income received’ on a self-assessment tax return (SA302’s). Many lenders currently ask for 3 years accounts to prove income in order to borrow on a mortgage, there are a few that consider mortgage applications for those self employed less than 2 years, and there are even a small number of mortgage lenders accepting 1 years accounts.
Often, people will think they can bring in the first two pages of the tax return, and what they need to bring is the full tax return and all schedules because a person's full income picture is contained in the entire set of documents, not just the first two pages, he says. Joe Metzler, a mortgage specialist at Mortgages Unlimited in St. Paul, Minn., says lenders use the 4506-T tax transcript to compare the borrower's W-2s to his or her reported income. If the numbers match, all is well. If not, the lender will dig deeper.
Banks and lenders use gross income, not taxable income, to decide whether you qualify for a mortgage or other loan. Gross income is your before-tax earnings. 