In the majority of liver cases reported in association with Lamisil use, the patients had serious underlying systemic conditions. The severity of hepatic events and/or their outcome may be worse in patients with active or chronic liver disease. 1 Advise patients to report to their physician any signs of taste disturbance, smell disturbance and/or depressive symptoms, fever, skin eruption, lymph node enlargement, erythema, scaling, loss of pigment, and unusual photosensitivity that can result in a rash. 2  Lamisil Tablets treatment should be discontinued.
Lamisil (terbinafine hydrochloride) is an antifungal antibiotic used to treat infections caused by fungus that affect the fingernails or toenails (onychomycosis). Oral granules are used to treat a fungal infection of scalp hair follicles in children who are at least 4 years old. Lamisil is available in generic form. Common side effects of Lamisil include diarrhea, stomach upset, gas, nausea, stomach pain, headache, dizziness, spinning sensation, skin rash, itching, or temporary change or loss of taste. To treat fingernail onychomycosis the dose of Lamisil is one 250 mg tablet once daily for 6 weeks.
Photosensitivity (or sun sensitivity) is inflammation of the skin induced by the combination of sunlight and certain medications or substances. This causes redness (erythema) of the skin and may look similar to sunburn. 
Drug-induced photosensitivity reactions may result in phototoxicity, photoallergy, lichenoid reactions, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE), or pseudoporphyria, as shown in the images below, respectively. Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus exacerbated by terbinafine. Courtesy of Jeffrey P. Callen. History. Patients with drug-induced photosensitivity often, but not always, note intolerance to sunlight. While most individuals can tolerate minutes or hours of sun exposure, patients with drug-induced photosensitivity exhibit skin lesions of one type or another. In most cases, a sunburn response or dermatitis occurs
1 Advise patients that if they forget to take Lamisil Tablets, to take their tablets as soon as they remember, unless it is less than 4 hours before the next dose is due. 2  Advise patients to call their physician if they take too many Lamisil Tablets. 1 Advise patients to report to their physician any signs of taste disturbance, smell disturbance and/or depressive symptoms, fever, skin eruption, lymph node enlargement, erythema, scaling, loss of pigment, and unusual photosensitivity that can result in a rash. 2  Lamisil Tablets treatment should be discontinued.
Summary: Photosensitivity reaction is found among people who take Lamisil, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for 1 - 6 months, also take medication Albuterol, and have Multiple sclerosis. We study 6,898 people who have side effects while taking Lamisil from FDA and social media. Support group for people who take LamisilOn Lamisil for 2 months-all of a sudden memory loss forgetfulness etc. feel like I have dementia. Is this permanent?Support group for people who have Photosensitivity ReactionHi, I started Benicar less than one month ago. I take only 10mgs
1. Oral Lamisil is indicated in the treatment of ringworm (tinea corporis, tinea cruris and tinea pedis) where oral therapy is considered appropriate due to the site, severity or extent of the infection. 2. Oral Lamisil is indicated in the treatment of onychomycosis
Drug-induced photosensitivity refers to the development of cutaneous disease as a result of the combined effects of a chemical and light. 