Many scientists agree that since bull sharks often dwell in shallow waters, they may be more dangerous to humans than any other species of shark, and that they, tiger sharks and great white sharks are the three shark species most likely to attack humans. Confidence votes 28. The Bull Shark is found in tropical and subtropical seas around the world, and prefers warm waters. It also lives very close inshore, and often enters fresh water for long periods.
Most species of sharks are found in the oceans. However, some of them are known to live in bodies of fresh water, like the bull shark which is known to travel up to 4,000 Km up the Amazon River. Sometimes, sharks have been found even in unusual fresh water bodies. Answer: Sharks live in every ocean in the world, however studies published have shown that up to 70% of oceans are free of sharks. Sharks are not territorial like most animals are, so they change frequently their habitat. As many other fish, females do not stay to take care of eggs.
The bull shark (Carcharhinus leucas), also known as the Zambezi shark or, unofficially, as Zambi in Africa and Nicaragua shark in Nicaragua, is a requiem shark commonly found worldwide in warm, shallow waters along coasts and in rivers. The bull shark is known for its aggressive nature, predilection for warm shallow water, and presence in brackish and freshwater systems including estuaries and rivers. Bull sharks can thrive in both saltwater and freshwater and can travel far up rivers.
One of the main locations where they have been spotted is along the Mississippi River in the United States. They are also found around Nicaragua. But Bull sharks live in both … the fresh water and salt water found around the world. Confidence votes 28. The Bull Shark is found in tropical and subtropical seas around the world, and prefers warm waters. It also lives very close inshore, and often enters fresh water for long periods.
Answers. Best Answer: Sharks are found all around the globe from the north to the south in all seas, they generally do not live in freshwater except for a few exceptions like the bull shark and the river sharks which can swim both in seawater and freshwater. though depending on the climate they live in greatly depends on how they behave. the greenland shark one of the biggest sharks in the world, live up north, but it moves really slowly conserving energy.
This makes it the most widely dispersed shark species. there are species of shark that can go in rivers, such as bull shark and river shark. The bull shark is considered the third largest predatory shark after the great white and tiger shark and has been seen 2000 miles up river. though depending on the climate they live in greatly depends on how they behave. the greenland shark one of the biggest sharks in the world, live up north, but it moves really slowly conserving energy.
What is the climate of a great white shark? Do you mean what is the body temperature of a g+Great White Shark,  or what climate temperature do they prefer to live in?
Tropical sharks include the huge filter-feeding whale shark, the great hammerhead shark, the nurse shark, the tiger shark, and the bull shark, which is found in both the ocean and in fresh water lakes in the tropics. Certain large species, such as the whale shark, range throughout the tropical region all over the world. 
Sharks are common down to depths of 2,000 metres (7,000 ft), and some live even deeper, but they are almost entirely absent below 3,000 metres (10,000 ft). though depending on the climate they live in greatly depends on how they behave. the greenland shark one of the biggest sharks in the world, live up north, but it moves really slowly conserving energy.
A bull shark is similar to a bull in the way that it is very aggressive and is one of the most dangerous shark species. What makes this shark so dangerous is that it can toler … ate fresh water and have been found as far north as rivers in New Jersey. 8 people found this useful. Answered. In Saltwater Fish. Confidence votes 28. The Bull Shark is found in tropical and subtropical seas around the world, and prefers warm waters. It also lives very close inshore, and often enters fresh water for long periods.