Sprinkle with anything you desire, like salt, pepper, seasonings, herbs, etc. Cook on low for approximately 3 hours* until the chicken reaches 165F on a digital thermometer. It is now ready to eat and be used in recipes. *You will have to learn the time your slow cooker needs to fully cook through. If you have a different slow cooker, you can use a thermometer to test out how long your particular slow cooker needs to reach the proper temperature, but three hours on low is a good start. Other notes: 1  I don’t add broth or liquid to the slow cooker.
1 In my slow cooker, a 4.5 lb. chicken took 6 hours to cook. 2  The best way to determine if the chicken is cooked is to insert an instant read thermometer into the thickest part of the breast meat; it should be 165 degrees when it's done. (Some soy sauce will run out of the chicken into the slow cooker, and some will remain inside chicken to flavor it from the inside.) Place chicken breast side down, cover, and cook on low for 5-6 hours until instant read thermometer inserted in thickest part of breast meat registers 165 degrees.
You can really add anything you want. Then, I put the lid on, turn the dial to “low,” and cook for 3 hours, which is how long it takes for a single layer of snug chicken breasts to reach 165 degrees F in my slow cooker. The particular slow cooker I own is this 4-Quart Slow Cooker that cost me $18 in April 2013 (it now costs $20). If you have a different slow cooker, you can use a thermometer to test out how long your particular slow cooker needs to reach the proper temperature, but three hours on low is a good start. Other notes: 1  I don’t add broth or liquid to the
Put them on the bottom of the crock of the slow cooker, turn the heat to high, and cover. Let the pork cook on high while preparing the greens, about 10 minutes. Meanwhile prepare the greens by washing thoroughly, cutting out the center stem, then cutting into 1 pieces. Rinse again and drain well. Add the greens to the slow cooker along with the remaining ingredients. Turn the slow cooker to low and cook 4-6 hours or until the greens are tender and are a gray-green color. Remove the salt pork before serving. If you're in a hurry, the greens may be cooked on high for 3-4 hours; stir every hour or so
Place the cover on the slow cooker and cook on HIGH for 4 hours or on LOW for 6-8 hours. Carve and serve chicken or shred it for use in another chicken meal. Use the bones and drippings to make homemade chicken stock in the slow cooker. 1  Rinse the thawed chicken and pat dry. 2  Place the chicken in the slow cooker. Place the cover on the slow cooker and turn it on to high for 4 hours or low for 6 to 8 hours. You do not need to add any liquid. Chickens today typically have some solution added, so they rarely need added liquid. At the end of the cooking time, the meat will be tender, practically falling off the bone.
4. Cover and cook. Place the cover on the slow cooker and turn it on to high for 4 hours or low for 6 to 8 hours. You do not need to add any liquid. Chickens today typically have some solution added, so they rarely need added liquid. At the end of the cooking time, the meat will be tender, practically falling off the bone.
Cover and cook on low for 6-8 hours, or on high for 4-5 hours until the chicken is cooked through and reaches an internal temperature of 160 degrees F. Carefully remove the chicken from the slow cooker (it may be so tender that it falls apart on you), discard the bones, and serve the chicken as desired. 
I use salt, pepper, paprika and all-purpose steak seasoning. Cook chicken on high for 4 to 4 1/2 hours depending on size of chicken and strength of your slow cooker. Times will vary, so use a food thermometer to ensure the chicken has reached 165 degrees. Let your chicken rest on a cutting board for about 20 minutes before carving. 
Cook for 6 hours, undisturbed. Remove the chicken from the slow cooker, and pour the accumulated juices into a 2-cup heatproof container. Skim the fat from the top and transfer the liquid to a small saucepan. Dissolve the cornstarch in a small bowl with 2 teaspoons of water and whisk to form a slurry. 