Feed your newborn on demand. Most newborns need eight to 12 feedings a day — about one feeding every two to three hours. Look for early signs of hunger, such as stirring and stretching, sucking motions and lip movements. Fussing and crying are later cues. The sooner you begin each feeding, the less likely you'll need to soothe a frantic baby. 2. Most newborns need eight to 12 feedings a day — about one feeding every two to three hours. Look for early signs of hunger, such as stirring and stretching, sucking motions and lip movements.
Your newborn should take about 2.5 ounces of formula a day for each pound she gains, suggests Drugs.com. For the first eight weeks, your newborn should feed at least six to eight times a day. She should have a bottle every 3 to 4 hours. If your newborn sleeps more than 4 hours at a time, wake her up to feed her. The formula should drip slowly from the bottle, so as not to overfeed your baby. Your newborn should eat on demand, which means whenever he shows signs of hunger. Typically this is every 1 to 3 hours, and at least 8 to 12 times a day, according to KidsHealth.org. As your baby gets older, he will feed less frequently, around every 2 to 3 hours.
How Often to Feed a Baby. At first, feed your newborn when he or she seems hungry (feed on demand). It is hard to overfeed a young baby. Babies show that they are hungry by crying and/or sucking on their fists or other objects. The length of time between feedings varies depending on the amount of formula the baby drank during the previous feeding. Most 2-week-old babies drink about every 2 hours. Older babies may wait as long as 8 hours before wanting to be fed again.
Midwife. In the early weeks, your baby will wake and feed frequently, day and night. You'll probably find that your baby's feeds are spaced unevenly, as your baby's appetite will vary as much as yours does. After the first few days, most young babies feed at least eight times a day, sometimes more. So your baby could be asking for a feed as often as every 90 minutes to two hours. If you're breastfeeding this often, your baby will be building up your supply, as the more she feeds, the more milk you will produce. However, do check that she's latched on well. 
Pay attention to how many times you feed your baby each day. A breastfed newborn will nurse about 8 to 12 times in a 24-hour period, according to the Mayo Clinic website. A newborn will drink 1 1/2 to 3 ounces of formula every two to three hours. Feed your baby on demand or when she shows signs of being hungry.
There are so many theories about breastfeeding that no one could blame a new Mom for being a little confused. Doctors, health experts and mothers themselves have different opinions on how often, how much, and when and where babies should feed. While this can be very tiring for you, again, it's not necessarily something to worry about-unless you think she might not be getting enough milk. Breast milk is very easily digested by your baby's system and it's quite normal, for example, for a breast-fed baby to feed more often than a formula-fed baby.
How often you breastfeed your baby will depend on whether or not you choose to feed her on demand (namely, when your baby lets you know that she's hungry), or you decide to try and establish your baby in a feeding routine from very early on. While this can be very tiring for you, again, it's not necessarily something to worry about-unless you think she might not be getting enough milk. Breast milk is very easily digested by your baby's system and it's quite normal, for example, for a breast-fed baby to feed more often than a formula-fed baby.
Your baby will feed as often as she needs to, as long as you learn to spot her cues and respond to them. If your baby is newborn, she will need to feed little and often, so offer a bottle every two hours or three hours. Let her feed for as long as she wants to. If she's had enough of a bottle, don’t force her to drink more. As your baby grows, she will be able to manage larger feeds and have longer breaks between bottles. 
Breastfed babies need to eat more frequently than formula-fed babies because breast milk is so easily digested. Your newborn should eat on demand, which means whenever he shows signs of hunger. Typically this is every 1 to 3 hours, and at least 8 to 12 times a day, according to KidsHealth.org. As your baby gets older, he will feed less frequently, around every 2 to 3 hours.