GnRH is a hormone that is produced in the hypothalamus region of the brain. Once produced, GnRH moves through the bloodstream to the pituitary gland. There, it binds to certain receptors, which signals the pituitary gland to create two more hormones: LH and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). In women, FSH goes on to stimulate the growth of eggs in the ovaries. An “LH response to GnRH test” is a blood test that tells your doctor whether or not your pituitary gland is functioning correctly when GnRH binds to its receptors. If it is functioning correctly, it should cause LH to be released into the bloodstream.
There are differences in GnRH secretion between females and males. In males, GnRH is secreted in pulses at a constant frequency; however, in females, the frequency of the pulses varies during the menstrual cycle, and there is a large surge of GnRH just before ovulation. GnRH is found in organs outside of the hypothalamus and pituitary, and its role in other life processes is poorly understood. For instance, there is likely to be a role for GnRH1 in the placenta and in the gonads. GnRH and GnRH receptors are also found in cancers of the breast, ovary, prostate, and endometrium.
GnRH is the abbreviation for gonadotropin releasing hormone. It is also known as LHRH (luteinising hormone releasing hormone). A hormone is a substance your body produces which has a direct effect on another part of the body. GnRH is produced by a almond-sized gland called the hypothalamus. It is located deep within the brain and despite its small size controls a wide variety of functions around the body. The gonadotropins LH and FSH are produced by a pea-sized gland called the pituitary gland connected directly to the hypothalamus gland.
At the pituitary, GnRH stimulates the synthesis and secretion of the gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH). These processes are controlled by the size and frequency of GnRH pulses, as well as by feedback from androgens and estrogens. GnRH is found in organs outside of the hypothalamus and pituitary, and its role in other life processes is poorly understood. For instance, there is likely to be a role for GnRH1 in the placenta and in the gonads. GnRH and GnRH receptors are also found in cancers of the breast, ovary, prostate, and endometrium.
Background. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is a neurohormone central to initiation of the reproductive hormone cascade. Pulsatile secretion of GnRH from the hypothalamus is key in establishing and maintaining normal gonadal function. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors. The decapeptide GnRH is derived from posttranslation processing of a tripartite 92–amino acid (AA) pre-pro-GnRH. The first 23 AA is a signal peptide and the last 56 AA is known as GnRH–associated protein (GAP).
The gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonist GnRH (Triptorelin) is a peptide that is comprised of a chain of 10 amino acids. This structure enables it to be considered a decapeptide. It can sometimes be known as Diphereline, Gonapeptyl, Decapeptyl, and Variopeptyl. 
It controls the production of luteinising hormone and follicle stimulating hormone from the pituitary gland. Alternative names for gonadotrophin-releasing hormone GnRH; gonadotropin-releasing hormone; luliberin; luteinising-hormone-releasing hormone; LHRH; luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone. What is gonadotrophin-releasing hormone? It is released into tiny blood vessels that carry this hormone from the brain to the pituitary gland where it stimulates the production of two more hormones – follicle stimulating hormone and luteini
GnRH is released from the hypothalamus gland, located deep inside the brain, and acts directly on the closely associated anterior pituitary gland to release two hormones, luteinising hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). GnRH is produced by a almond-sized gland called the hypothalamus. It is located deep within the brain and despite its small size controls a wide variety of functions around the body. The gonadotropins LH and FSH are produced by a pea-sized gland called the pituitary gland connected directly to the hypothalamus gland.
Mechanism of Action. GnRH, secreted in pulses from the hypothalamus, stimulates pituitary release of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). LH subsequently stimulates testosterone secretion, predominantly by the testes (Figure 1). (Enlarge Image). Figure 1. Figure 1. Endocrine control of the prostate gland. 
(January 2013). Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), also known as luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and luliberin, as well as gonadorelin (INN), is a trophic peptide hormone responsible for the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) from the anterior pituitary. GnRH is found in organs outside of the hypothalamus and pituitary, and its role in other life processes is poorly understood. For instance, there is likely to be a role for GnRH1 in the placenta and in the gonads. GnRH and GnRH receptors are also found in cancers of the breast, ovary, prostate, and endometrium.