Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jalil and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jalil and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Form of: Itself (Jalil). The meaning of the name “Jalil” is: “Friend”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
The meaning of Jalil is “Friend”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Form of: Itself (Jalil). The meaning of the name “Jalil” is: “Friend”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
The name Jalil is very likely a(n) Arabic variant of the name Jaleel. See other suggested Arabic boy baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Jaleel. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Jalil for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Jaleel, of which the name Jalil is a variant.
The following names are baby names related to Jalil and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Jalil: Boys-Kadin, Mustafa, Omari, Xavier, Zaid, Girls-Nigelia, Zada, Both genders-Ali, Jamal, Nakia, Numa, Nuri. Variants. The name Jalil is a variant of Jaleel. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Jalil for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Jaleel, of which the name Jalil is a variant.
Jalil /ja-lil/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Arabic derivation, and the name Jalil means greatness, superiority, renown. Jalil is a variant transcription of Jalal (Arabic). Compare last name Jalili. Jalil is an uncommon first name for males but a very popular last name for all people (#38644 out of 150436, Top 26%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Jalil for boys
See worldwide popularity rankings of Jalil as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby boy name, Jalil is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Jalil for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Jaleel, of which the name Jalil is a variant.
Jalil is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ja-lil. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2368 in baby name popularity for boys with 54 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Its pronunciation is JHaa-L IY-L †. Jalil is used predominantly in the African, Arabic, and English languages, and its origin is Arabic. It is derived from the element 'jalila' which means great; revered; exalted; sublime. Jalil is a variant of the name Jalal (Arabic and Urdu). The name Jalila (Arabic and English) is the female version of Jalil. Jahleel, Jahlil, Jalaal, and Jalal are variants of Jalil. Jalil is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names