Congress supported the resolution with the assumption that the president would return and seek their support before engaging in additional escalations of the war. The Gulf of Tonkin incident and the subsequent Gulf of Tonkin resolution provided the justification for further U.S. escalation of the conflict in Vietnam. By August, 1964, the Johnson Administration believed that escalation of the U.S. presence in Vietnam was the only solution. The post-Diem South proved no more stable than it had been before his ouster, and South Vietnamese troops were generally ineffective.
U.S. Involvement in the Vietnam War: the Gulf of Tonkin and Escalation, 1964. In early August 1964, two U.S. destroyers stationed in the Gulf of Tonkin in Vietnam radioed that they had been fired upon by North Vietnamese forces. In response to these reported incidents, President Lyndon B. Johnson requested permission from the U.S. Congress to increase the U.S. military presence in Indochina. By August, 1964, the Johnson Administration believed that escalation of the U.S. presence in Vietnam was the only solution. The post-Diem South proved no more stable than it had been before his ouster, and South Vietnamese troops were generally ineffective.
On January 6, 1971, Congress repealed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution. In the wake of giving President Johnson a series of blank checks for sending troops to Vietnam, Congress passed the War Powers Resolution on April 5, 1973. In March 1965, President Johnson ordered 3,500 marines, the first U.S. combat troops, into South Vietnam to protect U.S. military bases in response to the Gulf of Tonkin incident. Escalation of the troops began in July, and Johnson assigned General William Westmoreland as commander of all U.S. troops in South Vietnam.
In 1964, 2 U.S. ships were attacked off the coast of North Vietnam by communist troops. President Lyndon B. Johnson petitioned Congress for action. The Tonkin Gulf Resolution allowed Johnson to take all necessary steps, including the use of armed force against North Vietnam. The Avalon Project provides both LBJ's petition, and the government resolution that began the American war in Vietnam.
Johnson's Plan for Success. From 1965 to 1969, the U.S. was involved in a limited war in Vietnam. Although there were aerial bombings of the North, President Johnson wanted the fighting to be limited to South Vietnam. 
The Vietnam War America Commits 1961 - 1964 1961 January 1961 - Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev pledges support for wars of national liberation throughout the world. His statement greatly encourages Communists in North Vietnam to escalate their armed struggle to unify Vietnam under Ho Chi Minh. 
U.S. policy defined the Vietnam War as North Vietnamese aggression against South Vietnam. North Vietnam infiltrated troops and materiel into South Vietnam by sea and along the so-called Ho Chi Minh trail in Laos. Although there is no formal declaration of war from which to date U.S. entry, President John F. Kennedy's decision to send over 2,000 military advisers to South Vietnam in 1961 marked the beginning of twelve years of American military combat. U.S. unit combat began in 1965.
Vietnam War. In 1961, South Vietnam signed a military and economic aid treaty with the United States leading to the arrival (1961) of U.S. support troops and the formation (1962) of the U.S. Military Assistance Command. No one was able to establish control in South Vietnam until June, 1965, when Nguyen Cao Ky became premier, but U.S. military aid to South Vietnam increased, especially after the U.S. Senate passed the Tonkin Gulf resolution (Aug. 7, 1964) at the request of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
In early 1965, the United States began air raids on North Vietnam and on Communist-controlled areas in the South; by 1966 there were 190,000 U.S. troops in South Vietnam. North Vietnam, meanwhile, was receiving armaments and technical assistance from the Soviet Union and other Communist countries. No one was able to establish control in South Vietnam until June, 1965, when Nguyen Cao Ky became premier, but U.S. military aid to South Vietnam increased, especially after the U.S. Senate passed the Tonkin Gulf resolution (Aug. 7, 1964) at the request of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
However, South Vietnam continued to experience political instability and military losses to North Vietnam. By August, 1964, the Johnson Administration believed that escalation of the U.S. presence in Vietnam was the only solution. The post-Diem South proved no more stable than it had been before his ouster, and South Vietnamese troops were generally ineffective.