Meningitis is an inflammation of the tissue that covers the brain and spinal cord. Viral meningitis is the most common type of meningitis. It is often less severe than bacterial meningitis, and most people usually get better on their own (without treatment). However, infants younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe illness. Initial symptoms of viral meningitis are similar to those for bacterial meningitis. However, bacterial meningitis is usually severe and can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities.
Some of the enteroviruses that cause viral meningitis are contagious while others, such as mosquito-borne viruses, cannot be spread from person to person. Fortunately, most people exposed to these viruses experience mild or no symptoms. Viral meningitis is an infection of the meninges (a thin lining covering the brain and spinal cord) by any one of a number of different viruses. It is a fairly common disease; 500-700 cases are reported each year in New York State. Almost all of the cases occur as single, isolated events.
1 Viral meningitis: Meningitis caused by many viruses is usually contagious. 2  However, certain viruses that are transmitted by mosquitoes are usually not spread person to person, so they are not contagious. 1 However, certain viruses that are transmitted by mosquitoes are usually not spread person to person, so they are not contagious. 2  Bacterial meningitis: Bacterial meningitis is usually contagious, some bacteria more highly contagious (such as meningococcal meningitis) than others.
How is the virus spread? Enteroviruses, the most common cause of viral meningitis, are most often spread through direct contact with respiratory secretions (e.g., saliva, sputum, or nasal mucus) of an infected person. There are 2 causes of meningits-viruses and bacteria. Bacterial meningitis tends to be much more dangerous. Viral meningitis is referred to as aseptic meningitis and tends to be more mild. Viral meningitis usually takes 3-7 days to incubate in a person after exposure. At that point they become contagious.
Meningitis is contagious. Prolonged close contact can spread the bacteria that cause meningitis. The bacteria can be spread through kissing, coughs and sneezes, shared cutlery, or sharing items like toothbrushes or cigarettes.
Yes, some forms of bacterial meningitis are contagious. The bacteria are spread through the exchange of respiratory and throat secretions (for example, coughing, kissing). Sometimes the bacteria that cause meningitis can spread to other people who have had close or prolonged contact with a patient with meningitis. 
The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu. Also, the bacteria are not spread by casual contact or by simply breathing the air where a person with meningitis has been. Bacterial meningitis is usually severe. While most people with meningitis recover, it can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities. There are several pathogens (types of germs) that can cause bacterial meningitis.
Viral Meningitis. Viral meningitis is the most common type, but it’s not usually life-threatening. The enteroviruses that cause meningitis can spread through direct contact with saliva, nasal mucus, or feces. They easily spread through coughing and sneezing. Direct or indirect contact with an infected person increases your risk of getting the same virus. Bacterial Meningitis. Bacterial meningitis is a serious illness and can be life threatening. It is most often caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseria meningitides, or Streptococcus pneumonia, all of which are contagious. However, they’re less contagious than the germs that spread cold and flu
Enteroviruses, the most common cause of viral meningitis, are most often spread through direct contact with respiratory secretions (e.g., saliva, sputum, or nasal mucus) of an infected person. 