The kitten's problems had nothing to do with its heritage. Kittens should leave their homes at a minimum age of twelve weeks, says Dr. Betsy Arnold, DVM, a veteran Siamese breeder and veterinarian with an all-feline practice in Rochester, New York called Caring for Cats. Weaning is not simply a matter of getting a kitten to eat solid food. It's an important time when the kitten begins to assert its independence from its mother. This needs to be a gradual process. For the most part, my babies still nurse at 9 and 10 weeks, and sometime beyond, says Rosi Carroll of Bengals by RoJon.
Weaning. It is very important for kittens to remain with mom until weaning is completed. The mother is the sole nutritional source for kittens until they're about 4 weeks of age, although weaning often continues until the cuties are between 8 and 10 weeks, according to the ASPCA. Kittens rely on their mother's milk for proper growth and development. 
Kittens are usually weaned at about 6 to 8 weeks and by three months (12 weeks) the mother will leave them on their own. Many, if not all, good cat breeders strongly advise t … hat you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 12-14 weeks of age. A minimum of 12 weeks is best. NO LESS THAN 12 WEEKS. Many people think between 6 to 8 weeks, but in between those few weeks the kittens immune system and many other body functions start improving or working on their own. Before this age, the kitten didn't have to do anything but lay close to the mother and nurse!
Bringing home a new kitten is exciting -- you’ve suddenly got a cute, cuddly, incredibly curious new friend! Kittens can leave their mother and littermates after they have been weaned, usually around 8 to 10 weeks old. 
You can also trap the kittens when they are 8 to 12 weeks old, sterilize, vaccinate, and return to the colony. Even at the young age of 12 weeks old, many kittens may be difficult to tame and socialize, and by returning them to the colony you will not be using up valuable adoptive homes. 
Method 1 of 5: Preparing a Kitten for Separation. 1. Expect to separate the kittens from their mother when they are around 12 weeks old. While most kittens are weaned by 8-10 weeks, most experts recommend leaving kittens with their littermates until 12-13 weeks, so they can be properly socialized. 1. Start weaning the kitten off of her mother’s milk at around 4 weeks of age. Kittens need to be weaned off mother’s milk and onto solid foods before adoption both for their health and to avoid bad habits like “wool sucking,” where cat’s chew and suck on things like fabric.
Answer: 6 weeks is a good age for them to be weaned and start a life independent of their mom. Answer: Taking a kitten away at six weeks is far too early. Many, if not al … l, cat breeders strongly advise that you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 10-12 weeks of age. A minimum of 12 weeks is best. NO LESS THAN 12 WEEKS. Many people think between 6 to 8 weeks, but in between those few weeks the kittens immune system and many other body functions start improving or working on their own. Before this age, the kitten didn't have to do anything but lay close to the mother and nurse!
Kittens aren't fully weaned until 10 to 12 weeks old. Your furry friend had a litter of kittens and now those cuties are ready to find forever homes of their own. You might worry how Mom will handle losing her kittens after all the time they've spent together. No need to fear; it's natural for kittens to leave the nest. 
Therefore, most animal sanctuaries and good breeders will keep their kittens until they are about 9 weeks old before re-homing them. A pedigree kitten should stay with its mother/siblings for longer and not be re-homed until it is about 12 weeks old. Source(s): Animal welfare volunteer. Owner of 6 cats. They are still nursing up to 8 weeks old and need important social time with mom/siblings to be mentally and physically ready to leave home. Many bad kitten behaviors that people experience are from kittens that are rehomed before
Years ago it was thought that 6 weeks was an appropriate age. However, cat behaviourists are now educating people about the need for kittens to be properly socialised before they go to their new homes and the most crucial part of their development occurs between 3 and 8 weeks. They are still nursing up to 8 weeks old and need important social time with mom/siblings to be mentally and physically ready to leave home. Many bad kitten behaviors that people experience are from kittens that are rehomed before 12 weeks old.