Barton was the winner of The Archibald Prize 2008 with her self-portrait You are what is most beautiful about me, a self portrait with Kell and Arella and was finalist in 2007 with her portrait of Sydney gallery owner Vasili Kaliman.
Barton has also been collaborating with the Sydney-based fashion label Romance was Born since 2006. Del Kathryn Barton is represented in numerous prominent private and public collections, including BHP Billiton, Melbourne; Artbank; the National Gallery of Australia, Canberra and UBS, Sydney.
Del Kathryn Barton is widely recognised as one of Australia's leading figurative painters of her generation. Barton was awarded The 2008 Archibald Prize for a self-portrait with her children, and was finalist in 2007. The Archibald Prize is Australia's most prestigious portrait painting awards. Born in 1972, Del Kathryn Barton currently lives and works in Sydney. In 1993, she graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts from the College of Fine Arts at the University of New South Wales, where she was subsequently employed as a lecturer in drawing.
Selected Biography. Del Kathryn Barton is widely recognised as one of Australia's leading figurative painters of her generation. Barton was awarded The 2008 Archibald Prize for a self-portrait with her children, and was finalist in 2007. The Archibald Prize is Australia's most prestigious portrait painting awards. Born in 1972, Del Kathryn Barton currently lives and works in Sydney. In 1993, she graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts from the College of Fine Arts at the University of New South Wales, where she was subsequently employed as a lecturer in drawing.
Biography (343 words). Born in 1972, in 2008 Del Kathryn Barton was living and working in Sydney. In 1993, Barton graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts from the College of Fine Arts at the University of New South Wales, where she was subsequently employed as a lecturer in drawing.
Del Kathryn Barton is an Australian artist who was born in 1972. She won the 2008 Archibald Prize for her portaiture You are what is most beautiful about me, a self portrait with Kell and Arella and has since then gained significant attention from the world of art. She is represented by Karen Woodbury Gallery, Melbourne, Australia and Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery, Sydney, Australia.