Causes. Some causes of acquired CP are: 1  Infection―Infections of the brain, for example, meningitis or encephalitis during infancy. 2  Injury ―Injuries to the brain, for example, head injuries caused by motor vehicle crashes or child abuse. There are several possible causes of the abnormal development or damage. People used to think that CP was mainly caused by lack of oxygen during the birth process. Now, scientists think that this causes only a small number of CP cases.
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a broad term used to describe a group of chronic palsies -- disorders that impair control of movement due to damage to the developing brain. CP usually develops by age 2 or 3 and is a nonprogressive brain disorder, meaning the brain damage does not continue to worsen throughout life. It is present at birth, although it may not be detected for months. It is responsible for CP in about 70% of the children who have it. An additional 20% are diagnosed with congenital cerebral palsy due to a brain injury during the birthing process. In most cases, the cause of congenital cerebral palsy is unknown.
Every case of cerebral palsy is unique to the individual. This is due in part by the type of injury, extent of injury, and the timing of injury to the developing brain. The brain damage that causes cerebral palsy is a result of either: 1  Prenatal disturbance of brain cell migration – genetic and environmental factors disturb brain cell migration as cells move to their appropriate location during brain development. Cause of Cerebral Palsy. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under
The cause of cerebral palsy is a brain injury or brain malformation that occurs while the brain is developing — before, during, or after birth. As a result of the brain damage during brain development a child’s muscle control, muscle coordination, muscle tone, reflex, posture and balance can be affected. Cause of Cerebral Palsy. Cerebral palsy is caused by brain injury or brain malformation that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth while the infant’s brain is under development.
Damage to any of these parts of the brain may cause cerebral palsy. 1  Spastic – Spastic cerebral palsy is caused by damage to the motor cortex. 2  This causes exaggerated, jerky movements. 3  Athetoid/dyskinetic – Athetoid CP is caused by damage to the cerebellum and/or the basal ganglia. The level of disability depends on the severity and timing of the brain injury. 1  About 70 percent of cerebral palsy cases are caused by prenatal injuries. 2  About 20 percent are caused by injuries during birth. 3  About 10 percent are caused by injuries after birth.
Cerebral palsy is a group of problems that affect body movement and posture. It is related to a brain injury or to problems with brain development. It is one of the most common causes of lasting disability in children. Cerebral palsy causes reflex movements that a person can't control and muscle tightness that may affect parts or all of the body. Intellectual disability, seizures, and vision and hearing problems can occur. Cerebral palsy is caused by a brain injury or problem that occurs during pregnancy or birth or within the first 2 to 3 years of a child's life.
Causes. Cerebral palsy is caused by an abnormality or disruption in brain development, usually before a child is born. In many cases, the exact trigger of this abnormality isn't known. Factors that may lead to problems with brain development include: 1  Random mutations in genes that control brain development. 
In the past, doctors believed that cerebral palsy was caused by brain damage sustained during birth – the direct result of being temporarily deprived of oxygen (asphyxiation). Asphyxiation can sometimes occur during a difficult or complicated birth. Cerebral palsy is caused by a problem in the parts of the brain responsible for controlling movement. It can occur if the brain is damaged in early life or develops abnormally, although the exact cause is not always obvious.
Cerebral palsy (CP) is caused by abnormal development of the brain or damage to the developing brain that affects a child’s ability to control his or her muscles. There are several possible causes of the abnormal development or damage. People used to think that CP was mainly caused by lack of oxygen during the birth process. Now, scientists think that this causes only a small number of CP cases. The brain damage that leads to CP can happen before birth, during birth, within a month after birth, or during the first years of a child’s life, while the brain is still developing
Cerebral palsy is caused by traumatic injury to a developing brain, including the parts of the brain responsible for motor control, coordination and balance. Damage to different parts of the brain’s motor control centers causes different types of cerebral palsy. The level of disability depends on the severity and timing of the brain injury. 1  About 70 percent of cerebral palsy cases are caused by prenatal injuries. 2  About 20 percent are caused by injuries during birth. 3  About 10 percent are caused by injuries after birth.