Overview of Plantain History of plantain Nutritional value of plantainHow to cook plantainPlantain recipe Picture of plantain Other African Foodstuff. Plantain found its way into Madagascar from Malaysia and India through trading Asian merchants and by Arabs during the Trans-Saharan trade boom. Plantain and banana trade along with yam and other food crops became a very important factor in the wealth, prosperity and rapid expansion of the Bantu Kingdom of central and southern Africa around 1500 AD.
The largest exporter of plantains to the United States is Colombia. The common plantain species Musa paradisiaca, has many varieties. Bananas (or sapientum) are a sub-species of plantains, and were formerly regarded as a separate species. Bananas are eaten raw, while plantains require cooking. The species is likely native to India and Southern Asia. It is assumed that the Portuguese Franciscan friars were responsible for the introduction of plantains to the Caribbean islands and other parts of the Americas.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Helloover. Confidence votes 30. The plantain (pronounced [plaentɪn] plæntɪn [or][plaentɛɪn]) plæntɛɪn 1 is a species of The genus musa and is generally used, for cooking in contrast to, the soft (sweet banana which is sometimes called the). dessert banana First you have to get a pan and put canola oil in it. Then cut up the plantain and put it in the frying pan. Let cook to 3 to 6 min. When it's finish put a paper towel i … n a bowl and put the plantains in it.
Today, plantain is popular and eaten boiled or baked or fried or mashed in many parts of the world today like Florida, Spain, Mexico, Portugal, Japan, Malaysia, Egypt, Nigeria, Ghana, Brazil, to mention but a few places. What a history of its world tour! Now let’s leave the issue of the history of plantain alone. Plantain and banana trade along with yam and other food crops became a very important factor in the wealth, prosperity and rapid expansion of the Bantu Kingdom of central and southern Africa around 1500 AD.
In the southern United States, particularly in Texas, Louisiana and Florida, plantains are most often grilled. In Nigeria, plantain is eaten boiled, fried or roasted; roasted plantain, called boli is usually eaten with palm oil or groundnut. Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.
Roasted plantain sellers in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Fried plantain is a dish cooked wherever plantains grow, from Central America through West Africa to East Africa, and in many parts of Southeast Asia such as Indonesia, where fried snacks (called gorengan) are widely popular. It is called alloco in Cote côte'D ivoire and dodo In. nigeria 
1 A Simple, Fried Plantain Treat Plantains look very much like bananas and even come from the banana family, but plantains do not taste the same as a banana. 
Plantain is popular in West Africa, especially Cameroon, Benin, Bénin ghana And; nigeria when ripe plantain is, fried it is generally called (dodo – dough). Dough the ripe plantain is usually sliced diagonally for a large oval, shape then fried in oil to a golden brown. color Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.
Best Answer: The plantain (pronounced [plaentɪn] plæntɪn [or][plaentɛɪn]) plæntɛɪn 1 is a species of The genus musa and is generally used, for cooking in contrast to, the soft (sweet banana which is sometimes called the). dessert banana Bananas are eaten raw, while plantains require cooking. The species is likely native to India and Southern Asia. It is assumed that the Portuguese Franciscan friars were responsible for the introduction of plantains to the Caribbean islands and other parts of the Americas.
A plantain, or cooking plantain, (/ˈplaentɨn/ , ˈPLæNTɨN /us/ , PLAENˈTEɪN /plænˈteɪn/) uk ˈplɑːntɨn is one of the less sweet (cultivated) varieties cultivars of The genus musa whose fruit is also known as. the banana Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.