Credit: Steve Berg. An organism that is heterozygous for a trait has two different alleles for that trait. An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. These DNA codings determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offsprin
One cannot really be heterozygous for a trait. You can be heterozygous for a gene, and based on the whether that gene is dominant or recessive will determine if you express that trait or not. Humans (and most organisms) carry two copies of each chromosome.
having two different alleles at corresponding loci on homologous chromosomes. An individual who is heterozygous for a trait has inherited an allele for that trait from one parent and an alternative allele from the other parent. An individual who is heterozygous for a genetic disease caused by a dominant allele, such as Huntington's disease, manifests the disorder. 
Homozygous and Heterozygous. If an organism has two copies of the same allele, for example AA or aa, it is homozygous for that trait. If the organism has one copy of two different alleles, for example Aa, it is heterozygous. Keep in mind that an organism can't simply be 'homozygous,' period. For example, the allele that gives rise to albinism is recessive, and the allele for normal pigment production is dominant. That means that a heterozygous individual with the genotype Aa, who has one copy of the normal allele and one copy of the albinism allele, would not be an albino.
Zygosity is the degree of similarity of the alleles for a trait in an organism. Most eukaryotes have two matching sets of chromosomes; that is, they are diploid. A cell is said to be homozygous for a particular gene when identical alleles of the gene are present on both homologous chromosomes. The cell or organism in question is called a homozygote. True breeding organisms are always homozygous for the traits that are to be held constant.
Homozygous means that both of the alleles are the same for a given gene or trait. Heterozygous means that you have two different alleles. Often one allele will be dominant ove … r the other... especially if an allele is recessive due to loss of function. You can be heterozygous for a gene, and based on the whether that gene is dominant or recessive will determine if you express that trait or not. Humans (and most organisms) carry two copies of each chromosome.
Any time an individual has two different alleles for a gene, the individual's genotype is heterozygous. For genes with simple dominance, like the pea example, the dominant allele is always expressed, so heterozgyous individuals have the dominant trait. 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Heterozygous refers to having two different alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Homozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r). A heterozygous plant would contain the following alleles for seed shape: (Rr). Organisms have two alleles for each trait. When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one is dominant and the other is recessive. Using the previous example, round seed shape (R) is dominant and wrinkled seed shape (r) is recessive.