Most CPU heatsink fans are connected to the motherboard via a 4 PIN connector. This means that the cooler can fluctuate in RPM so if your system is idling then the Fan on the cooler will run at a slower RPM. When in a game it is normal for the CPU to become hotter and the fan to increase. You have nothing to worry about. 
Ceiling fans use less electricity on low speed than they do on  medium and high speed. Capacitors are used to control the various  fan speeds. The capacitor limits the amoun … t of electricity supplied  to the fan motor. When less electricity is sent to the windings in  the motor, the fan spins at a lower RPM. The result is a slower  speed and less airflow.
In addition, the higher rpm fan will use a bit more electricity than the lower rpm fan but its barely noticeable maybe 1-2 watts more? Fans typically use about 2-7 watts, 7 means the extreme high performance fans like those delta fans that spin at something like 3000-4000 rpm. I am doing research on cooling fans to build a gaming PC early next year. I have a question regarding the rpm for the cooling fans. I have looked at several 120 mm cooling fans. I saw two types of fans built by Corsair and will use them as an example:
Mean of rpm is in fan is that in a minute how much revulation is completed by a fan. Capacitors are used to control the various  fan speeds. The capacitor limits the amoun … t of electricity supplied  to the fan motor. When less electricity is sent to the windings in  the motor, the fan spins at a lower RPM. The result is a slower  speed and less airflow.
Fan control is the management of the rotational speed of an electric fan. In computers, various types of computer fans are used to provide adequate cooling, and different fan control mechanisms balance their cooling capacities and noise they generate. Fans installed in a PC case can produce noise levels of up to 70 dB. Since fan noise increases with the fifth power of the fan rotation speed, reducing rotations per minute (RPM) by a small amount potentially means a large reduction in fan noise.
2. RPM can also refer to the revolutions per minute a computer case fan or heat sink fan spins. With a high RPM, the fan will move more air or remove more heat from the computer or processor. However, keep in mind that as you increase the RPM of a fan the noise or decibel (dBa) also increases. 1  A computers fan RPM can be measured using software tools such as HWMonitor.
FAN_LOW_RPM: Fan on 3845. HI. There are Fans in the chasis (CISCO 3845) but one of the fan is showing the error  %ENVMON-4-FAN_LOW_RPM: Fan 3 service recommended . Can we suggest If I can replace a single fan or have to cahange e the full chasis. Prompt response will be appreciated
Short for Revolutions Per Minute, RPM is used to help determine the access time on computer hard drives. RPM is a measurement of how many revolutions a computer's hard drive makes in a single minute. With a high RPM, the fan will move more air or remove more heat from the computer or processor. However, keep in mind that as you increase the RPM of a fan the noise or decibel (dBa) also increases. 1  A computers fan RPM can be measured using software tools such as HWMonitor.
Best Answer: dBA = decibels..how loud it it is. Decibel is a logarithmic scale of sound. Higher dBA is louder. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decibel http://www.gcaudio.com/resources/howtos/... RPM = revolutions per minute, speed of fan..how fast the blades are turning. Note the faster it turns the higher pitch the sound will be. It will typically be louder/more noticeable when talking of fans. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revolutions... CFM = cubic feet per minute, how much air it is moving.
RPM and rpm redirect here. For other uses, see RPM (disambiguation) . Revolutions per minute (abbreviated rpm, RPM, rev/min, r/min) is a measure of the frequency of rotation, specifically the number of rotations around a fixed axis in one minute. It is used as a measure of rotational speed of a mechanical component. 