PAG (Polyalkylene Glycol) Oil. Idemitsu is the world's leading manufacturer of polyalkylene glycol (PAG) oil, the primary lubricant used for automotive air conditioners.
PAG OIL (Polyalkylene Glycol) Refrigerant oil made for HFC (e.g. R-134a) systems CANNOT tolerate even minute amounts of chorides, such as from aluminum chloride coatings inside pipes that formed from the original R-12 charge or having over .5% or more of chlorinated refrigerants in the system. A newly developed PAG oil, called Daphne or Double end capped PAG oil has been shown to be able to withstand chlorinated refrigerants, even R-12, MUCH better than conventional PAG oils. However, Daphne or Double End Capped PAG oils are very expensive and are not commonly used.
We get this question often. The fact of the matter is unless you are changing out the compressor or another component in your A/C you probably will never have to worry with this. That being said let’s take a look at PAG and ESTER oils. PAG is actually an acronym for Polyalkylene Glycol, and it is a synthetic oil used in A/C systems to lubricate the compressor. Most all newer model cars use PAG as the lubricant in the A/C system. When people refer to PAG oil they typically refer to it in the following terms: PAG 46, PAG 100, or PAG 150.
Because R134a is not compatible with mineral-based compressor oil, it requires a different type of lubricant. Virtually all OEMS today specify one of several different types of PAG oils for their compressors. PAG oils vary according to viscosity, with PAG 46, PAG 100 and PAG 150 being the three most popular blends. The type of PAG oil required depends on the design of the compressor. And because compressor failures are the leading cause of A/C system failures, it is important to use the correct type of lubricant. PAG oil is not compatible with R12 and must not be used in older R12 systems. Mineral-based compressor oil should only be used in older vehicles with R12. Mineral oil must never be used with R134a because the two will not mix.
In order to determine the right PAG viscosity and quantities for your car you must look up the specifications for your make, model, and year of car. Ester oil is a synthetic lubricant. Ester molecules are very stable and have excellent performance characteristics in both high and low temperature environments. Most all newer model cars use PAG as the lubricant in the A/C system. When people refer to PAG oil they typically refer to it in the following terms: PAG 46, PAG 100, or PAG 150.
Mineral oi l should only be used in older R-12 A/C compressors because R-12 will not mix with R-134 refrigerant. Universal A/C compressor oils are often PAO-based and are not the same viscosity as the PAG oil recommended for a specific type of compressor. This can lead to poor lubrication and premature compressor failure
Having greater than 70% of the global market share, Idemitsu is the leading manufacturer of polyalkylene glycol (PAG) oil for automotive air conditioners. 
A/C Compressor PAG Oil Application Chart. Automotive air conditioning compressors require specific types of lubricants. Most 1996 and newer A/C systems use R134a refrigerant and require some type of PAG (polyalkylene glycol) oil for the compressor. If the wrong type of compressor oil or the wrong viscosity compressor oil is used, it may damage the compressor. Universal A/C compressor oils are often PAO-based and are not the same viscosity as the PAG oil recommended for a specific type of
Your 2001 Cadillac DeVille requires PAG 150 refrigerant oil. Part No. P-150UVQT is a 32oz. bottle with UV leak detecting dye which is safe for your cooling system. All PAG oil is synthetic. Your system will hold 8.8 oz of PAG oil and 2.2 lbs of refrigerant. 
Your car's air conditioning system requires PAG oil for lubrication. The exact type of oil needed is determined by the type of A/C compressor in your car. There are three types of PAG oil for regular (non-hybrid) R-134a systems: PAG 46 (low-viscosity) oil: http://bit.ly/1hYKm1u. PAG 100 (medium-viscosity) oil: http://bit.ly/1g5mchF. PAG 150 (high-viscosity) oil: http://bit.ly/1kHUmLI.