A good way to use basil is to infuse your favorite olive oil with it. To make basil oil, finely chop 1 ½ cups of fresh basil leaves. Add the basil and 2 cups extra-virgin olive oil to a small saucepan and heat it over medium-high heat for 30 minutes. Strain the oil into a jar with an air-tight lid. Heat 1 cup of olive oil in a small saucepan. Add fresh basil leaves, 3 at a time, and fry for 20-25 seconds, or until crisp. Remove the basil with a slotted spoon and transfer to a paper towel-lined plate. Repeat with more
Basil is a highly fragrant plant whose leaves are used as a seasoning herb for many different types of foods. Basil has become one of the most recognizable herbs ever since pesto, the mixture of basil, pine nuts and Parmesan cheese, has become popular. Basil has round leaves that are oftentimes pointed. Nutritional Profile. Basil is an excellent source of vitamin K and manganese; a very good source of copper, vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids such as beta-carotene), and vitamin C; and a good source of calcium, iron, folate, magnesium, and omega-3 fatty acids. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Basil
Children: Basil is LIKELY SAFE for children in food amounts. But larger medicinal amounts are POSSIBLY UNSAFE. Basil contains a chemical, estragole, which has caused liver cancer in laboratory mice. Bleeding disorders: Basil oils and extracts might slow blood clotting and increase bleeding. Basil is an herb. The parts of the plant that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. Basil is used for stomach spasms, loss of appetite, intestinal gas, kidney conditions, fluid retention, head colds, warts, and worm infections. It is also used to treat snake and insect bites
Healthy Herbs: 25 Of The Best For Your Body. Posted: 11/08/2012 8:22 am EST Updated: 11/08/2012 8:22 am EST. There are a number of delicious foods you can eat for the sake of your health -- but still, all too often, we hear complaints that healthful food just doesn't taste good. Enter herbs and spices. The aromatic flavorings can transform a dish without adding calories or fat (for the most part)
If a kitchen has only a few herbs in its possession, basil will likely be one of them. Its fragrant essence combines well with rosemary and thyme in meat dishes, fish, vegetables, cheese, soup and eggs, and is one of the main ingredients in pesto, along with pine nuts and parmesan cheese. Health Benefits of Basil. Basil also is considered one of the healthiest herbs. It's best when fresh, exuding a sweet, earthy aroma that indicates not only the promise of pleasantly pungent flavor, but an impressive list of nutrients. Vitamin K, essential for blood clotting, is
Strike the right balance when feeding basil plants. When it comes to deciding how much plant food to give annual basil plants (Ocimum basilicum), treading the middle ground is your best bet. The herbs won't grow the lush, tender foliage they're famous for if they get too little nitrogen, but too much can rob those lush leaves of their flavor. pH Balancer. Basil can thrive in acid to slightly alkaline soil, but dislikes extremes. A soil test kit can determine the current pH level of your garden bed. If the pH is higher than 7.5, use sulfur, a natural material, to lower it. In a 100-square-foot area, 1 pound of sulfur will decrease pH by 1 point.
The round, often pointed leaves of the basil plant looks a lot like peppermint to which it is related. Its highly fragrant leaves are used as a seasoning herb for a variety of foods but has become ever popular as the main ingredient in pesto, the mixture of basil, pine nuts and parmesan cheese. Nutritional Profile. Basil is an excellent source of vitamin K and manganese; a very good source of copper, vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids such as beta-carotene), and vitamin C; and a good source of calcium, iron, folate, magnesium, and omega-3 fatty acids. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Basil
Another way to pair basil and olive oil is to fry the basil leaves. You can deep-fry the basil but that isn’t necessary as pan-frying will give you crisp basil leaves with much less oil. Heat 1 cup of olive oil in a small saucepan. Add fresh basil leaves, 3 at a time, and fry for 20-25 seconds, or until crisp. Remove the basil with a slotted spoon and transfer to a paper towel-lined plate. Repeat with more basil leaves.