Directions. Fill a large pot with 4 quarts of water. Squeeze the lemon juice into the water and add the squeezed lemon halves. Add the Old Bay, garlic and onion. Tie the thyme sprigs together with kitchen twine and add to the pot. Cover and bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer and cook about 5 minutes. Add the potatoes to the pot and cook until just tender, about 10 minutes. Add the corn and cook 5 more minutes. Meanwhile, slice along the back of each shrimp through the shells; remove the veins and rinse the shrimp. Add to the pot, cover and cook until the shrimp curl and are just opaque, 2 to 3 minutes
Start off your seafood boil by bringing 6 to 8 quarts water to a rolling boil. Add Zatarain's crab boil and red potatoes and cook for about 15 minutes. Next add sausage and sweet corn to the boiling water and cook for another 10 minutes until the red potatoes are tender. 
1 Add potatoes, and sausage, and cook for about 10 minutes. 2  Add the corn and crab; cook for another 5 minutes, then add the shrimp when everything else is almost done, and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. 3  Drain off the water and pour the contents out onto a picnic table covered with newspaper. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Heat a large pot of water over an outdoor cooker, or medium-high heat indoors. 2  Add Old Bay Seasoning to taste, and bring to a boil. 3 
1 Add potatoes and onions; cook over high heat for 8 minutes. 2  Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 3  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 4  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 5  Drain cookin liquid; pour contents of pot into several large bowl or shallow pails. 1 Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 2  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 3
1 In a stockpot, heat oil over medium-high heat; brown sausage. 2  Stir in broth, water, beer, seafood seasoning and bay leaves. 3  Add vegetables; bring to a boil. 4  Reduce heat; simmer, uncovered, 20-25 minutes or until potatoes are tender. 5  Add crab; heat through. 6  Drain; remove bay leaves. 
1 Add Old Bay Seasoning to taste, and bring to a boil. 2  Add potatoes, and sausage, and cook for about 10 minutes. 3  Add the corn and crab; cook for another 5 minutes, then add the shrimp when everything else is almost done, and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Heat a large pot of water over an outdoor cooker, or medium-high heat indoors. 2  Add Old Bay Seasoning to taste, and bring to a boil. 3
Directions: Simmer the potatoes. Fill a large pot with water and set over high heat. Add the Old Bay seasoning, onions, garlic and lemons and bring to a boil. Add the potatoes, reduce the heat to low and simmer until the potatoes are tender, 15 to 20 minutes. Cook the shrimp. Add the corn and sausages to the pot and cook for 5 minutes. 
1 Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 2  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 3  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 4  Drain cookin liquid; pour contents of pot into several large bowl or shallow pails. 5  Sprinkle with additional Old Bay. 1 Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 2  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 3
Add the shrimp and boil for 1 minute. Turn off the heat and let the mixture stand for 5 minutes. Using tongs or a skimmer, retrieve the seafood and vegetables from the pot and serve them warm atop several thicknesses of newspaper or large sheets of parchment paper, or transfer to a large serving platter. Pour the water into a large stockpot. Add the oil, onions, celery, lemons, garlic, bay leaves, ginger, crab boil spice mix, salt, cayenne and black peppercorns and bring to a boil over high heat. Boil for 10 minutes. Add the potatoes and boil for 5 minutes. Add the crabs and boil for 15 minutes.
1 In an 8-quart stock pot, bring Old Bay, salt, water and beer to a boil. 2  Add potatoes and onions; cook over high heat for 8 minutes. 3  Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 4  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 1 Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 2  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 3  Drain cookin liquid; pour contents of pot into several large bowl or shallow pails.