Health related question in topics Conditions Illness Medicine Treatment .We found some answers as below for this question How long does a broken foot take to heal,you can compare them. It will take roughly 3 - 12 weeks for a broken foot to heal in a cast. However, if you smoke or drink alcohol heavy, or required surgical correction, these times may be longer. Consult your physician for completely accurate answers. How long does it take to heal broken foot? Q: Hello, I broke my foot 4 weeks ago, Its metatarsal fractures if I'm right, anyway its in midfoot bone somewhere between 3rd and 4 toe.
Q: A: The general rule of thumb for a broken foot bone to heal is six to eight weeks. No matter how much you want to negotiate the healing time to get back to running and other exercise, the time frame is dictated by your body. You can help by following Dr. Schneider's advice and carefully caring for the fractured foot. 
RE: How long does it take a broken foot to heal? I manage a Starbucks and an employee broke her foot on the 3rd of this month. She fell off her heels the wrong way and tore a tendon, which in turn broke her bone (the one along the outside of the foot.) At least that's what she said. I am in a boot now from a stress fracture of metatarsal..it is painful!! i have been in the boot for 3 weeks and just got sentenced to another 3 weeks.
When fracturing the skull the healing process takes a lot longer than any other fracture, like a fracture in the wrist or foot. Beca … use of how much was damage and depending on the area of the fracture and the extent of the damage, the healing process could take up to a year, and in some cases even longer. 
1 Following surgery, and especially with the help of a cast, severely broken toes take 6-8 weeks to heal, depending on the location and extent of the injury. 2  After such a long time in a cast, your foot may need some rehabilitation as described below. 
How quickly and completely you recover from a broken bone in your foot will depend on the severity of the injury, the bone that is broken, and how well you follow your doctor’s instructions. Broken bones in the feet take six to eight weeks to heal. In some cases, additional treatment may be required to fix the injury, especially in the case of a delayed union, non union, or malunion. Some victims may not experience pain and will try to walk or stand on the broken foot, causing further injury. Treatment for a broken foot will be determined by the location and severity of the injury. Regardless of whether the injury is mild or severe, the foot needs to be stabilized before anything else is done. Stay off your foot until you can get to a doctor, even if you are able to walk with minimal pain.
Report Abuse. My sister got a spiral fracture in her ankle while mountain biking and it took about 6 months and she had to be in wheelchair for much of that time. I know an ankle provides more support than does some small bones in your foot but I suspect it will take much longer than you think it will to heal. The bones in the top of the foot take a long time to heal usually-there isn't much blood flow to promote the healing. I knew someone who had to use a bone stimulator to get them finally healed, and she was in a boot for a long time. Hope you have better luck! :). I thought, therefore I was · 5 years ago.
Report Abuse. I am in a boot now from a stress fracture of metatarsal..it is painful!! i have been in the boot for 3 weeks and just got sentenced to another 3 weeks. Thankfully, I have a desk job or I couldn't do it. It's painful.imagine sparks running up your foot and ankle and radiating pain. I am in a boot now from a stress fracture of metatarsal..it is painful!! i have been in the boot for 3 weeks and just got sentenced to another 3 weeks
It depends. Each person’s healing process is different. It depends on the location of the fracture, the severity of the break, age, and nutritional status. For example, a fractured leg is going to take a lot longer to heal than a fractured finger. Generally, younger individuals heal faster than older individuals. Proper nutrition also plays a role. The average healing process takes anywhere from 6 to 8 weeks. 