The slug is an English unit of mass. The slug is part of a subset of coherent units known as the gravitational foot-pound-second system (FPS), one of several such specialized systems of mechanical units developed in the late 19th and the 20th century. A slug has a mass of about 14.5939 kg or 32.17405 pounds. 
History Edit. The slug is part of a subset of units known as the gravitational FPS system, one of several such specialized systems of mechanical units developed in the late 19th and the 20th century. Geepound was another name for this unit in early literature. Similar units Edit. The blob or slinch (a portmanteau of the words slug and inch) is an inch version of the slug (1 slinch = 1 lb f ·s 2 /in = 12 slugs).
The slug is the unit of mass in the US common system of units, where the pound is the unit of force. The pound is therefore the unit of weight since weight is defined as the force of gravity on an object. While the pound force and pound weight are the widely used units for commerce in the United States, their use is strongly discouraged in scientific work. The standard units for most of scientific work are the SI units. A newton can be seen to be the force required to accelerate 1 kg of mass at 1 m/s 2.
›› Definition: Slug. The slug is an English and U.S. customary unit of mass. The slug is part of a subset of coherent units known as the gravitational foot-pound-second system, one of several such specialized systems of mechanical units. It is the mass that accelerates by when a force of one pound-force (lbf) is exerted on it. 
The slinch (a portmanteau of the words slug and inch) or blob is a unit of mass, an inch version of the slug (1 slinch = 1 lb f ·s 2 /in = 12 slugs). Slang terms for the slinch include the slugette. 
History [edit]. The slug is part of a subset of units known as the gravitational FPS system, one of several such specialized systems of mechanical units developed in the late 19th and the 20th century. Geepound was another name for this unit in early literature
In the BG system the mass unit is the slug and is defined from the Newton's Second Law (1) . The unit of mass, the slug, is derived from the pound-force by defining it as the mass that will accelerate at 1 foot per second per second when a 1 pound-force acts upon it: 1 lb = (1 slug)(1 ft/s2). In other words, 1 lb (pound) force acting on 1 slug mass will give the mass an acceleration of 1 ft/s 2. 
The slug is a unit of mass associated with Imperial units and United States customary units. It is a mass that accelerates by 1 ft/s 2 when a force of one pound (lbF) is exerted on it. The slug is part of a subset of units known as the gravitational FPS system, one of several such specialized systems of mechanical units developed in the late 19th and the 20th century. Geepound was another name for this unit in early literature
The slug is an English and U.S. customary unit of mass. The slug is part of a subset of coherent units known as the gravitational foot-pound-second system, one of several such specialized systems of mechanical units. It is the mass that accelerates by when a force of one pound-force (lbf) is exerted on it. Therefore a slug is about 32.174 05 pounds or 14.593 90 kg