The haka is a traditional genre of Māori dance. This picture dates from ca. 1845. The haka (plural is the same as singular: haka) is a traditional ancestral war cry, dance, or challenge from the Māori people of New Zealand. It is a posture dance performed by a group, with vigorous movements and stamping of the feet with rhythmically shouted accompaniment. 
A Maori ceremonial war dance involving chanting, an imitation of which is performed by New Zealand rugby teams before a match. Example sentences. 1  Sport, show business and ethnic culture seamlessly blend in New Zealand's favourite sport, rugby, with the haka preceding every test match. 2  The camera draws back revealing 14 more rugby players performing the haka and dressed in red and black striped rugby shirts. 
'Kapa o Pango'. Ka mate, Ka mate was the only haka performed by the All Blacks until 2005 when a new haka-Kapa o Pango-was unveiled before a match against South Africa at Carisbrook Stadium, in Dunedin. 
The origins of the haka are deeply rooted in the mists of time. It is a history rich in folklore and legend that reflects Maori heritage. New Zealand has grown up immersed in haka since first encounters between Maori and early European explorers, missionaries and settlers. According to legend, the haka was derived from the sun of god Ra. He had two wives: Hine-raumati, who was the essence of summer, and Hine-takurua, the essence of winter. Ra and Hine-raumati lay together and gave birth to a son called Tanerore. On hot summer days it is possible to see the light dancing.
The Origin of Ka Mate. It is said that circa 1820 a chief by the name of Te Rauparaha composed Ka Mate, the most well known of all haka. At that time Te Rauparaha was chief of the Ngati Toarangatira (Ngati-Toa) a branch of the Tainui tribe, and dwelt in Kawhia, north of the Waikato.n what follows, you can read about what ‘haka’ actually is and what it means, as well as the many different styles of haka. Also, focussing on Ka mate, the haka performed by the All Blacks there are a few paragraphs on its origin, a translation of the words, and a brief description of how it relates to rugby.
Meaning of the Haka. To most people, the haka is a war dance. This is understandable as many have seen the haka performed as a pre-battle challenge to their opposition. But the word haka simply means a dance, or a song accompanied by dance. According to legend, the haka was derived from the sun of god Ra. He had two wives: Hine-raumati, who was the essence of summer, and Hine-takurua, the essence of winter. Ra and Hine-raumati lay together and gave birth to a son called Tanerore. On hot summer days it is possible to see the light dancing.
The Origin of Ka Mate. It is said that circa 1820 a chief by the name of Te Rauparaha composed Ka Mate, the most well known of all haka. At that time Te Rauparaha was chief of the Ngati Toarangatira (Ngati-Toa) a branch of the Tainui tribe, and dwelt in Kawhia, north of the Waikato. In what follows, you can read about what ‘haka’ actually is and what it means, as well as the many different styles of haka. Also, focussing on Ka mate, the haka performed by the All Blacks there are a few paragraphs on its origin, a translation of the words, and a brief description of how it relates to rugby.
Definition of HAKA. : a Maori posture dance accompanied by rhythmic chanting. ADVERTISEMENT. 
haka. n. 1. (Anthropology & Ethnology) a Māori war chant accompanied by gestures. 2. (Rugby) a similar performance by a rugby team. [Māori]. 
Like. Guest. The Haka Ka Mate Ka Mate is a Maori war dance essentially from the Polynesian Maori culture, but no doubt we all have Haka within us all this is just how the Maori people express it. 