You can also calculate the cost to drive from Phoenix, AZ to San Diego, CA based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between Phoenix, AZ and San Diego, CA.
The driving distance between San Francisco, CA and Phoenix, AZ is 754 miles.  The driving time would be approximately 11 hours 45 minutes if driving non-stop in good conditio … ns.
You can also calculate the cost of driving from San Diego, CA to Phoenix, AZ based on current local fuel prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between San Diego, CA and Phoenix, AZ.
The driving distance between San Diego, CA and Sedona, AZ is approximately 460 miles. The driving time would be approximately 7 hours 45 minutes if you were to travel non-stop … in good driving conditions.
The driving distance between San Diego, CA and Phoenix, AZ is approximately 355 miles. The driving time would be approximately 6 hours if you were to travel non-stop in good d … riving conditions.
The approximate driving time and mileage information -    Between: Phoenix, AZ  and: San Diego, CA  Driving miles: 355  Driving time: 5 hrs 15 mins    - is base … d on traveling non-stop in good driving conditions.
The driving distance between San Diego, CA and Carmel, CA is approximately 445 miles. The driving time would be approximately 7 hours 45 minutes if you were to travel non-stop … in good driving conditions.
Your trip begins in San Diego, California. It ends in Phoenix, Arizona. If you are planning a road trip, you might also want to calculate the total driving time from San Diego, CA to Phoenix, AZ so you can see when you'll arrive at your destination.
The driving distance between San Diego, CA and Phoenix, AZ is approximately 355 miles. The driving time would be approximately 6 hours if you were to travel non-stop in good d … riving conditions.
The driving distance between San Diego, CA and Phoenix, AZ is approximately 355 miles. The driving time would be approximately 6 hours if you were to travel non-stop in good driving conditions.