The MHRA is funded by the Department of Health for the regulation of medical devices, whilst the costs of medicines regulation is met through fees from the pharmaceutical industry. This has led to suggestions by some MPs that the MHRA is too reliant on industry, and so not fully independent. The MHRA (and US Food and Drug Administration) have been criticised in the book Bad Pharma, and by Dr David Healy in evidence to the House of Commons Health Committee, for having undergone regulatory capture; advancing the interests of the drug companies rather than the interests of the public.
With over 40,000 drivers in its rosters, the NHRA claims to be the largest motorsports sanctioning body in the world. The association was founded by Wally Parks in 1951 in California to provide a governing body to organize and promote the sport of drag racing. The first nationwide NHRA sponsored event was held in 1955, in Great Bend, Kansas. (Typical for the era, this race was held on a World War II-constructed training air field.) The NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Series, the national event series which comprises 24 races each year, is the premier series in drag racing that brings together the best drag racers from across North America and
UK and India regulators agree deal for closer collaboration to improve public safety. Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) signs Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with its counterpart body in India.
The National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) is a drag racing governing body, which sets rules in drag racing and hosts events all over the United States and Canada. (Typical for the era, this race was held on a World War II-constructed training air field.) The NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Series, the national event series which comprises 24 races each year, is the premier series in drag racing that brings together the best drag racers from across North America and the world.
... [More about MHRA books & journals]. Supports scholarly publishing projects. The MHRA provides an invaluable service to scholarship in the modern humanities by supporting the production of major editions and works of reference that lay foundations for future scholarly work. The Year's Work in Modern Language Studies (YWMLS) is a critical bibliography aiming to cover work done in the broadest range of European languages and literatures. The Texts & Dissertations series was established to publish the most accomplished doctoral research.
During the 1980s, the STB became part of the NHS Procurement Directorate, which was later split into the NHS Supplies Authority and the Medical Devices Directorate (MDD). The MDD in effect became the Medical Devices Agency in 1994 which then merged with its medicines counterpart in 2003 to become the MHRA. The MHRA now also looks after blood and blood products, working with UK blood services, healthcare providers, and other relevant organisations to improve blood quality and safety. The principal aim of the Agency is to safeguard the public’s health.
Our Mission. Mid Hudson Rowing Association (MHRA), founded in 1950, is a not-for-profit rowing club located in Poughkeepsie, NY. Its mission is to promote adult and scholastic rowing and to provide opportunities to enjoy the natural and scenic beauty of the Hudson River. MHRA operates from the HRRA Community Boat House at 272 North Water Street, Poughkeepsie, NY. Club boats include singles, doubles, fours, eights, and a quad.
The MHRA was established in April 2003 from the resultant merger of two former Executive Agencies of the Department of Health, namely the Medicines Control Agency (MCA) and the Medical Devices Agency (MDA). 
The MHRA is funded largely by public monies from government for the regulation of devices, and by fees from the pharmaceutical industry for the regulation of medicines.The Agency’s regulatory decisions are impartial and based solely on the extensive evidence of quality, safety, and efficacy required for each product. The MHRA now also looks after blood and blood products, working with UK blood services, healthcare providers, and other relevant organisations to improve blood quality and safety. The principal aim of the Agency is to safeguard the public’s health.
The MHRA also has to comply with strict timeframes and performance targets for the licensing of medicines. ►. Medicines & Medical Devices Regulation ◄ Once the MHRA is satisfied that the medicine works as it should, and that it is acceptably safe, it is given a marketing authorisation or product licence. The MHRA now also looks after blood and blood products, working with UK blood services, healthcare providers, and other relevant organisations to improve blood quality and safety. The principal aim of the Agency is to safeguard the public’s health.