• Facilitated diffusion, which is a kind of passive transport, requires no energy for the molecules to move into or out of the cell. • Active transport requires energy from the system for the movement of molecules across cell membrane. Active Transport vs Facilitated Diffusion. Facilitated diffusion is the process of transport of substances across a cell membrane with the help of carrier or channel proteins.
Facilitated diffusion (also known as facilitated transport or passive-mediated transport) is the process of spontaneous passive transport (as opposed to active transport) of molecules or ions across a biological membrane via specific transmembrane integral proteins. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Facilitated diffusion is a type of passive transport (does not require energy) that allows molecules to move across the cell membrane with the help of transport proteins. Only certain types of molecules can bond to the transport proteins. Report Abuse. Facilitated diffusion (also known as facilitated transport or passive-mediated transport) is a process of passive transport (as opposed to active transport), with this passive transport aided by integral membrane proteins.
The entire process of facilitated diffusion is passive and requires no energy from the cell. On the other hand, active transport is a kind of transport of substances across a membrane that demands energy as it is against its concentration gradient that is from lower to higher concentration. Active Transport vs Facilitated Diffusion. Facilitated diffusion is the process of transport of substances across a cell membrane with the help of carrier or channel proteins.
Facilitated diffusion (or facilitated transport) is a process of diffusion, a form of passive transport facilitated by transport proteins. Facilitated diffusion is the s … pontaneous passage of molecules or ions across a biological membrane passing through specific transmembrane transport proteins. The facilitated diffusion may occur either across biological membranes or through aqueous compartments of an organism. Facilitated diffusion is a type of diffusion specifically for larger molecules, to help them cross a selectively permeable membrane with the help of integral proteins that act … as carriers. Facilitated diffusion is a passive process, i.e. it does not need energy/ATP. 5 people found this useful.
Facilitated diffusion. Facilitated diffusion is a process whereby a substance passes through a membrane with a aid of an intermediary or a facilitator. The facilitator is an i ntegral membrane protein that spans the width of the membrane. The force that drives the molecule from one side of the membrane to the other is the force of diffusion. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Facilitated diffusion is when a molecule cannot just passively diffuse across a membrane; however, it requires a protein carrier and energy in the form of ATP to move across the membrane. 
by olivia. Simple Diffusion vs Facilitated Diffusion. In cell biology, diffusion refers to passive transport and it is the net movement of particles from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration. When molecules are evenly spread across a cell, it is called equilibrium.
Best Answer: Facilitated diffusion is a type of passive transport (does not require energy) that allows molecules to move across the cell membrane with the help of transport proteins. Report Abuse. Facilitated diffusion (also known as facilitated transport or passive-mediated transport) is a process of passive transport (as opposed to active transport), with this passive transport aided by integral membrane proteins.