The climes (singular clime; also clima, plural climata, from Greek κλίμα klima, plural κλίματα klimata, meaning inclination or slope) in classical Greco-Roman geography and astronomy were the divisions of the inhabited portion of the spherical Earth by geographic latitude. But for the purposes of his geographical tables, Ptolemy reduces this list to eleven parallels, dividing the area between the equator and 54°1' N into ten segments, at half-hour intervals reaching from 12 hours to 17 hours.
The term “climate change” is used by the media, funding agencies and in professional journals (e.g. see and see) but without a clear and adequate definition as to what this term means. Here are a few definitions. there is a very insightful discussion of the subject as to what is meant by the term “climate change” and the resulting confusion and misunderstandings when more than one definition is used.
Climate is the measure of weather values (mean average temperature, mean high temperature, mean low temperature for example) over a long time period (typically 30 years) to give humans a guide to planning (planting crops, determine building codes, water allocation, etc). Even yearly numbers may reflect weather more than climate. To reduce noise caused by weather, climatologist often use running mean values over short time periods (like 5 years). A 5 year running mean example using FICTITIOUS data (totally made up) is below to help you see what it is and what it does.
Ptolemy gives a list of parallels, starting with the equator, and proceeding north at intervals, chosen so that the longest day (summer solstice) increases in steps of a quarter of an hour from 12 hours at the equator to 18 hours at 58° N, and then, in larger steps, to 24 hours at the arctic circle. But for the purposes of his geographical tables, Ptolemy reduces this list to eleven parallels, dividing the area between the equator and 54°1' N into ten segments, at half-hour intervals reaching from 12 hours to 17 hours.
Climate is the average and variations of weather in a region over long periods of time. The climate of a location is affected by its latitude, terrain, persistent ice or snow cover, as well as nearby oceans and their currents. Even yearly numbers may reflect weather more than climate. To reduce noise caused by weather, climatologist often use running mean values over short time periods (like 5 years). A 5 year running mean example using FICTITIOUS data (totally made up) is below to help you see what it is and what it does.
Climate in a narrow sense is usually defined as the average weather, or more rigorously, as the statistical description in terms of the mean and variability of relevant quantities over a period ranging from months to thousands or millions of years. The climate of a location is affected by its latitude, terrain, and altitude, as well as nearby water bodies and their currents. Climates can be classified according to the average and the typical ranges of different variables, most commonly temperature and precipitation.
The running mean is the average of the current year and the previous 4 years. Notice the reduction in variation and the loss of the use of data from 1995 through 1999. Typically, for this to be useful, you need years of data (at least 35 if looking at climate over the past 30 years. 100 years is better. Even yearly numbers may reflect weather more than climate. To reduce noise caused by weather, climatologist often use running mean values over short time periods (like 5 years). A 5 year running mean example using FICTITIOUS data (totally made up) is below to help you see what it is and what it does.
Climate is the weather patterns over a long period of time. It also means when something is happening in the world and something goes wrong, AKA global warming or the sun not … rising. Your question was about climate control. In this book there is no sunlight, no warmth, but there is no snow and no cold weather either. Plus no rain, and no wind.
Climate is the long-term pattern of weather in a particular area. It is measured by assessing the patterns of variation in temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, precipitation, atmospheric particle count and other meteorological variables in a given region over long periods of time. The climate of a location is affected by its latitude, terrain, and altitude, as well as nearby water bodies and their currents. Climates can be classified according to the average and the typical ranges of different variables, most commonly temperature and precipitation.
The noun CLIMATE has 2 senses: 1. the weather in some location averaged over some long period of time. 2. the prevailing psychological state. Familiarity information: CLIMATE used as a noun is rare. 