by Elizabeth Scherer. All foods from animals contain some cholesterol. This includes meats, such as beef, pork, lamb, chicken, and fish. It also includes dairy products, such as milk, cheese, and ice cream. Organ meats, such as liver, are especially high in cholesterol. Egg yolks contain cholesterol, too. Some shellfish, such as shrimp, crayfish, and lobster, contain more cholesterol than most meals.
Foods to Avoid for High Cholesterol. 1  Limit saturated fats and oils, such as butter, bacon drippings, lard, palm oil, and coconut oil. 2  Instead, use soft tub margarine or vegetable oils, such as olive or canola oil. 3  Avoid trans fats or partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. 1 Limit egg yolks. 2  Limit milk products that contain more than 1% milk fat. 3  This includes cream, most cheeses, and nondairy coffee creamers or whipped topping (which often contain coconut or palm oils). 4  Instead try fat-free or low-fat milk (0% to 1% fat) and low-fat cheeses.
Foods that are high in saturated fat contain high levels of LDL cholesterol. Animal fat, coconut oil, palm oil, lard and butter are filled with saturated fats and LDL cholesterol. Conversely, unsaturated fats have high levels of HDL cholesterol. Sunflower, olive, corn, soybean and canola oil are high in unsaturated fat. To lower your LDL levels, avoid foods with saturated fats. Having high levels of high-density lipoprotein, or HDL cholesterol, is healthy. HDL cholesterol helps remove LDL cholesterol from your blood, reducing your risk for disease.
Trans fats raise LDL cholesterol, and lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL), the good cholesterol. Food labels report the content of trans fats, but, unfortunately, only in foods that contain at least one gram per serving. That means you could be getting some trans fats in a number of foods, which could add up to enough trans fats in a day to be unhealthy and increase cholesterol.
Trans fats raise your bad (LDL) cholesterol levels and lower your good (HDL) cholesterol levels. These changes are associated with increased risk of heart disease. Since 2006, the FDA has required trans fat content to be listed on the Nutrition Facts panel of packaged foods. Foods from plants that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils) and cocoa butter. For people who need to lower their cholesterol, the American Heart Association recommends reducing saturated fat to no more than 5 to 6 percent of total daily calories.
All of these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plants that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils) and cocoa butter. For people who need to lower their cholesterol, the American Heart Association recommends reducing saturated fat to no more than 5 to 6 percent of total daily calories.
Plant Sterols. Foods containing plant sterols have high levels of HDL cholesterol. Plant sterols are cholesterol compounds found naturally in plants. In the January 2008 issue of Metabolism, Dr. David Jenkins says that foods high in plant sterols reduced LDL levels of patients by 9 to 14 percent. To lower your LDL levels, avoid foods with saturated fats. Having high levels of high-density lipoprotein, or HDL cholesterol, is healthy. HDL cholesterol helps remove LDL cholesterol from your blood, reducing your risk for disease.
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol.
Low-density lipoprotein, or LDL cholesterol, is what you may know as bad cholesterol. High LDL levels can cause heart disease, hypertension and stroke. To lower your LDL levels, avoid foods with saturated fats. Having high levels of high-density lipoprotein, or HDL cholesterol, is healthy. HDL cholesterol helps remove LDL cholesterol from your blood, reducing your risk for disease.