Per Page Pricing. Some web designers charge a flat rate per page, this can be as low as $50 although most designers in the USA will charge $100 – $200 per page. This pricing is usually for basic static brochure web sites that do not require a lot of custom features.
1 You may do best to contact a local web designer using Craigslist, searching for web design, or to ask others for referrals. 2  At this price, be sure to look at their portfolio of sites they've created. 3  Hiring a small, professional web design firm for a small site can cost $2,000-$5,000.
1 Hiring a local website designer for a small job can cost $500-$1,500. 2  Often you can find an independent web designer who advertises locally who can build a small site for $500-$1,500. 3  This would include several custom made graphics, navigation images and logos for a small site with 3-10 pages.
Websites come in all shapes and sizes. Equally, the cost for a web design with vary with the project size and time taken to develop it. Pricing varies per each web design company. Some charge by the hour while others may offer flat-fee. Doing your homework and ‘ Scoping-Out ‘ your website will always help to reduce your cost.
For example, you may factor in the cost of a new logo design or a website redesign, which are typically one-time-only items. If your Internet marketing company performs the same tasks month after month with only one or two special tasks or assignments, your yearly costs will range anywhere from $1500 to $15,000.
While the cost of a basic website has dropped, the need for more interactivity has helped hold steady the price of a high-end, competitive design. As of 2015, you should expect to pay between $2,250 and $10,000 for a fully functional small business website.
If you can afford professional website design costs for high end websites, you're likely to see better results. On the lower end of web design pricing, competitive industry pressure and advancements in web design tools pushed pricing down by about 10% in 2015.
Monthly, you should expect to pay for your website hosting, SEO, other ongoing optimization, any content creation, link building services, and special design projects. This may cost anywhere from $100 to $1000 a month.