Anconeus. The aconeus is situated medially and superiorly in the extensor compartment of the forearm. It is blended with the fibres of the triceps brachii, and the two muscles can be indistinguishable. 1  Attachments: Originates from the lateral epicondyle, and attaches to the posterior and lateral part of the olecrannon. There are five muscles in the deep compartment of the posterior forearm – the supinator, abductor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis brevis, extensor pollicis longus and extensor indicis. With the exception of the supinator, these muscles act on the thumb and the index finger. Supinator.
Deep Muscles. There are five muscles in the deep compartment of the posterior forearm – the supinator, abductor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis brevis, extensor pollicis longus and extensor indicis. With the exception of the supinator, these muscles act on the thumb and the index finger. Supinator.
Extensor tendon compartments of the wrist are anatomical tunnels on the back of the wrist that contain tendons of muscles that extend (as opposed to flex) the wrist and the digits (fingers and thumb). The patient presents with pain over dorsal aspect of the forearm and wrist. The tendon of 6th compartment (extensor carpi ulnaris) can suffer recurrent dislocation due to a tear of the ulnar side of the compartment.
The posterior compartment of the forearm (or extensor compartment) contains 12 muscles which are chiefly responsible for extension of the wrist and digits, and supination of the forearm. It is separated from the anterior compartment by the interosseous membrane between the radius and ulna. Muscles [edit]. There are generally 12 muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm, which can be divided further into the superficial, the intermediate and the deep layer. Most of the superficial and the intermediate muscles share a common origin which is the outer part of the elbow, the lateral epicondyle of humerus
Muscles of the forearm segregate into these compartments consisting of (1) an anterior group (the flexors of the wrist and fingers and the pronators) and (2) a posterior group (the extensors of the wrist and fingers and the supinator) (fig. 10-1). Increased pressure in the anterior compartment of the forearm, such as can occur due to injury to the brachial artery near the elbow (e.g., from a supracondylar fracture of the humerus) can prevent normal blood flow to the compartment and ischemic damage to the deep flexors (pollicis longus and digitorum profundus).
This is a tutorial on the muscles of the posterior compartment of the forearm. These muscles are extensors. It’s also called the extensor compartment. Hopefully, you’ve watched the tutorial I did on the muscles of the anterior compartment. The muscles of the posterior compartment do the opposite to the anterior compartment muscles-they extend the wrist and digits, and they supinate the hands, and they have a common origin on the lateral epicondyle of the humerus.
http://www.anatomyzone.com. 3D anatomy tutorial on the muscles of the extensor compartment of the forearm, using the BioDigital Human Browser (http://www.biodigitalhuman.com). 
The supinator and the anconeus are the two muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm that do not pass through wrist extensor compartments. Muscles [edit]. There are generally 12 muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm, which can be divided further into the superficial, the intermediate and the deep layer. Most of the superficial and the intermediate muscles share a common origin which is the outer part of the elbow, the lateral epicondyle of humeru
The distinction of these extensor muscles (forearm elevators) as to superficial (1-6) and deep (7-11) is much less precise than it was in the flexor compartment. Some consider there to be a single extensor compartment with digital and thumb muscles. 1 Identify brachioradialis and the superficial group of extensors. 2  Lift the brachioradialis to expose the radial nerve splitting into deep and superficial branches. 3  Verify that the radial nerve innervates all the muscles of the extensor group of the forearm.