Whether your dog is on a raw diet or raw dehydrated diet,a the poops should be much smaller than that of a kibble based food. The reason the poop is smaller is the fact that the food is unprocessed and should be easily digested by the dog with very little waste. The foods we feed is made fresh and dehydrated immediately. It consists of a protein source currently chicken, green beef tripe, kale, broccoli,spinach, parsley, pulverized carrots and sweet potato for easy absorption.
Shop at an Online RetailerGet 20% Off + Free Shipping. The Addiction product line includes eight raw dehydrated dog foods, five claimed to meet AAFCO nutrient profiles for all life stages and three for adult maintenance. The following is a list of recipes available at the time of this review. Products marked with an asterisk (*) are grain-free. Addiction Raw Dehydrated Dog Food is a plant-based dry product using a modest amount of novel meats as its main sources of animal protein, thus earning the brand 3 stars.
If you are interested in trying out dehydrated dog food on your pet but do not know where to start, try out one of these recommended brands: 1  Primal Freeze-Dried Formula. 2  Steve’s Real Food. 3  Vital Essentials Dog Food. 4  Fresh is Best Dog Food. 5  K9 Natural Freeze-Dried Raw. While the resulting product is very similar, the processes for creating dehydrated versus freeze-dried dog food are very different. Dehydrating is a method of food preservation which involves removing moisture from the food using hot, dry air.
Raw Dehydrated Food is a new category of pet food. Raw ingredients such as meat, fruits and vegetables are dehydrated at gentle processing conditions to retain nutrients of the food. Moisture is also removed from the food to effectively prevent the growth of microorganisms, browning and spoilage.
Freeze drying is a form of dehydration so the food you are feeding your dog with this method is condensed and has had the moisture removed. In most cases companies sell small bags or bars of freeze dried food compared to larger amounts of kibble or frozen raw food. 
the honest kitchen. We believe cats and dogs deserve the highest quality healthy pet food. We provide all natural human grade dog food and cat food products, using dehydrated whole foods. Our pet foods are produced in the USA from non-GMO produce, hormone-free meats and some organic, fair trade ingredients-all carefully sourced from around the world (and we NEVER use any pet food ingredients from China). 
Determining the level of dehydration is also difficult in obese dogs, since excessive skin fat can cause the skin to return to normal even if the dog is dehydrated. In such instances, check for dehydration by feeling your dog’s gums to see if they are dry and sticky. If so, then your dog is probably dehydrated. Dehydration in dogs, which occurs due to an excessive loss of body fluids, is a common and dangerous condition that needs to be immediately addressed. If left untreated, dehydration can lead to serious consequences, including organ failure and death.
dehydrated dog food. Our line of dehydrated dog food contains an array of products that include whole grain (cream boxes) as well as grain and gluten free (white boxes) dog food options. Our complete meals contain all the necessary nutrients your pup needs – just add water, wait three minutes and serve! close. 
If your dog has a coprophagia problem, the best thing you can do is give your dog a meat based, grain free, moisture rich food. Raw food diets are best, and canned food is the next best thing. If you can’t do either, dehydrated food is a good option–once reconstituted, these foods have a much higher moisture content than kibble, and are easier on a dog’s digestive system. There are only a few brands of dehydrated food out there. 