Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by several kinds of bacteria. Some of these bacteria also cause infections such as strep throat and impetigo. Usually the infections caused by these bacteria are mild. But in rare cases they can cause a more dangerous infection. Necrotizing fasciitis is an infection caused by bacteria. It can destroy skin, fat, and the tissue covering the muscles within a very short time. The disease sometimes is called flesh-eating bacteria. When it occurs on the genitals, it is called Fournier gangrene. Necrotizing fasciitis is very rare but serious.
Necrotizing fasciitis is most commonly caused by an infection with group A Streptococcus, commonly known as “flesh-eating bacteria.” This is the fastest moving form of the infection. When this infection is caused by other types of bacteria, it typically does not progress as quickly and is not quite as dangerous. Several types of bacteria cause necrotizing fasciitis. The most common and well-known type is group A Streptococcus. However, this is not the only type of bacteria that can cause this infection. Other causes include: 1  aeromonas hydrophila.
Causes of Necrotizing Fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis is commonly caused by group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria. That's the same type of bacteria that causes strep throat. However, several types of bacteria, such as staphylococcus and others, have also been associated with the disease. Necrotizing fasciitis occurs when such bacteria infect the superficial fascia, a layer of connective tissue below the skin.
Necrotizing Fasciitis Causes. Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by bacteria in the vast majority of cases, though fungi can also rarely lead to this condition as well. Many cases of necrotizing fasciitis are caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (Streptococcus pyogenes), either individually or along with other bacterial pathogens. Group A streptococcus is the same bacteria responsible for  strep throat , impetigo (skin infection), and rheumatic fever. In many cases of necrotizing fasciitis, there is a history of prior trauma, such as a cut, scrape, insect bite, burn, or needle puncture wound. These lesions may initially appear trivial or minor. Surgical incision sites and various surgical procedures may also serve as a source of infection.
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis (e.g., Group A streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes) , Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Vibrio vulnificus, Aeromonas hydrophila). 
Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by several kinds of bacteria. Some of these bacteria also cause infections such as strep throat and impetigo. Usually the infections caused by these bacteria are mild. But in rare cases they can cause a more dangerous infection. You can get necrotizing fasciitis when bacteria enter a wound, such as from an insect bite, a burn, or a cut. You can also get it in: 1  Wounds that come in contact with ocean water, raw saltwater fish, or raw oysters, including injuries from handling sea animals such as crabs. Necrotizing fasciitis is an infection caused by bacteria. It can destroy skin, fat, and the tissue covering the muscles within a very short time. The disease sometimes is called flesh-eating bacteria. When it occurs on the genitals, it is called Fournier gangrene. Necrotizing fasciitis is very rare but serious.
Necrotizing Fasciitis is a kind of bacterial skin infection that is known as Flesh-eating syndrome or Flesh-eating disease. It is a condition in which there is an infection of the deeper skin layers and subcutaneous tissues. 
Primary Cause of Necrotizing fasciitis. The primary cause of Necrotizing fasciitis is the result: 1  of transmission from another person under rare circumstances, such as immunocompromised people or during surgery with contaminated surgical tools, or according to rare circumstances as noted from reputable sources. 