Testosterone is a hormone that is naturally produced in the human body. Though the chemical is similar for men and women, the levels of testosterone vary between the two. On average, men produce 6 to 8 mg of the hormone daily. Women make about 12 times less than men every day. The endocrine system regulates testosterone production, specifically by the hypothalamus and pituitary gland.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in humans and other vertebrates. In humans and other mammals, testosterone is secreted primarily by the testicles of males and, to a lesser extent, the ovaries of females. Small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands. It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid. On average, in adult males, levels of testosterone are about 7–8 times as great as in adult females. As the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men. Females are also more sensitive to the hormone. Testosterone is observed in most vertebrates
A testosterone test checks the level of this male hormone (androgen) in the blood. Testosterone affects sexual features and development. In men, it is made in large amounts by the testicles. In both men and women, testosterone is made in small amounts by the adrenal glands, and in women, by the ovaries. The pituitary gland controls the level of testosterone in the body. When the testosterone level is low, the pituitary gland releases a hormone called luteinizing hormone (LH) . 
Low Testosterone. Testosterone is a hormone that is produced by the human body. It is mainly produced in the testicles in men. It stimulates sperm production and a man’s sex drive and also helps build muscle and bone mass. Testosterone production typically decreases as men age. 
Testosterone production in the body. This important hormone is produced mainly in the testes in males (more than 95 percent) and in the ovaries in females; however, small amounts are made in the outer layer of the adrenal glands in both sexes. Testosterone Production in the Body. by Chris Steidle, MD. Testosterone, which is produced in the body by the male testes, influences men physically, emotionally and sexually. Sometimes called the king of hormones, testosterone is certainly the most important hormone when it comes to sexual characteristics in men. advertisement
Testosterone belongs to a class of male hormones called androgens, which are sometimes called steroids or anabolic steroids. In men, testosterone is produced mainly in the testes, with a small amount made in the adrenal glands. The brain's hypothalamus and pituitary gland control testosterone production. Testosterone is a male sex hormone that is important for sexual and reproductive development. The National Institutes of Health regards testosterone as the most important male hormone. Women also produce testosterone, but at lower levels than me
In women, testosterone is produced by the ovaries and adrenal glands. The majority of testosterone produced in the ovary is converted to the principle female sex hormone, oestradiol. Alternative names for testosterone Testo (brand name for testosterone formulations); 4-androsten-17β-ol-3-one. What is testosterone? Testosterone is produced by the gonads (by the Leydig cells in testes in men and by the ovaries in women), although small quantities are also produced by the adrenal glands in both sexes.