The reaction usually develops 12 to 48 hours after exposure and lasts two to three weeks. The severity of the rash depends on the amount of urushiol that gets on your skin. A section of skin with more urushiol on it may develop a rash sooner. 
In some rare cases medical attention might be necessary. How Long Does Poison Ivy Take to Heal. Poison ivy rash can appear as early as 3 to 4 hours or as late as 7 to 10 days after exposure to the plant. It all depends upon the level of sensitivity of the individual to the plant. The allergic reaction can be triggered by direct contact with any poison ivy plant part, be it the leaf, stem or tendrils. 
An allergic reaction can appear within a few hours after exposure to a poisonous plant, depending on how much urushiol was absorbed and how sensitive the person is to the toxin. If skin is cleaned immediately following poison plant exposure, it is possible to minimize the reaction and prevent the rash from spreading. A person with a poison ivy, oak or sumac rash is not contagious. The rash is an allergic reaction that occurs after a poisonous chemical called urushiol binds to the skin. Urushiol can only be removed by washing the skin with soap and water or a non-irritating cleanser that removes toxins.
Poison ivy and poison oak rashes are caused by allergy to a substance called urushiol found in these plants. Since urushiol is found in all parts of the plant (leaves, stems, and roots), contact with any of these will induce a rash. 
Answers. Best Answer: As a rule, the rash of poison ivy will show up anywhere from two to ten days after exposure, depending upon both how allergic you are to the plant oil, and how much oil got onto your skin. 
Symptoms of Poison Ivy. Within a few days of contact with the poison ivy plant, a rash appears in nearly 90 percent of those infected, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The rash itself is not contagious, and the fluid in the blisters does not spread the rash. Poison ivy dermatitis appears as soon as four hours or as long as 10 days after the exposure, depending on individual sensitivity and the amount exposure. As the rash appears, any sensitivity a person had begins to increase. One starts to react to the slightest traces of a few molecules on the skin
The symptoms vary in severity from person to person. Urushiol (the allergenic component of the sap) can begin to penetrate the skin within 5-10 minutes of contact. Poison ivy rash can appear in as little as 4 hours or as long as 2-3 weeks after exposure. Generally, you'll see the first blisters within 1-14 days. Symptoms include: 1  Red, swollen, itchy skin with a rash that can be widespread depending on contact areas. 
Dealing with the rash. If you don't cleanse quickly enough, or your skin is so sensitive that cleansing didn't help, redness and swelling will appear in about 12 to 48 hours. Blisters and itching will follow. For those rare people who react after their very first exposure, the rash appears after seven to 10 days. 
Poison ivy, oak, and sumac are plants that can cause a red, itchy rash called allergic contact dermatitis. It is the most common skin problem caused by contact with plants. The rash is caused by contact with a sticky oil called urushiol (say yoo-ROO-shee-all) found in poison ivy, oak, or sumac. You can get the rash from: 1  Touching or brushing against any part of these plants, including the leaves, stems, flowers, berries, and roots, even if the plant is dead