Species: mississippiensis. Description: American alligators are the largest reptiles in the United States. They can grow to be over 12 feet long and they have strong jaws and a long, powerful tail. Alligators have dark colored skin with small bony scales, called scutes. A cousin of the alligator, the American crocodile, is very rare in the U.S. and only a few thousand individuals live on the southern tip of Florida. To tell the difference between an alligator and a crocodile, look at the mouth. Alligators have a wide, round snout, compared to the long, thin mouth of the crocodile.
Biome: Southern Swamps. Classification: Reptiles. Biography: American alligators are important members of their ecosystem, and are regarded as keystone species. Many animals are affected by their existence. Young alligators are prey for wading birds, turtles, snakes, mammals, and larger alligators. Alligators over 4' are at the top of their food chain. As top predators, they are important in controlling prey numbers.
At the Zoo, the American alligator is fed rats and occasionally chickens and rabbits. American alligators may live to about 50 years in the wild. After it is four feet long, an alligator is safe from predators except humans and occasionally other alligators. All or part of this information was provided by the Animal Diversity Web and Museum of Zoology of the University of Michigan. Taxonomy. The average size for an adult female American alligator is 8.2 feet (2.6 m), and the average size for a male is 11.2 feet (3.4 m). Exceptionally large males can reach a weight of nearly half a ton or 1,000 pounds.
The American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), sometimes referred to colloquially as a gator or common alligator, is a large crocodilian reptile endemic to the southeastern United States. Adult male American alligators measure up to 3.4 to 4.6 m (11 to 15 ft) in length, and can weigh up to 453 kg (999 lb). Females are smaller, measuring around 3 m (9.8 ft).
Alligators are cold-blooded and depend on the natural world around them to provide warmth. They will lie in the sun (called basking) or dig holes in mud to trap heat. The American alligator is an important keystone species of the Southeast. Alligators use their tails to dig burrows in mud for nesting and to keep warm. When an alligator abandons a burrow, the hole left behind fills with freshwater and is utilized by other species for breeding and drinking. A cousin of the alligator, the American crocodile, is very rare in the U.S. and only a few thousand individuals live on the southern tip of Florida. To tell the difference between an alligator and a crocodile, look at the mouth. Alligators have a wide, round snout, compared to the long, thin mouth of the crocodile.
Historically, hunting had decimated their population, and the American alligator was listed as an endangered species by the Endangered Species Act of 1973. Subsequent conservation efforts have allowed their numbers to increase and the species was removed from the list in 1987. Adult male American alligators measure up to 3.4 to 4.6 m (11 to 15 ft) in length, and can weigh up to 453 kg (999 lb). Females are smaller, measuring around 3 m (9.8 ft).
Ecosystem Roles. American alligators have proven to be an important part of the environment, and therefor, are considered by many to be a keystone species. Not only do they control populations of prey species, they also create peat and alligator holes which are invaluable to other species. 
The young remain with the female for up to a year and are defended by her against predators like wading birds. Alligators can grow to over 13 feet in length and can live to over 60 years. Alligators are protected by both state and federal law, but still need our help. 
American alligators live in swamps and wetlands in the south eastern U.S. and are what is known as a “keystone species”. This means that without the alligator, many other species of animal in that ecosystem would not be able to survive. American alligators are distinguished from crocodiles by a broad snout, dark color, and a bottom row of teeth that cannot be seen when the mouth is closed. These animals have up to 80 teeth with a bite pressure of over 2,500 lbs per square inch! Fish, small mammals, turtles, birds and apple snails.
It is one of two living species in the genus Alligator within the family Alligatoridae; it is larger than the other extant alligator species, the Chinese alligator. Adult male American alligators measure up to 3.4 to 4.6 m (11 to 15 ft) in length, and can weigh up to 453 kg (999 lb). Females are smaller, measuring around 3 m (9.8 ft).