Poliomyelitis. Caused by polio virus Onset: fever, severe headache, stiff neck and back, deep muscle pain and weakness and loss of certain somatic reflexes Serious form: paralysis Destroys cell bodies of motor neurons. Shingles. An acute infection of the peripheral nervous system caused by herpes zoster (same virus that causes chickenpox) - pain, discoloration of the skin and a characteristic line of skin blisters.
caused by the poliovirus destroys motor neurons in brainstem and anterior horn of spinal cord signs of polio include muscle pain, weakness, and loss of some reflexes followed by paralysis, muscular atrophy, and respiratory arrest virus spreads by fecal contamination of water. 
Primary lateral sclerosis is a disease of the upper motor neurons, while progressive muscular atrophy affects only lower motor neurons in the spinal cord. In progressive bulbar palsy, the lowest motor neurons of the brain stem are most affected, causing slurred speech and difficulty chewing and swallowing. A brief description of the symptoms of some of the more common MNDs follows. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also called Lou Gehrig's disease or classical motor neuron disease, is a progressive, ultimately fatal disorder that disrupts signals to all voluntary muscles.
po·li·o·my·e·li·tis. n. A highly infectious viral disease that chiefly affects children and, in its acute forms, causes inflammation of motor neurons of the spinal cord and brainstem, leading to paralysis, muscular atrophy, and often deformity. Also called infantile paralysis. an acute infectious disease occurring sporadically or in epidemics and caused by a virus, usually a poliovirus but occasionally a coxsackievirus or echovirus. Called also polio. Initial clinical characteristics include fever, sore throat, headache, and vomiting, often with stiffness of the neck and back.
The motor neuron diseases (MNDs) are a group of progressive neurological disorders that destroy motor neurons, the cells that control essential voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing. A brief description of the symptoms of some of the more common MNDs follows. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also called Lou Gehrig's disease or classical motor neuron disease, is a progressive, ultimately fatal disorder that disrupts signals to all voluntary muscles.
Answer by Jinah Jong. Confidence votes 290. Poliomyelitis can enter the central nervous system and destroy motor neurons that can cause paralysis and muscle weakness/atrophy. Spinal polio is the most common form. Poliomyelitis is caused by poliovirus and used to be a dreadful disease in the 20th century. Now with better vaccines, the number of polio incidents have gone down.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a progressive degenerative process that affects both upper and lower motor neurons with degeneration in the cranial nerve nuclei, pyramidal neurons of the motor cortex, and motor neurons in the spinal cord. 
The research was reported in the medical journal Neurology. Motor neurone disease 'caused by virus'. Motor neurone disease progressively weakens muscles. Scientists claim to have found the best evidence yet that a deadly paralysing disease is linked to an infection. Sufferers-while perfectly conscious-are trapped in their bodies, unable to speak or move. However, a spokesman for the Motor Neurone Disease Association said that it was not yet clear whether the virus caused the condition, or whether motor neurone disease itself made it easier for the virus to enter the cord. We don't know whether the virus is the cause, or just an effect, of the disease, she said