View the Cindy Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cindy has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cindy to other names. Cindy is a diminutive (nickname) of Cynthia. Variants of the name Cindy include Cyndi, Sindy. The name Olympias is a form of Cindy. 
Greek name. In Greek, the name Cindy means-from the name cynthia. Other origins for the name Cindy include-Greek, English.The name Cindy is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-from the name cynthia. Origin-Greece. 
[ 2 syll. cin-dy, ci-ndy ] The baby girl name Cindy is pronounced as S IH NDiy- †. Cindy is used mostly in English, Latin, and Dutch, and its language of origin is French and Old Greek. From the short form of other given names, but now used as an independent name in its own right. In addition, Cindy is a diminutive form of the English name Cinderella. Cindy is also a diminutive form (English and Latin) of the English, German, and Greek name Cynthia. Cindy is also a diminutive form (Dutch and English) of the English, Portuguese, and Spanish name Lucinda.
Meaning of the name Cindy, analysis of the name Cindy and so much more… What does Cindy mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Cindy. 2  Prononciation Of Cindy. 3  The Meaning Of The Name Cindy. 
English Meaning: The name Cindy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cindy is: Dimunitive of Cynthia, Lucinda, and Cinderella. American Meaning: The name Cindy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cindy is: Dimunitive of Cynthia, Lucinda, and Cinderella.
The Meaning of the name Cindy The meaning of the name Cindy is as follows: Moon Goddess. The Origin of the name Cindy The origin of the name Cindy is believed to be: Greek. The Hidden Meaning of the name Cindy using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The Origin, Meaning and the Hidden Meaning of the name Cindy This page details the origin and literal meaning of the name Cindy together with an insight into the hidden meaning and interpretation of the name using numerology.
Cindy is a classic favorite. Today it is still a somewhat popular baby name for girls, though not to the extent it was before. The name grew in popularity from the 1930s up to the 1950s; prior to that, it was of infrequent use only. At the peak of its usage in 1957, 0.965% of baby girls were named Cindy. In addition, Cindy is a diminutive form of the English name Cinderella. Cindy is also a diminutive form (English and Latin) of the English, German, and Greek name Cynthia. Cindy is also a diminutive form (Dutch and English) of the English, Portuguese, and Spanish name Lucinda.
Cindy /cin-dy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SIN-dee. It is of English and Greek origin, and the meaning of Cindy is from Mount Kynthos. A pet form of Cynthia, and less often, of Latin Lucinda meaning light. Now commonly used as an independent name. Cindy is a very prominent first name for females (#113 out of 4276, Top 3%) but an unusual last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Cindy for girls.