The primary form of hearing loss in otosclerosis is conductive hearing loss (CHL) whereby sounds reach the ear drum but are incompletely transferred via the ossicular chain in the middle ear, and thus partly fail to reach the inner ear (cochlea). Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) has also been noted in patients with otosclerosis; this is usually a high-frequency loss, and usually manifests late in the disease. The causal link between otosclerosis and SNHL remains controversial. Approximately 0.5% of the population will eventually be diagnosed with otosclerosis.
Otosclerosis is the abnormal growth of bone of the MIDDLE ear. This bone prevents structures within the ear from working properly and causes hearing loss. In addition to hearing loss, some people with otosclerosis may experience dizziness, balance problems, or tinnitus. Tinnitus is a sensation of ringing, roaring, buzzing, or hissing in the ears or head that accompanies many forms of
Figure 1. Cross section of ear. Otosclerosis involves the small bones of the middle ear, the malleus (2), the incus (3) and the stapes (4), as well as the bone that surrounds the inner ear, which is called the otic capsule. Otosclerosis is a disease of the bones of the middle ear. These are labeled the malleus, incus and stapes (2-4) in figure 1, and are also known in aggregate as the ossicles.
The term otosclerosis is derived from the Greek words for hard (scler-o) and ear (oto). It describes a condition of abnormal bone growth around the stapes bone, one of the tiny bones of the middle ear. This leads to a fixation of the stapes bone. Symptoms of Otosclerosis. Gradual hearing loss is the most frequent symptom of otosclerosis. Often, individuals with otosclerosis will first notice that they cannot hear low-pitched sounds or whispers.
Otosclerosis is an abnormal, microscopic growth of bone in the walls of the inner ear which causes the stapes bone commonly called the stirrup to become frozen in place or fixed. Normally the stapes, the smallest bone in the body, vibrates freely to allow the transmission of sound into the inner ear. Following your stapedectomy operation, it is important that you have periodic hearing tests. These tests provide your doctor with accurate information regarding the results of your surgery, the status of your unoperated ear, and the benefit of surgery should this ear also be affected by ostosclerosis.
If excessive bone growth interferes with the stapes ability to vibrate and transmit sound waves, hearing loss will result. Otosclerosis is classified as a conductive disorder because it involves the bones of the ear, which conduct the sound to the nerve. If a person has hearing loss classified as neural, the nerve conducting the impulses to the brain is involved. Otosclerosis is a common hereditary condition. People with otosclerosis almost never become totally deaf, and will usually be able to hear with a hearing aid or with surgery plus a hearing aid. In older people, the tendency for additional hearing loss is diminished due to the hardening of the bones.
When otosclerosis significantly involves the bone which surrounds the inner ear, called the otic capsule, a sensory type hearing loss occurs. This type of hearing loss is not correctable by stapedectomy. Otosclerosis is a disease of the bones of the middle ear. These are labeled the malleus, incus and stapes (2-4) in figure 1, and are also known in aggregate as the ossicles.
When otosclerosis involves the small bones of the middle ear, a conductive type loss is found. This type of hearing loss can be corrected both by a hearing aid as well as by surgical procedures called stapedectomy and stapedotomy. VEMPs are usually absent in conductive hearing loss too. Otosclerosis is a disease of the bones of the middle ear. These are labeled the malleus, incus and stapes (2-4) in figure 1, and are also known in aggregate as the ossicles.
Otosclerosis is a condition of the middle ear and mainly affects the tiny stirrup (stapes) bone. It causes gradual hearing loss. Treatments include hearing aids and surgery. The operation is called a stapedectomy (or sometimes a stapedotomy). In most cases, this operation is successful and restores hearing. It may also reduce the chance of otosclerosis progressing to affect your inner ear. However, it is a very delicate operation.