RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase, also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription. RNA polymerase enzymes are essential to life and are found in all organisms and many viruses. 
RNA polymerase. Rna polymerase (RNAP or RNApol) is an enzyme that is responsible for making rna from a dna template. In all cells RNAP is needed for constructing rna chains from a dna template, a process termed transcription. 
see pcr1. RNA polymerase. 1. an enzyme that synthesizes an RNA copy of the sequence in a limited region of DNA in a process known as DNA transcription. Called also DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. 2. a viral enzyme that synthesizes RNA from an RNA template during viral replication.
Medical Definition of RNA POLYMERASE. : any of a group of enzymes that promote the synthesis of RNA using DNA or RNA as a template.ADVERTISEMENT.noun.
An enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of an RNA strand from a DNA template. The enzyme that polymerizes RNA by using DNA as a template. It can also act as a primase initiating DNA replication. (Also known as transcriptase or RNA transcriptase).
RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA.ompare RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription.
Definition of POLYMERASE. : any of several enzymes that catalyze the formation of DNA or RNA from precursor substances in the presence of preexisting DNA or RNA acting as a template — compare DNA polymerase, RNA polymerase.ADVERTISEMENT.edical Definition of POLYMERASE. : any of several enzymes that catalyze the formation of DNA or RNA from precursor substances in the presence of preexisting DNA or RNA acting as a template.
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) is an essential protein encoded in the genomes of all RNA-containing viruses with no DNA stage that have sense negative RNA. It catalyses synthesis of the RNA strand complementary to a given RNA template. The RNA replication process is a two-step mechanism.
n. A polymerase that catalyzes the synthesis of a complementary strand of RNA from a DNA template, or, in some viruses, from an RNA template.
RNA polymerase is an enzyme that is responsible for copying a DNA sequence into an RNA sequence, duyring the process of transcription. As complex molecule composed of protein subunits, RNA polymerase controls the process of transcription, during which the information stored in a molecule of DNA is copied into a new molecule of messenger RNA.