Senior Fellow in Electrical Engineering. The longitude of a point on earth is the angle, east or west, between that point. and a certain reference line on the earth. If you take a globe or a map and draw a line through all the points that have. exactly the same longitude, the line you get is the meridian of that longitude. The reference line is the meridian of zero longitude, called the Prime Meridian. Latitude is the angle north or south between a place and the equator. Longitude is the angle east or west between the same place and the Prime Meridian. With only those two numbers, you can nail down any point on the Earth. 1 person found this useful.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Meridians, or lines of longitude run from pole to pole. Because the earth is round and the poles are points, these lines are not parallel. Lines of latitude, also called parallels, run in an east/west direction. They are parallel to one another. 
The latitude specifies a location's distance north or south of the equator. The longitude specifies the location's distance east or west from an imaginary line connecting the North and South Poles, called the Prime Meridian. Latitude and longitude are used together to specify the geographical coordinates of a location on Earth.
The time meridian is each standard time zone roughly centered on a line of longitude exactly divisible by 15 degrees and the prime meridian is the starting point for the stand … ard time zones an arbitrary longitude line. The starting line of the parallels or lines of latitude is  the Equator which is given a value of … 0 degrees.   From the lines of latitude extend North and South around the earth.  Thus, each latitude refers to a distance north or south of the  Equator(0degree).
Latitude is the angle north or south between a place and the equator. Longitude is the angle east or west between the same place and the Prime Meridian. With only those two numbers, you can nail down any point on the Earth. The starting line of the parallels or lines of latitude is  the Equator which is given a value of … 0 degrees.   From the lines of latitude extend North and South around the earth.  Thus, each latitude refers to a distance north or south of the  Equator(0degree).
Longitude is the lateral lines on the globe between east and west. The longitude lines are all parallel lines to the Prime Meridian. It is interesting to note longitude is measured by degrees. It is 0 degrees longitude across the Prime Meridian that passes through the Greenwich. Maximum measurement of longitude would be 180 degrees towards both the east and the west. The longitude lines are denoted by ‘lambda’. The distance of any place from any other place is determined by the longitude of a place. In short, it can be said that the longitude of a place is the distance from the Prime Meridian. The time difference can also be thus calculated. In fact, the time difference is calculated with the Greenwich Mean Time as the base.
Longitude vs Latitude. The term Longitude is used to refer to the long lines on the globe or a map between the north and the South Pole. The term Latitude is used to refer to the lateral lines on the globe stretching between east and west. Summary: 1.Longitude refers to the long lines on the globe or a map between the poles while Latitude is used to refer to the lateral lines on the globe stretching between east and west. 2.Longitudes stretch from 0 to 180 degrees while Latitude stretches from 0 to 90 degrees
• The longitude lines are all parallel lines to the Prime Meridian. • All latitude lines are parallel to the Equator. • The latitude lines are denoted by ‘phi’ where as the longitude lines are denoted by ‘lambda’. • The climate and the weather of a particular region are determined by the latitude. In short, it can be said that the longitude of a place is the distance from the Prime Meridian. The time difference can also be thus calculated. In fact, the time difference is calculated with the Greenwich Mean Time as the base.