I leave the feed out all day. I ensure they have their layers mash/meal/pellets mixed with grit in the mornings and if I have any treats for them, I tend to give these in an afternoon as I know then that they've had the required nutrients from their staple feed. Chickens should always have access to feed, water, grit and room to forage and roam. I have 6 hens. I feed them in the morning, grains, veggies or fruit, crushed oyster shell and grit. In the mid-afternoon I feed them scratch (corn) to keep them warm through the night. And of course, always fresh water with a garlic clove in it to keep them free of parasites.
I am just gathering info before building a coop and getting chickens. I have a lot to learn. How often do you feed the chickens and how often must you clean the coop. I am planning on getting @ 6 chickens. Thank you. Reply. Reply. 
For feeding meat chickens, the university notes that 10 chickens will eat 30 to 50 lbs. of broiler starter until six weeks of age, and 16 to 20 lbs. of broiler finish until slaughter. If you’re raising layer hens: From when your chicks hatch until six weeks of age, feed your chicks a starter feed that has a protein level of 20-22 percent. Once the chicks hit six weeks of age, feed them pullet grower (14 to 16 percent protein) until age 20 weeks. After that, switch your hens to layer feed with a protein level of 15 to 18 percent. (MONEY-SAVING SECRET: Layer feed is often expensive
Be very careful not to feed moldy food, which can kill or harm your chickens, and make sure food is stored so it won’t attract rats, coons, and other pests. If you’re using a lot more feed than you think you should, pests like rats may be eating it at night. Remember, chickens don’t eat in the dark, so the lights must be on for these birds all night. For the Rock-Cornish crosses, the lights should be on 24 hours a day, and feed should be in the feed pans at least 23 of those hours.
Chickens eat more in cold weather and less in hot weather. If you are unsure how much to feed your chickens (and don’t want to accidentally deprive them), fill the chickens’ feed dishes so food is available much of the day, or use feeders that hold several day’s worth of feed. You can use this feeding method for all types of chickens. Remember, chickens don’t eat in the dark, so the lights must be on for these birds all night. For the Rock-Cornish crosses, the lights should be on 24 hours a day, and feed should be in the feed pans at least 23 of those hours.
My Grandmother always said to never feed chickens egg shells until you have cooked them, because although the shells are good for them, if they have uncooked egg residue in them the chickens will begin eating their own eggs. Teri says. i have had the same hens for 5 years now and they have had oranges. 
Chicken Feed: How to Feed Chickens. Your chickens will need properly formulated chicken feed that is the correct type for their age, for growth, sustenance and to produce eggs if they are hens of egg laying age. Layers pellets for example are around 16% protein. Wheat is about 10% protein and lacks essential vitamins that are required by chickens. Formulated feeds come as pellets or mash and should be fed ad-lib so hens can take what they want as they need it. This type of feed must be kept dry or it will soon spoil.
If you need to add grit to your chickens’ diet, you can supply it in a small dish from about the fifth day of life. Chicks should be eating their regular feed well before you add grit, or they may fill up on it. Make sure the dish is covered or narrow so the birds don’t dust-bathe in it. Remember, chickens don’t eat in the dark, so the lights must be on for these birds all night. For the Rock-Cornish crosses, the lights should be on 24 hours a day, and feed should be in the feed pans at least 23 of those hours.
How to Feed Chickens. Now that you know what to feed chickens, you need to know the best way to do it. A typical chicken feeder is a large cannister with a shallow pan at the bottom. You fill up the cannister with your chicken feed pellets, and they pour through into the pan for your chickens. To get the best eggs, you should try to get pellets marked as layer pellets. Pellets are your best choice. Chicken feed in a powder form is called mash, and is more likely to be messy.