 Expertise in formulating and implementing effective strategies, market research, product launch, developing new markets for business excellence.  Distinction of leveraging business for Brands like Ed Hardy and Christian Audigier, Provogue India Ltd. - Brand Provogue and Triumph International (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
The Provogue Brand was developed and launched in 1998 as a Menswear fashion range of contemporary clothing with a styling that made it relevant for the Indian market and quickly established leadership. Over the years the Brand has evolved into a comprehensive collection of men's and women's fashion apparel and accessories and has won numerous awards throughout its history. In 2011, the Provogue fashion collections are available through more than 350 doors across 73 cities pan-India.
Prozone is a joint venture between Provogue India Ltd and Capital Shopping Centres Plc (formerly known as Liberty International Plc), a UK FTSE-100 company with more than 30 years of experience in retail infrastructure and over GBP 5 billion of assets under management. Over the years the Brand has evolved into a comprehensive collection of men’s and women’s fashion apparel and accessories and has won numerous awards throughout its history. In 2011, the Provogue fashion collections are available through more than 350 doors across 73 cities pan-India
This industry has actually changed the mindset and lifestyle of the bourgeoisie. There are a large number of outlets of several famous national as well as international retail brands. Day by day, the increasingly organised lifestyle of Indian people is leading to the setting up of more retail outlets in the country. However, Indian retail market is said to be a bit unorganised. Kewal Kiran is one of the largest manufacturers of branded apparel in India and was established in 1992. It started off as a manufacture of men's wear for reputed brands. Kewal Kiran, also known as KKCL, is involved in designing, marketing, manufacturing of casual and semi-formal men's wear and branded jeans.
Full Description. Provogue India Ltd. is an India-based company engaged in the business of manufacturing and trading of garments, fashion accessories, textile products and related materials. The Company’s product offerings include men’s and women’s fashion apparels and accessories. Search Stocks. Provogue India Ltd. is an India-based company engaged in the business of manufacturing and trading of garments, fashion accessories, textile products and related materials.
In India, Provogue shirts compete with the best international brands which deal in casual clothing. This brand is known to fuse style with formal dressing which is why it is a rage among the youth office-goers in the country. This is why it is wise to invest in good pair of clothing and it can help things turn out good for you. Provogue is one of such brand which came into being around a decade back and it has now become an authority when it comes to shopping casual shirts.
Provogue. Provogue is a Mumbai based Indian company incorporated on November 11, 1997 as Acme Clothing Private Limited. The brand Provogue was launched in March 1998 and is currently one of the biggest retail apparel brands in India based in Mumbai. As of March 31, 2009, Provogue fashions and accessories were available across 126 Provogue stores and 110 shop-in shops. Provogue started by sponsoring sports teams. Provogue is the official clothing sponsor of Kings XI Punjab in the Indian Premier League and the official sponsor for clothing of all the teams in Indian cricket league. Currently Hrithik Roshan is the brand ambassador for Provogue.