company director. An appointed or elected member of the board of directors of a company who, with other directors, has the responsibility for determining and implementing the company’s policy.
Microsoft Outlook 2013 with Business Contact Manager is a great customer relationship management (CRM) tool for small business owners because they can use it to help them improve the effectiveness of their customer service, sales, and marketing efforts. 
The main job of a Business Development Manager (BDM) is to generate and follow up business leads, develop clientele and intelligent business proposals. Developing a good marketing plan for the company's products and businesses is also a part of the job. Business Development Manager is an action-oriented role for go-getters who know how to track business leads, articulate the benefits of products and services and develop a process for driving sales.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Business Development Director may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Identifies potential business partners and negotiates agreements. Works with product development, marketing and/or sales group to align with the company's growth strategy. Requires a bachelor's degree in a related area and at least 7 years of experience in the field.
Often, the director of business development is involved in strategic marketing and operations planning with top executives, setting objectives and identifying methods to reach those goals. Employed in a variety of industries, directors of business development are responsible for seeking out new business opportunities for organizations. They develop, coordinate and implement plans designed to increase existing business and capture new opportunities.
Business development (BD) comprises a number of tasks and processes generally aiming at developing and implementing growth opportunities within and between organizations. It is a subset of the fields of business, commerce and organizational theory. Business development is the creation of long-term value for an organization from customers, markets, and relationships.
Intel Board of Directors. A director is a person from a group of managers who leads or supervises a particular area of a company, program, or project. Companies that use this term often have many directors spread throughout different business functions or roles (e.g. director of human resources). The director usually reports directly to a vice president or to the CEO directly in order to let them know the progress of the organization. An executive director within a company or an organization is usually from the board of directors and oversees a specific department within the organization such as Marketing, Finance, Production and IT.
Business managers are responsible for overseeing and supervising a company's activities and employees. Small businesses rely on the business manager to keep workers aligned with the goals of the company. Business managers oversee the day-to-day operations in large and small organizations. In a big company, managers typically oversee an individual department, such as marketing, sales or production. In a smaller company, the business manager might oversee operations in all departments.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Business Development Director in the United States is $157,073 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Business Development Director in the United States are expected to make less than $157,073. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $157,073. Identifies potential business partners and negotiates agreements. Works with product development, marketing and/or sales group to align with the company's growth strategy. Requires a bachelor's degree in a related area and at least 7 years of experience in the field.