Steps to cope with stigma. Here are some ways you can deal with stigma: 1  Get treatment. 2  You may be reluctant to admit you need treatment. 3  Don't let the fear of being labeled with a mental illness prevent you from seeking help. Here are some ways you can deal with stigma: 1  Get treatment. 2  Don't let stigma create self-doubt and shame. 3  Don't isolate yourself. 4  Don't equate yourself with your illness. 5  Join a support group. 6  Get help at school. 7  Speak out against stigma.
In fact, they are more common than cancer, diabetes, or heart disease. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, about 25% of American adults (those ages 18 and older) and about 13% of American children (those ages 8 to 15) are diagnosed with a mental disorder during a given year. 
1 Don't let the fear of being labeled with a mental illness prevent you from seeking help. 2  Treatment can provide relief by identifying what's wrong and reducing symptoms that interfere with your work and personal life. 3  Don't let stigma create self-doubt and shame. 4  Stigma doesn't just come from others. Here are some ways you can deal with stigma: 1  Get treatment. 2  Don't let stigma create self-doubt and shame. 3  Don't isolate yourself. 4  Don't equate yourself with your illness. 5  Join a support group. 6  Get help at school. 7  Speak out against stigma.
1 You may be reluctant to admit you need treatment. 2  Don't let the fear of being labeled with a mental illness prevent you from seeking help. 3  Treatment can provide relief by identifying what's wrong and reducing symptoms that interfere with your work and personal life. 4  Don't let stigma create self-doubt and shame. Here are some ways you can deal with stigma: 1  Get treatment. 2  Don't let stigma create self-doubt and shame. 3  Don't isolate yourself. 4  Don't equate yourself with your illness. 5  Join a support group. 6  Get help at school. 7  Speak out against stigma.
In relation to social stigma, studies have suggested that stigmatising attitudes towards people with mental health problems are widespread and commonly held (Crisp, Gelder, Rix, Meltzer et al., 2000; Bryne, 1997; Heginbotham, 1998). In a survey of over 1700 adults in the UK, Crisp et al. 
Three out of four people with a mental illness report that they have experienced stigma. Stigma is a mark of disgrace that sets a person apart. When a person is labelled by their illness they are seen as part of a stereotyped group. Negative attitudes create prejudice which leads to negative actions and discrimination. Stigma brings experiences and feelings of: 1  shame. 2  blame. 3  hopelessness. 4  distress.
Stigma against the mentally ill is so powerful that it's been codified for 50 years into federal law, and few outside the mental health system even realize it. Warren, founder of Saddleback Community Church in Orange County, Calif., began speaking out about mental illness after Matthew killed himself last year, at age 27. Warren compares the stigma of mental illness to that of AIDS and HIV.
Some of the problems associated with the stigma of mental illness include: 1  Lack of compassion from friends, family, and loved ones. 2  Lack of understanding by loved ones, friends, and family. 3  Discrimination at home, work, or school. 4  Inability to find a place to live. 5  Being bullied, harassed, or physically assaulted. Mental illness is an illness that can strike anyone at any age at any point in their life. There exist no boundaries among mental illness: all age groups, races, economic groups, creeds, and colors can develop a mental illness during their lifetime.
The answer appears to be fear of violence: people with mental illness, especially those with psychosis, are perceived to be more violent than in the past.’’2. Several studies have also demonstrated a direct link between violent behavior by mentally ill persons and stigma. Promoting assisted treatment is thus the most effective type of anti-stigma campaign to reduce stigma against mentally ill individuals. The public's association of mental illness with violence is probably the major cause of