PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction). is a revolutionary method developed by Kary Mullis in the 1980s. PCR is based on using the ability of DNA polymerase to synthesize new strand of DNA complementary to the offered template strand. Because DNA polymerase can add a nucleotide only onto a preexisting 3'-OH group, it needs a primer to which it can add the first nucleotide. 
Since PCR is, basically, replication of DNA in a test-tube, all the usual ingredients needed for DNA replication are required: A template (the DNA that is being copied) Primers (to initiate the synthesis of the new DNA strands) DNA polymerase (to carry out the synthesis) dNTPs (nucleotide precursors). To make primers of the correct sequence that will bind to the template DNA, it is necessary to know a little bit of the template sequence, on either side of the region of DNA you wish to amplify. DNA polymerase and dNTPs are commercially available from biotechnology supply companies.
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) What is PCR? Sometimes called molecular photocopying, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a fast and inexpensive technique used to amplify, or make many copies of, small segments of DNA. 
PCR stands for Polymerase Chain Reaction, a method for amplifying DNA in vitro. Where, in cloning DNA into a plasmid, the DNA is amplified by the bacterial cell when it replicates the plasmid, PCR amplifies DNA in a test-tube. To make primers of the correct sequence that will bind to the template DNA, it is necessary to know a little bit of the template sequence, on either side of the region of DNA you wish to amplify. DNA polymerase and dNTPs are commercially available from biotechnology supply companies.
The template is the DNA that contains the target you want to amplify. The primers are synthetic DNA molecules whose sequence matches a region flanking the target you are trying to amplify. It is possible nowadays, to chemically synthesize DNA molecules of any given base sequence, to use as primers. To make primers of the correct sequence that will bind to the template DNA, it is necessary to know a little bit of the template sequence, on either side of the region of DNA you wish to amplify. DNA polymerase and dNTPs are commercially available from biotechnology supply companies.
PCR is an abbreviation for Polymerase Chain Reaction. The polymerase chain reaction amplifys the amount of DNA you have in a sample. It does this by repeatedly heating and coo … ling the DNA. (Abbr. PCR) A technique for amplifying DNA sequences in vitro by separating the DNA into two strands and incubating it with oligonucleotide primers and DNA polymerase. It … can amplify a specific sequence of DNA by as many as one billion times and is important in biotechnology, forensics, medicine, and genetic research.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technique that is used to amplify trace amounts of DNA (and in some instances, RNA) located in or on almost any liquid or surface where DNA strands may be deposited. 
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 1 Digital PCR (dPCR) : used to measure the quantity of a target DNA sequence in a DNA sample. 2  The DNA sample is highly diluted so that after running many PCRs in parallel, some of them do not receive a single molecule of the target DNA. 3  The target DNA concentration is calculated using the proportion of negative outcomes.
PCR works by repeated cycles of strand separation, annealing of primers, and extension of the primed strands. Simply put, the target DNA is replicated in vitro, many, many times, to obtain a large amount of the DNA that lies between the two primer regions. In PCR, the piece of DNA we want is copied many times over in the test tube. In each cycle of PCR, the following steps are done: 1. The original DNA (template) is heated to separate the strands, to make them available for binding with the primers. This is called denaturing.
PCR amplifies a specific region of a DNA strand (the DNA target). Most PCR methods typically amplify DNA fragments of between 0.1 and 10 kilo base pairs (kbp), although some techniques allow for amplification of fragments up to 40 kbp in size. 1 Digital PCR (dPCR) : used to measure the quantity of a target DNA sequence in a DNA sample. 2  The DNA sample is highly diluted so that after running many PCRs in parallel, some of them do not receive a single molecule of the target DNA. 3  The target DNA concentration is calculated using the proportion of negative outcomes.