More social links Twitter Facebook Linkedin Google+. Every once in awhile we like to discuss the prospect of accounting firm startups. That is, which of you will be the ones to strike out on your own or with a co-founder to build your own firm from scratch.
Business Plans. You need a business plan to start the new accounting firm that includes the revenue goals for the firm, the accounting services the firm will provide, the audience or market the firm targets, your accounting skills and experience, and the capital necessary to start the business. The owner or manager of the firm must have a CPA license and apply to the state board of accountancy to register the firm. As a sole proprietor of an accounting firm, you must meet educational and experience requirements to obtain a CPA license.
How to Start an Accounting Business. Accounting is a more diverse profession than it is often given credit for, and it can offer both the stability of a long-term employer and the autonomy of self-employment. 1 If you have consulting experience, for example, you could establish an accounting consultancy firm. 2  Your business could offer clients solutions for streamlining their accounting process and tightening their internal controls. 3  This might include software training and staffing recommendations.
Opening an accounting firm requires more than exemplary accounting skills. Although talent and skill help to bring in business, the small-business owner must have the startup funds, business plan and licenses to run a successful business. The startup firm requires time and money to establish itself as a reputable firm. The owner or manager of the firm must have a CPA license and apply to the state board of accountancy to register the firm. As a sole proprietor of an accounting firm, you must meet educational and experience requirements to obtain a CPA license.
Set Up Your Legal Structure. As the business owner of an independent CPA firm, you can choose from a variety of legal structures when setting up your business. If you plan to operate a solo practice, consider operating as a sole proprietorship. Simplicity is the main advantage of operating as a sole proprietorship. 
Choose an entry strategy for your accounting practice. Taking the plunge of starting a business can be approached in several ways. Starting from scratch is an attractive option, but picking up part-time clients, partnering with an established accountant, and buying an existing firm are also options. 1 If you have consulting experience, for example, you could establish an accounting consultancy firm. 2  Your business could offer clients solutions for streamlining their accounting process and tightening their internal controls. 3  This might include software training and staffing recommendations.
1 Working with a partner means more industry connections, more capital, and more potential client relationships. 2  Buying an existing CPA firm will keep you from having to deal with many start-up issues, but it reduces your level of control and can cost a fortune up front. 1 If you have consulting experience, for example, you could establish an accounting consultancy firm. 2  Your business could offer clients solutions for streamlining their accounting process and tightening their internal controls. 3  This might include software training and staffing recommendations.
Don’t be penny wise and pound foolish in this area. Start-up Costs. The cost of starting an accounting practice depends on your revenue goals, entry strategy, and geographic area. As you might expect, the start-up costs to generate $150,000 of new business will generally cost more than $50,000. 
By Bert Doerhoff. Advertisement. If you've been in the business for a few years, and you've established your position in tax preparation or financial advising, you may be getting the itch to start your own firm. Owning your own accounting firm can be an incredibly rewarding experience with an impressive side of perks. However, before you make the jump into starting your own business, there are several key issues to be aware of. I've compiled six common pitfalls that accountants should avoid when starting their own firm. 1. Failing to market yourself. Working for a large CPA firm does not guarantee a huge client base once you start your own firm. Many new business owner CPAs do not realize this. One way to put yourself out there is to be the lowest bidder on public bid work.
According to Hugh Duffy of Build Your Firm, it takes a minimum of $50,000 to generate $150,000 of revenue from a startup accounting firm. You may estimate the cost of starting the firm by determining the revenue goals for the business first. The owner or manager of the firm must have a CPA license and apply to the state board of accountancy to register the firm. As a sole proprietor of an accounting firm, you must meet educational and experience requirements to obtain a CPA license.