Soy, rice, sheep's or goat's milk are not healthy to give to babies as their main milk drink under 12 months of age. They do not have enough of the right nutrients (vitamins, iron etc) or the right balance for babies. Your baby will not grow properly or get all she needs from these milks. Toddler milks do not have the right balance of nutrition for babies, and can be hard to digest. They are made for children aged 1 to 3 years. But a toddler who is eating a balanced diet does not need to drink toddler milk. Full cream cow's milk is suitable until at least 2 years of age-when reduced fat milk may be used.
1 If you wean your baby before 12 months of age, give an iron-fortified formula. 2  The formula should be iron-fortified to prevent anemia (low blood count). 3  Don't start cow's milk until your child is one year old. 4  Cow's milk does not have the vitamins babies need. 1 Cow's milk does not have the vitamins babies need. 2  There is generally no need to give your breastfed baby water, juice or other foods in the first 6 months. 3  Breastfeeding should ideally continue for at least 12 months, and as long after that as both mother and baby want to keep on nursing.
1 Use formula as your baby's main drink until 12 months of age. 2  After this age, you may offer full cream cow's milk from a cup. 3  After your baby is 12 months old, it is best to stop using the bottle. 4  Small amounts of cow's milk can be used in solid foods after 6 months of age. Toddler milks do not have the right balance of nutrition for babies, and can be hard to digest. They are made for children aged 1 to 3 years. But a toddler who is eating a balanced diet does not need to drink toddler milk. Full cream cow's milk is suitable until at least 2 years of age-when reduced fat milk may be used.
Once your baby is eating plenty of solids several times a day, they may take less milk at each feed or even drop a milk feed altogether. You should continue to breastfeed or give your baby infant formula until they're at least one year old. Formula milk. This is usually based on cows' milk and is the only suitable alternative to breast milk in the first 12 months of your baby's life. Cows' milk can be introduced from 12 months.
Cows' milk. Cows' milk doesn't contain enough iron and other nutrients to meet young babies' needs. That's why it shouldn't be given as a drink to babies until they are 12 months old. Whole milk should be given to children until they are two years old, as they need the extra energy and vitamins it contains. Formula milk. This is usually based on cows' milk and is the only suitable alternative to breast milk in the first 12 months of your baby's life. Cows' milk can be introduced from 12 months.
When can I stop using formula and change to cow's milk as my baby's main milk drink? 1  Use formula as your baby's main drink until 12 months of age. 2  After this age, you may offer full cream cow's milk from a cup. 3  After your baby is 12 months old, it is best to stop using the bottle. Toddler milks do not have the right balance of nutrition for babies, and can be hard to digest. They are made for children aged 1 to 3 years. But a toddler who is eating a balanced diet does not need to drink toddler milk. Full cream cow's milk is suitable until at least 2 years of age-when reduced fat milk may be used.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cows milk is unsuitable for children under 12 months of age (as a main drink) Whole milk should be given until the age of 2. After age 2, you can switch to semi-skimmed if you wish, but skimmed milk is not suitable for children under 5. (In the USA, semi-skimmed is 2% and skimmed is 1%) Hope this helps x. 
Good luck! If a child CAN drink from a cup, then they SHOULD drink from a cup. Bottles were meant as a replacement for the breast-- not the cup. They're called 'baby bottles' not 'toddler bottles' or 'kid bottles'. I'm including a couple of sites about bottle feeding problems. 
1 After this age, you may offer full cream cow's milk from a cup. 2  After your baby is 12 months old, it is best to stop using the bottle. 3  Small amounts of cow's milk can be used in solid foods after 6 months of age. Toddler milks do not have the right balance of nutrition for babies, and can be hard to digest. They are made for children aged 1 to 3 years. But a toddler who is eating a balanced diet does not need to drink toddler milk. Full cream cow's milk is suitable until at least 2 years of age-when reduced fat milk may be used.
Babies do not need juice. Babies younger than 6 months should not be given juice. However, if you choose to give your baby juice, do so only after 6 months of age, give only 100% fruit juice, and offer it only in a cup, not in a bottle. To help prevent tooth decay, do not put your child to bed with a bottle. If you do, make sure it contains only water