1 If you have Medicare or Medigap and are self-employed, the IRS can deduct your premiums. 2  This includes premiums for all four Medicare Parts (A, B, C, and D). 3  If you have long-term care insurance, you can deduct your premiums for long-term care, whether you work for someone or are self-employed. Here are some instances in which you may qualify for deductions: 1  If you are self-employed and pay for your own health insurance, you can deduct premiums. 2  This tax deduction includes premiums paid for medical and dental insurance. 3  Your policy can cover just yourself or extend to your spouse or dependents.
Medical expenses can only be deducted if they exceed 7.5% of your adjusted gross income (AGI). You are allowed to add Medicare premiums to out-of-pocket costs, which may put you over 7.5% of the AGI threshold and cause your total itemized deductions to exceed the standard deduction amount.
Let me explain. Generally, medical insurance premiums including certain Medicare premiums are deductible on your Federal Income Tax if you are itemizing your deductions using Schedule A, Form 1040. There is a limitation placed on deductible medical expenses. 
Even if you don’t qualify for a health insurance premium deduction, you may qualify for other deductions on your medical expenses. By itemizing your deductions and including medical expenses, you can deduct eligible healthcare costs that are greater than 10% of your adjusted gross income on your taxes. Here are some instances in which you may qualify for deductions: 1  If you are self-employed and pay for your own health insurance, you can deduct premiums. 2  This tax deduction includes premiums paid for medical and dental insurance. 3  Your policy can cover just yourself or extend to your spouse or dependents.
Deductibility. The Internal Revenue Service considers Part B premiums a medical expense.. If you itemize your tax deductions, you can deduct total medical and dental expenses greater than 7.5 percent of your adjusted gross income. Part B is a supplemental insurance program within Medicare that pays for treatments and procedures not covered by Medicare's basic program, known as Part A, which applies to care received in hospitals and nursing homes. Medicare recipients have to pay premiums for Part B coverage.
Q. Can I deduct the cost of my Medicare premiums as a medical expense on my 1040 federal income tax return? A. Yes, if you meet certain conditions required by the IRS. In fact, when filing an itemized Schedule A (1040) tax return, you may be able to deduct many medical and dental expenses as well as Medicare premiums. But you can deduct only those expenses that exceed 7.5 percent of your adjusted gross income (AGI). Let’s say your AGI is $30,000. Of that, 7.5 percent is $2,250. If your total allowable medical expenses for the year are $4,000, you’d be able to deduct $1,750 ($4,000 minus $2,250). If, in this example, your medical expenses are less than $2,250, you couldn’t claim any as a deduction.
You may be able to deduct a portion of your Medicare Part B premiums on your income taxes. But to do so, you will need to have significant total medical expenses, and you must itemize your tax deductions. Part B is a supplemental insurance program within Medicare that pays for treatments and procedures not covered by Medicare's basic program, known as Part A, which applies to care received in hospitals and nursing homes. Medicare recipients have to pay premiums for Part B coverage.
If you're self-employed and receive Medicare, you may be able to deduct all your Medicare insurance premiums. The IRS has recently ruled that Medicare recipients who have self-employment income may deduct the premiums they pay for Medicare coverage, the same as the premiums for any other type of health insurance. Medicare Part B premiums are about $100 per month, so this deduction can really add up. 
1 If you used after-tax money for insurance, you can claim some medical expenses, including your health insurance premiums. 2  However, if you paid your expenses with pretax money, you won’t be eligible to do so. 3  If you have Medicare or Medigap and are self-employed, the IRS can deduct your premiums. Here are some instances in which you may qualify for deductions: 1  If you are self-employed and pay for your own health insurance, you can deduct premiums. 2  This tax deduction includes premiums paid for medical and dental insurance. 3  Your policy can cover just yourself or extend to your spouse or dependents.
Under the federal income tax rules, a qualified long-term care policy is considered health insurance. Therefore, premiums you pay for a qualified policy are treated as medical costs for itemized medical expense deduction purposes, and they can help you clear the 10%-of-AGI or 7.5%-of-AGI hurdle. With the ever-increasing cost of health care, you should be ever-vigilant in looking for chances to claim tax breaks for medical expenses. Here’s the story on health-insurance premiums that you can potentially deduct on your 2014 return. Deductible