By Rod Powers. Air Force. ASVAB Score-Air Force recruits must score at least 36 points the 99-point ASVAB (Note: The Overall ASVAB Score is known as the  AFQT Score , or Armed Forces Qualification Test Score). Exceptions are made, however, for a handful of high school graduates who can score as low as 31. Army. ASVAB Score-The Army requires a minimum AFQT Score of 31 to qualify for enlistment. However, in recent months, the Army has been approving more and more waivers for those with scores as low as 26 (Category IVA).
Air Force. The Air Force has some of the highest ASVAB scores. Your AFQT score on the ASVAB must be at least a 36 to enlist, don’t let that fool you though. Over 70% of people in the Air force have scored over 50, so it’s very competitive. If you have a GED you will need to score above a 65. In fact, less than 1% of all Air Force staff have a GED… so if you have one and want to get into the AF, get some college courses under your belt and score high on the AFQT.
Air Force. The United States Air Force accepts high school graduates. The minimum ASVAB score is 36. In actual practice, though, more than 70% of those accepted for enlistment score a 50 or higher. Army. The United States Army accepts both high school graduates and GED holders. The minimum ASVAB score is 31.
Minimum Score to Join. In order to join the Air Force, you must have a minimum ASVAB score of 36 -- one of the highest ASVAB scores in comparison to other military branches. Even if you score the minimum of 36, this does not guarantee a position in the Air Force. In 2012, 79 percent of recruits accepted into the Air Force scored highest in the top three categories of the ASVAB. The Air Force has enough interest from potential enlistees to select the cream of the crop.
Not only do you have to have a minimum ASVAB score to be considered for the Air Force, you must also have a minimum score to qualify for certain careers in the Air Force. Ensure that you take the ASVAB seriously, since it strongly affects your career path in the Air Force. Even if you score the minimum of 36, this does not guarantee a position in the Air Force. In 2012, 79 percent of recruits accepted into the Air Force scored highest in the top three categories of the ASVAB. The Air Force has enough interest from potential enlistees to select the cream of the crop.
ASVAB. The Air Force requires a score of at least 36 on the ASVAB if you are a high school graduate, or 65 if you have a GED. The ASVAB has four main categories: General, Mechanical, Administrative, and Electrical. Each category has its own score, which is based on the results of the 8 different subtests
To enlist in the Air Force you must achieve a certain score on the ASVAB to be eligible for enlistment. The scores are broken down by the individual sub-tests and composites of the sub-tests. The ASVAB is used by the Air Force primarily for two purposes: 1  to determine if you have the mental capability to be successful through basic training and other Air Force training programs, and. 2  to determine your aptitude for learning various Air Force jobs.