Bacillus: A large family of bacteria that are rod-like in shape. They include the bacteria that cause food to spoil, as well as those that are responsible for some diseases. Helpful members of the bacillus family are used to make antibiotics or colonize the human intestinal tract and aid with digestion.
Anthrax can enter your body four different ways: through your skin, through ingestion, through injection and, most deadly, through inhalation. The bacteria that causes anthrax is just one of many pathogens, or something that can cause disease, in Bacilli, which is a class of bacteria. Scientists called taxonomists classify living organisms into groups, with kingdoms being the broadest and species being the most specific. The order is as following: 1  Kingdom. The class of bacteria known as Bacilli has two orders: Bacillales and Lactobacillales. Let's take a look at each of these orders. But, before we get started, let's clear up some areas that get a little sticky. 1  Bacilli is a class of bacteria (this will be the focus of the lesson).
Definition of Bacilli. In 2001, bacterial spores that cause anthrax were sent to several agencies and individuals through the US postal system. This resulted in five deaths and 17 additional infections. The class of bacteria known as Bacilli has two orders: Bacillales and Lactobacillales. Let's take a look at each of these orders. But, before we get started, let's clear up some areas that get a little sticky. 1  Bacilli is a class of bacteria (this will be the focus of the lesson).
: a bacterium of the genus Mycobacterium (M. tuberculosis) that causes tuberculosis in humans; also: a related mycobacterium (M. bovis) that causes tuberculosis in cattle and sometimes humans especially in underdeveloped countries. : a bacterium (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that is a major cause of tuberculosis.
Definition of TUBERCLE BACILLUS. : a bacterium (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that is a major cause of tuberculosis. ADVERTISEMENT
Full Definition of BACILLUS. 1. : any of a genus (Bacillus) of rod-shaped gram-positive usually aerobic bacteria producing endospores and including many saprophytes and some parasites (as B. anthracis of anthrax); broadly: a straight rod-shaped bacterium. 2. : bacterium; especially: a disease-producing bacterium. Medical Definition of BACILLUS. 1. a capitalized: a genus of rod-shaped gram-positive endospore-producing usually aerobic bacteria of the family Bacillaceae that include many saprophytes and some parasites (as B. anthracis of anthrax) b: any bacterium of the genus Bacillus; broadly: a straight rod-shaped bacterium. 2.