The function of the ear is to convert physical vibration into an encoded nervous impulse. Introduction The ear is divided, semi-artificially, into three regions: Outer Ear, Middle Ear and Inner Ear. The Outer Ear The Outer Ear consists of Pinna or external ear, Meatus or ear canal, the Tympanic membrane or the eardrum. The most important function of the pinna in hearing is the capture and localization of the sound. 
The human ear has three main sections, which consist of the outer ear, the middle ear, and the inner ear. Sound waves enter your outer ear and travel through your ear canal to the middle ear. 
The outer ear is the external portion of the ear, which consists of the pinna and external auditory meatus. It gathers sound energy and focuses it on the eardrum (tympanic membrane). The visible part is called the pinna, also known as the auricle. It is composed of a thin plate of yellow elastic cartilage, covered with integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by ligaments and muscles; and to the commencement of the external acoustic meatus by fibrous tissue.
The Outer Ear. Parts of the Ear: Outer Ear | Middle Ear | Inner Ear. The outer ear consists of the pinna, or auricle, and the ear canal (external auditory meatus). The pinna – the part of the ear that we see on each side of our heads – is made of cartilage and soft tissue so that it keeps a particular shape but is also flexible. 
ear. organ of hearing and equilibrium. The human ear consists of outer, middle, and inner parts. The outer ear is the visible portion; it includes the skin-covered flap of cartilage known as the auricle, or pinna, and the opening (auditory canal) leading to the eardrum (tympanic membrane). The middle ear consists of an air-filled space, the tympanic cavity, containing the ossicles and the eustachian tube, which is connected to the pharynx. The outer wall of the tympanic cavity turns into a thin, elastic tympanic membrane. The sound waves that reach the membrane are transmitted to the inner ear.
Home. The Ear. The Outer or External Ear The external ear consist of two portions, the first being the pinna, the skin covered flabby cartilage of the ear visible on both sides of the head. The basic function of the outer ear or pinna is to protect the eardrum (tympanic membrane)
In general, the ear consists of three major sections: the outer, middle and inner ear. Sound is collected by the outer ear and funneled down the ear canal (outer ear). The sound vibrations cause movement of the eardrum and the chain of three tiny bones connected to it (middle ear). The middle ear system serves to intensify the energy of the sound vibrations and delivers them to the cochlea (inner ear).
The ear is made up of three parts: the outer, middle, and inner ear. All three parts of the ear are important for detecting sound by working together to move sound from the outer part through the middle and into the inner part of the ear. Ears also help to maintain balance. The outer ear includes: 1  auricle (cartilage covered by skin placed on opposite sides of the head). 2  auditory canal (also called the ear canal). 3  eardrum outer layer (also called the tympanic membrane).
The ear consists of three basic parts-the outer ear, the middle ear, and the inner ear. Each part of the ear serves a specific purpose in the task of detecting and interpreting sound. The Middle Ear The middle ear is an air-filled cavity that consists of an eardrum and three tiny, interconnected bones-the hammer, anvil, and stirrup. The eardrum is a very durable and tightly stretched membrane that vibrates as the incoming pressure waves reach it.