Synonyms-noun. 1  peace. 2  truce (pacification). 3  quiet life. 4  amity (friendship). 5  pipe of peace. 6  neutrality. 7  harmony (concord). 8  calumet of peace. 9  pax Romana. 10  tranquillity (quiescence). 11  piping time of peace. 12  Pax Americana. 
What do you think is the antonym for the word Peace? Based on some of the discussion we've had on this subject, it sounds like some people think it's one of: 1  unhappiness. 2  discontent. 
There is a rarely-used adjective unpeaceful which is unspecific and varies with the noun. The opposite of a peaceful state would be a disturbed, or a stormy state. A conditi … on the opposite of peaceful can also be described as noisy or as chaotic. The opposite of peaceful people (friendly) could be warlike, violent, unfriendly, or hostile. 15 people found this useful.
· just now. Report Abuse. peace or calmness or repose War-disagreement, disharmony, fighting Peaceful is a journey and a goal, and if we’re “inclined or disposed to peace,” then we can think of being peaceful as a learning process in which we are trying to make the world a better place—for ourselves and others. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: peace is kept by whole body of us in the getgo of breath....... to by the end, one in being a living peace giving us as place to rest our earthly Earth, in the dust of the dusty. its Like taking a bath in the full of who we are, harmony, agreement
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. It isn't a question of opinions, the opposite of war is peace, that is it. Obviously peace can be applied to a sea, so a peaceful sea is a sea which is not rough. Since you ar'n't saying what kind of peace it is apart that it isn't war, then two examples is all I can forward. RE: What is the opposite of peace?
The opposite of peace is violence. the apposite of peace might be horror or uncalm or anything that is including not calm or not in the right situation. The opposite of a peaceful state would be a disturbed, or a stormy state. A conditi … on the opposite of peaceful can also be described as noisy or as chaotic. The opposite of peaceful people (friendly) could be warlike, violent, unfriendly, or hostile. 15 people found this useful.
(October 2007). Inner peace (or peace of mind) refers to a state of being mentally and spiritually at peace, with enough knowledge and understanding to keep oneself strong in the face of discord or stress. Being at peace is considered by many to be healthy (homeostasis) and the opposite of being stressed or anxious. Peace of mind is generally associated with bliss, happiness and contentment. In some cultures, inner peace is considered a state of consciousness or enlightenment that may be cultivated by various forms of training, such as prayer, meditation, T'ai Chi Ch'uan or yoga, for example.
The opposite of peace, by Ruth Baillie. It’s been a vintage week for guest blogs, and we’re not finished yet. The latest comes from youth worker Ruth Baillie who, inspired by our latest challenge, reflects on how it feels to embrace the peace of God… and reject the alternative. Fear. Worry. I know this because I know what it is to reject God’s promised peace; to fight against Him, and like a stubborn child to want my own way. When we refuse to submit to God’s best for our lives, we give up the precious gift of peace that He promises to us who remain steadfast in Him.