About This Breed. The Pomsky — a cross between a Siberian Husky and a Pomeranian — is often referred to as a designer dog breed.. This relatively new breed tends to be of the fluffy, cuddly variety, but there's a lot of variation in these dogs, as well. Here's what you need to know about this newcomer breed.
Pedigree. A Pomsky is a cross between a Pomeranian and a Siberian Husky. A crossing usually consists of a female Husky and a male Pomeranian. This is to avoid any complications that may occur if the smaller Pomeranian were to carry puppies sired by the much larger Siberian Husky male.
The Pomsky is a beautiful mixed breed with a combined genetic heritage of the Siberian Husky and the Pomeranian. Through the culmination of these two breeds, the Pomsky has acquired many desirable traits of both a physical and temperamental nature.
A Pomsky puppy is without a doubt one of the most dangerous sights a dog lover could ever lay eyes upon. Simply because of the fact they are so darn cute. One of the more recent additions to the designer dog arena, Pomskies are a result of a crossing between a Siberian Husky and a Pomeranian.
Click here to edit subtitle. A Pomsky is a hybrid between a Husky and a Pomeranian. They exhibit traits from both breeds.If you have ever owned one or the other or maybe even both Huskies and Pomeranians you will find it fascinating to see these traits in your Pomsky. They can have any combination of these traits.
A Pomsky is a hybrid between a Husky and a Pomeranian. They exhibit traits from both breeds.If you have ever owned one or the other or maybe even both Huskies and Pomeranians you will find it fascinating to see these traits in your Pomsky. They can have any combination of these traits.
The Pomsky is not a purebred dog. It is a cross between the Pomeranian and the Husky. The best way to determine the temperament of a mixed breed is to look up all breeds in the cross and know you can get any combination of any of the characteristics found in either breed.