Sion Morgan spent a day on set at the BBC's cult crime noir series Hinterland in Aberystwyth-where filming for season two is well underway. 1  Share. 2  Share. Thanks for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later. Filming for the second series of Aberystwyth based crime drama Hinterland. Much has changed in Aberystwyth since May 2013, when makers of a new television crime thriller invited members of the press to West Wales for a glance at their unique new project.
Filming starts on Monday (1 September) on the second series of Hinterland, the Welsh/English noir drama starring Richard Harrington as DCI Tom Mathias. Called Y Gwyll in Welsh, the series is shot back-to-back in English and Welsh in the west Wales county of Ceredigion; filming runs for nine months. Talfan summed up the idea of the show on a BBC Wales blog when he said “We wanted Hinterland to be an indigenous Welsh drama. The show is top-to-toe Welsh talent-Welsh producers, Welsh directors, Welsh writers, Welsh cast and a Welsh crew. We wanted to raise the bar to show what is being done in Wales with Welsh talent.
Y Gwyll. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Y Gwyll (English: The Dusk), known in English by the name Hinterland, is a police detective drama series broadcast on S4C in Welsh and later in English, with brief passages of Welsh dialogue, on BBC One Wales. On 27 November 2013, a second series was announced by S4C. This series began airing on S4C on 13 September 2015, preceded by a feature length special at the beginning of 2015; it will later be shown on BBC Wales. A third series of the show will begin filming in January 2016.
24 Sep 2014 by Nick Goundry. Welsh crime drama Hinterland is filming its second series on location in the Aberystwyth region of western Wales. The show’s dark tone is inspired by popular Scandinavian dramas like The Killing and it is filmed in both English and Welsh
Hinterland Filming Locations. 'Hinterland' or 'Y Gwyll' is a detective drama series filmed in and around Aberystwyth. The first series originally screened in Welsh on S4C during late 2013, then in English on BBC channels and over a dozen other stations around the world. Selected filming locations for Hinterland are shown on the map below: If markers do not display, load full page map.
'Fantastic' location. TV company Fiction Factory, the maker of Hinterland, used the building in 2013 as a production office and a location for the drama, filmed in English for BBC Wales and in Welsh for S4C. Producer Gethin Scourfield has described it as a fantastic looking location right on the prom... a very commanding building
The first series of Hinterland, starring Richard Harrington as DCI Tom Mathias (pictured), was filmed in the area in 2013 and allegedly brought money into the local economy. The first series of Hinterland was filmed in the Welsh town in 2013. An English version of the crime drama appeared on the BBC while others tuned into a Welsh version on SC4, drawing in around 500,000 viewers between them. But this week residents learned filming for the second series of Hinterland will begin in the seaside town of Aberystwyth, with the council agreeing to fund the production if an application for a European Grant is turned down.
When it was aired on the BBC in 2014, it was the first BBC television drama with dialogue in both English and Welsh. The main character, DCI Tom Mathias, is played by Richard Harrington. On 27 November 2013, a second series was announced by S4C. This series began airing on S4C on 13 September 2015, preceded by a feature length special at the beginning of 2015; it will later be shown on BBC Wales. A third series of the show will begin filming in January 2016.