Oil is a mixture of compounds (2 or more elements bonded together), not an element itself, so it does not appear in the periodic table. Crude oil is a mixture of Hydrogen and Carbon compounds (hydrocarbons) of varying lengths, but with the general formula CnH2n+2, for example octane, C8H18.
Petroleum Chemistry is made of a mixture of different hydrocarbons. The most prolific hydrocarbons found in the chemistry of petroleum are alkanes, these are also sometimes knows as branched or linear
If by symbol you mean to say abbreviation and by element you are referring to the periodic table of elements, I should preface this response by saying that there is no a … tomic element on the periodic table called oil..
The periodic table of elements is a display of chemical elements,  organized in a table like structure by defining characteristics.  There are 118 elements in the table.   it is a chart showing all elements in nature and synthetic and  tells what the abbreviations are.
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic number.   The periodic table of the elements is a table that showcases the elements, their symbol, atomic mass, atomic number (also number of protons), and whether they are solid/gas/liquid (at room temperature) and metal/metalloid/non-metal.
The periodic table is organized in rows called periods. Periodic means Repeating Pattern. Since the chemical and physical properties of elements have a repeating pattern, th … e table that lists the elements is called a periodic table.
However, Petroleum is not an atomic element either. Petroleum is a crude, complex mixture of naturally occurring hydro-carbons and other organic molecular compounds. Therefore, it cannot be represented with one symbol on the periodic table, as it is not a single atom but many atoms, mostly that of hydrogen and carbon.
Carbon is also found in coal, petroleum, and natural gas. Carbon is one of the most important elements on the periodic table (at least from the perspective of organic chemists!). Pure carbon is found in three stable forms at room temperature: graphite, diamond, and the fullerene form.