Extraction of Aluminium (continued) - Electrolysis Cell. The steel container is coated with carbon (graphite) and this is used as the negative electrode (cathode). Aluminium oxide (Al2O3) is an ionic compound. When it is melted the Al3+ and O2- ions are free to move and conduct electricity. Electrolysis of the alumina/cryolite solution gives aluminium at the cathode and oxygen at the anode.
Aluminium is more dense than the alumina/cryolite solution and so it falls to the bottom of the cell where it can be tapped off as pure liquid metal. The overall reaction is. aluminium oxide aluminium + oxygen. 2 Al2 O3 (l) 4Al(l) + 3O2(g).
The purified dry ore, called alumina, is aluminium oxide-Al2O3. The alumina must be molten for electrolysis to work, since the ions are not free to move in the solid state. Unfortunately, alumina has a high melting point (2040 °C) and it is not practical to do electrolysis at such a high temperature.
Instead, it is extracted by electrolysis. The ore is first converted into pure aluminium oxide by the Bayer Process, and this is then electrolysed in solution in molten cryolite-another aluminium compound. The aluminium oxide has too high a melting point to electrolyse on its own.
RE: Electrolysis of Aluminum Oxide? In an electrolytic cell containing molten aluminum oxide (Al2O3), what reaction happens at the cathode and what reaction happens at the anode? Thanks for helping!
Conversion of the aluminium oxide into aluminium by electrolysis The aluminium oxide is electrolysed in solution in molten cryolite, Na3AlF6. Cryolite is another aluminium ore, but is rare and expensive, and most is now made chemically.
Diagram showing cell for aluminium extraction. The diagram shows an aluminium oxide electrolysis tank. Both the negative electrode (cathode) and positive electrode (anode) are made of graphite, a form of carbon. Aluminium metal forms at the negative electrode and sinks to the bottom of the tank, where it is tapped off.
Concept diagram for the electrolysis of molten aluminium oxide. 1  GENERAL NOTE ON ELECTROLYSIS: 2  Aluminium is very useful metal and used as a lightweight construction material eg greenhouse frames. 3  Any molten or dissolved material in which the liquid contains free moving ions is called the electrolyte. 4  Ions are charged particles e.g. 5  What does the ...