There are memento and gift shops at The Palace of the Lost City and Sun City Hotel, top jewelers for diamonds and gold, and in the Entertainment Centre, you will find a fragrance shop, a pharmacy and a range of fashion boutiques, including shoes and accessories. 
About The Palace of the Lost City. Inspired by the myth of a lost African kingdom, The Palace of the Lost City hotel is set on the highest ground at Sun City, ensuring that its grand proportions and graceful towers are visible from across the resort. 
Mohegan Sun, located in Uncasville, Connecticut, is one of the largest casinos in the United States, with 364,000 square feet (33,800 square meters) of gaming space. On January 25, 2005, Mohegan Sun acquired its first gaming venture outside of Connecticut with its $280 million purchase of the Pocono Downs Racetrack in Plains Township, Pennsylvania from Penn National Gaming. Mohegan Sun renamed the property Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs and began a major expansion.
1 Choose from the family-friendly 3-star Cabanas Hotel, the 4-star Sun City Hotel and Casino, the luxury 5-star Cascades Hotel, The Palace of the Lost City-a 5-star experience like no other-or the Sun Vacation Club timeshare units. 
Watersports and Activities-A variety of sports activities may be enjoyed at Sun City. Year round good weather in this part of South Africa, ensures that Tennis, squash, swimming, golf, mountain biking, horse riding, and parasailing are all on offer throughout the year. Sun City has laid out spectacular jogging trails. Sun City Resort is set in the stark ruggedness of the North West Region of South Africa, and is surrounded by mountains and the untamed majesty of the African bushveld. It is a wedge-shot away from the Pilanesberg National Park, where elephants, rhinos, lions and antelope roam freely.
Sun City was developed by the hotel magnate Sol Kerzner as part of his Sun International group of properties. It was officially opened on 7 December 1979; at the time it was located in the Bantustan of Bophuthatswana. Sun City featured a large auditorium which seated 6,230. In 2001, Sun City was the site of the 2nd IIFA Awards. Held at the Superbowl Arena, it honoured both artistic and technical excellence of professionals in Bollywood, for that year. In 2014, the movie Blended, with Drew Barrymore and Adam Sandler, premiered after being filmed mostly at the resort.
Resorts Casino was the first casino hotel inside of Atlantic City, and the first legal casino outside of Nevada. Before becoming Resorts International in 1968, the site was originally occupied by two three-story wooden Quaker rooming houses, The Chalfonte House and The Haddon House. They had purchased a plot of land at North Carolina Avenue and Pacific Avenue from John DaCosta for $6,500.00. The hotel was constructed during the winter for a cost of $21,000 and could accommodate 140 guests. They named the hotel for Chalfont St Giles, the town in Buckinghamshire where William Penn is buried.
The Palace At The Lost City. The Palace at the Lost City, Sun City, North West Province. Situated on the world famous Sun City Accommodation and Pleasure Complex and voted one of the top hotels, The Palace is surely one of the most extraordinary hotels in the world. Adjacent to South Africa's 3rd largest game park ... read more. The most relaxed and casual of all Sun City's hotels, the Sun City Cabanas is a lakeside hideaway situated in the Sun City Resort. The Cabanas open out onto lush gardens leading down to the Sun City Lake which is a watersport
Sun City is a luxury resort and casino, situated in the North West Province of South Africa. It is located between the Elands River and the Pilanesberg, about two hours' drive from Johannesburg, near the city of Rustenburg. In 2001, Sun City was the site of the 2nd IIFA Awards. Held at the Superbowl Arena, it honoured both artistic and technical excellence of professionals in Bollywood, for that year. In 2014, the movie Blended, with Drew Barrymore and Adam Sandler, premiered after being filmed mostly at the resort.