Benomyl binds strongly to soil and does not dissolve in water to any great extent. It has a half-life in turf of three to six months, and in bare soil, a half-life of six months to one year. In 1991, DuPont issued a recall of its Benlate 50DF formula due to suspected contamination with the herbicide atrazine. In a laboratory study, dogs fed benomyl in their diets for three months developed no major toxic effects, but did show evidence of altered liver function at the highest dose (150 mg/kg).
Benomyl (also marketed as Benlate) is a fungicide introduced in 1968 by DuPont. It is a systemic benzimidazole fungicide that is selectively toxic to microorganisms and invertebrates, especially earthworms. Benomyl binds to microtubules, interfering with cell functions, such as meiosis and intracellular transportation. The selective toxicity of benomyl as a fungicide is possibly due to its heightened effect on fungal rather than mammalian microtubules. In a laboratory study, dogs fed benomyl in their diets for three months developed no major toxic effects, but did show evidence of altered liver function at the highest dose (150 mg/kg).
Reproductive effects Tests on laboratory animals have shown benomyl can have an effect on reproduction. In one rat study, where the mothers were fed 1,000 mg/kg/day for four months, the offspring showed a decrease in viability and fertility(15). When applied to turf, it has a half-life of three to six months, and when applied to bare soil the half-life is six to 12 months(23). Resistance Resistance to benzimidazole fungicides in general has reduced the market share of benomyl in recent years.
Crayfish are much more resistant with a benomyl induced LC50 greater than 100 mg/l. The estimated bioconcentration factor (BCF) ranges from 159 in rainbow trout up to 460 in bluegill sunfish indicating that benomyl does not tend to significantly concentrate in living tissue (2, 8). The compound is very lethal to earthworms at low concentrations over a long time period. The seven-day LC50 was 1.7 mg/l and the 14-day LC50 is 0.4 mg/l (3). Benomyl also decreases the mixing of soil and thatch. The effects lasted for up to twenty weeks (9). The compound is relatively non-toxic to bees (7).
Chemical Class: benzimidazole. Introduction: Benomyl is a systemic, benzimidazole fungicide that is selectively toxic to microorganisms and to invertebrates, especially earthworms. It is used against a wide range of fungal diseases of field crops, fruits, nuts, ornamentals, mushrooms, and turf. 1 Dogs fed benomyl in their diets for 3 months had no major toxic effects, but did show evidence of altered liver function at the highest dose (150 mg/kg). 2  The damage progressed to more severely impaired liver function and liver cirrhosis after 2 years [6].
What is benomyl Benomyl was first reported as a fungicide in 1968 and introduced onto the UK market in 1971 by the US company Du Pont(1). It is a systemic benzimidazole fungicide that is selectively toxic to micro-organisms and to invertebrates, especially earthworms(2). When applied to turf, it has a half-life of three to six months, and when applied to bare soil the half-life is six to 12 months(23). Resistance Resistance to benzimidazole fungicides in general has reduced the market share of benomyl in recent years.
1 Benomyl is rapidly broken down to carbendazim, further to other compounds, such as 5-hydroxy-2-benzimidazole carbamate (5 HBC), and then eliminated. 2  In a rat study, benomyl, carbendazim (MBC), and 5-HBC were found in rat blood in the first 6 hours. 3  After 18 hours, only 5-HBC was present. 1 Dogs fed benomyl in their diets for 3 months had no major toxic effects, but did show evidence of altered liver function at the highest dose (150 mg/kg). 2  The damage progressed to more severely impaired liver function and liver cirrhosis after 2 years [6].
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Carbendazim is a widely used, broad-spectrum benzimidazole fungicide and a metabolite of benomyl. It is also employed as a casting worm control agent in amenity turf situations such as golf greens, tennis courts etc. and in some countries is licensed for that use only. 
1 No residues were found in muscle or fat. 2  Benomyl and its metabolites do not accumulate in tissues over long-term exposure periods [2,3]. 3  Carbendazim (MBC) and the parent compound benomyl have similar toxicological properties, but the former is not a skin sensitizer [2]. 1 Dogs fed benomyl in their diets for 3 months had no major toxic effects, but did show evidence of altered liver function at the highest dose (150 mg/kg). 2  The damage progressed to more severely impaired liver function and liver cirrhosis after 2 years [6].