In order to become a pediatrician you have to graduate from college, then graduate from medical school, and then complete a pediatrics residency program. College takes 4 years … , medical school takes 4 years, and a pediatrics residency usually takes 3-4 years. So you can become a pediatrician about 11-12 years after you graduate high school if you go straight through. In general, there is 4 years of college, followed by 4 years of medical school, followed by 3 to 5 years of residency. There are a few programs that combine college and medi … cal school to 6 or 7 years (depending on the program) instead of the 8 years. A lot of school
If you’re wondering how to become a pediatrician, keep in mind that the path is a long, arduous one that involves a bachelor’s degree followed by four years of medical school and at least three years of residency requirements. This educational commitment is just the beginning. 
Admission to medical or osteopathic school requires a bachelor's degree from a recognized four-year college. Candidates for medical school must complete a full year of coursework in each of the following subjects: biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, mathematics and English. During their junior year, they take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) before applying to medical colleges. A student who wishes to become a pediatrician does not have to take any specific courses during his four years of medical or osteopathic school
After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics. 
1 Go to medical school. 2  Take the Medical School Admission Test (MCAT), and apply to medical school. 3  Hopefully you'll be accepted to the medical school of your choice. 4  Otherwise, you may have to go to a different medical school. 5  Pass the board exams. 1 Take the Medical School Admission Test (MCAT), and apply to medical school. 2  Hopefully you'll be accepted to the medical school of your choice. 3
In order to become a pediatrician you have to graduate from college, then graduate from medical school, and then complete a pediatrics residency program. College takes 4 years … , medical school takes 4 years, and a pediatrics residency usually takes 3-4 years. So you can become a pediatrician about 11-12 years after you graduate high school if you go straight through. 8 people found this useful.
It takes 4 years of undergraduate education, 4 years of medical school, and 3 years of pediatric residency to become a general pediatrician, totaling at least 11 years. Further, most fellowship subspecialties last 3 years, increasing the time spent in training to about 14 years overall. Pediatrician schooling is extensive. Becoming a pediatrician takes dedication and an ability to see through long-term commitments. Before specialist pediatric training even begins, it's necessary to complete an undergraduate education and then go through medical school.
A pediatrician is a medical doctor who has obtained specific training in medical care and treatment of children and adolescents. Like any physician, a pediatrician must earn a doctor of medicine (M.D.) or doctor of osteopathic medicine (D.O.) degree from a recognized medical or osteopathic school. Candidates for medical school must complete a full year of coursework in each of the following subjects: biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, mathematics and English. During their junior year, they take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) before applying to medical colleges.
Read the steps listed below and learn about how you can become a pediatrician. 1  Excel in high school and university. 2  Go to medical school. 3  Pass the board exams. 4  Complete an internship. 5  Complete a 36-month residency. 6  Pass the American Board of Pediatrics (ABP) certifying exams. 1 Take the Medical School Admission Test (MCAT), and apply to medical school. 2  Hopefully you'll be accepted to the medical school of your choice. 3  Otherwise, you may have to go to a different