This is a multi-center study whose aim is to define the epidemiology and genetics of Barrett's esophagus and adenocarcinoma. The researchers have studied families affected with Barrett's esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma, a specific type of cancer of the esophagus.
Mutations in three genes have been identified that are more prevalent in patients with esophageal cancer and Barrett esophagus, a premalignant metaplasia (change in cells or tissue) caused by chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), according to preliminary research reported in the July 27 issue of JAMA.
Barrett's esophagus is a serious complication of GERD, which stands for gastroesophageal reflux disease. In Barrett's esophagus, normal tissue lining the esophagus -- the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach -- changes to tissue that resembles the lining of the intestine.
July 26, 2011 -- Researchers have discovered three genetic mutations that may play a role in the development of esophageal diseases, a study shows. The esophageal diseases that may be affected by the mutations include esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) -- a type of cancer of the esophagus -- and Barrett's esophagus (BE).
A: Chronic acid reflux, or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), is the strongest risk factor for the development of Barrett’s esophagus. Studies have shown that 10-15% of patients with GERD will have Barrett's esophagus. However, some patients with Barrett’s esophagus may not have active reflux symptoms.
Barrett’s esophagus is a condition in which the normal cells lining the esophagus transform into an intestinal-cell type as a result of chronic injury from gastroesophageal reflux disease.
Risk Factors for Esophageal Diseases. The majority of cases of Barrett's esophagus and esophageal cancer are not believed to be caused by genetic factors, the researchers write. The most common risk factors are age, smoking, heavy drinking, and being male. Men are much more likely to develop cancer of the esophagus.
The normal cells of the esophagus are squamous epithelium cells, but with Barretts Disease, the cells are made of metaplastic columnar epithelium cells. This columnar epithelium cells aren’t normally found in the esophagus because these are the cells that make up the lower gastrointestinal tract.