Members of the House of Representatives are elected to two-year terms of office. All 435 voting seats are up for reelection at once, every two years in even-numbered years. A member of the US House of Representatives serve a 2 year term of office; however a Representative has no limit on the number of terms he or she can serve.
The Florida Senate is the upper house of the Florida Legislature, the state legislature of the US state of Florida. The Senate is composed of 40 members representing an equal number of districts, with each district having an average population of 470,032. The Senate convenes at the State Capitol in Tallahassee. Senators serve four-year terms, and are restricted by term limits, confining them to two consecutive four-year terms (eight years). Thus, senators in even-numbered districts were elected to two-year terms in 2012, and senators in odd-numbered districts will be elected to two-year terms in 2022. State senators must be at least 21 years of age, an elector and resident of their electoral district.
State representatives are elected to two-year terms during even-numbered years. A representative must be at least 21 years of age, a resident of the district in which he or she will serve, and a resident of Florida for at least two years before being qualified to run for election. Once elected, representatives are limited to four consecutive terms but can run again after sitting out one election. The Florida House of Representatives is the lower house of the Florida Legislature, the state legislature of the US state of Florida. The House is composed of 120 members representing an equal number of districts, with each district having an average population of 156,677
How long did john dingell serve the house of representatives in the 110th congress?   is the longest serving member of the 110th congress...served for 26 terms. A member of the US House of Representatives serve a 2 year term of office; however a Representative has no limit on the number of terms he or she can serve.
The House convenes at the State Capitol in Tallahassee. Representatives serve two-year terms, and are restricted by term limits, confining them to four two-year terms (eight years). The Florida House of Representatives is the lower house of the Florida Legislature, the state legislature of the US state of Florida. The House is composed of 120 members representing an equal number of districts, with each district having an average population of 156,677
How long do they serve in the house of representatives? Members of the U.S. House of Representatives are elected for 2-year terms, so every two years each House seat is up for election. A member of the US House of Representatives serve a 2 year term of office; however a Representative has no limit on the number of terms he or she can serve.
Delegates and Representatives serve a two-year term, and the Resident Commissioner serves a four-year term. In most respects, Delegates and the Resident Commissioner have most of the authority that Members have. On the House Floor, they can speak, introduce bills, and offer amendments. 