Throughout history, people have perpetrated extreme violent acts in the name of religion – whether it be Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism or another faith. A complex series of psychological, political, historical and theological factors combine to trigger such behaviour. Although all of these cases have involved Islam, it should be obvious to anyone with a rudimentary exposure to world history that many other religious traditions, including, for example, Christianity, Hinduism and Judaism, have been associated with dangerous extremism.
The great majority of people don't think for themselves. That may be normal, but there's nothing good about it. The best example of bad extremism in America, one that's not a result of people thinking correctly for themselves, is racism. You can study for yourself who the extreme racists are.
But an extremist does not have such view and holds a distorted thought that he knows all the answers and has found the truth which is the only truth. 8. They have a sense of unwillingness to compromise: For such individuals, there is only one way and that is what matches their definition of truth. They have too much focus on the life after death: A religious extremist has too little focus on the importance of this life and what makes him feel fulfilled in it and is too attached to the concept of a great afterlife.
Noun. 1. extremism-any political theory favoring immoderate uncompromising policies. ideology, political orientation, political theory-an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation. extremism. noun fanaticism, enthusiasm, madness, devotion, dedication, zeal, bigotry, infatuation, single-mindedness, zealotry, obsessiveness, monomania, immoderation, overenthusiasm an attempt to eliminate racism and right-wing extremism. Quotations. Extremism in the defence of liberty is no vice! [Barry Goldwater].
I've heard some people saying that we shouldn't condemn Islamic extremism because there is an equal amount of Christian extremism in the world. I just don't see it. 
Extremism means, literally: driving (something) to the limit, to the extreme. Nowadays, the term is mostly being used in a political or religious sense, for an ideology that is considered (by the speaker) to be far outside the (acceptable) mainstream attitudes of society. But extremism can, for example, also be meant in an economic sense. The term extremism is usually meant pejorative: to express (strong) disapproval, but it may also be meant in a more academic, purely descriptive, non-condemning sense. Extremists are usually contrasted with centrists or moderates. Extremism is a complex phenomenon, although its complexity is often hard to see. Most simply, it can be defined as activities (beliefs, attitudes, feelings, actions, strategies) of a character far removed from the ordinary. In conflict settings it manifests as a severe form of conflict engagement.
Worse than rhetorical rage are extreme political responses to extremist rhetoric. The French parliament, for example, adopted a bill in 2006 making it a crime to deny that Armenians suffered genocide at the hands of the Turks. This is an extreme reaction to extremism. Here is a recent example of extremist political rhetoric from outside the domain of professional politics: “This is Jihad, pal. There are no innocent bystanders, because in these desperate hours, bystanders are not innocent.
9. They have too much focus on the life after death: A religious extremist has too little focus on the importance of this life and what makes him feel fulfilled in it and is too attached to the concept of a great afterlife. 10
To help us understand the nature of this link between extremist rhetoric and political paralysis, let us begin with an example of extremist rhetoric in entertainment, where it is even more common and far less controversial than in politics. Here is a recent example of extremist political rhetoric from outside the domain of professional politics: “This is Jihad, pal. There are no innocent bystanders, because in these desperate hours, bystanders are not innocent.