Medical Definition of CANNULA. : a small tube for insertion into a body cavity, duct, or vessel. Definition of CANNULA. : a small tube for insertion into a body cavity or into a duct or vessel. ADVERTISEMENT
Cannulas increase the difficulty of the cosmetic filler procedure. Yes, the difficulty is increased and it feels more like a complex procedure. However, the risks diminish and many of the positive results increase – including patient satisfaction, smoother results, and less downtime. 
Intravenous Cannulation (IV). Insertion of an IV cannula involves putting a “tube” into a patient’s vein so that infusions can be inserted directly into the patient’s bloodstream. Cannula’s (aka venflons) come in various colours, which correspond to the size of the “tube”. Subject steps. Introduce yourself to the patient and clarify the patient’s identity. Explain the procedure to the patient and gain informed consent to continue. It is also worth explaining that cannulation may cause some discomfort but that it will be short lived.
This Nasal Cannula has a one-piece anatomical design that eliminates the need for an irritating flap, increasing patient comfort. The over-the-ear style provides both secure positioning and freedom of movement, and the included crush-resistant 3-channel oxygen safety tubing provides an uninterrupted flow of oxygen. AirLife® Disposable Oxygen Cannula is a PVC over-the-ear oxygen cannula, available in flared and nonflared styles. These disposable products provide continuous flow, nonsterile, with or without tubing, for the adult user. A flexible lip plate for comfort at the tip of the nasal region.
can·nu·la. A tube that can be inserted into a cavity, usually by means of a trocar filling its lumen; after insertion of the cannula, the trocar is withdrawn and the cannula remains as a channel for the transport of fluid or passage of instruments. 
Oxygen can be administered with nasal cannulas or face masks in hospitals, clinics, or specialized care facilities. It can also be administered in a home setting or even on the go. Some devices are portable and can be slung over a person's shoulder. Venturi masks can provide a constant, pre-set level of oxygen. Nasal cannulas and face masks are used to deliver oxygen to people who don't otherwise get enough of it. They are commonly used to provide relief to people with respiratory disorders. A nasal cannula consists of a flexible tube that is placed under the nose. The tube includes two prongs that go inside the nostrils
This made it possible for us to make a two-layer cannula with significant added functionality without an increase of outer diameter compared with the generic. surgeons previously used,” said Ted Kucklick, CEO and designer of the patented EntreVu EX cannula. Arthroscopic Surgery Goes with the Flow Thanks to Bayer ... by PR.com (Press Releases). A NEW campaign to protect patients from the risk of developing infections from. and catheters will be launched today. 