Diffusion MRI (or dMRI) is a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) method which came into existence in the mid-1980s. It allows the mapping of the diffusion process of molecules, mainly water, in biological tissues, in vivo and non-invasively. The world first diffusion images of the normal brain were made public in 1985 in London at the international SMRM meeting and the first diffusion images of the brain of patients were shown at the RSNA meeting in Chicago the same year (then published in Radiology).
dweeb. n. Slang. A person regarded as socially inept or foolish, often on account of being overly studious. [ Origin unknown .]. (dwiːb). 
Full Definition of DWEEB. : an unattractive, insignificant, or inept person. — dweeb·ish \ˈdwē-bish\ adjective, slang. — dweeby \-bē\ adjective, slang. See dweeb defined for English-language learners. : a person who behaves awkwardly around other people and usually has unstylish hair, clothes, etc. slang.
In the majority of states, a person's first DWI charge (also referred to as Driving Under the Influence, or DUI, in some states) results in an automatic suspension of the violator's license. The length of the suspension in the various states ranges from 45 days to one year. A showing of complete intoxication is not necessary for a charge of driving while intoxicated. State laws indicate levels of blood-alcohol content at which an individual is deemed to be under the influence of alcohol. Laws against drunk driving vary slightly from state to state.
Work credits are simply a way Social Security determines if you have paid enough income taxes into the system through your paychecks. To qualify for DIB, a claimant must have earned 20 work credits of the last 40 available (up to 4 work credits can be earned each year). This means that if you have worked approximately 5 of the last 10 years, you may qualify. It is possible to qualify for both SSI and DIB. If you have worked at least 5 of the last 10 years and have a low level of income and assets, you may be approved for both
“SSDI” or “DIB” Disability Insurance Benefits. In order to qualify for Disability Insurance Benefits (DIB), or Title II, a claimant must: 1  Show that he or she is disabled, or cannot engage in Substantial Gainful Activity. To qualify for DIB, a claimant must have earned 20 work credits of the last 40 available (up to 4 work credits can be earned each year). This means that if you have worked approximately 5 of the last 10 years, you may qualify.
The first diffusion MRI images of the normal and diseased brain were made public in 1985. Since then, diffusion MRI, also referred to as diffusion tensor imaging or DTI (see section below) has been extraordinarily successful. Its main clinical application has been in the study and treatment of neurological disorders, especially for the management of patients with acute stroke. The world first diffusion images of the normal brain were made public in 1985 in London at the international SMRM meeting and the first diffusion images of the brain of patients were shown at the RSNA meeting in Chicago the same year (then published in Radiology).
Acronym Attic: Searching over 3 million acronyms, abbreviations, and initialisms. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. Acronym Attic is ©2005-2008, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. 