Mary did not have an immaculate conception. The Bible doesn t suggest Mary s birth was anything but a normal human birth. Mary was a virgin when she gave birth to Jesus (Luke 1:34-38), but the idea of the perpetual virginity of Mary is unbiblical.
The Bible doesn’t suggest Mary’s birth was anything but a normal human birth. Mary was a virgin when she gave birth to Jesus (Luke 1:34-38), but the idea of the perpetual virginity of Mary is unbiblical. Matthew 1:25, speaking of Joseph, declares, But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son.
Advertisement. Mary, the mother of Jesus was described by God as “highly favored” (Luke 1:28). The phrase “highly favored” comes from a single Greek word, which essentially means “much grace.” Mary received God’s grace. Grace is “unmerited favor,” meaning something we receive despite the fact that we do not deserve it.
Question: What does the Bible say about the virgin Mary?. Answer: Mary the mother of Jesus was described by God as highly favored (Luke 1:28).
This last passage not only shows proof of Mary in the Bible and her importance, but it shows that all followers of Christ, all Christians, are children of Mary as well as we already know that we are children of God. The grammar and syntax of that passage do not say otherwise.
Mary recognized that she needed the Savior. The Bible never says that Mary was anyone but an ordinary human whom God chose to use in an extraordinary way. Yes, Mary was a righteous woman and favored (graced) by God (Luke 1:27-28).
Mary recognized that she needed the Savior. The Bible never says that Mary was anyone but an ordinary human whom God chose to use in an extraordinary way. Yes, Mary was a righteous woman and favored (graced) by God (Luke 1:27-28).
Answer: Mary the mother of Jesus was described by God as highly favoured (Luke 1:28). The phrase highly favoured comes from a single Greek word, which essentially means much grace.. Mary received God’s grace. Grace is unmerited favour, meaning something we receive despite the fact that we do not deserve it.
One is to see what the Bible says about idolatry, and the other is to see what the Bible actually says about Mary. And then, we will clearly understand that they have invented a goddess to worship who has no relationship to the true Mary, the mother of Jesus revealed in Scripture, the historical Mary.