While fibrous foods are normally healthy for your body, you should not consume them prior to surgery. Fiber takes a longer period of time for your body to break down and your bowels need to be cleared out before surgery. Avoid high-fiber foods such as whole-wheat pasta, oatmeal, whole-grain bread, beans and lentils. This is referred to as a low-residue/low-fiber diet, as reported by the Hospital for Special Surgery.
1 Avoid foods that are high in fat and sugar. 2  After your surgery, it may be difficult for your digestive system to tolerate foods that are high in fat or added sugars. 3  Avoid foods that are high in fat (such as fried foods, ice cream and candy bars). 4  Look for sugar-free options of soft drinks and dairy products. 1 Low-fat cheese, cottage cheese and yogurts also are good protein sources. 2  Avoid foods that are high in fat and sugar. 3
Overview. You should avoid certain foods and dietary supplements before surgery. Some foods leave a residue in your digestive tract that may complicate intestinal surgeries or cause diarrhea. In addition to this, having food in your system may cause nausea and vomiting. Fiber takes a longer period of time for your body to break down and your bowels need to be cleared out before surgery. Avoid high-fiber foods such as whole-wheat pasta, oatmeal, whole-grain bread, beans and lentils. This is referred to as a low-residue/low-fiber diet, as reported by the Hospital for Special Surgery.
1 Certain beverages, both alcoholic and nonalcoholic, can impact your surgery. 2  Choose clear drinks, such as water, during the 24 hours before your procedure. 3  As you prepare for and recover from surgery, you should avoid alcoholic drinks altogether. 1 Stop drinking green tea at least 10 days before surgery, and be sure to ask your doctor when it’s safe to ingest again. 2  Fruits and vegetables are typically a staple in a healthy, well-balanced diet, but not when you’re preparing for surgery.
1 Immediately after your surgery, eating high-protein foods can help you heal. 2  High-protein, low-fat choices remain a good long-term diet option after your surgery, as well. 3  Try adding lean cuts of beef, chicken, pork, fish or beans to your diet. 4  Low-fat cheese, cottage cheese and yogurts also are good protein sources. 1 Low-fat cheese, cottage cheese and yogurts also are good protein sources. 2  Avoid foods that are high in fat and sugar. 3  After your surgery, it may be difficult for your digestive system to tolerate foods that are high in fat or added sugars.
The reasons for surgery vary and can include preventing or relieving pain, decreasing symptoms or improving body functions. If you are preparing for surgery, there are certain foods that you should avoid to prevent complications or uncomfortable symptoms. bowl of mint candy to be avoided before surgery Photo Credit arinahabich/iStock/Getty Images.
1 Fruits and vegetables are typically a staple in a healthy, well-balanced diet, but not when you’re preparing for surgery. 2  During the 24 hours before surgery, I tell my patients to avoid foods that are high in fiber. 1 Stop drinking green tea at least 10 days before surgery, and be sure to ask your doctor when it’s safe to ingest again. 2 
1 Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains take longer to digest, and it is important to have as little food as possible in your system before surgery begins. 2  Certain beverages, both alcoholic and nonalcoholic, can impact your surgery. 3  Choose clear drinks, such as water, during the 24 hours before your procedure. 1 Stop drinking green tea at least 10 days before surgery, and be sure to ask your doctor when it’s safe to ingest again. 2  Fruits and vegetables are typically a staple in a healthy, well-balanced diet, but not when you’re preparing for surgery.
Low Fiber/Low Residue Diet. The following low fiber/low residue diet is to be used the day before surgery. A low fiber/residue diet reduces the amount of waste that moves through the intestines, which is helpful in preparing for surgery. This diet is not nutritionally complete, and is intended to be used for a short duration only. Food Group.