Credit. A term used in accounting to describe either an entry on the righthand side of an account or the process of making such an entry. A credit records the increases in liabilities, owners' Equity, and revenues as well as the decreases in assets and expenses. Credit can be used in reference to the ability to postpone payment, as in the case of an individual who has credit with a local store that allows purchase of items on a weekly basis and settlement of account due once a month.
English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: reward claim, lay claim to or stake a claim to, Particulars of Claim, statement of claim. steal someone's thunder. steal someone's thunder. exp. take credit for another person's accomplishment. cut sth loose. cut sth loose. n.
If anyone, such as Todd's parents, claims an exemption for Todd on his or her 2014 tax return, whoever claims the exemption may be able to use the expenses to claim an American opportunity credit. If anyone else claims an exemption for Todd, Todd cannot claim an American opportunity credit. If the requirements above are not met for any student, you cannot claim the American opportunity credit for that student. You may be able to claim the lifetime learning credit for part or all of that student's qualified education expenses instead.
If anyone, such as Todd's parents, claims an exemption for Todd on his or her 2014 tax return, whoever claims the exemption may be able to use the expenses to claim a lifetime learning credit. If anyone else claims an exemption for Todd, Todd cannot claim a lifetime learning credit. For you to claim a lifetime learning credit for your dependent's expenses, you must also claim an exemption for your dependent. You do this by listing your dependent's name and other required information on Form 1040 (or Form 1040A), line 6c.
claim-ask for legally or make a legal claim to, as of debts, for example; They claimed on the maximum allowable amount. call for, request, bespeak, quest-express the need or desire for; ask for; She requested an extra bed in her room; She called for room service. claim-an established or recognized right; a strong legal claim to the property; he had no documents confirming his title to his father's estate; he staked his claim. title. legal right-a right based in law.
Full Definition of CLAIM. 1. 2. a: a right to something; specifically: a title to a debt, privilege, or other thing in the possession of another. 3. : something that is claimed; especially: a tract of land staked out. : a statement saying that something happened a certain way or will happen a certain way: a statement saying that something is true when some people may say it is not true.
The value of a tax credit depends on what the credit is being provided for, and certain types of tax credits are granted to individuals or businesses in specific locations, classifications or industries. Next Up. DEFINITION of 'Tax Credit'. An amount of money that a taxpayer is able to subtract from the amount of tax that they owe to the government.
2 claim. noun. : a statement saying that something happened a certain way or will happen a certain way: a statement saying that something is true when some people may say it is not true. : an official request for something (such as money) that is owed to you or that you believe is owed to you. : a right to have something
If you support children, relatives, or even non-relatives, then you may be able to claim them as dependents (or dependants, as the word is often misspelled) on your tax return. The IRS definition of a dependent is: a Qualifying Child or Qualifying Relative for whom you can claim a tax exemption. What Are the IRS Dependent Rules? If someone is your Qualifying Child or Qualifying Relative, then you can claim a tax exemption for them, and you may qualify for additional tax benefits. If someone else can claim you (or your spouse, if filing jointly) as a dependent, whether or not they actually claim you, then you are not allowed to claim any dependents of your own (nor can you take any tax exemptions, even for yourself).
Expenses paid by dependent. If you claim an exemption on your tax return for an eligible student who is your dependent, treat any expenses paid (or deemed paid) by your dependent as if you had paid them. Include these expenses when figuring the amount of your lifetime learning credit. For you to claim a lifetime learning credit for your dependent's expenses, you must also claim an exemption for your dependent. You do this by listing your dependent's name and other required information on Form 1040 (or Form 1040A), line 6c.