42b. Upton Sinclair published The Jungle in 1905 to expose labor abuses in the meat packing industry. But it was food, not labor, that most concerned the public. Sinclair's horrific descriptions of the industry led to the passage of the Pure Food and Drug Act and the Meat Inspection Act, not to labor legislation. The pen is sometimes mightier than the sword. It may be a cliche, cliché but it was all too true for journalists at the turn of the. century It may be a cliche, cliché but it was all too true for journalists at the turn of the. Century the print revolution enabled publications to increase their subscriptions. dramatically
The term muckraker was used in the Progressive Era to characterize reform-minded American journalists who wrote largely for all popular magazines. In contemporary use, the term describes either a journalist who writes in the adversarial or alternative tradition, or a non-journalist whose purpose in publication is to advocate reform and change. Investigative journalists view the muckrakers as early influences and a continuation of watchdog journalism.
Before World War I, the term muckraker was used to refer in a general sense to a writer who investigates and publishes truthful reports to perform an auditing or watchdog function. In contemporary use, the term describes either a journalist who writes in the adversarial or alternative tradition, or a non-journalist whose purpose in publication is to advocate reform and change. Investigative journalists view the muckrakers as early influences and a continuation of watchdog journalism.
As a direct result of Sinclair's writing, Congress passed the Meat Inspection Act and Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906 to protect consumers from unsafe and adulterated foods. But Sinclair's broader socialist vision gained little traction, and little was done to better conditions for the workers. 
The Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 was the first of a series of significant consumer protection laws enacted by the Federal Government in the 20th century and led to the creation of the Food and Drug Administration. Deficiencies in this original statute, which had become noticeable by the 1920s, led to the replacement of the 1906 statute with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which, was enacted in 1938 and signed by President Franklin Roosevelt.
According to Fred J. Cook, the muckrakers' journalism resulted in litigation or legislation that had a lasting impact, such as the end of Standard Oil 's monopoly over the oil industry, the establishment of the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906, the creation of the first child labor laws in the United States around 1916. In contemporary use, the term describes either a journalist who writes in the adversarial or alternative tradition, or a non-journalist whose purpose in publication is to advocate reform and change. Investigative journalists view the muckrakers as early influences and a continuation of watchdog journalism.
Upton Sinclair's The Jungle:Muckraking the Meat-Packing Industry. Upton Sinclair wrote The Jungle to expose the appalling working conditions in the meat-packing industry. His description of diseased, rotten, and contaminated meat shocked the public and led to new federal food safety laws. Before the turn of the 20th century, a major reform movement had emerged in the United States. But The Jungle took on a life of its own as one of the great muckraking works of the Progressive Era. Sinclair became an accidental muckraker.. The White House was bombarded with mail, calling for reform of the meat-packing industry. After reading The Jungle, President Roosevelt invited Sinclair to the White House to discuss it
Upton Sinclair's The Jungle was a muckraking masterpiece that  exposed the horrific working conditions in the meat packing  industry. Readers were shocked at the descripti … on of the conditions  in slaughterhouses and demanded action. As a result, the Food and  Drug Act of 1906 was passed. Answered. Congress is responsible for passing legislative laws in the United  States. Two examples of legislative laws Congress has passed  include the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and th … e Voting Rights Act of  1965.
Upton Sinclair's The Jungle was a muckraking masterpiece that  exposed the horrific working conditions in the meat packing  industry. Readers were shocked at the descripti … on of the conditions  in slaughterhouses and demanded action. As a result, the Food and  Drug Act of 1906 was passed. Upton Sinclair's fictional novel, The Jungle, exposed the harsh  working conditions and tainted food in the meat-packing industry.  This led to Congress passing the Pure Foo … d and Drug Act. Sinclair  based much of his book on real events that were occurring in the  meat industry.