The girl's name Sharla \sh(ar)-la\ is a variant of Caroline (French, Latin, Italian), Charlotte (French), Sharlene (Old German) and Sharon (Hebrew), and the meaning of Sharla is little and womanly; free man; a fertile plain. The baby name Sharla sounds like Charla and Sharly. 
In French, the name Sharla means-little and womanly form od charlotte.The name Sharla originated as an French name. The name Sharla is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-little and womanly form od charlotte. 
Sharla /shar-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Old German and Hebrew origin, and Sharla means free man; a fertile plain. Sharla is a version of Caroline (Old German). Sharla is also a form of Charlotte (Old German). Sharla is also used as a form of Sharlene (Old German) and Sharon (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Sharka. 
Sharla is also used as a variant of Sharlene (Old German): feminine of Charles; variant of Caroline, Charlene and Charla. Sharla is also a variant of Sharon (Hebrew), biblical place name: refers to flat land at the foot of Mount Carmel. Comments and insights on the name Sharla: | Edit. Sharla. A beautiful name that any girl would be extremely lucky to have. It's unusual and unique. A derivative of the name Charlotte, it means little and womanly.
Charla is a very popular first name for women (#1211 out of 4276, Top 28%) but a rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Charla for girls. Charla entered the list in 1940-1949 and reached its top rank of #715 in the U.S. in the 1960s, but is not listed at the moment.
English Meaning: The name Charla is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Charla is: Feminine manly. American Meaning: The name Charla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Charla is: Feminine manly. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. 
(s)har-la, sh-a- rla ] The baby girl name Sharla is pronounced as-SH AA RLaa- †. Sharla is used predominantly in English, and its origin is Germanic and Hebrew. Sharla is a variation of the name Caroline (English, French, and Scandinavian). Sharla is also a variation of the name Charlotte (French, German, Dutch, English, and Scandinavian). Sharla is also a pet form of the name Sharlene (English). Sharla is also a variation of the name Sharon (English). Sharla is rare as a baby name for girls. At the modest peak of its usage in 1972, 0.015% of baby girls were named Sharla. Its ranking then was #638. 
Meanings and history of the name Sharla: | Edit. Sharla meaning and name origin. Sharla \sh(ar)-la\ as a girl's name has the meaning free man; a fertile plain and is a variant of Caroline (Old German): from the French form of Latin or Italian Carolina, a feminine derivative of Carolus (see Charles). Comments and insights on the name Sharla: | Edit. Sharla. A beautiful name that any girl would be extremely lucky to have. It's unusual and unique. A derivative of the name Charlotte, it means little and womanly.
Sharla is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Shar-la. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 9979 in baby name popularity for girls with 11 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 