Official Photos ». Clint Howard was born on April 20, 1959 in Burbank, California, USA as Clinton E. Howard. He is an actor, known for How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000), The Jungle Book (1967) and Apollo 13 (1995). He has been married to Melanie Howard since October 29, 1995. See full bio
Clint Howard enjoys golf when not working on a film. Clint Howard is known for his activity in the game World of Warcraft in which he plays under the name Extas of the guild Peekay on the Dark Iron realm. Clint Howard has Dutch, Scottish, English, Irish, German and Cherokee ancestry. My goal as a citizen is to do what I can to help the causes that I personally believe in.. I don't act because I love doing it, I act because it's my job. At the end of the year, I gotta pay my taxes, bills, doctors, insurance, car insurance, the occasional vacation. It's a wonderful job.
Personal life [edit]. Howard was born in Burbank, California, the son of actors Rance Howard and Jean Speegle Howard, and the younger brother of actor-director-producer Ron Howard. He is also uncle to Bryce Dallas Howard and Paige Howard. He married Melanie in 1995. During the ceremony at which Howard received the award, a montage of other actors and celebrities providing testimonials about him was shown, in which they referred to him only as Clint, giving the impression they were referring to Clint Eastwood.
Clinton Clint Howard is an American film and television actor with a net worth of $20 million. Clint Howard obtained his net worth by making numerous appearances on television and films such as Married...with Children, Seinfeld and Heros. Center Clint Capela returned from the sore right shoulder that kept him out of Saturday’s game. Forward Terrence ...\nRobert Englund horror-comedy “Funhouse Massacre” release date set\nThe film, directed by Andy Palmer, stars horror icon Robert Englund, Jere Burns, Scottie Thompson, Clint Howard and Courtney Gains.
Born Clinton E. Clint Howard has an estimated net worth of $20 million. Howard, known for his portrayal of Balok in the original Star Trek series and Johnson Ritter in the Austin Powers series is an American character actor. My goal as a citizen is to do what I can to help the causes that I personally believe in.. I don't act because I love doing it, I act because it's my job. At the end of the year, I gotta pay my taxes, bills, doctors, insurance, car insurance, the occasional vacation. It's a wonderful job.
About Clint Howard. American film and television actor,Clinton “Clint” Howard has an estimated net worth of $20 million. The son of actors, juvenile performer Clint Howard began showing up on screen in the mid-1960s, usually in the TV series and feature films co-starring his older brother Ron Howard. Upon attaining adulthood, Howard was mostly consigned to character parts; he has also been featured in the films directed by his brother Ron Howard, from Eat My Dust (1978) to Apollo 13 (1995). Clint Howard was born April 20, 1959 in Burbank, California, U.S.
$10 Million. Clint Howard net worth: Clint Howard is an American actor who has a net worth of $10 million. Clint was born in Burbank, California in April 1959. He is the young brother of actor/director Ron Howard. When he was a young child Clint appeared in five episodes of his brother's TV show, The Andy Griffith Show. Clint Howard voiced the part of the elephant Haithi Jr. in the 1967 Disney film The Jungle Book.