Squamous cancers arising from the upper gingival (upper alveolus), upper gingival–buccal sulcus (superior vestibule) and upper part of buccal mucosa have similar behaviour and are grouped together as cancers of the superior gingival–buccal complex. Computed tomography scan showing squamous cell carcinoma of superior gingival–buccal complex involving upper alveolus, superior vestibule and upper part of buccal mucosa in axial (A) and coronal (B) sections.
a shallow depression, or furrow on the surface of an organ, such as cerebral sulcus that separates the convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere. A sulcus is usually not as deep as a fissure, but, in the terminology of anatomy, the words sulcus and fissure are often used interchangeably. collateral sulcus one on the inferior surface of the cerebral hemisphere between the fusiform and parahippocampal gyri. sul´ci cu´tis the fine depressions on the surface of the skin between the dermal ridges. gingival sulcus the groove between the surface of the tooth and the epithelium lining the free gingiva.
Cancers of the superior gingival–buccal complex comprise cancers in the upper gingiva, including upper alveolar (ridge) mucosa (ICD-10; C03.0); the upper gingival–buccal sulcus or vestibule of the mouth (ICD-10; C06.1) and the upper part of the buccal mucosa (ICD-10; C06.0). Computed tomography scan showing squamous cell carcinoma of superior gingival–buccal complex involving upper alveolus, superior vestibule and upper part of buccal mucosa in axial (A) and coronal (B) sections.
al·ve·o·lo·buc·cal groove. Upper and lower portions of buccal vestibule on each side; portions between cheek and superior and inferior bursal gingivae, excluding portion of vestibule between cheek and teeth. Synonym(s): alveolobuccal sulcus, gingivobuccal groove, gingivobuccal sulcus. al·ve·o·lo·buc·cal groove. the upper and lower portions of the buccal vestibule on each side; the portions between cheek and superior and inferior bursal gingivae, excluding the portion of the vestibule between cheek and teeth.
A shallow buccal sulcus deformity following bilateral cleft lip repair is not rare. A variety of techniques are described for the secondary reconstruction of a deficient sulcus. Most of these are associated with a variable amount of contraction with subsequent obliteration of the sulcus. In this article, an inverted U-shaped flap is described for the secondary reconstruction of the deficient sublabial sulcus.
Superior sulcus tumors usually arise in the apex of the lung and may invade the second and third ribs, the brachial plexus, the subclavian vessels, the stellate ganglion, and adjacent vertebral bodies [ 4 ]. Pancoast syndrome is characterized by pain, which may arise in the shoulder or chest wall or radiate to the neck. Describe the diagnostic work-up for superior sulcus (Pancoast) tumors of the lung. List the major prognostic factors pertaining to outcome in patients with superior sulcus (Pancoast) tumors.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The buccal space (also termed the buccinator space) is a fascial space of the head and neck (sometimes also termed fascial spaces or tissue spaces). It is a potential space in the cheek, and is paired on each side. The buccal space is superficial to the buccinator muscle and deep to the platysma muscle and the skin.
Summary. Squamous cell carcinoma of the superior gingival–buccal complex are rare and few English-language data have been published on their biological behaviour. Reported in this paper are the clinical behaviour and treatment outcomes of squamous cell carcinoma of the upper gingival–buccal complex. Computed tomography scan showing squamous cell carcinoma of superior gingival–buccal complex involving upper alveolus, superior vestibule and upper part of buccal mucosa in axial (A) and coronal (B) sections.