Light your walkway with a post mount or a pier mount bracket post light from top brands like Hinkley, Z Lite and Livex Lighting. And remember quality is important for a light like this. 
From the base of the column, connect a vertical conduit from the conduit in the ground. Cover the end of the exposed conduit to prevent it from touching wet cement. Once your conduit is in place, you can pour the cement into the concrete form. Mount a conduit on the surface if the concrete column already exists. You can use conduit straps and concrete screws to secure it to a concrete, brick or masonry surface. A hammer drill is used to make a hole for the concrete screws. Save. Installing lights on concrete columns can be a challenging task if you have no experience in wiring electrical materials inside or outside your home. If instructions and safety guidelines are followed, you can put in a light on any concrete column or structure, before or after the column is built.
Step 8: Add the Light Fixture. To mount the light base, position it in the center of the post. Mark the position of the screw holes. Drill holes for the masonry anchors using a power drill with a masonry bit. Building a light post is easy. Light posts can be built on existing patios or pavement, as well as on an unfinished surface such as soil or grass. If you will be building in an area that does not have an existing patio or pavement, see How-to Sheet #220 Building Posts for more information.
Give your home an old world feel while lighting the way for yourself and visitors with one of our beautiful post lights. You'll find a variety of styles and themes, from classical lantern designs to more modern fare. You can also choose post accessories, pier mounts, and posts to easily install your new lighting. Place these post lights anywhere around your yard. Whether you want to illuminate your garden to enjoy it on summer evenings, or you want to find your porch steps just a bit easier at night. 
The arms of this post curl out with a flourish and taper off to perched lanterns. This lantern post is available in different finishes from which you may choose the one to your liking. The European 4 Light 80 Outdoor Post Lantern Set by Patio Living Concepts can accommodate 4 incandescent bulbs. The DVI Hexagon 1 Light 18” Post Lantern is a wonderful combination of style and utility. The glass casing of this lantern head can illuminate your garden or backyard with soft light. The glass casing is available in different patterns that create distinct lighting effects.
Connect the Grounds Together. Turn off the power to the circuit that the outside light switch is connected to. Unhook the switch from its box to give you room to work. Connect your grounds together -- the white to all neutral wires, and the black to the switch leg side, opposite the wires on the switch. Dig a Trench. Dig the trench for the electrical lines. Start with the corner that the electrical light is coming from. Go slow and steady. It is better to dig by hand if you are digging next to the house.
A brick pillar or stone column can be nicely finished off with a pedestal light on top. But if you have no power there then the solution is to use a solar powered LED light. We have a selection of solar lights suitable for a pillar or column. We also have solar lights that can attach to the top of an existing post or pole to be installed in minutes! Various types, styles, sizes and colors are available. Replace your failed electric and gas lights with a simple to install solar light. This light is a part of our 'Regency' collection and is suitable for fixing onto the top of a pillar, column, fence post or almost any horizontal surface. Two color choices available. This light fixture is a popular choice for customers wishing to replace existing column lights, or for those..
Thank you for your review! We are so glad to hear that you are pleased with the Solar Outdoor Lamp Post with Acorn Finial and 3 Fitter! This solar post light for walkways is very bright and can stay on for up to 10 hours each night. 
Outdoor Column Mount Lighting Create a stately entrance to your home with outdoor column mount lighting fixtures. Serving not only as a dramatic way of welcoming your guests, but used to accentuate the natural beauty of your property while adding security and comfort. 