This surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin and firstly may be a nickname for a rapacious person, deriving from the Middle English kete a development of the Olde English pre 7th Century cyta meaning kite (bird). The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ailnoeth Kete, which was dated 1166, in the Pipes Rolls of Norfolk, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189.
You can find out where the majority of the Kite families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. English (chiefly West Midlands): from Middle English kete, kyte ‘kite’ (the bird of prey; Old English c¯ta), a nickname for a fierce or rapacious person. Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Kite emigration records. You can find out when most of the Kite families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to emigration records dating from that era. Emigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from 1881 UK Census Data. 
Early examples of the name include Richard Kyte (1243) in the Assize Court Rolls of Somerset, and Ralph atte Kete (1292) in the Place Names of Kent. Variations in the spelling of the surname include Keit, Keyte, Kett, Kyte, Keat, and Keate. London Church Records list the christenings of Elizabeth Kyte on September 24th 1575 at St. Margaret's, Westminster, and William, son of John Kite, on November 22nd 1618 at St. Giles Cripplegate. One C. Kite, aged 18 yrs., a famine emigrant, sailed from Bristol aboard the Cosmo bound for New York on May 20th 1847. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ailnoeth Kete, which was dated 1166, in the Pipes Rolls of Norfolk, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189.
You can find out where the majority of the Kyte families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Kyte birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ailnoth Kete, which was dated 1166, in the Pipe Rolls of Norfolk, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. One, Robert Chet, appears in the Boldon Book of Durham in 1183 and Richard Kyte is noted as a witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Somerset in 1243. In the modern idiom, the surname has many variant spellings including Keat, Keet, Keit, Kett, Kitt, Keate, Kyte etc..
Click on a circle in the chart to view Kyte immigration records. You can find out when most of the Kyte families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Kyte birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
This interesting surname has two possible origins. Firstly, the surname may be of English topographical origin deriving from the old English pre 7th Century cyte meaning a hut, or some kind of shed or outhouse for cattle or sheep; hence dweller by the hut. One, Robert Chet, appears in the Boldon Book of Durham in 1183 and Richard Kyte is noted as a witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Somerset in 1243. In the modern idiom, the surname has many variant spellings including Keat, Keet, Keit, Kett, Kitt, Keate, Kyte etc..
You can find out when most of the Kite families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. English (chiefly West Midlands): from Middle English kete, kyte ‘kite’ (the bird of prey; Old English c¯ta), a nickname for a fierce or rapacious person. Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press.