You’re not alone: 44% of cell phone owners have snoozed with their phone next to their bed to make sure they didn’t miss any crucial calls or texts, according to the Pew Internet Project. But while you may have good intentions, snuggling up to your phone could be hazardous to your health.
Still, most experts recommend a cautious approach of restricting usage to only necessary exposures. Sleeping with a cell phone under your pillow or next to your head is not advised due to the possibility of overexposure to potentially harmful radiation.
So if you’re at all worried about the possible cancer risk, try to text instead of call, hold the phone away from your ear, or use an earpiece or the speakerphone setting as much as possible—and definitely don’t sleep with the phone next to your head. 9 Everyday Sources of Radiation.
1 Click the + Extension button. 2  Click the + New phone number button and add the business phone number you want your calls forwarded to. 3  Next to Show my ad with, choose “A Google forwarding number and use call reporting.”. 4  Complete the remaining preferences (you can change these later).
Ever fall asleep while Insta-scrolling on your smartphone—or purposely leave it on your bed while you snooze? You’re not alone: 44% of cell phone owners have snoozed with their phone next to their bed to make sure they didn’t miss any crucial calls or texts, according to the Pew Internet Project. But while you may have good intentions, snuggling up to your phone could be hazardous to your health. Here’s why:
Many sources do no recommend sleeping with a cell phone under your pillow or anywhere near your head. Not only is sleeping with or near a cell phone an unnecessary exposure to radiation, it can disrupt sleep and could be a possible fire hazard. Updated May 1, 2015 Originally published September 2012.
To add a call extension, you must specify: 1  Phone number: The number that will be called when a customer clicks your extension. 2  Country code: The country where your phone number is listed. 3  For example, if your phone number is in the United States of America, you would put US.
Set up Google forwarding numbers. 1  Click the Ad extensions tab from a Search or Search with Display Select campaign. 2  From the View drop-down, choose Call extensions. 3  Click the + Extension button. 4  Click the + New phone number button and add the business phone number you want your calls forwarded to.