A natural hat trick occurs when a player scores three consecutive goals, uninterrupted by any other player scoring for either team. The NHL record for the fastest natural hat trick is 21 seconds, set by Bill Mosienko in 1952 for the Chicago Blackhawks. He is the only bowler to take three hat-tricks in any form of international cricket. Three players have taken at least two ODI hat-tricks in their careers: Wasim Akram and Saqlain Mushtaq of Pakistan and Chaminda Vaas of Sri Lanka. (Akram therefore has four international hat-tricks in total).
noun. Three successes of the same kind within a limited period, in particular (in soccer) the scoring of three goals in a game by one player or (in cricket) the taking of three wickets by the same bowler with successive balls: he scored a hat-trick Campbell completed a brilliant hat-trick a hat-trick of victories. 1 He scored hat-tricks in consecutive league games recently. 2  His two goals were excellently taken and he was most unlucky not to score a hat-trick.
Full Definition of HAT TRICK. 1. : the retiring of three batsmen with three consecutive balls by a bowler in cricket. 2. : the scoring of three goals in one game (as of hockey or soccer) by a single player. 3. See hat trick defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet. : three goals scored by one player in a game of ice hockey, soccer, etc.
Another type of hat trick in soccer is a golden hat trick or perfect hat trick, which requires the player to score one goal by kicking with the right foot, one goal by kicking with the left foot and one goal by striking the ball with his or her head. The three types of goals can be scored in any order. Origin of Hat Trick. The use of the term hat trick in sports is believed to have originated in 1858, when H.H. Stephenson, a bowler in cricket, was given a hat after successfully taking three wickets in three balls. The term probably is most widely used in hockey.
In both field hockey and ice hockey, a hat trick occurs when a player scores three goals in a single game. A hat trick, as it is known in its current form, culminates with fans throwing hats onto the ice from the stands. The tradition is said to have begun among fans in the National Hockey League around the 1950s. He is the only bowler to take three hat-tricks in any form of international cricket. Three players have taken at least two ODI hat-tricks in their careers: Wasim Akram and Saqlain Mushtaq of Pakistan and Chaminda Vaas of Sri Lanka. (Akram therefore has four international hat-tricks in total).
If a soccer player scores three consecutive goals in one period, it is referred to as a flawless hat trick. If another player on either team scores a goal between any of the three scores by the other player, so that the three goals are not consecutive, then it still is a hat trick but not a flawless hat trick. Origin of Hat Trick. The use of the term hat trick in sports is believed to have originated in 1858, when H.H. Stephenson, a bowler in cricket, was given a hat after successfully taking three wickets in three balls. The term probably is most widely used in hockey.
• HAT TRICK (noun). The noun HAT TRICK has 1 sense: 1. (sports) three consecutive scores by one player or three scores in one game (as in cricket or ice hockey etc.). Familiarity information: HAT TRICK used as a noun is very rare.
Noun. 1. hat trick - (sports) three consecutive scores by one player or three scores in one game (as in cricket or ice hockey etc.). score-the act of scoring in a game or sport; the winning score came with less than a minute left to play. n. Sports. 1. Three goals scored by one player in one game, as in ice hockey. 2. Three wickets taken in cricket by a bowler in three consecutive balls. 3. Three consecutive wins or outstanding accomplishments by the same individual, such as a jockey in horse racing
A hat-trick or hat trick in sports is the achieving of a positive feat three times in a game, or other achievements based on threes in some sports. He is the only bowler to take three hat-tricks in any form of international cricket. Three players have taken at least two ODI hat-tricks in their careers: Wasim Akram and Saqlain Mushtaq of Pakistan and Chaminda Vaas of Sri Lanka. (Akram therefore has four international hat-tricks in total).