Established in 1823 and known as a “Little Ivy,” Trinity College is a private liberal arts college located in historic Hartford, CT. It comes in at No. 81 this year, marking a slight improvement from last year. Profile. 
Trinity University (Texas). Trinity University is a private liberal arts college in San Antonio, Texas, United States. Founded in 1869, its campus is located in the Monte Vista Historic District and adjacent to Brackenridge Park. 
Summary. Trinity University is a private institution that was founded in 1869. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,297, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 117 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. When applying to Trinity University, it's important to note the application deadline is February 1, and the early action deadline and the early decision deadline are November 1 and November 1, respectively. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due February 1.
Trinity College (Irish: Colaiste coláiste Na), trionoide tríonóide known in full As the college Of the Holy And undivided Trinity Of queen Elizabeth, near dublin is a research university and the sole constituent college Of the University of Dublin. in ireland Initially known as the Trinity Thunderbolts, the club now competes under the name  Trinity College . The most successful Trinity College sports club – based on Intervarsities victories – is Dublin University Fencing Club (DU Fencing Club).
Summary. Trinity College is a private institution that was founded in 1823. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,255, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 100 acres. It utilizes a 4-1-4-based academic calendar. Trinity College's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Liberal Arts Colleges, 43.
Our History. The institution now known as Duke University was founded in Randolph County, NC, in 1838, as Brown’s Schoolhouse. By 1859, it had been renamed Trinity College. Trinity College moved to Durham and what is now East Campus in 1892. In 1924, James B. Duke founded Duke University, named for his family. Trinity College became the undergraduate college for men
Trinity University has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,297, with a gender distribution of 47.5 percent male students and 52.5 percent female students. At this school, 75 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 25 percent of students live off campus. When applying to Trinity University, it's important to note the application deadline is February 1, and the early action deadline and the early decision deadline are November 1 and November 1, respectively. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due February 1.
Trinity College is a private liberal arts college in Hartford, Connecticut. Founded in 1823, it is the second-oldest college in the state of Connecticut after Yale University. Coeducational since 1969, the college enrolls 2,300 students. Trinity offers 38 majors and 26 minors, with a student to faculty ratio of 10:1. Trinity College, Rome Campus (TCRC) is a study abroad campus of Trinity College. It was established in 1970 and is located in a residential area of Rome on the Aventine Hill close to the Basilica of Santa Sabina within the precincts of a convent run by an order of nuns.