First, locate and press the Settings icon. It may be on a different screen or in a different location than shown here. Then select Mail, Contacts, Calendars... and select the email account you want to remove from your iPad. Then press the Delete Account button here. Press here to confirm you want to delete the account
Save. To remove one of your own email addresses from your iPad, you need to delete the account; to delete other people's email addresses, use the Contacts menu. Your iPad also allows you to remove addresses that pop up in your recent contacts list when you send emails if your list gets too large and intrusive. Delete an Email Address From Contacts. Tap Contacts on your Home screen and select the name of the person you intend to modify. Tap Edit. You can delete, create and edit contact details in Edit mode. (Image: Image courtesy Apple).
Launch the contacts app. Tap on the contact that you want to delete, when the contact appears on the right, tap the Edit button at the bottom and swipe down to Delete contact and tap on Delete.
I can delete email address from my contacts by opening the contacts age and touching the edit button. To the left of the email address is a red-circled minus sign, Touch that sign and a red delete button come up on the right. If it does not have a red-circled minus sign touch the entry and the minus sign should show up. That is what I have to do the address entry to et the minus sign to show up.
Step 1: Launch the Mail app on your iPhone or iPad. Step 2: Compose a new email. Step 3: In the To: field, start typing the first letters of the name or email address you want to remove. Step 4: You will see a list of email addresses that contain the same string of letters. 
Delete an Email Account. Tap Settings on your Home screen and open Mail, Contacts, Calendars. Tap the account you want to remove in the Accounts area. our iPhone (Image: Image courtesy Apple). Tap the Delete Account button and then Delete on the confirmation popup. Your iPad removes account data when you delete an email account. Delete an Email Address From Contacts. Tap Contacts on your Home screen and select the name of the person you intend to modify. Tap Edit. You can delete, create and edit contact details in Edit mode. (Image: Image courtesy Apple).
How to delete an email account on your iPad. This tutorial will show you how to delete an email account on your iPad. First, locate and press the Settings icon. It may be on a different screen or in a different location than shown here. Note: Deleting an email account from your iPad will also remove all messages that were in your iPad. That's it! The email account has been deleted from the iPad, and it is no longer listed here. Let's return to the home screen by pressing the Home button on the iPad.
Then select Mail, Contacts, Calendars... and select the email account you want to remove from your iPad. Then press the Delete Account button here. Press here to confirm you want to delete the account. Note: Deleting an email account from your iPad will also remove all messages that were in your iPad. That's it! The email account has been deleted from the iPad, and it is no longer listed here. Let's return to the home screen by pressing the Home button on the iPad.
If you have doubts on how to delete contacts from iPad, then here is how to remove the ones you don’t want from your device. Just follow the steps given below to remove or delete contacts from iPad. 1. Open Contacts. 2. Choose the contact you want to delete. 3. Tap on ” Edit “. 4. Go down and tap on Delete Contact. That’s all! Like this you could delete all the contacts you don’t want on your iPad.