A: OEM stands for Original Equipment Manufacturer. The OEM is the original producer of a vehicle's components, so OEM car parts are identical to the parts used in producing a vehicle. Aftermarket parts are produced by other vendors and do not necessarily have a consistent level of quality or compatibility with the vehicle. It is an accident of history that the term original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, changed over time to mean something very ... As of January 2015, the current price-to-earnings, or P/E, ratio was 15 for auto manufacturers and 20 for auto parts manufacturers.
OEM redirects here. For other uses, see OEM (disambiguation) . Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) is a term used when one company makes a part or subsystem that is used in another company's end product. The term is used in several ways each of which is clear in context. It can refer to a part or subsystems maker, an end product producer, or an automotive part that is manufactured by the same company that produced the original part used in assembly.
An aftermarket part is any part for a vehicle that is not sourced from the car's maker. If the parts are direct replacement parts, they will not void your car's warranty. A number of companies make parts designed to function the same, or in some cases even better than the original. OEM parts are Original Equipment Manufacturer parts.This means it is a vehicle part made by the car manufacturer. Many automotive companies also use outside manufacturers to design and produce the parts used on the vehicle and then the dealer adds their logo and packages it in their custom packaging.
Acronyms are funny like that. The real definition is easy to understand. OEM is usually used when referring to car or truck parts. If a part is called OEM, it was made by the manufacturer to be used in your car when it was new, and can be bought later to replace a broken part. For instance, if you drive a Ford, an OEM window switch was built by Ford to be used in your car
AutomotiveOEM™. AutomotiveOEM.com™ is a publisher of automotive original equipment manufacturer (OEM) data covering suppliers of parts, components, assemblies, services and technologies comprising the North American manufacturing supply chain. 
Aftermarket Parts. An aftermarket part is any part for a vehicle that is not sourced from the car's maker. If the parts are direct replacement parts, they will not void your car's warranty. A number of companies make parts designed to function the same, or in some cases even better than the original
Auto makers and tier suppliers come here to find more than 1,000 high-quality OEM parts and automotive supplies. Whether you need specified parts and materials for vehicle design or supplies for assembly plant operations, this is your one-stop automotive industry shop. Learn More ». 
Generally, an OEM is the company that makes a part that is marketed by another company typically as a component of the second company's product. For example, if Acme Manufacturing Co. makes power cords that are used on IBM computers, Acme is the OEM. The term is used in several ways each of which is clear in context. It can refer to a part or subsystems maker, an end product producer, or an automotive part that is manufactured by the same company that produced the original part used in assembly.