1 Soak 2 minutes; drain. 2  In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt butter; add flour, onion powder, salt, and pepper and cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. 3  Add milk and Worcestershire sauce; mix well. 4  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and stir in beef. 1 Place beef in a medium bowl and add enough warm water to cover. 2  Soak 2 minutes; drain. 3  In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt butter; add flour, onion powder, salt, and pepper and cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. 4  Add milk and Worcestershire sauce; mix well. 5  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and stir in beef.
Creamed chipped beef on toast is a popular breakfast dish in the United States. It is most commonly served in diners in the northeast, where I lived most of my life, though it can be found in other areas of the country as well. Put 2 cups of cold milk into a jar and add two to three tablespoons of flour. Place the lid on the jar and shake it up well until the flour and milk are well combined. The chipped beef can be use as is, in whole pieces as they came out of the jar, or you can slice them into smaller strips or squares.
In the United States, chipped beef on toast is commonly served to servicemembers of the United States Armed Forces. It was thus considered emblematic of the military experience, much as pea soup is in Finland or Sweden. Chipped beef on toast (S.O.S.) is the title of a book of military humor. In his World War II book Band of Brothers, Stephen E. Ambrose evokes the military basics: At the end of May, the men of Easy packed up their barracks bags and … [took] a stop-and-go train ride to Sturgis, Kentucky.
Chipped beef on toast (or creamed chipped beef on toast) is a culinary dish comprising a white sauce and rehydrated slivers of dried beef, served on toasted bread. Hormel recommends flavoring the dish with Worcestershire sauce and dried parsley. Chipped beef is also often served on bagels, English muffins, biscuits, home fries, rice, and in casseroles. It is often served in diners in the Northeastern United States, particularly in New Jersey. Chipped beef on toast (S.O.S.) is the title of a book of military humor. In his World War II book Band of Brothers, Stephen E. Ambrose evokes the military basics: At the end of May, the men of Easy packed up their barracks bags and … [took] a stop-and-go train ride to Sturgis, Kentucky.
S.O.S. stands for “Chipped Beef” (…except the word is actually Shit) on a Shingle. If you are over 50 you already know this and if you are under 50 you probably wouldn’t give a “chipped beef” if I said “chipped beef” in this post. This is my Papaw Virgil’s recipe. So this post is not about healthy food, it is about chipped beef and bread and love and memories, and the fact that some of my dearest memories smell of dried beef, canned oysters, Budweiser, axle grease, smoke, sawdust, exhaust, and coffee.
1 In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt butter; add flour, onion powder, salt, and pepper and cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. 2  Add milk and Worcestershire sauce; mix well. 3  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and stir in beef. 4  Cook 2 to 3 minutes, or until sauce is thickened, stirring constantly. 1 Place beef in a medium bowl and add enough warm water to cover. 2  Soak 2 minutes; drain. 3  In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt butter; add flour, onion powder, salt, and pepper and cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. 4  Add milk and Worcestershire sauce; mix well. 5  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and stir in beef.
Ad. While chipped beef is dried, it is not a tough cut of meat at all. In fact, some people enjoy eating it as a snack, placing a section or two on a cracker. Others will use it in hot cheese dips made of cheese, tomatoes, chili peppers. When paired with gravy, chipped beef can be used as a main dish over rice, or to make a quick and easy open face sandwich. However, there are a number of other ways to use it. Perhaps the single most popular method is preparing chipped beef on toast.
5 5. This Is a good recipe the trick to good chipped beef is use a high grade of smoked dry beef the harder it Is smoked the better you need that salt taste and I find that whole milk will change the taste also yes it Is not the best meal for the heart thats for sure! Its not something you should eat every week