It can go all the way up to the kidneys and cause kidney infection. When E coli in urine causes kidney infection, the symptoms may be different from that of lower urinary tract infection. Lower urinary tract infection with E coli usually causes symptoms that are limited to the urinary bladder and urethra. E coli in urine: severity of infection. When E coli first enter the urinary tract, they go to the lower urinary tract which is the portion below the urinary bladder. In normal healthy people with good immune system, E coli may be just flushed out in the urine before they get the chance to invade and infect.
E coli is one of the most predominant bacteria in the colon that can cause a UTI. Most urinary tract infections begins with a single bacteria making its way into the urethra and beginning to grow and multiply. A bacterial infection in the urethra is called urethritis. If the bacteria travels up the urethra to the bladder, it causes an infection of the bladder called cystitis. 
Urine is normally a sterile body fluid but, while leaving the body, it can become infected by bacteria. A common way for urine to contract bacteria is when it is kept in an infected bladder, which provides a fertile environment for bacteria to grow. Bacteria is the main cause of urinary tract infections. When a large concentration of bacteria is in the urine, it also could result in Asymptomatic bacteriuria, a harmless condition that often requires no treatment. Lactobacillus is a common vaginal contaminant that is usually present in women's urine and can cause infections when found in excessive amounts. A doctor can prescribe precautionary antibiotics to a patient at risk of developing an infection from lactobacillus.
Asymptomatic bacteriuria means you have bacteria in your urine but you have no symptoms of infection. If you are healthy, this condition is usually not a problem and not something that your healthcare provider needs to check for. Urine is normally sterile, which means that it contains no bacteria. A small number of bacteria may be found in the urine of many healthy people. This is usually considered to be harmless. However, a certain level of bacteria can mean that the bladder, urethra, or kidneys are infected.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. 
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative. If organisms grow in numbers large enough to indicate an infection, the culture is positive
Some microbes, such as lactobacillus, are normal in small amounts in the urine. Lactobacillus is a common vaginal contaminant that is usually present in women's urine and can cause infections when found in excessive amounts. A doctor can prescribe precautionary antibiotics to a patient at risk of developing an infection from lactobacillus.
Your doctor may also perform a urine culture, which is a test to determine the type of bacteria in the urine. Once the type of bacteria is known, testing the bacteria for antibiotic sensitivity is performed to determine what antibiotic will best treat the infection. This refers to a bacterial infection anywhere in the urinary tract, such as the bladder, kidneys, ureters, or the urethra. While most cases of bladder infection occur suddenly (acute), others may recur over the long-term (chronic).