So, you may also use lemon juice to make homemade bleach. Citric acid contained in lemon juice exfoliates your skin, which is essential to speed up the treatment of acne. It also allows you dry the pimples as it acts as an astringent. Furthermore, you may compliment the cleansing properties of lemon juice as you mix it with Aloe Vera and apply it on your face. It would be a good idea to wash your face with lemon juice every night. This lightens your skin color as lemon comprise in astringent properties.
Ok Ive been hearing recently that lemon juice is bad for your skin. But alot of people have also been saying its good. Posted. It's saying that excess of anything is not good..It can harm your health..SO lemon juice is not bad,infact it is a good thing to intake..But it has its limit also..Even lemon juice is used to make face packs also,dry lemon or we can say powder form of lemon is also useful.. 1  Back to top.
Report Abuse. Lemon juice is an acid, which pretty much completely dries out your skin. It's not BAD for your skin, but you definitely shouldn't wash your whole face with the lemon juice; dry skin all over isn't good. What you SHOULD do with lemon juice: 1. Wash your face with a facial cleanser you prefer (most dermatologists will suggest cetaphil, but just test out different cleansers. Make sure your cleanser doesn't leave your skin either oily or dry.) 2. Dry your face by dabbing at it with a towel.
Lemon juice works as a toner, especially if you have oily skin. Simply dilute lemon juice with water and use it. However, it is important to note that lemon juice is after all an acid and should therefore be kept away from eyes. Diluting lemon juice with water is also advisable if your skin is relatively sensitive. Else a dab of honey, egg white, or yogurt also works great for people whose skin is sensitive and easily gets dry as they apply lemon juice. Furthermore, you may compliment the cleansing properties of lemon juice as you mix it with Aloe Vera and apply it on your face. It would be a good idea to wash your face with lemon juice every night. This lightens your skin color as lemon comprise in astringent properties.
Probably one of the most well-known and proven benefits of lemon is that it has been able to effectively eradicate hair problems related to dandruff and dry scalp. 1  Simply rub lemon slices onto your scalp and leave the juice on for an hour or so. 2  You can magnify the effect by adding 4 tablespoons of vinegar. 
Lemon is a good for your hair too, as it helps in removing dandruff. Rubbing or massaging lemon juice on your hair regulates the blood in your head helping in hair growth. The glands are regulated too which help in producing oil to have a beautiful and shiny hair. It is also used to remove blackheads. If you rub lemon juice over blackheads, keep it overnight and rinse it in the morning it will help you tremendously. Continue doing this every night till the blackheads are gone. It can also be used as a breath mint.
For ages this lemon has been used as one of the foremost and most useful beauty product we can imagine. With its rich content of nutrients it helps you with your skin as well as your hair. Lemon by itself or with any other ingredient makes a very good amalgamation for skin or hair care. It is so common that anyone or everyone can use it. It is also used to remove blackheads. If you rub lemon juice over blackheads, keep it overnight and rinse it in the morning it will help you tremendously. Continue doing this every night till the blackheads are gone. It can also be used as a breath mint.
With the help of a little lemon juice you can toss it in a salad instead. Add the juice of half a lemon to a bowl of cold water. Then put the soggy lettuce in it and refrigerate for 1 hour. Make sure to dry the leaves completely before putting them into salads or sandwiches. 