Direct stimulation of the α- and β- adrenergic receptors can produce sympathomimetic effects. Salbutamol is a very commonly used direct-acting β2-agonist. Other examples include phenylephrine, isoproterenol, and dobutamine. The symptoms of physical withdrawal from stimulants can include fatigue, dysphoric mood, increased appetite, vivid or lucid dreams, hypersomnia or insomnia, increased movement or decreased movement, anxiety, and drug craving, as is apparent in the rebound withdrawal from certain substituted amphetamines.
sympathomimetic drugs. Drugs that produce an effect similar to that obtained by stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. Some of these predominantly act on the adrenergic alpha-receptors (e.g. noradrenaline (norepinephrine)), while others act on the adrenergic beta-receptors (e.g. isoproterenol).
Adverse effects of sympathomimetic drugs may be nervousness, severe headache, anxiety, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, dilated pupils, glycosuria, and dysuria. Also called adrenergic drug. a pharmacologic agent that mimics the effects of stimulation of organs and structures by the sympathetic nervous system. It functions by occupying adrenergic receptor sites and acting as an agonist or by increasing the release of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine at postganglionic nerve endings.
The mechanisms of sympathomimetic drugs can be direct-acting, such as α-adrenergic agonists, β-adrenergic agonists, and dopaminergic agonists; or indirect-acting, such as MAOIs, COMT inhibitors, release stimulants, and reuptake inhibitors that increase the levels of endogenous catecholamines. The symptoms of physical withdrawal from stimulants can include fatigue, dysphoric mood, increased appetite, vivid or lucid dreams, hypersomnia or insomnia, increased movement or decreased movement, anxiety, and drug craving, as is apparent in the rebound withdrawal from certain substituted amphetamines.
Directly acting sympathomimetic drugs. Sympathomimetic drugs can be classified according to their mode of action, either direct on the receptors and they are often called adrenergic agonists, or indirect by increase in dopamine or noradrenaline concentration in synapses. 
Included in the list of sympathomimetic drugs are beta-adrenoceptor agonists and alpha-adrenoceptor agonists. Some sympathomimetics stimulate the release of norepinephrine from sympathetic nerves in addition to their receptor agonist activities. 
Sympathomimetic drugs basically mean imitating, and they are so called because they have a similar effect to the action of the sympathomimetic nervous system. 1  Adrenaline is the most famous sympathomimetic drug, but it is rarely used in day to day asthma management. 2  Adrenaline is reserved for emergencies. 1 Adrenaline is reserved for emergencies. 2  Ephedrine is another form of sympathomimetic drug, but nowadays it is used less frequently. 3  Ephedrine is known to work quickly, but it may cause shakiness and tremors. 4  Doctors nowadays prescribe more sophisticated drugs.
Sympathomimetic. Denoting a drug that mimics the effects of stimulation of organs and structures by the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system pertains to the part of the nervous system originating in the thoracic and lumbar regions of the spinal cord. a pharmacologic agent that mimics the effects of stimulation of organs and structures by the sympathetic nervous system. It functions by occupying adrenergic receptor sites and acting as an agonist or by increasing the release of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine at postganglionic nerve endings.
These drugs can act through several mechanisms, such as directly activating postsynaptic receptors, blocking breakdown and reuptake of certain neurotransmitters, or stimulating production and release of catecholamines. The symptoms of physical withdrawal from stimulants can include fatigue, dysphoric mood, increased appetite, vivid or lucid dreams, hypersomnia or insomnia, increased movement or decreased movement, anxiety, and drug craving, as is apparent in the rebound withdrawal from certain substituted amphetamines.
Adrenergic drugs are also called adrenergic amines or sympathomimetic drugs. They are medicines that work by stimulating the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) . The SNS is part of the automatic nervous system (ANS). It helps to regulate your body’s reaction to stress or an emergency. Adrenergic drugs stimulate the same nerves by either mimicking the action of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine or stimulating its release. They are used for many life-threatening conditions. These include cardiac arrest, shock, or opening the airways during an asthma attack or allergic reaction.