Located in the heart of South America, Paraguay is a landlocked, agricultural country about the size of California. It shares its borders with Brazil, Argentina, and Bolivia. The Parana-Paraguay River system is Paraguay's commercial access to the outside world. Animals found in Paraguay include the jaguar (especially numerous in the Chaco), wild boar, capybara, deer, armadillo, anteater, fox, brown wolf, carpincho, and tapir. Paraguay abounds with crocodiles along its watercourses, and the boa constrictor thrives in the west. The carnivorous piranha is common.
Land and Resources, Plants and Animals. The plants and animals of Paraguay are substantially the same as neighboring South American countries. Paraguay proper, where rainfall is heavy, is covered by dense evergreen forests interspersed with a wide variety of tropical grasses, ferns, palms, and exotic flowers. In the Gran Chaco, vegetation is comparatively sparse but includes the red quebracho tree, a rich source of tannin extract. The animals of Paraguay include armadillos, capybaras (a type of large rodent), tapirs, jaguars, anteaters, wild boar, deer, alligators, and various species of snake.
Plants Animals Climate Northeast Asian Deciduous Forest Deciduous forests can be found in the eastern half of North America, and the middle of Europe. There are many deciduous forests in Asia. Some of the major areas that they are in are southwest Russia, Japan, and eastern China. Northeast Asian Deciduous Forest.
Cacti known solely from Paraguay include Gymnocalycium paraguayense (cactusinhabit), Frailea concepcionensis (Frailea), Echinopsis hahniana (Panos & Stavros), Cereus lanosus (CactiGuide.com), and Parodia nigrispina (cactusinhabit) . Important freshwater ecoregions include the Paraguay (FEOW), the Upper Parana (FEOW), and the Lower Parana (FEOW). For a list of recently described species from Paraguay see (PyBio).
In 2006 WLT started a major tree planting initiative, which has enabled Guyra Paraguay to plant native tree species and encourage the natural regeneration of forest on degraded land surrounding the Guyra Reta Reserve. Jaguars occur in all the WLT supported reserves in Paraguay, including in Guyra Reta. San Rafael: Atlantic Forest in Paraguay. The forests of San Rafael are considered to be the most important tract of remaining Atlantic Forest in Paraguay. But while San Rafael has National Park status, there is little active protection.
Mixobrycon ribeiroi (CAS) is an endemic genus of characin. Mammals unique to Paraguay include the Chacoan Tuco-tuco Ctenomys dorsalis (IUCN Red List) (BHL) and the Pilar Tuco-tuco Ctenomys pilarensis (Fauna Paraguay) . An additional tuco-tuco Ctenomys paraguayensis (MACN pdf file) was described in 2000. Important freshwater ecoregions include the Paraguay (FEOW), the Upper Parana (FEOW), and the Lower Parana (FEOW). For a list of recently described species from Paraguay see (PyBio).
Animals in Paraguay. Paraguay is located in South America near the Paraguay River. This country is home to grassy plains and wooded forests. In the eastern portion of the country, there are numerous low, marshy plains. Paraguay is home to many species of animals, some that are unique to this Southern America country. There are many different species of animals in Paraguay. They include the pampas deer, marsh deer, water opossum, and many types of armadillos. Wild boars also roam the forested areas of Paraguay. The South American city of Paraguay is home to many different habitats, such as rivers, grassy plains, and forests. Due to the varied habitats, there are many species of animals that make their homes in Paraguay. Some of these animals are native only to Paraguay while others are also native to other countries.