Alcoholic hepatitis is a syndrome with a spectrum of severity, and therefore manifesting symptoms vary. Symptoms may be nonspecific and mild and include anorexia and weight loss, abdominal pain and distention, or nausea and vomiting. 
The diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis is straightforward and requires no further diagnostic studies in patients presenting with a history of alcohol abuse, typical symptoms and physical findings, evidence of liver functional impairment, and compatible liver enzyme levels. Women develop alcoholic hepatitis after a shorter period and smaller amounts of alcohol abuse than men, and alcoholic hepatitis progresses more rapidly in women than in men. The estimated minimum daily ethanol intake required for the development of cirrhosis is 40 g for men and 20 g for women older than 15-20 years.
Signs and symptoms of alcoholic hepatitis include jaundice, ascites (fluid accumulation in the abdominal cavity), fatigue and hepatic encephalopathy (brain dysfunction due to liver failure). Mild cases are self-limiting, but severe cases have a high risk of death. Severe cases may be treated with glucocorticoids. Signs and symptoms [edit]. Alcoholic hepatitis is characterized by a myriad of symptoms, which may include feeling unwell, enlargement of the liver, development of fluid in the abdomen (ascites), and modest elevation of liver enzyme levels (as determined by liver function tests).
Should you, or anyone that you know, contract the signs of alcoholic hepatitis, or even if you feel that you may have a drinking problem that may result in the eventuality of you contracting this disease, do see a doctor, and take immediate action. Alcoholic HepatitisA life-threatening condition commonly caused by excessive and prolonged consumption of alcohol. While the milder forms of the disease may not produce any noticeable symptoms, the more damaged the liver gets, the more signs and symptoms will develop.
If you’re diagnosed with alcoholic hepatitis, you must stop drinking alcohol. People who continue to drink alcohol face a high risk of serious liver damage and death. Symptoms. 1  Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) and increasing girth (due to fluid accumulation). 2  Loss of appetite. 3  Nausea and vomiting. 4  Abdominal pain and tenderness. 5  Weight loss.
If you have a mild case of the disease, you may not experience any symptoms. However as more damage occurs, you may begin to experience: 1  changes in appetite. 2  dry mouth. 3  weight loss. 4  nausea and vomiting. 5  pain or swelling in the abdomen. 6  yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice). 7  fever
Alcoholic hepatitis. Alcoholic hepatitis is characterized by fat deposition in liver cells, inflammation and mild scarring of the liver. Symptoms may include loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fever and jaundice. Liver enzymes are elevated and tests of liver function may be abnormal. Up to 35 percent of heavy drinkers develop alcoholic hepatitis and of these 55% already have cirrhosis. Alcoholic hepatitis can be mild or severe. Between 10 and 20 percent of heavy drinkers develop cirrhosis. Symptoms of cirrhosis may be similar to those of severe alcoholic hepatitis. Cirrhosis is the most advanced type of alcohol-related liver disease and is not reversed with abstinence. However, abstinence may improve the symptoms and signs of liver disease and prevent further damag
Alcoholic hepatitis is hepatitis (inflammation of the liver) due to excessive intake of alcohol. It is usually found in association with fatty liver, an early stage of alcoholic liver disease, and may contribute to the progression of fibrosis, leading to cirrhosis. Signs and symptoms [edit]. Alcoholic hepatitis is characterized by a myriad of symptoms, which may include feeling unwell, enlargement of the liver, development of fluid in the abdomen (ascites), and modest elevation of liver enzyme levels (as determined by liver function tests).