The term sciatica describes a symptom rather than a specific disease. Some use it to mean any pain starting in the lower back and going down the leg. Others use the term more specifically to mean a nerve dysfunction caused by compression of one or more lumbar or sacral nerve roots from a spinal disc herniation. Sciatica can also be caused by tumours impinging on the spinal cord or the nerve roots. Severe back pain extending to the hips and feet, loss of bladder or bowel control, or muscle weakness may result from spinal tumours or cauda equina syndrome.
The sciatic nerve runs from the lower back through the back of each leg, and branches off to parts of the leg and to the foot and toes. Sciatic pain can be experienced anywhere along this nerve route, from the low back, the buttock, the back of the thigh, the calf, the foot or the toes. Technically, it refers to pain caused by compression or irritation of one or more nerves exiting the lower spine that make up the sciatic nerve, and there are a number of different conditions that can cause this. 1  See Sciatica Causes.
The term lumbosacral refers to the lower part of the spine, and radiculopathy describes a problem with the spinal nerve roots that pass between the vertebrae and give rise to the sciatic nerve. This area between the vertebrae is cushioned with a disk of shockabsorbing tissue. Pain in the lower back and hip radiating down the back of the thigh into the leg, initially attributed to sciatic nerve dysfunction (hence the term), but now known to usually be due to herniated lumbar disc compromising the L5 or S1 root. See: sciatic. (Contugno), Domenico Felice Antonio, Italian anatomist, 1736-1822.
Anything that irritates this nerve can cause pain that ranges from mild to severe; usually, from a compressed nerve root in the lumbar (lower) spine. Often, the term sciatica is confused with general back pain. However, sciatica is not just limited to the back. The sciatic nerve is the longest and widest nerve in the human body. It runs from the lower back, through the buttocks, and down the legs, ending just below the knee.
Pain: An unpleasant sensation that can range from mild, localized discomfort to agony. Pain has both physical and emotional components. The physical part of pain results from nerve stimulation. Pain may be contained to a discrete area, as in an injury, or it can be more diffuse, as in disorders like fibromyalgia. 
This nerve runs from the lower part of the spinal cord, down the back of the leg, to the foot. Injury to or pressure on the sciatic nerve can cause the characteristic pain of sciatica: a sharp or burning pain that radiates from the lower back or hip, possibly following the path of the sciatic nerve to the foot. Pain in the lower back and hip radiating down the back of the thigh into the leg, initially attributed to sciatic nerve dysfunction (hence the term), but now known to usually be due to herniated lumbar disc compromising the L5 or S1 root. See: sciatic. (Contugno), Domenico Felice Antonio, Italian anatomist, 1736-1822.
Sciatica (/saɪˈaetɪkə/), saɪˈætɪkə also known as sciatic, neuritis sciatic, neuralgia or lumbar, radiculopathy is when pain is felt going down the leg from the. Back this pain may go down the, back, outside or front of the. Leg, typically symptoms are only on one side of the. body Sciatica can also be caused by tumours impinging on the spinal cord or the nerve roots. Severe back pain extending to the hips and feet, loss of bladder or bowel control, or muscle weakness may result from spinal tumours or cauda equina syndrome.
Other causes of sciatica include: 1  Lumbar spinal stenosis-a narrowing of the spinal cord (a channel within the vertebrae that contains the nerves) in the lower back that may compress the sciatic nerve. 2  Spondylolisthesis-a condition in which a disc may slip forward over the vertebra below it, pinching the sciatic nerve. Often, the term sciatica is confused with general back pain. However, sciatica is not just limited to the back. The sciatic nerve is the longest and widest nerve in the human body. It runs from the lower back, through the buttocks, and down the legs, ending just below the knee.
pain felt from the lower back to the buttock, and down the back of the leg to the outside of the foot, due to compression of the spinal nerve roots that form the sciatic nerve, aggravated by bending forwards-the 'slump test'. May cause detectable sensory loss and occasionally foot-drop. Pain in the lower back and hip radiating down the back of the thigh into the leg, initially attributed to sciatic nerve dysfunction (hence the term), but now known to usually be due to herniated lumbar disc compromising the L5 or S1 root. See: sciatic. (Contugno), Domenico Felice Antonio, Italian anatomist, 1736-1822.