Once the dendrites detect some form of stimuli, the cell body generates an electrical impulse called an action potential, which travels down a wire-like structure called an axon to its destination. Ad. The three basic types of nerve cells are motor neurons, sensory neurons and interneurons. A motor neuron is a cell that transmits a signal to a muscle or gland. Sensory neurons receive information from sensory organs and transmit that information back to the central nervous system. On a fundamental level, a nerve cell functions by transmitting and receiving electrochemical messages. These messages can serve several purposes, including the transmission of sensory information to the central nervous system and the regulation and control of organs in the body.
Some kind of stimulus triggers an electric discharge of the cell which is analogous to the discharge of a capacitor. This produces an electrical pulse on the order of 50-70 millivolts called an action potential. The electrical impulse propagates down the fiber-like extension of the nerve cell (the axon). The dendrites serve as the stimulus receptors for the neuron, but they respond to a number of different types of stimuli. The neurons in the optic nerve respond to electrical stimuli sent by the cells of the retina. Other types of receptors respond to chemical neurotransmitters.
The action potential only occurs if the stimulus causes enough sodium ions enter the cell to change the membrane potential to a certain threshold level. At the threshold, sodium gates open in the membrane and allow a sudden flood of sodium ions to enter the cell. The Action Potential [back to top]. The resting potential tells us about what happens when a neurone is at rest. An action potential occurs when a neurone sends information down an axon. This involves an explosion of electrical activity, where the nerve and muscle cells resting membrane potential changes.
Nerve cells—also known as neurons—are the primary building blocks of the nervous system in humans and animals. On a fundamental level, a nerve cell functions by transmitting and receiving electrochemical messages. These messages can serve several purposes, including the transmission of sensory information to the central nervous system and the regulation and control of organs in the body.
Types of Neurons (Nerve Cells). The human body is made up of trillions of cells. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential. 
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. Neurons can connect to each other to form neural networks. Neurons are the core components of the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and of the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells. Cells are specialized in their anatomy and physiology to perform different tasks. All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell
Because of this unequal movement, the exterior of the cell becomes positive relative to the interior. So, at rest, the membrane is said to be polarized.  The nerve impulse is an electrochemical message generated by the movement of ions through the membrane.  When the nerve is excited, the potential charge difference across the membrane changes to +40 mV. This is called the action potential. 
In neurons, they play a central role in cell-to-cell communication. In other types of cells, their main function is to activate intracellular processes. In muscle cells, for example, an action potential is the first step in the chain of events leading to contraction. In beta cells of the pancreas, they provoke release of insulin. Action potentials in neurons are also known as  nerve impulses  or spikes, and the temporal sequence of action potentials generated by a neuron is called its  spike train .