Fluctuations in blood sugar levels during menopause are caused by the lower levels of estrogen. This hormone controls the cells response to insulin, and also seems to influence the production and secretion of insulin in the body. Symptom of Blood Sugar. The symptoms of low and high blood sugar vary. If a woman has high blood sugar, then her body does not have enough insulin to regulate the amount of blood sugar in her body. She is likely to experience nausea, blurred vision, extreme thirst, extreme hunger, drowsiness and the need to urinate frequentl
Blood pressure generally increases after menopause. Some doctors think this increase suggests that the hormonal changes of menopause may play a role in high blood pressure. Others think an increase in body mass index (BMI) in menopausal women may play a greater role than hormonal changes. Menopause-related hormonal changes can lead to weight gain and make your blood pressure more reactive to salt in your diet — which, in turn, can lead to higher blood pressure. Some types of hormone therapy (HT) for menopause also may contribute to increases in blood pressure.
This type of activity may help lower the blood sugar in a person with diabetes. People with diabetes should participate in mild to moderate physical activity because the activity may lower blood glucose and increase overall fitness. 
Menopause and Blood Sugar. Menopause is the time of life when a woman’s menstrual cycle comes to an end, and as a result, she experiences various symptoms linked to this. Because her female reproductive hormones, namely progesterone and estrogen, significantly decrease, a number of changes occur in her body. Symptom of Blood Sugar. The symptoms of low and high blood sugar vary. If a woman has high blood sugar, then her body does not have enough insulin to regulate the amount of blood sugar in her body. She is likely to experience nausea, blurred vision, extreme thirst, extreme hunger, drowsiness and the need to urinate frequentl
1 If your blood sugar gets out of control, you have a higher risk of diabetes complications. 2  Weight gain. 3  Some women gain weight during the menopausal transition and after menopause. 4  This can increase the need for insulin or oral diabetes medication. 1 After menopause, hot flashes and night sweats may keep you up at night. 2  In turn, the sleep deprivation can make it tougher to manage your blood sugar level. 3  Sexual problems. 4  Diabetes can damage the nerves of the cells that line the vagina.
1 After menopause, changes in your hormone levels can trigger fluctuations in your blood sugar level. 2  You may notice that your blood sugar level is more variable and less predictable than before. 3  If your blood sugar gets out of control, you have a higher risk of diabetes complications. 4  Weight gain. 1 After menopause, hot flashes and night sweats may keep you up at night. 2  In turn, the sleep deprivation can make it tougher to manage your blood sugar level. 3  Sexual problems. 4  Diabetes can damage the nerves of the cells that line the vagina.
1 You may notice that your blood sugar level is more variable and less predictable than before. 2  If your blood sugar gets out of control, you have a higher risk of diabetes complications. 3  Weight gain. 4  Some women gain weight during the menopausal transition and after menopause. 1 After menopause, hot flashes and night sweats may keep you up at night. 2  In turn, the sleep deprivation can make it tougher to manage your blood sugar level. 3  Sexual problems. 4  Diabetes can damage the nerves of the cells that line the vagina.
Menopause and Blood Sugar Fluctuations. The carbohydrates you eat provide your body with fuel in the form of glucose. Blood sugar refers to the amount of glucose in your body. A normal blood sugar is about 80 mg/dl after fasting or before a meal. However, typical blood sugar levels may fluctuate between 80 mg/dl and 120 mg/dl. Abnormal blood sugar fluctuations can occur for a number of reasons and leave you feeling tired, hungry, irritable and unable to concentrate. You may also feel dizzy or experience blurred vision.