Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepiness caused by orphenadrine. Tell your doctor if you regularly use any of these medicines, or any other muscle relaxer. Do not take this medication if you are allergic to orphenadrine, or if you have: 1  problems with urination; 2  enlarged prostate; 3  glaucoma; 4  a blockage in your stomach or intestines; 5  trouble swallowing; or.
Do not take this medication if you are allergic to orphenadrine, or if you have problems withurination, an enlarged prostate, glaucoma, a blockage in your stomach or intestines, troubleswallowing, or myasthenia gravis. Do not crush, chew, or break the extended-release tablet.Swallow the pill whole. Avoid drinking alcohol, which canincrease some of the side effects of orphenadrine. Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic painmedicine, sleeping pills, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepinesscaused by
Confidence votes 1.8K. Norflex is not a narcotic but the main side effects of this drug is drowsiness and dizziness. Please take caution when taking other drugs with this one and always consult a medical professional anytime you mix two drugs. I can tell you some information on this drug though
Narcotic abuse (addiction of narcotic (pain killer)) has been reported by people with drug abuse and dependence, pain, depression, back pain, stress and anxiety. (latest reports from 10,568 Narcotic abuse patients). On Sep, 18, 2015: 796 people reported to have side effects when taking Norflex. Among them, 5 people (0.63%) have Narcotic Abuse. Join a support group on : - support group for people who take Norflex and have Narcotic Abuse-support group for people who take Norflex-support group for people who have Narcotic Abuse. Recent conversations of related support groups: 1  Support group for people who take Norflex.  2 Hi.
Orphenadrine is a muscle relaxant. It works byblocking nerve impulses (or pain sensations)that are sent to your brain.Orphenadrine is used together with rest andphysical therapy to treat skeletal muscleconditions such as pain or injury.Orphenadrine may also be used for otherpurposes not listed in this medication guide. Avoid drinking alcohol, which canincrease some of the side effects of orphenadrine. Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic painmedicine, sleeping pills, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepinesscaused by
Do not take this medication if you are allergic to orphenadrine, or if you have problems with urination, an enlarged prostate, glaucoma, a blockage in your stomach or intestines, trouble swallowing, or myasthenia gravis. Do not crush, chew, or break the extended-release tablet. Swallow the pill whole. Do not take this medication if you are allergic to orphenadrine, or if you have: 1  problems with urination; 2  enlarged prostate; 3  glaucoma; 4  a blockage in your stomach or intestines; 5  trouble swallowing; or.
Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepiness caused by orphenadrine. Tell your doctor if you regularly use any of these medicines, or any other muscle relaxer. Orphenadrine is used together with rest and physical therapy to treat skeletal muscle conditions such as pain or injury. Orphenadrine may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Orphenadrine is a muscle relaxant. It works by blocking nerve impulses (or pain sensations) that are sent to your brain. Orphenadrine is used together with rest and physical therapy to treat skeletal muscle conditions such as pain or injury. Orphenadrine may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Do not take this medication if you are allergic to orphenadrine, or if you have problems with urination, an enlarged prostate, glaucoma, a blockage in your stomach or intestines, trouble swallowing, or myasthenia gravis
Summary: Narcotic abuse is reported only by a few people who take Norflex. We study 796 people who have side effects while taking Norflex from FDA and social media. Among them, 5 have Narcotic abuse. Find out below who they are, when they have Narcotic abuse and more. Join a support group on : - support group for people who take Norflex and have Narcotic Abuse-support group for people who take Norflex-support group for people who have Narcotic Abuse. Recent conversations of related support groups: 1  Support group for people who take Norflex.  2 Hi.