The type of shark they are asking for is clearly a Great White  Shark.   It's alot faster than 1 mph, a human swims 2-5 mph average.   It depends on what kind of shar … k, but the mako can get up to 45-50  mph in short bursts. When a shark is hitting prey from underneath  they can reach up to 30mph. 12 people found this useful.
Best Answer: Sharks typically swim with the even, liquid grace of a creature completely at home with its place in the Universe. Large sharks generally cruise at a leisurely 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometres) per hour. Because most species fare poorly in captivity, the maximum swimming speed of a shark has seldom been measured. If, as Thorburn and Bhana attest, the shark did indeed start from a standstill-which seems behaviorally unlikely-to cover the stated distance in the stated time, the little Mako must have achieved an acceleration of at least 50 feet (15 metres) per second, per second.
The great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias), also known as the great white, white pointer, white shark, or white death, is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans. This shark reaches its maturity around 15 years of age and was previously believed to have a life span of over 30 years. The true lifespan of great white sharks is far longer, now estimated to be as long as 70 years or more, making it one of the longest lived cartilaginous fish currently known.
The shortfin mako shark is the fastest species of shark. Its speed has been recorded at 40 km/h (25 mph) with bursts of up to 74 km/h (46 mph). This high-leaping fish-they can leap approximately 9 m (30 ft) high or higher in the air-is a highly sought-after game fish worldwide. 
Tiger sharks have a maximum speed of about 32 km per hour, which equates to around 20 miles per hour. It's alot faster than 1 mph, a human swims 2-5 mph average.   It depends on what kind of shar … k, but the mako can get up to 45-50  mph in short bursts. When a shark is hitting prey from underneath  they can reach up to 30mph. 12 people found this useful.
Sharks swim at an average speed of 5 MPH but when feeding or attacking they can reach speeds upwards to 12 MPH. The shortfin mako can reach speeds up to 31 MPH. It's alot faster than 1 mph, a human swims 2-5 mph average.   It depends on what kind of shar … k, but the mako can get up to 45-50  mph in short bursts. When a shark is hitting prey from underneath  they can reach up to 30mph. 12 people found this useful.
Great white sharks can accelerate to over 56 km/h (35 mph). The great white shark has no natural predators other than the killer whale. The great white shark is arguably the world's largest known extant macropredatory fish, and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals. This shark reaches its maturity around 15 years of age and was previously believed to have a life span of over 30 years. The true lifespan of great white sharks is far longer, now estimated to be as long as 70 years or more, making it one of the longest lived cartilaginous fish currently known.
Whale sharks are slow swimmers and their top speed is no more than 5 miles (8 kilometers per hour) probably due to the fact that whale shark is the biggest fish in the world. It reaches a length of 40 ft (12 m) and weighs up to 13 tons (12 metric tons). Great white sharks are one of the fast movers in water. Normally sharks swim at a speed of less than 5 kph but few species such as mako sharks are able to cruise at a speed of 48 kph. Makos are the world’s fastest swimmers. They are agile hunters; built for the speed and chasing prey. Their body is thickest at the center and narrow at the ends
This species is a relatively fast growing shark, reaching maturity at about 4-5 years of age and living longer than 10 years. Number of pups per litter is usually 4 to 6. Maximum size of blacktips off the U.S. eastern seaboard is about 6 feet in length. 