Despite the fact that mollusks are very susceptible to changes in their environment because of their permeable skin and soft body (often with an exoskeleton in the form of a shell), they have adapted to all of the main environments of our planet—marine, freshwater, and terrestrial. 1 With 41% of the 736 documented extinctions of all animal species, the number of mollusks exceeds that of any other major taxonomic group 3. 2  Most documented endangered mollusk species are non marine (they live in freshwater or terrestrial environments) 5.
With over 50000+ species, mollusks live in almost every environment on the planet. From the tops of trees to the bottom of the sea. They live in the desert heat and the Arctic … cold. They live in rivers, streams both in fresh and saltwater. See the related link for more information. The mollusks or molluscs are the large and diverse phylum Mollusca, which includes a variety of familiar creatures well-known for their decorative shells or as seafood. These … range from tiny snails, clams, and abalone to the octopus, cuttlefish and squid (which are considered the most intelligent invertebrates).
“Mollusks, which include land snails, freshwater snails, mussels, clams, and slugs, are vital to healthy ecosystems. Land snails, for example, not only provide food for a host of small mammals and birds, but they play vital roles in recycling forest nutrients. 
Mollusks are members of the phylum mollusca. Mollusks have been evolving in the sea for over 600 million years and there are more than 100 000 mollusks species. The mollusks phylum includes tiny snails, squid, octopus, clams, oysters, abalone, and cuttlefish. They are considered to be the most intelligent of the invertabrate species. The study of mollusks is called malacology. There are four main classes in the phylum mollusca, gastropods, bivalve, cephalopod and Polyplacophora. Gastropods include nudibranches, slugs and snails. They compose over one third of the mollusk group and most are single spiral shells but some have no shells.
Roundworms are a member of the nemathelminths phylum or group of animals. The hookworm, pinworm and trichinella are part of this group. They are more advanced than flatworms but less advanced than earthworms. They have thin round bodies, with none of the pieces or segments that earthworms have in their bodies. 
There are many thousands of species of sea snails and sea slugs, as well as freshwater snails, freshwater limpets, land snails and land slugs. The class Gastropoda contains a vast total of named species, second only to the insects in overall number. The fossil history of this class goes back to the Late Cambrian. Some of the more familiar and better-known gastropods are terrestrial gastropods (the land snails and slugs) and some live in freshwater, but more than two thirds of all named species live in a marine environment.
The Gastropoda or gastropods, more commonly known as snails and slugs, are a large taxonomic class within the phylum Mollusca. The class Gastropoda includes snails and slugs of all kinds and all sizes from microscopic to large. Some of the more familiar and better-known gastropods are terrestrial gastropods (the land snails and slugs) and some live in freshwater, but more than two thirds of all named species live in a marine environment.
Not all mollusks have shells. Mollusks are a group of soft-bodied animals that includes snails, scallops, clams, and sea slugs. Most mollusks have shells: univalves, like snails, have one shell; bivalves, like clams, have two. Some mollusks, such as the squid and octopus, have lost their shells during their evolution. 1 With 41% of the 736 documented extinctions of all animal species, the number of mollusks exceeds that of any other major taxonomic group 3. 2  Most documented endangered mollusk species are non marine (they live in freshwater or terrestrial environments) 5.
Many species of mollusks are commercially exploited for human consumption (for example mussels, clams, oysters, squids). Compared to the meat of other animals, the food prepared from mollusks has high nutritious value, as it contains high protein content and many amino acids, and they are relatively in low fat content. 1 With 41% of the 736 documented extinctions of all animal species, the number of mollusks exceeds that of any other major taxonomic group 3. 2  Most documented endangered mollusk species are non marine (they live in freshwater or terrestrial environments) 5.