Tenosynovitis is the inflammation of the sheath (called the synovium) that surrounds a tendon. Tenosynovitis symptoms include pain, swelling and difficulty moving the joint where the inflammation occurs. 
De Quervain's tenosynovitis is inflammation of tendons on the side of the wrist at the base of the thumb. These tendons include the extensor pollicis brevis and the abductor pollicis longus tendons, which extend the joints of the thumb. 
Background. Tenosynovitis is inflammation of a tendon and its sheath. Most acute cases of flexor tenosynovitis (FT), which involves disruption of normal flexor tendon function in the hand, are the result of infection.
Definition. Tenosynovitis is an inflammation of the tenosynovium, a sheath that covers tendons. Tendons are the cords that connect bones to muscles in the body. Tenosynovitis can occur in any tendon with a synovial sheath. However, it most often occurs in the hand, wrist, or foot
tenosynovitis. inflammation of a tendon and its sheath, usually seen in the hands and wrists or feet and ankles; it is often the result of intense and continued use, as with pianists and typists. It is painful, and may temporarily disable the affected part. Rheumatoid and other types of arthritis frequently involve tendon sheaths. Tenosynovitis. Inflammation of the sheath of tissue that surrounds a tendon. Tenosynovitis is a common complication of animal bites containing anaerobic bacteria.
Tenosynovitis is the inflammation of the fluid-filled sheath (called the synovium) that surrounds a tendon. Symptoms of tenosynovitis include pain, swelling and difficulty moving the particular joint where the inflammation occurs. Tenosynovitis most commonly results from the introduction of bacteria into a sheath through a small penetrating wound such as that made by the point of needle or thorn. Repeated use of hand tools can precede the condition, as well as arthritis or injury
tenosynovitis. inflammation of a tendon and its sheath, the lubricated layer of tissue in which the tendon is housed and through which it moves. It is painful, and may temporarily disable the affected part. Arthritis frequently involves tendon sheaths. Tenosynovitis. Inflammation of the sheath of tissue that surrounds a tendon. Tenosynovitis is a common complication of animal bites containing anaerobic bacteria.
Practice Essentials. Tenosynovitis is inflammation of a tendon and its sheath (see the image below). Most acute cases of flexor tenosynovitis (FT)—which involves disruption of normal flexor tendon function in the hand—result from infection. However, FT also can develop secondary to acute or chronic inflammation from a noninfectious cause, such as diabetes, overuse, or arthritis. Most acute cases of flexor tenosynovitis (FT), which involves disruption of normal flexor tendon function in the hand, are the result of