ADVERTISEMENT. This recipe uses canned chicken, but if you want to use leftover chunked chicken or turkey, it 's even better. A dab of sweet relish is a nice taste surprise, and we love the apples, pecans, and raisins. The creamy salad dressing finishes it off nicely. Recipe by STORMWALKER.
1 Canned chicken breast salad sandwich. 2  Drain the chicken broth into a small freezer container and freeze for future use. 3  Place the drained chicken in a small bowl; break up the pieces. 4  Add to the chicken the mayonnaise, mustard, cranberries, pepper; mix well.
Best Chicken Salad Ever I. This recipe uses canned chicken, but if you want to use leftover chunked chicken or turkey, it 's even better. A dab of sweet relish is a nice taste surprise, and we love the apples, pecans, and raisins. The creamy salad dressing finishes it off nicely. Recipe by STORMWALKER.
I just love canned chicken. Whenever I shop I always buy a few cans so I never run out. I started using canned chicken back in the 1980s when food pros started focusing on the food poisoning risk of mishandled or undercooked raw chicken. I adapted and developed many recipes that use this product.
Directions. 1  Canned chicken breast salad sandwich. 2  Drain the chicken broth into a small freezer container and freeze for future use. 3  Place the drained chicken in a small bowl; break up the pieces. 4  Add to the chicken the mayonnaise, mustard, cranberries, pepper; mix well.
I then place the chicken into jars, no need to add liquid, I then sprinkle 1-2 tsp. of chicken boullion over chicken and process. When done you have plenty of chicken broth and perfectly canned chicken. This is great for storage or fast dinners.
1 Canned chicken broth. 2  Use straight from the can or carton, unless it's a condensed broth, which you should dilute according to the label directions. 3  Note that canned chicken broths are often high in sodium, so you may want to choose a low-sodium version. 4  Organic chicken broths tend to be lower in sodium as well.