Natural help for lowering Cholesterol (LDL). Cholesterol is a fatty substance, also called a lipid, that's produced by the liver. It's also found in foods high in saturated fat, like fatty meats, egg yolks, shellfish, and whole-milk dairy products. It’s a vital part of the structure and functioning of our cells.
Bissex advises several approaches to low-cholesterol cooking: 1  Use less fat and oil in recipes. 2  Substitute healthier options for all the fat a recipe calls for, such as swapping canola oil for shortening. 3  Choose healthier options and use less, such as using 1/4 cup olive oil instead of 1/2 cup butter.
I suggested that she try topical application of CIRCULATION essential oil blend for her cholesterol. She applied the oils twice a day, usually on the inside of her arm or on her neck. After 2 months she had a blood test and her cholesterol was down by 20 points.
In the study, laboratory animals consumed either 10 mg or 100 mg per kilogram body weight of lemongrass essential oil for 21 days. Results showed that the higher dose, which is similar to doses used in traditional herbal medicine, significantly reduced cholesterol levels.
Slashing fat is unhealthy, and it's unlikely that you'll stick with an eating plan that lacks the fat you require.. Bissex says fats and oils provide essential fatty acids for well-being, and some -- namely omega-3 fatty acids -- are actually good for your heart.
Lowering Cholesterol with Essential Oil is not Always Easy. Lowering Cholesterol with Essential Oil is not always an easy thing. The reason is because of the way or process to get it cannot be done by ourselves. We really need a good and sterile manufacture and process in it.
To curb cholesterol levels, it's important to limit fat intake without going to extremes. It's also important to choose the right fats and oils for preparing meals and snacks. The fat found in butter, margarine, soft spreads, and vegetable oils is considered either good (unsaturated) or bad (saturated and trans fat).
The top three blends purchased from Heritage Essential Oils for supporting balanced cholesterol levels are: CIRCULATION – Dilute and apply at pulse points where arteries are close to the surface such as wrists, inside elbows and base of throat, 2-3 times daily. Some apply along the spine up to 
HDL is known as good cholesterol. High Density of Lipoprotein is good for our body. Lowering Cholesterol with Essential Oil such as Basil gives a good response too as Cinnamon.