1. Use the mortar and pestle to grind. This is the ideal technique for most spices you'll use in baked goods, sauces and other dishes. You can grind to a coarse, medium or fine consistency. 1  Place your ingredients in the mortar and hold it in place with one hand. The mortar is a small bowl and the pestle is a wand with a curve that's perfectly shaped to grind smoothly against the mortar. The instrument may be made from wood, stone or ceramic, and you'll want to choose your material based on your culinary needs and personal preferences.
A mortar and pestle is a tool used to grind and mix substances, including chemicals in a laboratory and also food in the kitchen. The pestle is a heavy small bat, made from po … rcelain, wood or other materials, whose rounded end is used for pounding and grinding. A mortar is a small bowl and a pestle is a heavy, club-shaped object. An object is placed into the mortar and then ground by the pestle. They are often used in pharmacies and sometimes masonry.
Answer by Grace Sangree. Confidence votes 77. A mortar and pestle is a tool used to grind and mix substances, including chemicals in a laboratory and also food in the kitchen. The pestle is a heavy small bat, made from porcelain, wood or other materials, whose rounded end is used for pounding and grinding. The mortar is a bowl, which can be made from porcelain, wood, carved stone or other materials. The mortar and pestle are used to crush solids into powder: it is often used as a symbol for pharmacists in the US, and is the subject of a very funny Danny Kaye wordplay bit … in the movie The Court Jester having to do with the vessel with the pestle.
Definition of PESTLE Analysis. The PESTLE Analysis is a tool that is used to identify and analyze the key drivers of change in the strategic or business environment. The abbreviation stands for Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal, and Environmental factors. The tool allows the assessing of the current environment and potential changes.
A mortar is a vessel in which substances are ground or crushed with a pestle. A pestle is a tool used to crush, mash or grind materials in a mortar. In solid state chemistry a mortar and pestle is often used to prepare reactants for a solid state synthesis (the ceramic method). Mortars and pestles come in a variety of shapes and sizes. 
PESTLE stands for Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal and Environmental and is used for business and strategic planning, marketing planning, organizational change, business and product development and research reports. PESTLE Analysis is an analytical tool for strategic business planning. PESTLE is a strategic framework for understanding external influences on a business. There are many macro-environment factors that effect strategic planning: New laws, tax changes, trade barriers, demographic change
For PESTLE, see PEST analysis. A mortar and pestle is a device used since ancient times to prepare ingredients or substances by crushing and grinding them into a fine paste or powder. The mortar (/ˈmɔrtər/) is a bowl, typically made of hard wood, ceramic or stone. The pestle (/ˈpɛsəl/) is a heavy and blunt club-shaped object, the end of which is used for crushing and grinding. The substance to be ground is placed in the mortar and ground, crushed or mixed using a pestle.