Neurotransmitter release from presynaptic nerve terminals is a central component of synaptic transmission, the main process by which neurons communicate with each other and with target cells. Neurotransmitter is packaged inside small vesicles in the presynaptic nerve terminal.
Serotonin as a neurotransmitter Serotonin is a neurotransmitter involved in the transmission of nerve impulses. Neurotransmitters are chemical messengers within the brain that allow the communication between nerve cells. Packets of serotonin (vesicles) are released from the end of the presynaptic cell into the synaptic cleft.
You can explain serotonin neurotransmission as an example (serotonin is one of many neurotransmitters). This image shows the connection between two neurons (the synapse). Serotonin is stored in small vesicles within the nerve terminal of a neuron.
Transport and Release of Neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are made in the cell body of the neuron and then transported down the axon to the axon terminal. Molecules of neurotransmitters are stored in small packages called vesicles (see the picture on the right).
Those which inhibit nerve impulses are called inhibitory neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are sythesized in the cell body (the soma) and migrate down the axon to the presynaptic terminals. Here they are stored in little packets called vesicles which fuse with the synaptic membrane.
Neurotransmitters are formed in a presynaptic neuron and stored in small membrane-bound sacks, called vesicles, inside this neuron. When this neuron is activated, these intracellular vesicles fuse with the cell membrane and release their contents into the synapse, a process called exocytosis.
Neurotransmitters and Neuroactive Peptides. Communication of information between neurons is accomplished by movement of chemicals across a small gap called the synapse. Chemicals, called neurotransmitters, are released from one neuron at the presynaptic nerve terminal.
Most small-molecule neurotransmitters are stored in small vesicles that range from 40 to 60 nm in diameter and, in electron micrographs, appear to have clear centers. The vesicles that store neuropeptides are larger, ranging from 90 to 250 nm in diameter.