Celebrity chef restaurants in Plymouth. Devon’s always been known for its fabulous food. Its farms and coast produce some of the best fresh produce in the country, and it boasts wonderful tea rooms, great foodie pubs, and one of the top-rated fine-dining restaurants in the UK (Michael Caines’ Gidleigh Park, see below).
Ice cream is also made by many Devon creameries and is known for its luxurious rich full cream taste. Curworthy, Sharpham and Vulscombe cheeses are all made in Devon. Devon Blue and Beenleigh Blue are made at a dairy on the Sharpham Estate. Devon Blue won an award for the best English cheese in 2011. Both Dartmoor and Exmoor are well known for their production of wild, free-grazing beef and lamb from regional breeds such as Red Ruby Devon Cattle, South Devon cattle, the Greyface Dartmoor and the Devon Closewool sheep.
Many of the leading local foodie businesses display Food & Drink Devon’s “Love The Flavour” logo on their shop fronts, menus and websites. The heart-shaped logo is a stamp of excellence, standing for quality, provenance and sustainability, and a sure sign that the business is proud to source or produce local food. And where there are cattle, there’s milk; Devon is justly famous for its clotted cream and delicious ice-creams, but it is steadily gaining recognition for a range of traditional and unusual cheeses too-make some time to hunt out some Blue Vinny.
It’s true that the Cornish enjoy their food – so much so that Devon and Cornwall are known almost as much for their culinary offerings as their stunning scenery and coasts. These include Aunt Ellys Nog (a mix of eggs, cream, vanilla, sugar and milk), Cornish Mine Punch (rum, brandy, lemons and sugar) and Cornish Spiced Mead. Other foods that Cornwall is known for are the rich Cornish fudge and ice cream and Cornish Hevva Cake. Cows are busy in Devon and they produce an abundance of fat-rich, creamy milk. Devon is of course famous for its clotted cream, farmhouse cheeses and other dairy products! A popular Devon specialty is Deep Fried Cheeses with gooseberry sauce
Cider, known as 'Cyder' or ' Scrumpy ' is the traditional drink of Devon as it was in much of the Westcountry, peasants often paid an allowance of three pints per day. One of the most famous cider producers of the 20th century was Whiteways of Whimple, East Devon. Both Dartmoor and Exmoor are well known for their production of wild, free-grazing beef and lamb from regional breeds such as Red Ruby Devon Cattle, South Devon cattle, the Greyface Dartmoor and the Devon Closewool sheep.
Look out too for the Food & Drink Devon Guide, a handy reference for discovering the best foodie destinations to eat, visit or stay. Find it in shops, restaurants and Tourist Information Centres, and in June with subscriber copies of Devon Life magazine. And where there are cattle, there’s milk; Devon is justly famous for its clotted cream and delicious ice-creams, but it is steadily gaining recognition for a range of traditional and unusual cheeses too-make some time to hunt out some Blue Vinny.
A monthly county magazine, Devon Life, regularly publishes articles on the food and drink of the county, and the Cornish & Devon Post, a newspaper published in Launceston, also publishes Cornish & Devon Farming Diary and a yearly eating and entertainment guide, Country Cuisine. Both Dartmoor and Exmoor are well known for their production of wild, free-grazing beef and lamb from regional breeds such as Red Ruby Devon Cattle, South Devon cattle, the Greyface Dartmoor and the Devon Closewool sheep.
The exceptional quality of Devon food and drink produced in the Heart of Devon means that the area is becoming as famous for its award-winning restaurants, food festivals, markets and vineyards as it is for its stunning coast and Devon countryside. 
Food. Devon is renowned for its abundance of amazing local food. Brimming with producers whose values are based on provenance and quality, it truly is a great place to eat and to buy outstanding food. Producers range from chilli farms to dairies, coffee roasters to micro-brewers and vineyards to blueberry farmers. And where there are cattle, there’s milk; Devon is justly famous for its clotted cream and delicious ice-creams, but it is steadily gaining recognition for a range of traditional and unusual cheeses too-make some time to hunt out some Blue Vinny.