Pica (/ˈpaɪkə/ PY-kə) is characterized by an appetite for substances that are largely non-nutritive, such as paper, clay, metal, chalk, soil, glass, or sand. Pica is more commonly seen in women and children, and in areas of low socioeconomic status. Particularly it is seen in pregnant women, small children, and those with developmental disabilities such as autism.
Pica is an eating disorder. Although pica is observed most frequently in children, it is the most common eating disorder seen in individuals with developmental disabilities. In some societies, pica is a culturally sanctioned practice and is not considered to be pathologic. Pica may be benign, or it may have life-threatening consequences
The PICA syndrome is also known as lateral medullary syndrome, or Wallenberg's syndrome, after Wallenberg's description in 1895. This is the most common brainstem stroke. It is typified by vertigo, ipsilateral hemiataxia, dysarthria, ptosis and miosis. 
Pica is an eating disorder that causes people to consume non-food items. It typically affects pregnant women and young children under the age of six. Research has linked pica to an iron deficiency, though this is just one factor and not the absolute cause. a a a. Pica is an eating disorder that is rarely talked about, but is just as serious as anorexia or bulimia. In fact, it can even be deadly. Although it is treatable, the problem often lies in getting the person to admit to it and seeking help.
Causes of Pica. While the exact cause for pica is still uncertain, factors such as emotional deprivation, poverty, poor nutrition, anemia, neglect, lack of parental supervision, or developmental delay increase the risk for a person developing this eating disorder. The substances that are craved and ingested tend to vary with the person's age. Children with pica may eat glue, animal droppings, sand, insects, leaves, or gravel. Adolescents and adults may consume clay, laundry detergent, or soil.
Practice Essentials. Pica is an eating disorder typically defined as the persistent ingestion of nonnutritive substances for at least 1 month at an age for which this behavior is developmentally inappropriate. It may be benign or may have life-threatening consequences. Pica is typically defined as persistent ingestion of nonnutritive substances for at least 1 month at an age for which this behavior is developmentally inappropriate. The definition is occasionally broadened to include the mouthing of nonnutritive substances.
A person afflicted with pica has a persistent craving for a substance that is not commonly considered to be food. The substances that are craved and ingested tend to vary with the person's age. Children with pica may eat glue, animal droppings, sand, insects, leaves, or gravel. Adolescents and adults may consume clay, laundry detergent, or soil.
Although the cravings associated with pica may be related to vitamin or mineral deficiencies, ingesting non-foods can cause serious medical complications such as intestinal obstruction, intestinal perforation, infections, or lead poisoning. Pica is most frequently seen in young children and pregnant women. The substances that are craved and ingested tend to vary with the person's age. Children with pica may eat glue, animal droppings, sand, insects, leaves, or gravel. Adolescents and adults may consume clay, laundry detergent, or soil.
People with the disorder pica compulsively eat items that have no nutritional value. An affected person might eat relatively harmless items like ice or potentially dangerous items like flakes of dried paint or pieces of metal. In the latter case, the disorder could lead to serious consequences such as lead poisoning. 
Before making a diagnosis of pica, the doctor will evaluate the presence of other disorders -- such as mental retardation, developmental disabilities, or obsessive-compulsive disorder -- as the cause of the odd eating behavior. Given the risk of medical complications (such as lead poisoning) associated with pica, close medical monitoring is necessary throughout treatment of the eating behavior. Additionally, close collaboration with a mental health team skilled in treating pica is ideal for optimal treatment of these complex cases.