Watch for signs that the canaries are in condition, which means they are ready to breed. Breeding usually occurs in the Spring. Canaries like to breed when the temperature is around 70 degrees and there are about 14 hours of light. These conditions can be replicated indoors, in order to promote breeding. Male and female canaries act differently when they are ready to breed. 1  Male canaries will usually come into condition before the female. 2  Females will most often begin to tear paper, as if readying a nest, when they come into condition. Part 1 of 2: Preparing for Your Canaries to Mate. 1. Purchase breeding supplies. In addition to the basic supplies you should already have for your birds, you will need a large cage for the canaries to breed in, a nest for the female to lay its eggs in, and nesting material the female will use to build up the nest.
Unless you're going to breed canaries, you only need one canary per household or per cage. Canaries are the lone wolves of the bird world; they actually prefer to be alone. They are extremely territorial, especially the males, and will squabble with and even injure other birds in their territories. There are a few types of domestic canary. Each breed has a different appearance or manner of singing. Canaries are broken down into three categories: song, type, and color. The song canaries are bred to sing well, and each breed has a different way of singing, with different notes and patterns. The type breeds are bred for how they look
It typically takes 14 days for canary chicks to hatch. They should hatch without any assistance. 4. Keep the chicks with the male and female canaries until they begin eating on their own, usually they are around 3 weeks of age. Part 1 of 2: Preparing for Your Canaries to Mate. 1. Purchase breeding supplies. In addition to the basic supplies you should already have for your birds, you will need a large cage for the canaries to breed in, a nest for the female to lay its eggs in, and nesting material the female will use to build up the nest.
For your canaries to come into breeding condition, the primary thing they need is the right number of 'daylight' hours. I use lights on timers in the birdroom, with bulbs that replicate sunlight (full spectrum). Set the hours to coincide with YOUR best time to be in the birdroom. Hens are fine in a flight cage together as long as they have enough personal space. A rule of thumb is one square foot of space per bird, but keep in mind that canaries love the higher perching places. Square footage of a cage does NOT equate to square footage at perching height.
They will also require 14-16 hours of lighting while female canaries come into condition at about 12 or so. This is a problem and the results usually are clear eggs first round. To avoid this pair the female canary to a male canary first round to make more canaries for next year. 
If you want to breed canaries, then put her together with a male and allow them to raise no more than 2 clutches of chicks while providing high (18%) protein food while laying and feeding. Feed them low protein food while then hen is incubating the eggs. People frequently ask me how to stop their canary hen from laying eggs. This is not usually a problem for wild birds or birds raised as close to nature as possible, but cage birds with unlimited food often try to raise multiple clutches of 4 to 6 chicks each, which is not good for the hen's long term health.
Breeding canaries is an enjoyable hobby that has many different levels of involvement depending on your motives. Regardless of whether you are doing this for fun, for show, or maybe a combination of both, the art of breeding takes patience, time, and organization. 
It is my opinion that preparing to breed canaries is the same for all canaries throughout the year. The basics all year include and are not limited to a proper basic nutritious diet, fresh veggies and fruits, cuttle bone, oyster shell grit and vitamins, clean drinking and bath water, clean cages. Young canaries sometimes have infertile eggs, or do a poor job of feeding the young, or they may abandon the nestlings entirely. To help them to be successful it is advantageous to mate a young male with a mature hen or a young hen with a mature male.