Reabsorption, the regulation of urine osmolarity and action of vasopressin (ADH). Basically, how all the stuff that gets filtered (removed from the blood in the renal corpuscle) gets BACK to the blood a few seconds later. 
Tubular Reabsorption of Sodium, Chloride and Fluids. 99% of the glomerular filtrate volume (primary urine, 120 ml/min), 99% of the filtrated sodium and 99% of the filtered Chloride are reabsorbed in the renal tubules of the nephron. Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the absorption of water (solvent drag).
Glucose reabsorption happens to 100% in the proximal tubule using the sodium-glucose-cotransporter. In the case of too high glucose concentration in the serum, this mechanism is subject to saturation and glucosuria results. Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the absorption of water (solvent drag).
Renal reabsorption of sodium (Na+) is a part of renal physiology. It uses Na-H antiport, Na-glucose symport, sodium ion channels (minor). It is very efficient, since more than 25,000 m moles /day of sodium is filtered into the nephron, but only ~100 m moles /day, or less than 0.4% remains in the final urine.
Water reabsorption is a passive process: water is reabsorbed by osmosis. In most of the nephron, water reabsorption is unregulated and coupled to solute reabsorption. The ability to excrete urine that is more concentrated than the extracellular fluid (ECF) depends on the creation of a hyperosmotic environment in the medulla.
The reabsorption of urea (proximal tubule, collecting ducts) and active secretion of urea (Henle loop) leads to a urea circulation between the lumen of the nephron and renal medulla, which is an important element of the renal urine concentration. Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the absorption of water (solvent drag).
Kidney Reabsorption. Once inside the lumen of the nephron, small molecules, such as ions, glucose and amino acids, get reabsorbed from the filtrate: 1  Specialized proteins called transporters are located on the membranes of the various cells of the nephron. 2  These transporters grab the small molecules from the filtrate as it flows by them. Two major factors affect the reabsorption process: 1  Concentration of small molecules in the filtrate-the higher the concentration, the more molecules can be reabsorbed. 2  Rate of flow of the filtrate-flow rate affects the time available for the transporters to reabsorb molecules.
Proximal tubule [edit]. Most of the reabsorption (65%) occurs in the proximal tubule. In the latter part it is favoured by an electrochemical driving force, but initially it needs the cotransporter SGLT and the Na-H antiporter. It is very efficient, since more than 25,000 m moles /day of sodium is filtered into the nephron, but only ~100 m moles /day, or less than 0.4% remains in the final urine.
The thick ascending loop (TAL) of Henle is impermeable to water and transports electrolytes into the interstitium of the kidney, producing a high osmotic pressure of the interstitium. 30% of the filtered sodium is reabsorbed using a luminal Na-K-2Cl-cotransport mechanism. Potassium reabsorption of the kidney. 60–70% of the filtered potassium (K +) is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. There are no specific K-transporter, reabsorption is managed with the absorption of water (solvent drag).