Kendall and Kylie Jenner's flawless figures are also spotlighted in their PacSun ad campaign. Kylie’s net worth is quickly growing thanks to her hair extensions brand, Kylie Hair Kouture, and other ventures. Kylie is now reportedly worth $4 million. As of 2013, Kylie was making $5,000 per episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashians and $3,000 per tweet. But it's really her fashion and Kylie Hair Kouture that make a big impact on her bank account. RELATED: Kylie Jenner Modeled At Kanye West's Show!
Youngest Kardashian sis Khloe has an estimated $20 million to her name. Rob, the sole son of Kris Jenner and her first husband, has a measly estimated fortune of $2.75 million. Then there are the daughters of Kris and Bruce Jenner. Kylie has an estimated net worth of $2 million, and sister Kendall has $3 million.
Kendall Jenner net worth: $10 Million. Kendall Jenner net worth: Kendall Jenner is an American reality television star and fashion model who has a net worth of $10 million. Kendall Jenner acquired her net worth as a model for Wilhemina Models and for her appearances on reality television. Kendall is a cast member of the hit reality show Keeping Up with the Kardashians. She was born in Los Angeles, California on November 3, 1995.
Sure, Kendall’s $6 million net worth is nowhere near Kim Kardashian’s $85 million net worth. But Kendall is quickly creating her own identity outside of Kim, Khloe, Kourtney, and Kylie. RELATED: Kendall Jenner vs. Us Weekly! Kendall’s sisters are still concentrating on KUWTK, reality TV, and their clothing lines. Photo: Calvin Klein. Kendall Jenner's net worth is going to get a huge boost thanks to her gorgeous Calvin Klein Ads! Kim Kardashian and the rest of Kendall's sisters have been focusing on 'Keeping Up With The Kardashians.' But with her successful modeling career, Kendall's quickly overshadowing her famous sisters.
About Kendall Jenner. Kendall Jenner was born on November 3rd, 1995. She is a television personality who has appeared in reality shows, and a model. Kendall has also been the brand ambassador for the Seventeen Magazine. Her current estimated net worth stands at $2 Million. 
As for the net worth of both sisters, there is clearly a big difference between the two. Exactly how much is Kendall Jenner's net worth? Despite having nabbed a number of fashion shows and magazine covers, Kendall Jenner's net worth isn't exactly bigger than that of her sister, Kim Kardashian. Kendall Jenner's net worth according to Celebrity Net Worth is only $3 million. On the other hand, Kim Kardashian's net worth is at a whopping $65 million. 
Calvin Klein spoke about Kendall and what’s made her so successful, calling her a “Social media star” while Estee Lauder called her the “ultimate ‘instagirl.’” Kendall has 22 million Instagram followers and as of 2013, Kendall made $5,000 per tweet. RELATED: Kylie Jenner's Net Worth Is Crazy High! Photo: Calvin Klein. Kendall Jenner's net worth is going to get a huge boost thanks to her gorgeous Calvin Klein Ads! Kim Kardashian and the rest of Kendall's sisters have been focusing on 'Keeping Up With The Kardashians.' But with her successful modeling career, Kendall's quickly overshadowing her famous sisters.
Investigates: Jenelle Evans’ Net Worth. Just like Kendall, Kylie’s reluctance to be seen on camera too much is reflected in the amount she earns from the $40 million deal Kris Jenner negotiated for three more years of Kardashian reality fare. That said, the $5,000 an episode that Kylie scores is certainly better than 99.99% of teenagers’ allowances alone!
$5 Million. Kylie Jenner net worth: Kylie Jenner is a teenage model and reality television star who has a net worth of $5 million. Jenner comes from a family of models and television personalities. She is best known for appearing on the hit reality series, Keeping Up with the Kardashians. When Kylie and Kendall co-hosted the 2014 Much Music Video Awards, Kylie finally made her acting debut in a promo for the show. Kylie Jenner Net Worth. 1  17-Year-Old Kylie Jenner Just Bought A $2.7 Million House.