Zuri Whitehead died hours after the 11-year-old daughter of a family friend allegedly beat her while she was at the girl’s home. Trina said she previously let two of her daughters, aged 7 and 8, stay at the girl’s home in the Cleveland suburb Wickliffe and there was never any problem. “I definitely trusted her,” Trina said about the 11-year-old, whose name hasn’t been released.
Located at the base of Muldersleigh Hill, at the entrance to Belfast Lough, Whitehead lies in a small bay between the limestone cliffs of Whitehead and the black volcanic cliff of Blackhead, with the Blackhead Lighthouse on top, marking the entrance to the Lough. It had a population of 3,702 in the 2001 Census. For more information see The Troubles in Whitehead, County Antrim, which includes a list of incidents in Whitehead during the Troubles resulting in two or more fatalities. The UDA South East Antrim Brigade lists Whitehead as a base of operations.
The mother of Zuri Whitehead, the 2-month-old in Ohio who police said was beaten to death by an 11-year-old girl, said Tuesday that the accused killer asked to have Zuri at her home the night she died. Trina said she previously let two of her daughters, aged 7 and 8, stay at the girl’s home in the Cleveland suburb Wickliffe and there was never any problem. “I definitely trusted her,” Trina said about the 11-year-old, whose name hasn’t been released.
Trina Whitehead, 31, told The Associated Press that she met the mother of the accused killer in 2008 when they were working in a medical clinic and they considered each other best friends. Trina said she never noticed anything troubling about the 11-year-old’s behavior. Trina said she previously let two of her daughters, aged 7 and 8, stay at the girl’s home in the Cleveland suburb Wickliffe and there was never any problem. “I definitely trusted her,” Trina said about the 11-year-old, whose name hasn’t been released.
While Whitehead always enjoyed the classics, his true strength was with mathematics. Because of both its quality, and the unique opportunity to take the entrance examinations early, Alfred tested for Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1879, a year before he would otherwise have been allowed to enter. At the age of 49 and lacking even the promise of a job, Whitehead moved his family to London, where he was unemployed for the academic year of 1910 – 11. It was Evelyn who borrowed or bullied the money from their acquaintances that kept the family afloat during that time.
1 Mary Whitehead, English convict from Lancaster, who was transported aboard the America on December 30, 1830, settling in Van Diemen's Land, Australia. The Whitehead Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 12 September 2015 at 02:13.
Whitehead is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular last name for all people (#721 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Whitehead for boys. Whitehead has yet to be recorded in the list so far. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). 
Whitehead is a small seaside town on the east coast of County Antrim, Northern Ireland, lying almost midway between the towns of Carrickfergus and Larne. For more information see The Troubles in Whitehead, County Antrim, which includes a list of incidents in Whitehead during the Troubles resulting in two or more fatalities. The UDA South East Antrim Brigade lists Whitehead as a base of operations.
References. The Whitehead Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Whitehead Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 12 September 2015 at 02:13.