Best Answer: All breeds of domestic dog are the same species. However, opinion varies on whether they are a species in their own right, Canis familiaris, or a subspecies of the grey wolf, Canis lupus, which is their ancestor (this would make dogs Canis lupus familiaris). It's worth considering the following points: dogs and wolves are not genetically identical.
Transcript of Dog domain, Kingdom, Phylum, class, order,family, genus and. Dog domain, Kingdom, Phylum, class, order,family, genus and species. Class and Order. A dogs class is Mammalia. A dogs order is Carnivora. Family, Genus, and Species. A dogs family is canidae. The genus is Canis and the species is Lupus. THANKS FOR WATCHING!!! Domain and. kingdom. The domain for a dog is Eukaryota. The kingdom is Animalia
All species of domestic dogs are classified as Canis lupus familiaris. Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Carnivora Family: Canidae Genus: Canis Species: C. lupus Subspecies: C. l. familiaris Both cocker spaniel and boxers are breeds of dogs which don't have taxonomic classification. However, opinion varies on whether they are a species in their own right, Canis familiaris, or a subspecies of the grey wolf, Canis lupus, which is their ancestor (this would make dogs Canis lupus familiaris). It's worth considering the following points: dogs and wolves are not genetically identical.
1 Animals and Characteristics in Phylum Chordata Biologist use a taxonomy system to classify and identify living organisms on Earth. 2  Phylum is the second category in the taxonomic classification system. dogs belong to the phylum chordata. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Animals and Characteristics in Phylum Chordata Biologist use a taxonomy system to classify and identify living organisms on Earth. 2  Phylum is the second category in the taxonomic classification system.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. 
Report Abuse. The answer is the same for both. All breeds of dog are the same species. Kingdom Animalia Phylum Chordata Class Mammalia Order Carnivora Family Canidae Genus Canis Species C. familiaris Note: A lot of biologists consider domestic dogs to be a subspecies of wolf. However, opinion varies on whether they are a species in their own right, Canis familiaris, or a subspecies of the grey wolf, Canis lupus, which is their ancestor (this would make dogs Canis lupus familiaris). It's worth considering the following points: dogs and wolves are not genetically identical.
Classification. For years the domestic dog was classified as a species, Canis familiaris. However, recent DNA analysis shows domestic dogs evolved from wolves, Canis lupus. This led scientists to reclassify the domestic dog as Canis lupus familiaris, a subspecies of the wolf rather than a separate species. Domain-Eukarya Kingdom-Animalia Phylum-Chordata Subphylum-Vertebrata Class-Mammalia Order-Carnivora Family-Canidae Genus-Canis Species-Canis lupus Subspecies-Canis lupus familiaris. Domain Eukarya-Organisms have cells with a true nucleus and membrane-bound organelles. 
What is phylum class order family genus and species is classified in a dog? The Taxonomic Rank for a dog is:   Kingdom Animalia-animals Phylum Chordata-chordates Class Mammalia-mammals Order Carnivora-carnivores Family Canidae Gen … us Canis   Species depends on the breed. A domestic dog is Canis familiaris Linnaeus. Rachel Carter. 2,928 Contributions. dogs belong to the phylum chordata. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Animals and Characteristics in Phylum Chordata Biologist use a taxonomy system to classify and identify living organisms on Earth. 2  Phylum is the second category in the taxonomic classification system.
What is the kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus and species of cocker spaniels and or boxers (dogs)? What is the Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, and Species of eagle, frog, turtle, dog, & fish?