Proteins of DNA Replication. 1  DNA Helicases-These proteins bind to the double stranded DNA and stimulate the separation of the two strands. 2  DNA single-stranded binding proteins-These proteins bind to the DNA as a tetramer and stabilize the single-stranded structure that is generated by the action of the helicases. A General Model for DNA Replication. 1  The DNA molecule is unwound and prepared for synthesis by the action of DNA gyrase, DNA helicase and the single-stranded DNA binding proteins. 2  A free 3'OH group is required for replication, but when the two chains separate no group of that nature exists. 3  The replication fork moves in one direction, but DNA 4  ... T
The role that enzymes plays in DNA replication is that the enzyme helicase breaks hydrogen bonds between the complementary bases, and the chains separate. When they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands, it  allows each strand to be copied (replication).    DNA helicases use the energy stored in a molecule called ATP to  break the bonds, which serves as the energy currency of cells.
Overview. Protein synthesis is the process by which cells build or manufacture proteins. It refers to a multi-step process through which information is transferred from DNA to RNA and then from RNA to proteins. The flow of information from DNA to RNA to proteins is one of the fundamental principles of molecular biology. It is so important that it is sometimes called the central dogma.. Protein synthesis requires a technical machinery of high complexity.
Single-stranded binding proteins (not to be confused with the E. coli protein, Single-strand DNA-binding protein, SSB) are a class of proteins that have been identified in both viruses and organisms from bacteria to humans. 
Yes, proteins (specifically enzymes) are essential for DNA replication. For example, DNA Helicase is responsible for unzipping the DNA and DNA Polymerases are responsible fo … r adding nucleotides to the new strand. These are just two kinds of proteins that are vital for DNA replication. 1 person found this useful. When they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands, it  allows each strand to be copied (replication).    DNA helicases use the energy stored in a molecule called ATP to  break the bonds, which serves as the energy currency of cells.
DNA helicase unzip, or separate, a strand of DNA at positions  called origins. This means that the hydrogen bonds between  complementary base pairs are removed (DNA is dou … ble stranded!).  When they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands, it  allows each strand to be copied (replication).    DNA helicases use the energy stored in a molecule called ATP to  break the bonds, which serves as the energy currency of cells.
RNA polymerase constructs the RNA primer from which DNA polymerase can then continue to add on DNA complements. Topoisomerase helps keep the DNA strand from twisting too much by working ahead of DNA polymerase and loosening the DNA strand. I think that's just about all of them. Source(s): Love for bio. During DNA replication, first unwinding of DNA strands is important. Proteins associate with the replication fork and assist in the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis. Ngawang T · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.
Confidence votes 106. The role that enzymes plays in DNA replication is that the enzyme helicase breaks hydrogen bonds between the complementary bases, and the chains separate. DNA ligase is responsible for joining together fragments of DNA. In DNA replication, after the primers are replaced by DNA Polymerase I, DNA ligase assists in the formation ph … osphodiester bonds between the fragments. This is essential for creating one continuous strand