Mensa has set a percentile as cutoff to avoid this confusion. Candidates for membership in Mensa must achieve a score at or above the 98th percentile on a standard test of intelligence (a score that is greater than or equal to that achieved by 98 percent of the general population taking the test). 
The requirements for membership (as to be expected) are the same everywhere. Membership in Mensa is open to persons who have attained a score within the upper two percent of the general population on an approved intelligence test that has been properly administered and supervised. There are no age requirements to joining Mensa, but rather IQ requirements. A person must score at or above the 98th percentile in order to join Mensa.   Exception is that … local legal limitations can impose an age limitation to be member of a society.
Mensa has set a percentile as cutoff to avoid this confusion. Candidates for membership in Mensa must achieve a score at or above the 98th percentile on a standard test of intelligence (a score that is greater than or equal to that achieved by 98 percent of the general population taking the test). There are no age requirements to joining Mensa, but rather IQ requirements. A person must score at or above the 98th percentile in order to join Mensa.   Exception is that … local legal limitations can impose an age limitation to be member of a society.
Candidates for membership in Mensa must achieve a score at or above the 98th percentile (a score that is greater than or equal to 98 percent of the general population taking the test) on a standard test of intelligence. I quickly rushed an IQ test and got a score of 120. This is above average but I know I can do better if I took my time. I was watching a program on TV about MENSA and I was wondering what IQ you need to get into Mensa. I know tht you need to be in the top 2% of the population.
Mensa's requirement for membership is a score at or above the 98th percentile on certain standardised IQ or other approved intelligence tests, such as the Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scales. Mensa is the largest and oldest high IQ society in the world. It is a non-profit organization open to people who score at the 98th percentile or higher on a standardized, supervised IQ or other approved intelligence test.
Candidates for membership in Mensa must achieve a score at or above the 98th percentile on a standard test of intelligence (a score that is greater than or equal to that achieved by 98 percent of the general population taking the test).. In theory at least a person is not able to significantly change his IQ. On most intelligence tests, average IQ score is 100, but some tests give different numerical values to the level required for entry into Mensa, in the same way that the same temperature is expressed by different numerical values on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales.
An ‘ average IQ score’ or ‘normal IQ score’ can be defined as a score between 85 and 115. 68% of people score between 85 and 115. The Mensa qualifying IQ score is a score that puts you in the top 2% of the population in a bell curve like this one. The Mensa qualifying score is 130 or higher, as shown below. This table indicates how IQ levels can be classified. 
Mensa International is a high IQ society for those who score in the top two percent in terms of intelligence. That is, scores at the 98th percentile or higher on a standardized, supervised IQ test are required for admission into Mensa. Mensa Background. Mensa is both the oldest and largest high IQ society in the world. Mensa meetings are perhaps most popular in the United States and England.
Save. LuckyBusiness/iStock/Getty Images. Founded in the United Kingdom in 1946, Mensa International is open to anyone with an IQ in the top 2 percent of the populace, meaning the IQ required for acceptance is a moving target. The type of test you take also influences what the organization considers a qualifying score. 