PET is polyethylene terephthalate. It's a plastic resin and the most common type of polyester. Two monomers—modified ethylene glycol and purified terephthalic acid—are combined to form the polymer called polyethylene terephthalate. PET was discovered and patented in England in 1941. It's used to make new bottles, but recycled PET can also be made into fiber for carpets; fabric for t-shirts or fleece jackets; fiberfill for sleeping bags, winter coats, and dog beds; industrial strapping; sheet and thermoformed (clam shell) packaging; and automotive parts such as headliners, bumpers, and door panels.
PET, which stands for polyethylene terephthalate, is a form of polyester (just like the clothing fabric). It is extruded or molded into plastic bottles and containers for packaging foods and beverages, personal care products, and many other consumer products. PET is a polymer of ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid. Pellets of PET resin are heated to a molten liquid, which can be easily extruded or molded into almost any shape. PET was first synthesized in the U.S. during the mid-1940s by DuPont chemists searching for polymers that could be used to make new textile fibers.
PET stands for PolyEthylene Terephthalate and is sometimes referred to as PETE, PETP, or PET-P. PET is a thermoplastic polymer in the polyester family that is formed by combining two types of monomers together; ethylene glycol and purified terephthalic acid. A major use of Polyethylene Terephthalate is in synthetic fibers used for manufacturing polyester clothing, fabrics, carpets, etc. PET used for this purpose consumes more than 60% of PET usage worldwide!
Polyethylene terephthalate is a polymer that is formed by combining two monomers: modified ethylene glycol and purified terephthalic acid. PET can be modified with additional polymers as well, making it acceptable and usable for other uses. History of PET. The history of PET began in 1941. 
PET, or polyethylene terephthalate, is the chemical name for polyester. When PET is used for fiber or fabric applications, it is usually referred to as polyester.. When used for container and packaging applications, it is typically called PET or PET resin.. Back to Top. PET is a polymer of ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid. Pellets of PET resin are heated to a molten liquid, which can be easily extruded or molded into almost any shape. PET was first synthesized in the U.S. during the mid-1940s by DuPont chemists searching for polymers that could be used to make new textile fibers.
Polyethylene terephthalate (aka. PET, PETE, PETG) is a plastic resin of the polyester family that is used to make beverage, food and other liquid containers, as well as for some other thermoforming applications. PETG is a clear amorphous thermoplastic that can be injection molded or sheet extruded
If you ever had fizzy drink, water or fruit juice from a plastic bottle then more than likely the bottle is made of PET, or polyethylene terephthalate. PET is one of the most commonly used plastics in Europe’s packaging industry for several reasons. 
Production process for polyethylene terephthalate (PET). Polyethylene terephthalate(PET) is a general-purpose plastic made through polycondensation of PTA with ethylene glycol (EG). 
PET is a clear, strong, and lightweight plastic that is widely used for packaging foods and beverages, especially convenience-sized soft drinks, juices and water. Virtually all single-serving and 2-liter bottles of carbonated soft drinks and water sold in the U.S. are made from PET. DuPont later branded its PET fiber as Dacron.. Today, more than half of the world's synthetic fiber is made from PET, which is called polyester when used for fiber or fabric applications. When used for containers and other purposes, it is called PET or PET resin. In the late 1950s, researchers found a way to stretch a thin extruded sheet of PET in two directions to create PET film, which is now used extensively for video, photo and packaging films