Plate tectonic boundaries of the southwest Pacific. Volcanoes in New Zealand result from the subduction of the Pacific Plate under the Indian-Australian Plate. The trench and subduction zone continues northeast from the North Island to the Kermadec Islands, Tonga, and Samoa. South of the North Island the tectonic boundary between the Indian-Australian an d Pacific plates changes to a transform fault. Modified from Johnson and others (1989)
Earlier this year, a 5.7 earthquake hit the north of South Australia, far from the edges of the Indo-Australian plate on which Australia sits. While most earthquakes occur along tectonic plate boundaries, a small number occur along faults in the normally stable interior of plates. 
A biography of the Australian continent. Indo-Australian Plate. The Indo-Australian Plate is a large crustal plate that includes the continent of Australia and the sub-continent of India. The Indian Plate and the Australian Plate fused about 43 Ma, stretching from Antarctica in the south to the Himalayas, the Indonesian Islands and New Guinea in the north, and to New Zealand in the east.
The lithosphere consists of rigid plates on a non-rigid subsurface (from approximately 70 km - 700 km in depth). Tectonic processes mostly take place at the plate edges. A plate moves as a single entity along the surface of the Earth over a plastic mantle. Since the 1950s, several discoveries have led to a new understanding of how the Earth works. This includes Plate Tectonics, which explains the structure of the Earth's lithosphere (outer shell) and the forces that drive changes in its structure. Tectonics comes from the Greek word tekton, meaning builder.
The Australian plate includes the continent of Australia, including Tasmania, as well portions of New Guinea, New Zealand, and the Indian Ocean basin. Australia and Antarctica began rifting 85 million years ago and completely separated roughly 45 million years ago The Australian plate later fused with the adjacent Indian Plate beneath the Indian Ocean to form a single Indo-Australian Plate.
The other driving force believed to be moving the Indo-Australia Plate is the subduction along the northern margins of the plate as it is subducted along the highly volcanic band known as the Pacific Ring if Fire. In the case of the subduction of the plate, it is being pulled down along the subduction zone by gravity. The Indian Plate and the Australian Plate fused about 43 Ma, stretching from Antarctica in the south to the Himalayas, the Indonesian Islands and New Guinea in the north, and to New Zealand in the east.
The answer is that they both share one of Earth’s tectonic plates – the drifting eggshell-like pieces of Earth’s crust, on which all of our planet’s continents sit. However, the Indo-Australian Plate is a slightly unusual one, and the two countries may not share it for much longer. However, the Indo-Australian plate is still trying to move northwards. The western part of the plate is still pushing against the Himalayas, moving at about 3.7 centimetres per year, but the eastern part, including the entire continent of Australia, is moving at a much faster speed of around 5.6 centimetres per year.
In orange and red is the Indo-Australian plate, shown as divided between the Indian Plate and the Australian Plate. The Indo-Australian Plate was a major tectonic plate that included the continent of Australia and surrounding ocean, and extended northwest to include the Indian subcontinent and adjacent waters. It was formed by the fusion of Indian and Australian plates 43 million years ago. The eastern part (Australia) is moving northward at the rate of 5.6 cm per year while the western part (India) is moving only at the rate of 3.7 cm per year due to the impediment of the Himalayas.
The Australian Plate is a major tectonic plate straddling the equator in the southern and eastern hemispheres. Australia and Antarctica began rifting 85 million years ago and completely separated roughly 45 million years ago The Australian plate later fused with the adjacent Indian Plate beneath the Indian Ocean to form a single Indo-Australian Plate.
The Indo-Australian tectonic plate is already a bit of an oddity, being a rather thin and unusual shape compared with the others. The reason being that it was formed some 43 million years ago when two smaller plates (carrying the landmasses which would eventually become India and Australia) fused together. However, the Indo-Australian plate is still trying to move northwards. The western part of the plate is still pushing against the Himalayas, moving at about 3.7 centimetres per year, but the eastern part, including the entire continent of Australia, is moving at a much faster speed of around 5.6 centimetres per year.