Sarcoptic mange, also known as canine scabies, spreads easily among dogs and can also be transmitted to people, but the parasites don't survive on humans. The symptoms are intense itching, red skin, sores, and hair loss. A dog's ears, face and legs are most commonly affected. Demodectic mange can cause bald spots, scabbing, and sores, but it is not contagious between animals or people. Treatment depends on the type of mange. You can spot a tick feeding on your dog with the naked eye. To properly remove a tick, grasp the tick with tweezers close to the dog’s skin, and gently pull it straight out. Twisting or pulling too hard may cause the head to remain lodged in your dog’s skin, which can lead to infection.
These blood spots can be petechiae that is tiny spots just like pinpoints and this can be due to blood vessel damage. They can also be purpura which are usually caused when the blood gets collected under the skin in a large flat area and they may also look purplish red. The following are a few causes for the presence of red blood spots under the skin. 1  Injury: This is considered as the most common reason for this condition. 2  Trauma due to an injury is also another reason for causing red blood spots.
Understanding that at times, a diagnosis over the internet is difficult, your description of,  red spots and blotches on the belly and possibly gums-this has me concerned. I am very concerned that there may be a problem with the dog's clotting system, most notably the platelets. 
There are few things as frustrating for a dog as a lesion of the skin called a hot spot. Hot spots, also known as acute moist dermatitis or pyotraumatic dermatitis, are red, itchy, oozing skin infections that initially emerge as circular lesions, usually on the head, over the hip, and along the side of the chest. The irritation causes the dog to lick and chew the skin. It is the dog's licking and chewing that actually causes the hot spot. Hot spots can arise very quickly: a flea bite can dramatically change into a large oozing and painful wound several inches wide in just a few hours.
Overview. There are multiple underlying causes for dog skin sores including parasites (fleas, mites), poor grooming, dog skin infection (bacterial pyoderma, fungal), endocrine diseases, skin or hair follicle disorders disorders such as seborrhea, medication side effects (from corticosteroids) and allergy. Blastomycosis is a fungal infection that causes dog skin sores. It is a systemic infection that causes respiratory problems, a reluctance to walk, generalized weakness, a poor appetite, and even blindness. One of the first signs of the illness, however, is round, oozing sores on the skin.
Red blood dots on skin can be caused due to several reasons and exposure to the UV rays is the most common reason. Read on to know more about other causes as well. 1  Petechiae: The condition of red dots on skin is a clear indication of the condition of petechiae. 2  This condition usually occurs when the blood vessels present under the skin get damaged spilling out the blood in the inner skin layers. The following are a few causes for the presence of red blood spots under the skin. 1  Injury: This is considered as the most common reason for this condition. 2  Trauma due to an injury is also another reason for causing red blood spots.
Sudden unexplained bruising or blood spots under the skin or a sudden increase in the frequency of bruising may be caused by: 1  A medicine, such as aspirin or blood thinners (anticoagulants). 2  Infection that causes the buildup of toxin in the blood or tissues (sepsis). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dog skin disorders are among the most common health problems in dogs. Skin disorders in dogs have many causes, and many of the common skin disorders that afflict people have a counterpart in dogs. The condition of dog's skin and coat can also be an important indicator of its general health. 
Hot spots are rapidly appearing, oozing skin infections, also known as acute moist pyoderma.. A hot spot starts because something irritates, itches, or causes inflammation of the dog's skin. In cases of itching, the dog rubs, licks, or chews the site and exacerbates the problem. The most common symptoms are itchiness, redness, often with pimples or scabs, and a bad odor. A hot spot starts because something irritates, itches, or causes inflammation of the dog's skin. In cases of itching, the dog rubs, licks, or chews the site and exacerbates the problem. These sores can develop into severe problems in as short a time as an hour or two.
Ticks. Ticks, like fleas, are external parasites that feed on the blood of their hosts. You can spot a tick feeding on your dog with the naked eye. To properly remove a tick, grasp the tick with tweezers close to the dog’s skin, and gently pull it straight out. Twisting or pulling too hard may cause the head to remain lodged in your dog’s skin, which can lead to infection.