Eating food with cholesterol in it does not in and of itself cause chronically high cholesterol levels. In humans, 80 to 85 percent of our cholesterol is synthesized in the liver from sugars, and only 15 to 20 percent is synthesized from dietary fats. For the majority of humans, any excess that comes through the diet is excreted. Cholesterol in your bloodstream is attached to one of several different molecules. It is better if the total to HDL ratio is, say, 3 to 1. This would mean that HDL represents 33% of the total cholesterol. An example would be a total cholesterol of 210 and an HDL of 70. In that person, the HDL is 33% of the total cholesterol, and that is a better percentage than just 20%.
Many glial cells lined up along an axon are required to fully myelinate and insulate a long nerve cell. The composition of myelin is approximately 30 percent protein, 27 percent cholesterol and 43 percent phospholipid. Myelin production is absolutely dependent on cholesterol synthesis in the glial cells. In your brain and nerve tissue, cholesterol is required for the formation of the myelin sheath, a fatty material that surrounds long portions of nerve fibers. Myelin insulates nerve cells and enhances the passing of electrical signals throughout your nervous system’s circuitry.
The myelin sheath is a cholesterol-enriched nerve cell insulator. Although you may often read about the negative consequences of too much cholesterol in your blood, cholesterol has many essential functions in your body. In your brain and nerve tissue, cholesterol is required for the formation of the myelin sheath, a fatty material that surrounds long portions of nerve fibers. Myelin insulates nerve cells and enhances the passing of electrical signals throughout your nervous system’s circuitry.
Fat comprises 60 percent of your gray matter, the nerve cells and processes, in your central nervous system, according to Maggie Greenwood-Robinson, author of the book Good Fat vs. Bad Fat.. Cholesterol, a waxy substance that your liver produces from fats you ingest, is a central component of myelin. Myelin may also contain a small percentage of saturated fatty acids, which decrease the fluidity of the myelin membrane compared to cholesterol, which provides considerable membrane fluidity, according to Patricia Armati, PhD., editor of the book The Biology of Oligodendrocytes..
In your nervous system, cells called Schwann cells grow exceedingly large cell membranes, which wrap tightly around the long processes of nerves. Cell membranes of Schwann cells are unique in that they contain as much as 50 percent more cholesterol and up to 75 percent less protein than other types of cell membranes. This wrapping forms a thick insulating layer of cholesterol-based cell membrane known as myelin. Myelin may also contain a small percentage of saturated fatty acids, which decrease the fluidity of the myelin membrane compared to cholesterol, which provides considerable membrane fluidity, according to Patricia Armati, PhD., editor of the book The Biology of Oligodendrocytes..
Myelin is 75 percent fats and cholesterol, and it is 25 percent protein, according to the PMD Foundation. In theory, increasing essential fatty acids provides the body with the building blocks it needs to build and repair myelin as indicated by the University of Michigan Health System website. Flaxseed, fish oils, salmon, walnuts and kidney beans are dense with Omega-3 fatty acids. The myelin sheath is 70 percent fat, all of which comes from such fatty acids. Oleic acid is a major natural contributor to that content. Olive oils, avocados and nuts contain oleic acid.
Cholesterol is required for the body to make reproductive hormones and the body’s anti-stress hormone, cortisol. Eighty percent of the cholesterol in the blood is made by a healthy liver that makes, every single day, as much cholesterol as is in six to eight chicken egg yolks. Cholesterol is part of the protective coating, the myelin sheath, that insulates nerves. Cholesterol “waterproofs” the protective cell membrane in each of the body’s cells. Cancer rates increase when cholesterol levels decrease. 