If the allergen is in the air -- for example, pollen, mold, pet dander or dust -- the reaction is likely to occur in your eyes, nose, lungs and airways. You may get itchy, watery eyes, a runny or stuffy nose and begin to start sneezing or have trouble breathing.
If you have allergies, asthma, or other breathing problems, this proverb may sound very familiar. But a greater understanding of your breathing problems, along with an accurate medical diagnosis and effective treatment, can help you regain control.
Many breathing problems are chronic or long-term. These common breathing problems include chronic sinusitis, allergies, and asthma. These problems can cause a host of symptoms such as nasal congestion, runny nose, itchy or watery eyes, chest congestion, cough, wheezing, labored breathing, and shallow breathing.
Any conditions or diseases that can constrict the airways can lead to wheezing. Wheezing can be accompanied by other symptoms such as coughing and shortness of breath. Wheezing may also occur in anaphylaxis, a severe and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction.
Wheezing results from a narrowing of the airways and typically indicates some difficulty breathing. The narrowing of the airways can be caused by inflammation from asthma, an infection, an allergic reaction, or by a physical obstruction, such as a tumor or a foreign object that's been inhaled. The most common cause of recurrent wheezing is asthma.
Coughing also helps clear your airways of mucus produced due to a cold, allergies, or other diseases, such as the flu. Cold and allergies have many similar symptoms, such as coughing, runny nose, and sneezing. If you have asthma, both conditions can also cause wheezing and shortness of breath. However, colds and allergies are different conditions with distinct causes. Allergies:
A wheezing cough can be the manifestation of many different respiratory ailments. The wheezing could be caused by a generally allergy, asthma, bronchitis and even pneumonia. You should take a wheezing cough seriously, and seek immediate medical advice for your wife.