Description: An Irish bread that is made of a white flour dough, enriched with eggs and butter, and flavored with currants, raisins, sugar, and citrus zest. Barm Brack is a yeast leavened bread, which is unusual because most Irish breads are leavened with baking soda and are classified as quick breads. Type of flour used: white flour (wheat) - usually bread flour or all-purpose flour. Description: A type of yeasted roll that is enriched with eggs and a small quantity of shortening that is characterized by its shape, which resembles a five petal flower blossom.
A type of commercially prepared white bread that is fortified with vitamins and minerals in order to replace the nutrients lost during processing. When commercially prepared white bread first became widely available during the early twentieth century, it was discovered that it was not very nutritious. 
The dough is yeast leavened and is enriched with butter and milk. It is flavored and colored with saffron strands that give the bread an attractive yellow coloring. Cornish saffron bread is also flavored with nutmeg, cinnamon, golden raisins, and ground almonds. Type of flour used: white flour (wheat) - usually bread flour or all-purpose flour. Description: A type of yeasted roll that is enriched with eggs and a small quantity of shortening that is characterized by its shape, which resembles a five petal flower blossom.
Enriched flour is flour with specific nutrients returned to it that have been lost while being prepared. These restored nutrients include iron and B vitamins (folic acid, riboflavin, niacin, and thiamine). Calcium may also be supplemented. The purpose of enriching flour is to replenish the nutrients in the flour to match the nutritional status of the unrefined product. This differentiates enrichment from fortification, which is the process of introducing new nutrients to a food.
Enriched Bread. A bread is considered “enriched” when ingredients are added beyond the lean dough ingredients. Adding oil, milk, butter, sugar, honey, molasses, egg and so forth is considered “enriched” bread as these modify the dough structure considerably. 
White enriched flour might be tasty in breads, cookies and pastries but it does not provide the benefits of whole wheat flour. White flour is enriched with some of the nutrients lost in processing, but parts of the whole grain are still missing. The 2010 U.S. Dietary Guidelines recommend that at least half of your daily grain intake come from whole grains. Foods made with whole wheat flour can help you meet that requirement
Fortified. Fortified bread is enriched with nutrients added back into the flour after milling. The two nutrients to look for in fortified breads are folic acid and iron. Folic acid helps prevent some birth defects and lowers the risk of heart disease and some cancers, according to the Linus Pauling Institute. To produce white flour, manufacturers remove the outer coating -- also known as the bran -- and the germ of the kernel.
Confidence votes 54. An enriched dough, as the name indicates, has a higher percentage of fat, eggs, milk and/or sweeteners, than in a lean dough. Enriched cornmeal is a meal or flour that has 10% more of the Daily  Value of nutrients than other cornmeal that is the same type.  Cornmeal come in a variety of colors and … is gluten-free. 1 person found this useful.
The endosperm or inside of the kernel is then ground into a fine flour. Bread manufacturers replace many of the nutrients lost during milling when preparing the dough for enriched bread so that it contains the same nutrients as those in whole-wheat bread, but they do not replace the fiber lost during milling. To produce white flour, manufacturers remove the outer coating -- also known as the bran -- and the germ of the kernel.