For other uses, see Cornea (disambiguation) . The cornea is the transparent front part of the eye that covers the iris, pupil, and anterior chamber. The cornea, with the anterior chamber and lens, refracts light, with the cornea accounting for approximately two-thirds of the eye's total optical power. In humans, the refractive power of the cornea is approximately 43 dioptres. While the cornea contributes most of the eye's focusing power, its focus is fixed. The curvature of the lens, on the other hand, can be adjusted to tune the focus depending upon the object's distance.
1 It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. 2  The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the white part of the eye (sclera). 3  The cornea acts as the eye’s outermost lens. Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass, but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: 1  It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. 2
Corneal Abrasion Facts. A cornea is a painful scrape or scratch of the surface of the clear part of the eye. This clear tissue of the eye is known as the cornea, the transparent window covering the iris, the circular colored portion of the eye.
1 The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the white part of the eye (sclera). 2  The cornea acts as the eye’s outermost lens. 3  It functions like a window that controls and focuses the entry of light into the eye. Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass, but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: 1  It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter
Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the sclera, or white part of the eye. The cornea acts as the eye's outermost lens. It functions like a window that controls and focuses the entry of light into the eye. 
The cornea is the transparent part of the eye that covers the front portion of the eye. It covers the pupil (the opening at the center of the eye), iris (the colored part of the eye), and anterior chamber (the fluid-filled inside of the eye). The cornea's main function is to refract, or bend, light. 
Cornea, Lens, and Iris. The iris is the colored part of the eye. A circular muscle in the iris controls the amount of light entering the eye through the pupil, the black area in the center of the iris. The cornea is the outer clear, round structure that covers the iris and the pupil. The cornea directs light rays into the eye and helps focus them on the light-sensitive retina at the back of the eye, providing sharp, clear vision. The lens is located behind the iris and is normally clear
Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass, but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: 1  It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. 2  The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the white part of the eye (sclera). Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass, but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: 1  It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. 2  The cornea acts as the eye’s outermost lens.
Corneal Disease. The cornea is the clear, protective outer layer of the eye. Along with the sclera (white of the eye), the cornea serves as a barrier against dirt, germs, and other particles that can harm the eye's delicate components. The cornea is also capable of filtering out some amounts of the sun's ultraviolet light. The cornea also plays a key role in vision.
If the cornea of your eye becomes damaged through disease, infection, or injury, the resulting scars can interfere with vision by blocking or distorting light as it enters the eye. The cornea is the clear, protective outer layer of the eye. Along with the sclera (white of the eye), it serves as a barrier against dirt, germs, and other particles that can harm the eye's delicate components. The cornea is also capable of filtering out some amounts of the sun's ultraviolet light. 