Starfish have a mouth in the middle of their underside (the ‘oral’ side) and an anus on their upper surface (the ‘aboral’ side). The mouth connects to the first of two stomachs – the cardiac stomach – which connects to the pyloric stomach. 
The sea star's mouth is located on its underside. Sea stars feed on bivalves like clams and mussels, and other animals such as small fish, barnacles, oysters, snails and limpets. They feed by grasping their prey with their arms, and extruding their stomach through their mouth and outside their body, where they digest the prey. They then slide their stomach back into their body. This image shows the underside of a sea star, and you can see it mouth (in the middle) and its tube feet.
A starfish's mouth is on the center of its bottom side. Its stomach  is directly behind the mouth after a short esophagus and extends a  bit down its five arms. Edit. 
Starfish have five or more (in some species) arms that radiate outward from a central body disc. The upper-side of their body can be smooth, bumpy or spiny. The mouth of starfish is located under the central body disc and tube feet line the bottom side of the arms. The tube feet enable the starfish to move using a hydraulic system, also known as a water vascular system. Most starfish are bottom feeders. Starfish are often brightly colored animals.
A starfish's mouth is on the center of its bottom side. Its stomach  is directly behind the mouth after a short esophagus and extends a  bit down its five arms. 
On the underside of the starfish where the legs come to a point, the mouth of the starfish can be seen. On the underside of the legs there are little projections called tube feet. The tube feet help the starfish move, grab on to things, breath, and eat. 
Starfish have a complete digestive system with a mouth at the center of their underside (the oral side) and an anus on their upper surface (the aboral side). The figure below (from Brusca and Brusca) is a cut-away view of the digestive system and associated structures. Food can be brought into the stomach through the mouth or, in many species, the cardiac stomach can be extended out through the mouth to digest food outside the body. Suspension-feeding starfish use their tube feet to pass food to the mouth.
Starfish is a carnivore who likes to eat clams, shells and mussels. It has two stomachs, one of which can be pushed outside the body during eating. This tactic allows them to eat large prey (that cannot be swallowed with their small mouth). Starfish mouth is located on the underside of its body. Anus is located on the upper side of the body. Starfish move using tube feet, which consists of hundreds projections on the underside of their bodies. They are used for walking and catching of the prey. Starfish do not have a brain.
Underside Of a Sea Star. The underside of a Northern sea star. Look closely and you may see the sea star's tube feet. Its mouth is located in the center of the star. Photo Credit: © Blue Ocean Society. They feed by grasping their prey with their arms, and extruding their stomach through their mouth and outside their body, where they digest the prey. They then slide their stomach back into their body. This image shows the underside of a sea star, and you can see it mouth (in the middle) and it