Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes.
The main difference between an animal cell and a plant cell is that, plant cells have a cell wall, which the animal cell lacks. The cell wall which is made up of cellulose gives the plant cell rigidity resulting in a fixed, rectangular shape.
Both plant and animal cells are eukaryotic cells, i.e., they have complex structures but the structures of both types of cells have major differences. Animal cells do not have rigid cell walls like plant cells. This allows animal cells to form and adopt various shapes. A type of animal cell called the phagocytic cell can even absorb other structures.
Further, unlike animal cells, plant cells have chloroplasts for the utilization of sunlight and this is what also gives plant cells their green color. It is with the help of chloroplasts that contain chlorophyll, the plant cells perform the function of photosynthesis which is a process absent in animal cells.
Plant cells can be larger than animal cells. The normal range for an animal cell varies from 10 to 30 micrometers while that for a plant cell stretches from 10 to 100 micrometers. Beyond size, the main structural differences between plant and animal cells lie in a few additional structures found in plant cells.
Difference between Plant and Animal Cells. Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells. However, there are distinct differences between the cells found in plants and those found in animals. The differences between the two types of cells can be seen with a light microscope.
Structurally, plant and animal cells are very similar because they are both eukaryotic cells. They both contain membrane-bound organelles such as the nucleus, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus, lysosomes, and peroxisomes. Both also contain similar membranes, cytosol, and cytoskeletal elements.