Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Citalopram is a longer acting drug. It will take approximately three days for it to clear out of your system to below a significant amount, but within about one and a half days the amount will be significantly reduced. Hi I have been on citalopram for 14 days and I have never felt so bad. My doctor has told me to stay on them as they have not properly got into my system yet but I feel so panicy and shakey its unreal I never felt this bad before I started them.
I was on 10mg citalopram for roughly 3 months roughly but was taken off it due to serious side effects and allergic reaction. I weeks off completely around 5 weeks ago now and have been feeling pretty good and back to normal up until yesterday when I started to feel quite dizzy/nausea and body weakness. 
7 1/4 days: The half-life of Celexa is 35 hours. Usually it takes 4-5 half-lives to remove most of a drug from the body. After 3 days, more than 50% of Celexa will be gone. After 7 days and 6 hours, about 97% of the drug will be removed from your system if your liver, and to a lesser extent your kidneys, are operating normally. Some people are super or slow metabolizers of drugs, so the time could vary. Get help from a doctor now ›. About 3 days.: The half-life of Celexa is about 1 1/2 days. It takes about 3 days to get the majority of the medicine out of your system. ...Read more. Dr. Mark Shukhman Board Certified, Psychiatry 25 years in practice 219K people helped.
Read More. It takes weeks for the citalopram to build in your system, so be patient and give it the full trial run, otherwise you will never know if it worked. Not every drug works for everyone, so you might have to try others if this one does not provide relief. Read More. I have been on Citalopram for about 3 years now with no problems at all, but this is how it is with these medications. We all react differently to them, and it is often trial and error in finding the right one for us.
Report Abuse. Hi I have been on citalopram for 14 days and I have never felt so bad. My doctor has told me to stay on them as they have not properly got into my system yet but I feel so panicy and shakey its unreal I never felt this bad before I started them.
Hi, my son has been taking it for 4 days now. He is in bed at the moment and is shaking all over. He says it is worse than 20 panic attacks He feels ashamed to feel this way. He cannot look after his wife who expects a baby in 3 weeks. Read More. I have been on Citalopram for about 3 years now with no problems at all, but this is how it is with these medications. We all react differently to them, and it is often trial and error in finding the right one for us.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Celexa has a 36 hour half life...meaning it will take 36 hours for 50% of the drug to leave your system and another 36 hours for it to be fully out of your system. Read more at the Related Link. On average, amphetamines will stay in your system from 1-4 days, depending on many factors including amount used, frequency of use, bodyweight, metabolism, etc.New entry: Everyone should be aware that some drugs, both prescription and elicit, are stored in fat cells.
Report Abuse. Usually medication can take up to 24 hours to be out of your system but I'm not sure exactly how long it can be for anti depressents-your GP is the best person to advise. Might be worth asking them to drop you down to a smaller dose (say 10mg) and see how you get on. Hi I have been on citalopram for 14 days and I have never felt so bad. My doctor has told me to stay on them as they have not properly got into my system yet but I feel so panicy and shakey its unreal I never felt this bad before I started them.
I would get off Celexa as soon as possible before your system is too used to it. I wouldn't think you need to take very long to taper down after only 6 days of use. Read More. I have been on Citalopram for about 3 years now with no problems at all, but this is how it is with these medications. We all react differently to them, and it is often trial and error in finding the right one for us.