Desalination is not modern science. Desalination/distillation is one of mankind's earliest forms of water treatment, and it is still a popular treatment solution throughout the world today. In ancient times, many civilizations used this process on their ships to convert sea water into drinking water.
Another common desalination process is Reverse Osmosis. It involves a solvent passing through a semi-permeable membrane; meaning this particular membrane only allows some molecules to penetrate or pass through. The solvent will then go into a solution with higher concentration of molecules.
Thermal desalination mimics the natural process of the water cycle – evaporation from the ocean, accumulation in the atmosphere, condensation as rain or snow, and collection. Since heat is vital in thermal desalination, the process is often linked to power plants and refineries to use waste heat.
The process is called desalination, and it is being used more and more around the world to provide people with needed freshwater. Most of the United States has, or can gain access to, ample supplies of fresh water for drinking purposes. But, fresh water can be in short supply in some parts of the country (and world).
Today there are two main desalination technologies – membrane (RO) and thermal (MED, MVC and MSF) desalination. Reverse Osmosis (RO) desalination uses the principle of osmosis to remove salt and other impurities, by transferring water through a series of semi-permeable membranes.
Desalination (also spelled desalinization) is the process of creating fresh water by removing saline (salt) from bodies of salt water. There are varying degrees of salinity in water, which affects the difficulty and expense of treatment, and the level of saline is typically measured in parts per million (ppm).
Desalination is a process of removing salt usually involving waters from the sea. But this process can also be done using brackish water and/or waste water for the purpose of producing water suitable for consumption by human beings. Much of the water available in this planet comes from the oceans.
More generally, desalination may also refer to the removal of salts and minerals, as in soil desalination, which also happens to be a major issue for agricultural production. Salt water is desalinated to produce fresh water suitable for human consumption or irrigation. One potential by-product of desalination is salt.