Atomic oxygen (O) is formed when ultraviolet sunlight reacts with ozone and oxygen molecules. Cycle 1 is most important in the stratosphere at tropical and middle latitudes, where ultraviolet sunlight is most intense. Significant destruction of ozone occurs in polar regions because ClO abundances reach large values. These compounds are broken down by the ultraviolet radiation in the stratosphere. Byproducts of the breakdown of these chemicals form radicals such as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and chlorine monoxide (ClO) that play an active role in ozone destruction.
Ozone /ˈoʊzoʊn/ (systematically named 1λ1,3λ1-trioxidane and catena-trioxygen), or trioxygen, is an inorganic molecule with the chemical formula O 3. It is a pale blue gas with a distinctively pungent smell. Ozone's odour is sharp, reminiscent of chlorine, and detectable by many people at concentrations of as little as 6992100000000000000♠10 ppb in air. Ozone's O 3 formula was determined in 1865.
Since the CFCs contain chlorine, breaking them up would result in the release of these reactive atoms. Each chlorine atom combined with one oxygen atom from an ozone molecule, which is also reactive, to yield a chlorine monoxide molecule and an oxygen molecule. In other words, the CFCs’ chlorine atoms attack ozone. While this process of CFCs dissociating is happening, the ultraviolet radiation also causes oxygen molecules to break down into free oxygen atoms. 
Cracks can be formed in many different elastomers by ozone attack, and the characteristic form of attack of vulnerable rubbers is known as ozone cracking. However, it does occur in many other safety-critical items such as fuel lines and rubber seals, such as gaskets and O-rings, where ozone attack is considered unlikely. Only a trace amount of the gas is needed to initiate cracking, and so these items can also succumb to the problem.
It's a seeming paradox, but not a real one. When it comes to ozone the where makes the difference. Near the ground, ozone is an air pollutant from man-made emissions. Ten to 30 miles overhead, ozone forms a protective layer that filters dangerous ultraviolet radiation from sunlight.
Ozone is formed from dioxygen by the action of ultraviolet light and also atmospheric electrical discharges, and is present in low concentrations throughout the Earth's atmosphere (stratosphere). In total, ozone makes up only 6993600000000000000♠0.6 ppm of the atmosphere. Ozone's odour is sharp, reminiscent of chlorine, and detectable by many people at concentrations of as little as 6992100000000000000♠10 ppb in air. Ozone's O 3 formula was determined in 1865.
This natural ozone shields us from the sun’s harmful ultraviolet rays. Bad Ozone forms near ground level when air pollutants (emitted by sources such as cars, power plants, and chemical plants) react chemically in the presence of sunlight. Ozone pollution is more likely to form during warmer months.
1 • Ozone (O3) is an extremely reactive gas molecule composed of three oxygen atoms. • 2  Ozone forms in chemical reactions in the atmosphere when nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), also called hydrocarbons (HC), come into contact with both sunlight and heat. 
When ultraviolet light waves (UV) strike CFC* (CFCl3) molecules in the upper atmosphere, a carbon-chlorine bond breaks, producing a chlorine (Cl) atom. The chlorine atom then reacts with an ozone (O3) molecule breaking it apart and so destroying the ozone. These compounds are broken down by the ultraviolet radiation in the stratosphere. Byproducts of the breakdown of these chemicals form radicals such as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and chlorine monoxide (ClO) that play an active role in ozone destruction.