1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated. 3  After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks. 1 If in doubt, put the egg in water. 2  If it floats, do not use it. 3  Eggs last about 4-5 weeks in your refrigerator. 4  If you don't know how long the egg has been in the refrigerator, fill a cup with water (enough to cover the egg), and put the egg in the cup.
Hard boiled eggs must be refrigerated. You can extend the answer to how long do hard boiled eggs last by storing them in your fridge (refrigerator) immediately after preparation or use. Once prepared, hard boiled eggs should be stored in a tightly closed container in the fridge to keep out moisture and other contaminants. 
To properly answer the question of how long do eggs last, how long are eggs good for, or the shelf life of eggs, a variety of factors must be examined such as the sell by date and how the eggs have been stored. 
Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors. 
1 Therefore, unless you are not expecting to keep the eggs for very long, you should not put them in water. 2  If you must wash the eggs, use HOT running water. 3  Farmers have 30 days from the day an egg is laid to get it to stores. 4  Then, the stores have another 30 days to sell the eggs. 1 If in doubt, put the egg in water. 2  If it floats, do not use it. 3  Eggs last about 4-5 weeks in your refrigerator. 4  If you don't know how long the egg has been in the refrigerator, fill a cup with water (enough to cover the egg), and put the egg in the cup.
1 Eggs out of the shell will usually stay good for 2 to 4 days in the fridge and one year in the freezer; egg yolks and egg whites may also be frozen separately and used later for cooking or baking purposes. 1 To maximize the shelf life of eggs, do not store them in the molded egg rack of the refrigerator door, as the temperature is too warm — the eggs will last much longer when they are stored in the main body of the refrigerator, in their purchased carton.
Q. How long will eggs keep? A. Fresh eggs, which are kept refrigerated, will last 4 to 5 weeks. Raw whites (out of the shell) will keep up to 4 days if refrigerated in a tightly closed container. Unbroken raw yolk should be covered with water in a tightly closed refrigerated container and used within 1 to 2 days. Source(s): http://www.wegmans.com/kitchen/storage/e...
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. With egg dyeing just around the corner, many may be wondering how long hard-boiled eggs can be kept before they spoil. Generally, hard-boiled eggs can last a week
Once refrigerated, they must continue to stay in the fridge until use, but will stay good up to 6 months (or more) only who keeps eggs that long anyway. Oh, yeah, commercial egg producers. Store bought eggs can be an average of 3 weeks to 3 months old by the time you buy them. Fresh eggs are very hardy. 
Eggs are perishable and must be stored in the refrigerator or freezer. Many factors can affect how long eggs last. When properly handled and stored, eggs rarely spoil. However, if you keep them too long, they are likely to dry up. Refrigerator Storage: Refrigerate eggs at 40°F or less. Store them in their original carton on an inside shelf and away from pungent foods.