“It’s actually very easy to tackle your butt, you just need to know how to motivate it to activate it.” Here’s how to bring up the rear…. Rethink your diet. “Fat accumulation on the bottom reflects raised levels of the hormone estrogen,” says Niki Rein. Do 20 reps, then return to the starting position, keeping your abdominals tight and body balanced throughout. Repeat the move with your left leg. Reboot with juice. Stress and a poor diet can slow down the digestive system, leaving you feeling bloated and sluggish.
In Western and some other cultures, many comedians, writers and others rely on the buttocks as a source of amusement, camaraderie and fun. In American English, phrases use the buttocks or synonyms (especially butt and ass) as a synecdoche or pars pro toto for a whole person, often with a negative connotation. 1 Pygalgia is soreness in the buttocks, i.e. a pain in the rump. 2  Steatopygia is a marked accumulation of fat in and around the buttocks. 3  Uropygial in ornithology means situated on or belonging to the uropygium, i.e. the rump of a bird.
Synonyms and Antonyms of DERRIERE. Synonyms backside, behind, booty (also bootie) [ slang ] , bottom, breech, bum, buns, butt, caboose, can, cheeks, derriere (or derriere), derrière, duff, fanny, fundament, hams, haunches [ heinie ] , slang, hunkers (keister also) [ keester ] , slang, nates, posterior, rear rear, end, rump, seat, tail tail, end [ .... tush 
3 ways to get the freshest home on the block. Febreze Sponsoredv\:shape { behavior:url(#default#VML); display:inline-block }v\:shapetype { behavior:url(#default#VML); display:inline-block }. v\:shape { behavior:url(#default#VML); display:inline-block }v\:shapetype { behavior:url(#default#VML); display:inline-block }. Do 20 reps, then return to the starting position, keeping your abdominals tight and body balanced throughout. Repeat the move with your left leg. Reboot with juice. Stress and a poor diet can slow down the digestive system, leaving you feeling bloated and sluggish.
Relevance ranks synonyms and suggests the best matches based on how closely a synonym’s sense matches the sense you selected. 
Origin of DERRIERE. French derriere, derrière From Old french derrier back, part, rear from, derier, adverb, behind From Late latin, deretro From latin de + from retro. Back First Known: use. 1774 French derriere, derrière From Old french derrier back, part, rear from, derier, adverb, behind From Late latin, deretro From latin de + from retro. back
Shake your derriere. Shake your derriere. let me see you move it. shake your derriere. shake your derriere. (down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down). Shake it shake it. shake it shake it. shake it shake it. (let me see you move it). shake it shake it. 
The buttocks are formed by the masses of the gluteal muscles or glutes (the gluteus maximus muscle and the gluteus medius muscle) superimposed by a layer of fat. The superior aspect of the buttock ends at the iliac crest, and the lower aspect is outlined by the horizontal gluteal crease. The gluteus maximus has two insertion points: 1⁄3 superior portion of the linea aspera of the femur, and the superior portion of the iliotibial tractus. 1 Pygalgia is soreness in the buttocks, i.e. a pain in the rump. 2  Steatopygia is a marked accumulation of fat in and around the buttocks. 3  Uropygial in ornithology means situated on or belonging to the uropygium, i.e. the rump of a bird.
Start in a ballet ‘plie’ plié – position turn your feet out at the hips and point your toes to the corners of the, room knees bent over the first and second, toes hands in prayer. Position step towards the (barre or a) chair and place your forearm onto. it Do 20 reps, then return to the starting position, keeping your abdominals tight and body balanced throughout. Repeat the move with your left leg. Reboot with juice. Stress and a poor diet can slow down the digestive system, leaving you feeling bloated and sluggish.