A subculture is a cultural group within a culture that differs in one or more ways from the culture. This would include differences in interest, behaviors or beliefs, like religion, ethnicity, and social or economic status.
A deviant subculture is a subculture, which has values and norms that differ substantially from the majority of people in a society. When the structure of a neighborhood or community favors criminal activity, a criminal subculture is likely to develop, such as the Mafia in the 1930s or inner city gangs today.
A subculture is a cultural group that is within a larger culture  that differentiate themselves from the larger culture. There are  many subcultures in every society that in … clude groups like bikers,  hippies, and fans of specific music including heavy metal.
Subcultures are those groups that have values and norms that are distinct from those held by the majority. Let's examine a few subcultural theories and test our knowledge with a quiz.
So subcultures list must include a subcultures that no longer exist, some of which are in the process of disappearance and subcultures that are arising. Best way to better understand the term and concept is to look at the individual subcultures.
Definition of Subculture. A subculture is a culture within a broader mainstream culture, with its own separate values, practices, and beliefs. In sociology, the concept of subculture explains the behavior of some social groups; sociologists study subcultures as one way of studying culture.
Otherkin is a subculture of people, primarily Internet-based, who identify in some way as other than human. Otherkin often believe themselves to be mythological or legendary creatures, explaining their beliefs through reincarnation, having a nonhuman soul, ancestry, or symbolic metaphor.
comments powered by Disqus. A subculture is a cultural group within a culture that differs in one or more ways from the culture. This would include differences in interest, behaviors or beliefs, like religion, ethnicity, and social or economic status.