Update 3/23/15 -- Glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, has been classified as a probable carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. Details here. Roundup® is touted as a safe, environmentally friendly and easy to use herbicide. It’s also denounced as a toxic, hazardous chemical.
1 To protect yourself and others, follow all safety precautions on the label. 2  Know and observe the general rules for safe pesticide use, and record the date, time, location, and amount of each pesticide used. 3  Wear protective clothing and use protective equipment according to instructions on the pesticide label.
Glyphosate is an herbicide. It is applied to the leaves of plants to kill both broadleaf plants and grasses. The sodium salt form of glyphosate is used to regulate plant growth and ripen fruit. Glyphosate was first registered for use in the U.S. in 1974.
Roundup® is a broad-spectrum herbicide, meaning that it has negative effects on nearly every plant with which it comes in contact. It is used for spot treatment of gardens, lawns, paved areas, and some agricultural crops. Although it is toxic, the active chemical, glyphosate, binds with soil.
As such, it has become the most popular herbicide in use today. Advertising by Monsanto has led the public to believe that RoundUp is safe as table salt, a phrase used quite often by its proponents to describe it.Studies used for RoundUp's initial registration were fraudulent.
introdUction 4 Safe and Effective Herbicide Use: A handbook for near-water applications Herbicides are designed to control pest plants (‘weeds’) and are useful in many situations for effective eradication. It is important to realise, however, that many herbicides are toxic in aquatic ecosystems.
Correct use is essential to ensure that chemical residues on crops do not exceed the limits set by law. Recommended herbicides do not generally injure people, livestock, wildlife, or crops if used properly and if recommended precautions are observed. However, any herbicide is potentially dangerous if improperly handled or used.
An herbicide is any agent used to bring about plant death. Although everything from salt to soap has been used for this purpose, herbicides are primarily synthetic chemicals manufactured for use in the agriculture, industrial, and ornamental and turf industries.
In addition, glyphosate is not the only chemical in Roundup®, simply the only one considered “active” by the EPA. The EPA only requires herbicide manufacturers to provide proof that the “active” ingredients are safe for the environment, not “inactive” or “other” ingredients.