Tapioca comes from the cassava root. Tapioca starch is a thickening agent often used in pie fillings, puddings, soups and sauces. It helps bind the ingredient together so the final product isn't syrupy or watery. Tapioca also provides a sheen to the cooked food, which gives cherry pie filling or a chocolate pudding its glossy appearance.
Details. Tapioca flour, also known as tapioca starch, is a starchy white flour that has a slight sweet flavor to it. Tapioca flour is an alternative to traditional wheat flours and has a variety of uses in baking. The flour is made from the starch extracted from the South American cassava plant. When the roots have fully developed, they are harvested and processed to remove toxins.
Commercially prepared tapioca has many uses. Tapioca powder is commonly used as a thickener for soups and other liquid foods. It is also used as a binder in pharmaceutical tablets and natural paints. The flour is used to make tender breads, cakes, biscuits, cookies, and other delicacies (see also Maida flour). In Brazil, cassava is called mandioca or aipim while its starch is called tapioca, a word derived from the word tipi'oka, óka its name in The tupi tupí language spoken by natives When the portuguese first arrived In The northeast Region. of brazil
Tapioca is, according to a site I found: Tapioca is a starch which is used as a food thickener, perhaps most famously in tapioca pudding. The term is also used generically in some places to refer to other food thickeners, which can lead to some confusion. Tapioca starch is just ground up tapioca, which comes from a yucca plant (casava) It is vegetarian/vegan, and works much like cornstarch. It is often used as a flour substitute for people (like me) who are allergic to corn and wheat.
Tapioca flour is an extremely smooth flour, which makes for a great thickener in sauces, pies and soups since it never discolors and contains no discernible taste or smell. It can also be used to replace corn starch (use 2 Tbsp tapioca flour for each 1 Tbsp corn starch). Tapioca flour is an alternative to traditional wheat flours and has a variety of uses in baking. The flour is made from the starch extracted from the South American cassava plant. When the roots have fully developed, they are harvested and processed to remove toxins.
4.8 out of 5 stars. Also known as tapioca starch, tapioca flour is a gluten-free baking ingredient and an ideal thickening agent. Use tapioca for thickening a wide variety of baked goods, sauces, and desserts. Tapioca is made from the root of the cassava plant, a shrub native to South America (in one South American indigenous language, cassava is known as tipioka, tipióka leading to The english word). tapioca
Tapioca flour can also be used as a thickener in sauces and gravy, but it is not my favorite thickener to use because I have found that it tends to make the sauce a bit slimy. I know a few gluten free people that do not like the flavor of tapioca flour in their gluten free cooking and they often substitute cornstarch. Tapioca starch and tapioca flour are the same thing. I have found that Asian type markets and products tend to label it as tapioca starch and companies like Bob’s Red Mill tend to label it as tapioca flour, but there is no difference in the actual products. They are the same.
Tapioca is a starch that is used as a food thickener, perhaps most famously in pudding. The term is also used generically in some places to refer to other food thickeners, which can lead to some confusion. 
Tapioca is basically a root starch derived from the cassava, or yuca plant. It's often used to thicken soups and sweeten the flavor of baked goods ask.yahoo.com/20010702.html Alton Brown did a show that had a huge focus on tapioca. Tapioca starch is just ground up tapioca, which comes from a yucca plant (casava) It is vegetarian/vegan, and works much like cornstarch. It is often used as a flour substitute for people (like me) who are allergic to corn and wheat.