The Amazon Rainforest is located in the upper section of Brazil south of the Equator. The Amazon River is located 2 to 4 degrees south of the Equator. This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The forest covers the basin of the Amazon, the world's second longest river, but its mostly in Brazil. Around the Amazo … n River in Brazil, South America. It is also called the Equitorial Rainforest, as it is so close to the equator.
This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. States or departments in four nations contain  Amazonas  in their names. 
Over half of the Amazon rainforest is located in Brazil but it is also located in other South American countries including Peru, Venezuela, Ecuador, Colombia, Guyana, Bolivia, Suriname and French Guiana. 10% of the world’s known species live in the Amazon rainforest. Amazon Rainforest Facts. Learn more about the Amazon rainforest with our range of fun facts for kids. Find out where the Amazon rain forest is located, how big it is, what kind of plants and animals live there and much more. The Amazon rainforest is the largest tropical rainforest in the world, covering over five and a half a million square kilometres (1.4 billion acres)
Amazon Rainforest Facts. The Amazon rainforest is located in South America and covers 2.1 million square miles of land. Brazil has 60%, Peru has 13%, and Colombia has 10% while other countries have very small parts of the rainforest within their borders. Altogether there are nine nations that enjoy all that the Amazon rainforest has to offer. If the Amazon rainforest was a country, it would rank 9th in size. The nine nations that have the Amazon rainforest in their borders are: Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana.
The Amazon rain forest is in South America, North-West. The forest covers the basin of the Amazon, the world's second longest river, but its mostly in Brazil. Around the Amazo … n River in Brazil, South America. It is also called the Equitorial Rainforest, as it is so close to the equator.
The Amazon is located in South America. In Brazil is 60% of the land and the rest covers part of Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, Venezuela. The forest covers the basin of the Amazon, the world's second longest river, but its mostly in Brazil. Around the Amazo … n River in Brazil, South America. It is also called the Equitorial Rainforest, as it is so close to the equator.