Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. If left untreated, infection can spread to joints, the heart, and the nervous system. Lyme disease is diagnosed based on symptoms, physical findings (e.g., rash), and the possibility of exposure to infected ticks. Laboratory testing is helpful if used correctly and performed with validated methods. Most cases of Lyme disease can be treated successfully with a few weeks of antibiotics.
You may first notice symptoms weeks to months after the tick bite. If the disease isn't treated, it may progress from mild symptoms to serious, long-term disabilities. 1  In the first stage, you may have a rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite. 2  You may also have a lack of energy or a headache and stiff neck. 3  Sometimes people have no symptoms at this stage. 1 In the first stage, you may have a rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite. 2  You may also have a lack of energy or a headache and stiff neck. 3  Sometimes people have no symptoms at this stage. 4  In the second stage, symptoms may include memory problems and pain and weakness in the arms and legs.
1 Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 1 Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 2  Lyme disease is diagnosed based on the patient's clinical signs of illness and the detection of antibodies to the causative bacteria in the blood.
Lyme Disease Symptoms. Share. Symptoms of early Lyme disease may present as a flu-like illness (fever, chills, sweats, muscle aches, fatigue, nausea and joint pain). Some patients have a rash or Bell’s palsy (facial drooping)
Symptoms: Early Stage. Within one to four weeks of being bitten by an infected tick, most people will experience some symptoms of Lyme disease. A circular, expanding rash (called erythema migrans) at the site of the bite develops in about 70%-80% of cases.
Early Symptoms. Perhaps the most well-known symptom of Lyme disease is a rash that looks like a bullseye. Scientifically named erythema migrans, this type of rash occurs in 70-80 percent of people infected by a tick bite. The area directly around the tick bite may be red and raised and look like a normal bug bite. Lyme disease is an illness that’s caused by bacteria carried by infected ticks. If you’ve been bitten by a tick and show any of the early symptoms of Lyme disease, you should see your doctor. Lyme disease is treatable, but it can cause serious health problems if you wait too long to be treated
Lyme disease facts. 1  Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 1 Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. 2  Lyme disease is diagnosed based on the patient's clinical signs of illness and the detection of antibodies to the causative bacteria in the blood.