2. translocation - (genetics) an exchange of chromosome parts; translocations can result in serious congenital disorders. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms. biological process, organic process-a process occurring in living organisms. translocation. n. 1. (Genetics) genetics the transfer of one part of a chromosome to another part of the same or a different chromosome, resulting in rearrangement of the genes. 2. (Botany) botany the transport of minerals, sugars, etc, in solution within a plant. 3. a movement from one position or place to another
Confidence votes 263K. In reference to genetics, translocation means moving a part of a chromosome to a different location within that chromosome or to an entirely different chromosome. This can result in an abnormality of the chromosome. Translocation refers to movement of sugars which are  dissolved in the phloem while transpiration re … fers to the process  through which water is moved from the roots to the stomata through  the xylem.
Translocation is a type of chromosomal abnormality in which a chromosome breaks and a portion of it reattaches to a different chromosome. Chromosomal translocations can be detected by analyzing karyotypes of the affected cells. 
There is a direct relationship between translocation and  transpiration. Translocation refers to movement of sugars which are  dissolved in the phloem while transpiration re … fers to the process  through which water is moved from the roots to the stomata through  the xylem. 2 people found this useful.
Hypernyms (translocation is a kind of...): biological process; organic process (a process occurring in living organisms). Domain category: genetic science; genetics (the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms). The noun TRANSLOCATION has 2 senses: 1. the transport of dissolved material within a plant. 2. (genetics) an exchange of chromosome parts. Familiarity information: TRANSLOCATION used as a noun is rare.
Translocation Down syndrome refers to the type of Down syndrome that is caused by rearranged chromosome material. In this case, there are three # 21 chromosomes, just like there are in trisomy 21, but one of the 21 chromosomes is attached to another chromosome, instead of being separate. In translocation Down syndrome, the extra 21 chromosome may be attached to the #14 chromosome, or to other chromosome numbers like 13, 15, or 22.
More Answers. Translocation is the movement of materials from leaves to other tissues throughout the plant. Plants produce carbohydrates (sugars) in their leaves by photosynthesis, but nonphotosynthetic parts of the plant also require carbohydrates and other. Translocation-movement of food and nutrients in the plant. the transportation of food through xylem to different parts of the plant is called translocation.
Translocation. Definition. noun. (1) A change of location; displacement; a transfer of location. (2) (genetics) Chromosomal translocation, that is a chromosomal segment is moved from one position to another, either within the same chromosome or to another chromosome. (3) (botany) Transport of soluble food material from one plant to another via phloem or xylem