HDL helps protect you from heart disease, so if your levels are low, your risk is higher. Diet and Exercise. Doctors say that you can lower your cholesterol levels by as much as 20 percent in three to six months, through simple dietary changes and exercise.
But if your cardiovascular risk is high, you may also need to take a cholesterol-lowering drug. Michael Richman, MD, medical director of the Center for Cholesterol Management in Los Angeles, calls drug therapy the only thing that will work fast to lower high cholesterol.
Identify Healthy Cholesterol Levels. According to the American Heart Association a healthy total cholesterol level is less then 200 mg/dl. You are considered to have borderline high cholesterol if your level is between 200 to 239 mg/dl. You will be diagnosed with high cholesterol if your level is is 240 mg/dl and over.
It depends on which part of your lipid profile is elevated and how you're going about lowering your cholesterol. Ultimately, the results will be different for every person. Elevated triglycerides (fats present in the blood plasma) tend to come down the fastest, usually in a few months or even less.
HDL (good) cholesterol protects against heart disease, so for HDL, higher numbers are better. A level less than 40 mg/dL is low and is considered a major risk factor because it increases your risk for developing heart disease. HDL levels of 60 mg/dL or more help to lower your risk for heart disease. Triglycerides can also raise heart disease risk. Levels that are borderline high (150-199 mg/dL) or high (200 mg/dL or more) may need treatment in some people.
Considerations. The type of test you need will determine if you have to fast or how long you have to fast for. A total cholesterol test or a test to determine your HDL levels can be done without fasting.
While a blood test to determine your cholesterol level can be done anytime, for the most accurate results it is best to fast. Different foods such as fatty foods have varying effects on cholesterol levels and if you test too close to eating, you may not get accurate results.