You can find a Licensed Conveyancer from lots of different places. Some of the ones we recommend are: 1  Use the CLC’s ‘ Find a Licensed Conveyancer ‘ online search tool. 2  Carry out a web search or use a comparison website to request quotes from licensed conveyancers. 3  Check your local phone directory. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2009). In law, conveyancing is the transfer of legal title of property from one person to another, or the granting of an encumbrance such as a mortgage or a lien. The term conveyancing may also be used in the context of the movement of bulk commodities or other products such as water, sewerage, electricity, or gas. In most mature jurisdictions, conveyancing is facilitated by a system of land registration which is designed to encourage reliance on public records and assure purchasers of land that they are taking good title.
A licensed conveyancer is also a Commissioner of Oaths and an increasing number are also licensed to offer probate services. ”. Solicitors are Regulated by the SRA (Solicitors Regulation Authority) and the Law Society. A Conveyancing Solicitor is a Solicitor who has chosen to specialise in property legal work or property law (commercial or residential). What is the practical difference between a Conveyancer and Solicitor. In practice there isn't much to distinguish Solicitors from Licensed Conveyancers. In essence, both carry out the legal work.
The result: a new type of specialist property lawyer termed a Licensed Conveyancer, someone who is trained and qualified in all aspects of the law dealing with property. A Licensed Conveyancer can act for buyers, sellers and lenders. The professional who handles your property transaction is still a qualified lawyer, and the client has exactly the same legal protection as with a Solicitor. That includes a complaints procedure, and we are also required to have Professional Indemnity Insurance which protects the customer against loss in the event of the Licensed Conveyancer being negligent when carrying out the conveyancing.
In England and Wales, conveyancing is usually done by a solicitor or a licensed conveyancer; either may employ or supervise an unqualified conveyancer. What is being conveyed, or transferred, is a piece of land or property, sometimes referred to archaically as messuage. In most mature jurisdictions, conveyancing is facilitated by a system of land registration which is designed to encourage reliance on public records and assure purchasers of land that they are taking good title.
Licensed Conveyancer-a description. For many years all conveyancing in Britain had to be done by a solicitor. That monopoly was broken first by the acceptance of do-it-yourself conveyancing; and then in 1987 legislation was passed to remove the monopoly on professional conveyancing services from solicitors as well. That includes a complaints procedure, and we are also required to have Professional Indemnity Insurance which protects the customer against loss in the event of the Licensed Conveyancer being negligent when carrying out the conveyancing.
In order to qualify as a Licensed Conveyancer it is necessary to have extensive practical experience of conveyancing, a specialised and sometimes complex area of law. The average Licensed Conveyancer will have many years' experience and will have passed qualifying examinations of above law degree standard. Until 1987 they could only use a solicitor to deal with their property sales and purchases. However, in 1987 Parliament brought to an end the solicitors’ monopoly of professional conveyancing services in England and Wales.
To fully qualify as a licensed conveyancer, you must spend at least two years in practical training with a 'qualified employer' such as a solicitor or another licensed conveyancer, as well as passing the CLC exams. Conveyancers use the legal process to transfer a house or flat, commercial property or piece of land, from one owner to another. They are specialist property lawyers who deal with the paperwork and finances involved in buying and selling property in England and Wales.
(August 2011). A Licensed Conveyancer is a specialist legal professional in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia or South Africa who has been trained to deal with all aspects of property law. Typically, their tasks might include: 1  Taking instructions from a client in relation to the sale or purchase of land or property. A Licensed Conveyancer holding a limited licence is required to complete eight hours of professional training each year (CPD-Continuing Professional Development training). Licensed Conveyancers with a full licence must complete 12 hours of professional training each year.