Adjective complements are also called predicate adjectives; noun complements are also called predicate nouns or predicate nominatives. See predicates, above. 1  An object complement follows and modifies or refers to a direct object. 2  It can be a noun or adjective or any word acting as a noun or adjective. Students are probably wise to learn one set of terms, not both. 1  A subject complement follows a linking verb; it is normally an adjective or a noun that renames or defines in some way the subject. 2  A glacier is a huge. 3  of ice.
Complement. Complement is a noun and verb. It also has a matching adjective, complementary. In any case, it refers to something that completes or goes well with something. The sauce is a nice complement to the vegetables. The sauce complements the vegetables nicely. The sauce is nicely complementary to the vegetables.
Traditionally, a complement is a constituent of a clause, such as a noun phrase or adjective phrase, that is used to predicate a description of the subject or object of the clause. Examples (English). 1  Robin read the book. (direct object complement of the verb). 2  Robin gave it to me. 3  Erin put it on the shelf. 4  This problem seems quite difficult. 5  They doubted whether it was possible. ... 6 under the table (noun phrase complement of a preposition). ... 7 hard to understand (verb phrase complement of an adjective).
Learner's definition of COMPLEMENT. [count]. 1. : something that completes something else or makes it better. The scarf is a perfect complement to her outfit. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. : the usual number or quantity of something that is needed or used. 3. grammar: a word or group of words added to a sentence to make it complete. “President” in “they elected her president” and “to work” in “he wants to work” are different kinds of complements. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. ◊ Do not confuse complement with compliment
More example sentences. 1  Each ship will have a complement of typically 1,200, including 600 air crew. 2  The ship's complement is 210 crew with 13 officers. 3  Eliminating meals will also mean the normal complement of cabin crew can be cut from six to three. 3 Grammar One or more words, phrases, or clauses governed by a verb (or by a nominalization or a predicative adjective) that complete the meaning of the predicate. In generative grammar, all the constituents of a sentence that are governed by a verb form the complement. Example sentences.1  Complement clauses are subordinate clauses that function as complements of a word: that they were too noisy in She told them that they were too noisy. 2  Recall that a verb governs an object, and the head of a phrase governs
Discussion. A selected, or subcategorized, phrase is obligatory, as contrasted with adjuncts, which are optional. For instance, the direct object of a transitive verb is obligatory and therefore a complement, whereas adverbial modifiers are generally optional, and therefore non-complements. Examples (English). 1  Robin read the book. (direct object complement of the verb). 2  Robin gave it to me. 3  Erin put it on the shelf. 4  This problem seems quite difficult. 5  They doubted whether it was possible. ... 6 under the table (noun phrase complement of a preposition). ... 7 hard to understand (verb phrase complement of an adjective).
1 Portuguese: complementar. 2  Spanish: complementar. 3  British English: complement Something that is a complement to something else complements it. 4  NOUNThe green wallpaper is the perfect complement to the old pine of the dresser. Translations for 'complement'. 1  British English: complement If one thing complements another, it goes well with the other thing and makes its good qualities more noticeable. 2  VERBNutmeg, parsley, and cider all complement the flavour of these beans well.
In that sentence, daughter is the direct object and Natasha is the object complement, which renames or describes the direct object. The indirect object identifies to or for whom or what the action of the verb is performed. The direct object and indirect object are different people or places or things. Students are probably wise to learn one set of terms, not both. 1  A subject complement follows a linking verb; it is normally an adjective or a noun that renames or defines in some way the subject. 2  A glacier is a huge. 3  of ice.