Cattle is a word to describe animals which are mammals and belong to the genus Bos. Within the general term of cattle are cows, bulls, oxen, heifers, steers, bullocks and calves. Cattle are the most common type of large domesticated hoofed animals. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae. The adjective that is used to describe something that is like a cow or an ox is bovine . The words cow, bull and calf are also used to describe some other large animals that are not related to cattle, such as elephants, moose and whales.
Cattle. The primary objective of ranching is sustainability of range resources. The ranching business remains a vital component of contemporary King Ranch operations, and is an ongoing, living link with the legendary past of Captain King’s domain. 
Cattle were originally identified as three separate species: Bos taurus, the European or taurine cattle (including similar types from Africa and Asia); Bos indicus, the zebu; and the extinct Bos primigenius, the aurochs. The aurochs is ancestral to both zebu and taurine cattle. Cattle can only be used in the plural and not in the singular: it is a plurale tantum. Thus one may refer to three cattle or some cattle, but not one cattle. No universally used singular form in modern English of cattle exists, other than the sex-and age-specific terms such as cow, bull, steer and heifer.
Gendered words such as bull and cow are normally used for adults, calf for the young, etc., though especially children will use cow for all three. 1  There are five cows and a calf in that herd of cattle. 
Cattle usually stay together in groups called herds. One male, called a bull will usually have a number of cows in a herd as his harem. The cows usually give birth to one calf a year, though twins are also known to be born. The adjective that is used to describe something that is like a cow or an ox is bovine . The words cow, bull and calf are also used to describe some other large animals that are not related to cattle, such as elephants, moose and whales.
Angus cattle, known as Aberdeen Angus in most parts of the world, are a breed of cattle commonly used in beef production. They were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus in Scotland. Angus cattle are naturally polled and solid black or red although the udder may be white. The native colour is black, but more recently red colours have emerged. The UK registers both in the same herd book, but in the US they are regarded as two separate breeds – Red Angus and Black Angus. Black Angus is the most common breed of beef cattle in the US, with 324,266 animals registered in 2005.
cattle. n (functioning as plural). 1. (Animals) bovid mammals of the tribe Bovini (bovines), esp those of the genus Bos. 2. (Animals) Also called: domestic cattle any domesticated bovine mammals, esp those of the species Bos taurus (domestic ox). [C13: from Old Northern French catel, Old French chatel chattel]. (ˈkaet ˈkæt). l. (n used with a. pl
Full Definition of CATTLE. 1. : domesticated quadrupeds held as property or raised for use; specifically: bovine animals on a farm or ranch. 2. 
Cattle are raised as livestock for meat (beef and veal), as dairy animals for milk and other dairy products, and as draft animals (oxen or bullocks that pull carts, plows and other implements). Other products include leather and dung for manure or fuel. Cattle can only be used in the plural and not in the singular: it is a plurale tantum. Thus one may refer to three cattle or some cattle, but not one cattle. No universally used singular form in modern English of cattle exists, other than the sex-and age-specific terms such as cow, bull, steer and heifer.