Some inherited genetic disorders, such as cystic fibrosis * and phenylketonuria * (PKU), are caused simply by the inheritance of genes that do not work properly. In other disorders, however, genetic and environmental factors seem to work together to cause changes in otherwise normal genes. Most genetic disorders are caused by defective genes on the autosomes. If an autosomal genetic disorder is caused by a problem with a single gene, then the following rules of inheritance usually apply. There are exceptions to these rules, but they are useful guidelines for understanding inheritance.
Many disorders are exceptions to the Mendelian laws of inheritance. Genetic disorders caused by a combination of many genes are called multifactorial (mul-tee-fak-TOR-e-al) disorders. In addition, some disorders show reduced penetrance (PEN-e-trance), which means that a gene is not wholly dominant or recessive. Most genetic disorders are caused by defective genes on the autosomes. If an autosomal genetic disorder is caused by a problem with a single gene, then the following rules of inheritance usually apply. There are exceptions to these rules, but they are useful guidelines for understanding
If the gene is on the X chromosome, the disorder is called X-linked. Genetic disorders also are grouped by how they run in families. Disorders can be dominant or recessive, depending on how they cause conditions and how they run in families. Some genetic diseases are caused by a DNA mutation in one of a person’s genes. For example, suppose part of a gene usually has the sequence TAC. A mutation can change the sequence to TTC in some people. This change in sequence can change the way that the gene works, for example by changing the protein that is made.
Diseases that are caused by a change in a single gene can be inherited in one of several ways, including: 1  Autosomal dominant: This means the condition is caused by a genetic change in just one copy of the gene. This change is called a mutation. Such changes in the genetic sequence can. 1  Inactivate the gene and result in a loss of function, 2  Cause the gene to create abnormal forms of the normal protein or. 3  Result in increased production of the normal protein.
Genetic traits can be passed through families in several distinct patterns. The most common patterns are the following: 1  Dominant genetic diseases are caused by a mutation in one copy of a gene. 2  If a parent has a dominant genetic disease, then each of that person’s children has a 50% chance of inheriting the disease. 1 Dominant diseases can also occur spontaneously; this happens when a random mutation in one gene occurs at conception. 2  Examples of dominant genetic diseases include Achondroplasia and Huntington disease. 3  For some dominant genetic diseases, there may be specific DNA tests available. 4  Recessive genetic diseases.
But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder
A single-gene disorder is the result of a single mutated gene. Over 4000 human diseases are caused by single-gene defects. Single-gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. Genomic imprinting and uniparental disomy, however, may affect inheritance patterns. The same disease, such as some forms of cancer, may be caused by an inherited genetic condition in some people, by new mutations in other people, and mainly by environmental causes in still other people.
Genetic mutations. Genetic mutations occur when DNA changes, altering the genetic instructions. This may result in a genetic disorder or a change in characteristics. Mutations can be caused by exposure to specific chemicals or radiation. For example, cigarette smoke is full of chemicals that attack and damage DNA. This causes mutations in lung cell genes, including the ones that control growth. 
3. Multifactorial disorders (complex diseases): disorders caused by changes in multiple genes, often in a complex interaction with environmental and lifestyle factors such as diet or cigarette smoke. 1  For example, cancer. Genetic disorders can be grouped into three main categories: 1. Single gene disorders: disorders caused by defects in one particular gene, often with simple and predictable inheritance patterns. 1  Dominant diseases: single gene disorders that occur when an individual has one altered copy of the relevant gene and one healthy copy. 2  For example, Huntington’s disease