A utility easement is an easement that allows a utility the right to use and access specific area of another's property for laying gas, electric, water, and sewer lines. A utility easement is attached to the property deed so that it passes on even when the property is transferred or sold. Having an easement gives the utility the right to use the land, but the utility does not own it. However, the property owner may encounter certain restrictions on land use in an area covered by a utility easement. A classic example of a utility easement is an easement which allows the power company to run electrical lines along a property, and to install utility poles for support where needed.
Easements give utility companies the right to install poles and lines on property that they do not own. Gas companies may seek a utility easement to run gas lines on private property. With a utility easement, a company may access poles and lines for routine maintenance and repairs. A classic example of a utility easement is an easement which allows the power company to run electrical lines along a property, and to install utility poles if the property is long enough that the lines cannot pass over the property without support.
Property owners still own the land on which utility easements exist. When you buy a home and its associated land, your property title might include an easement that gives someone else the right to cross or access it for a specific purpose. An easement held by an electricity provider allows it to erect and maintain electric power equipment on your land. All types of utility companies are granted easements on the lands over or under which their lines run. Your electric power company, for example, usually has an easement to use the portion of your land on which its towers and lines sit. However, an easement holder doesn't own the land.
What Are Utility Easements. Utility easements are areas of a property that were defined for use by utility companies when the property was first put on a plat. They are designated for overhead electric, telephone and television lines and underground electric, water, sewer, telephone, and cable lines. This is the case for many properties that are connected to a city power grid, sewer or water system. What Are Utility Easements
Even though you own the property on which your home rests, the utility companies in the area might have the right to use parts of it. When you purchased your home might be a utility easement on the property. This is the case for many properties that are connected to a city power grid, sewer or water system. What Are Utility Easements Utility easements are areas of a property that were defined for use by utility companies when the property was first put on a plat.
A utility easement is an easement which gives a utility the right to use and access a specific area of a property. A classic example of a utility easement is an easement which allows the power company to run electrical lines along a property, and to install utility poles if the property is long enough that the lines cannot pass over the property without support.
An easement is a non-possessory right to use and/or enter onto the real property of another without possessing it. It is best typified in the right of way which one landowner, A, may enjoy over the land of another, B. An easement is considered as a property right in itself at common law and is still treated as a type of property in most jurisdictions. The rights of an easement holder vary substantially among jurisdictions. Historically, the common law courts would enforce only four types of easement: 1  Right-of-way (easements of way).
by FreeAdvice staff. An easement is a legal right to use another's land for a specific limited purpose. In other words, when someone is granted an easement, he is granted the legal right to use the property, but the legal title to the land itself remains with the owner of the land.
Utility easements are strips of land used by utility companies to construct and maintain overhead electric, telephone and cable television lines and underground electric, water, sewer, telephone, and cable television lines. An easement is defined as an interest in land owned by another that entitles its holder to a specific limited use or enjoyment..
Easements. An easement is a limited right to use another person's land for a stated purpose. Examples of easements include the use of private roads and paths, or the use of a landowner's property to lay railroad tracks or electrical wires. 