i moved my 3 ducks outside at 2 weeks for the same reason. we didnt use a heat lamp but they are housed with 2.5 mo old chicks to help stay warm. the temp has dropped into the low 40's and the birds have been fine outside for 2 weeks now. as long as you have the heat lamp they should be fine.
As ducklings, you should feed your ducks gamebird starter; give them gamebird grower oncve they are older. To reduce the cost of feed and help you ducks to be more self sufficient, let your ducks forage to find a portion of their diet themselves. Chicken feed is not okay.
Ok my ducks are babies so I know its going to be a bit but generally what age so I have a target date. They are stinking me out of house and home right now. I forgot how smelly they were.
Ducklings are hardier than chicks so their temps don't have to be as high as long but they still need warmth. Mine went out at 5 weeks almost fully feathered with temps in the 60-70's and I still put out a 60 watt bulb for heat during the day and I had another larger one for nights.
Baby ducks need to be kept very warm in the first few weeks after they hatch, to give them the chance to get used to the chilly air outside their eggs. Buy a brooding lamp at a feed store or hardware store and affix it to the top of the brooder. 1  Use a 100-watt bulb to start.
Ducklings and Goslings do not take heat well, so be sure not to overheat them. They like a temperature of 90-92 degrees for the first 3 days, then 85-90 degrees for days 4 to 7. Thereafter, drop the temperature by approximately 5 degrees per week until they are fully feathered.
A. Ducks are omnivorous, meaning that they eat both plants and animals. In the wild, they eat grasses, bugs, pond plants and aquatic invertebrates. Your backyard might not have the variety of foods baby ducks need to support their rapid growth.
3. Allow adult ducks to swim unassisted. When ducklings are fully feathered with their waterproof, adult feathers, they can swim without your supervision. Depending on the type of duck, full feathers should be in place by 9-12 weeks of age.