The kidney secretes the hormones renin, calcitriol and erythropoietin. Renin-also known as angiotensinogenase, helps to control the body's blood pressure by regulating the … balance of fluid and electrolytes in the body. The kidneys produce hormones that help control blood pressure. One  of them is called renin. It is part of the  renin-angiotension-aldosterone mechanism. Other hormones are … 
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium; the kidneys also are responsible for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids. The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, renin, and erythropoietin. http://wiki.answers.com/What_is_a_function_of_the_kidney#ixzz18hXtaIK4. Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through t … he ureters.   the main function unit of the kidney is the nephron   The kidneys regulate the body's fluid volume, mineral composition and acidity by excreting and reabsorbing water and inorganic electrolytes.
The kidneys remove waste products and excess water from the body and so help to regulate blood pressure. They activate vitamin D, which helps to maintain strong bones, and produce erythropoietin, a hormone that is vital for the production of red blood cells. Each kidney contains 1.0-1.5 million small tubes called nephrons. The kidneys filter blood through a network of small blood vessels called the glomerulus. This helps to control blood pressure. In addition to making hormones, the kidneys also respond to a number of hormones including vitamin D, aldosterone, prostaglandins, cortisol, parathyroid hormone and calcitonin.
Another hormone your kidneys produce is erythropoietin. Erythropoietin sends a chemical message to your bone marrow to make red blood cells. Red blood cells are the cells that transport needed oxygen throughout the body. Without adequate levels of oxygen, your body’s cells will not have the energy to do their jobs. This is partially true. The primary job of the kidneys is to remove excess fluid and waste from the bloodstream. When your kidney function is below 15 percent of normal, you need dialysis to filter these items from your blood.
The kidneys are bean-shaped organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in vertebrates. They remove excess organic molecules from the blood, and it is by this action that their best-known function is performed: the removal of waste products of metabolism. 
Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through the ureters. the main function unit of the kidney is the nephron The kidneys regulate the body's fluid volume, mineral composition and acidity by excreting and reabsorbing water and inorganic electrolytes.   Answer: 1. Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through t … he ureters.   the main function unit of the kidney is the nephron  
1 Renin. 2  Renin is not a hormone itself, but an enzyme that the kidneys produce to start the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). 3  The RAS increases blood volume and blood pressure in response to low blood pressure, blood loss, or dehydration. Production of Hormones. The kidneys produce and interact with several hormones that are involved in the control of systems outside of the urinary system. 1  Calcitriol. 2  Calcitriol is the active form of vitamin D in the human body.
The kidneys also produce hormones that affect the function of other organs. For example, a hormone produced by the kidneys stimulates red blood cell production. Other hormones produced by the kidneys help regulate blood pressure and control calcium metabolism. The kidneys are powerful chemical factories that perform the following functions: 1  remove waste products from the body. 2  remove drugs from the body. The kidneys perform their life-sustaining job of filtering and returning to the bloodstream about 200 quarts of fluid every 24 hours. About two quarts are removed from the body in the form of urine, and about 198 quarts are recovered.
Chronic diseases and other conditions may affect endocrine system function in several ways. After hormones produce their effects at their target organs, they are broken down (metabolized) into inactive molecules. The liver and kidneys are the main organs that break down hormones. The ability of the body to break down hormones may be decreased in people who have chronic heart, liver, or kidney disease. Abnormal endocrine function can result from: 1  congenital (birth) or genetic defects (see section on Genetics below)
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, renin, and erythropoietin. the main function unit of the kidney is the nephron   The kidneys regulate the body's fluid volume, mineral composition and acidity by excreting and reabsorbing water and inorganic electrolytes. Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through t … he ureters.  