Anticholinergics decrease acetylcholine activity to balance out the production of dopamine and acetylcholine. They are used to treat incontinence, depression and sleep disorders. Medications with strong anticholinergic effects, such as antihistamines that cause drowsiness, are well known for causing acute cognitive impairment in individuals with dementia and may cause confusion and hallucinations.
The drugs help to block involuntary movements of the muscles associated with these diseases. They also balance the production of dopamine and acetylcholine in the body. Anticholinergics can also be used to treat certain types of toxic poisoning, and are sometimes used as an aid to anesthesia. Anticholinergics are only available with a doctor’s prescription. Anticholinergics are used to treat a variety of conditions. These include: 1  gastrointestinal disorders, such as diarrhea, overactive bladder, and incontinence. 2  asthma. 3  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Anticholinergics are a class of drugs that block the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain. They are used to treat diseases like asthma, incontinence, gastrointestinal cramps, and muscular spasms. Anticholinergics are used to treat a variety of conditions. These include: 1  gastrointestinal disorders, such as diarrhea, overactive bladder, and incontinence. 2  asthma. 3  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
anticholinergic. blockade of acetylcholine receptors, resulting in the inhibition of the transmission of parasympathetic nerve impulses; parasympatholytic. Used most commonly in the nonspecific treatment of vomiting or diarrhea; includes atropine, propantheline, scopolamine, isopropamide. 2 an anti-cholinergic agent that functions by competing with the neurotransmitter acetylcholine for its receptor sites at synaptic junctions. Anticholinergics are used to treat spastic disorders of the GI tract, to reduce salivary and bronchial secretions before surgery, or to dilate the pupil
An anticholinergic agent is a substance that blocks the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the central and the peripheral nervous system. Anticholinergics inhibit parasympathetic nerve impulses by selectively blocking the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine to its receptor in nerve cells. Possible effects of anticholinergics include: 1  Poor coordination. 2  Dementia. 3  Decreased mucus production in the nose and throat; consequent dry, sore throat. 4  Dry-mouth with possible acceleration of dental caries. 5  Stopping of sweating; consequent decreased epidermal thermal dissipation leading to warm, blotchy, or red skin.
Anticholinergic: Opposing the actions of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Anticholinergic drugs inhibit the transmission of parasympathetic nerve impulses, thereby reducing spasms of smooth muscles (for example, muscles in the bladder). 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Anticholinergics are medications that are administered to lessen the nervous system's stimulation of smooth muscle tissue. An anticholinergic works by inhibiting the action of acetylcholine, the neurotransmitter responsible for signaling nerve activity. It is very important to follow a doctor's directions exactly when taking an anticholinergic or any other type of prescription medication. An overdose could cause severe health complications, including cardiac arrest, lung failure, and brain damage.
Medical uses [edit]. Anticholinergic drugs are used to treat a variety of conditions: 1  Gastrointestinal disorders (e.g., gastritis, diarrhea, pylorospasm, diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, nausea, and vomiting). 2  Genitourinary disorders (e.g., cystitis, urethritis, and prostatitis). 3  Respiratory disorders (e.g., asthma, chronic bronchitis, and chronic obstructive 4  .... S Possible effects of anticholinergics include: 1  Poor coordination. 2  Dementia. 3  Decreased mucus production in the nose and throat; consequent dry, sore throat. 4  Dry-mouth with possible acceleration of dental caries. 5  Stopping of sweating; consequent decreased epidermal thermal dissipation leading to warm, blotchy, or red skin.