Blossom Set Spray helps blossoms set fruit, even in poor weather. The resulting tomatoes will be meatier and have fewer seeds, too. This ready-to-use spray also works for beans, cucumbers, eggplants, melons, okra, peppers, strawberries and grapes. Contains kinetin, a natural plant growth hormone. 1  8-oz pump spray bottle. 
A new study, led by Zhangjun Fei of the Boyce Thompson Institute at Cornell University and Sanwen Huang of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Beijing, has identified the DNA that’s responsible for turning a cucumber plant from a normal plant to a high-producing all-female plant. This is a huge step. 
Some varieties, such as Marketer and Ashley, are suitable for slicing. To get an early start on your warm-season vegetables like cucumbers (Cucumis sativus), plant the seeds indoors about four weeks before the last frost. Unfortunately, cucumbers are a bit fussy about transplanting, so plant the seeds in starter plugs -- the bigger the better -- that contain their own soil and can be planted directly into the garden at planting time.
Keep the first set of leaves intact, because they will help produce roots and supply energy to the new cucumber plant. Dip the cut end of the stem cutting upright into indole-3-butyric acid powered rooting hormone, until the hormone generously covers to just above both leaf nodes from the second set of leaves. Hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zone 4 through 11, cucumbers grow in two forms, vining and bush. Vining varieties are able to survive in small spaces, thanks to their ability to climb.
The fourth most widely cultivated vegetable in the world, the cucumber, related to both the melon and squash families, is technically a fruit. With its mild, refreshing flavor that mixes so well with other garden offerings, cucumbers are actually 90% water, but still manage to provide many valuable health benefits. Drain and rinse the salted cucumbers with fresh water. Mix in the sliced chiles, onion and garlic in a heatproof airtight container, then pour the hot vinegar mixture over the vegetables. Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 3 hours to blend the flavors. Serve chilled.
Cucumbers are one of Dr. Mercola’s most highly recommended vegetables. In one study, cucumber extracts were screened for signs of free radical scavenging and analgesic activities, following the lead of traditional folk uses. Drain and rinse the salted cucumbers with fresh water. Mix in the sliced chiles, onion and garlic in a heatproof airtight container, then pour the hot vinegar mixture over the vegetables. Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 3 hours to blend the flavors. Serve chilled.
Auxin is a type of plant hormone involved in the formation of pegs in cucumber seedlings, which are a gravity-related physical trait, that develop between the plant’s roots and its stem. Understanding how plants sense gravity could enable new genetically modified variants that can grow in microgravity. The investigation examines how plants sense gravity, and how gravity affects plant hormone transportation, plant growth and root development, all of which are important for plant cultivation in space.
Cucumbers are also highly sensitive to ethylene, a natural plant hormone responsible for initiating the ripening process in several fruits and vegetables, so another recommendation is to store cucumbers away from bananas, melons, and tomatoes because of the natural ethylene they generate. Drain and rinse the salted cucumbers with fresh water. Mix in the sliced chiles, onion and garlic in a heatproof airtight container, then pour the hot vinegar mixture over the vegetables. Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 3 hours to blend the flavors. Serve chilled.
Vining cucumber plants tend to yield more fruit that bush varieties. Cucumbers are widely cultivated warm-season vegetables that thrive in soil temperatures of 70 degrees or more. Hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zone 4 through 11, cucumbers grow in two forms, vining and bush. Vining varieties are able to survive in small spaces, thanks to their ability to climb.
I have a cucumber plant that came up with leaves that were 50% bigger than normal and within 5 weeks it had 4 seperate stems all over a half inch in diameter with all leaves that were between 2 and 3 times the size of a normal leaf. 