Chelation is useful in applications such as providing nutritional supplements, in chelation therapy to remove toxic metals from the body, as contrast agents in MRI scanning, in manufacturing using homogeneous catalysts, and in fertilizers. Chelate complexes are contrasted with coordination complexes composed of monodentate ligands, which form only one bond with the central atom. The word chelation is derived from Greek χηλή, chēlē, meaning claw; the ligands lie around the central atom like the claws of a lobster.
Chelation therapy is a medical procedure that involves the administration of chelating agents to remove heavy metals from the body. According to the findings of a 1997 systematic review, EDTA chelation therapy is not effective as a treatment for coronary artery disease and this use is not approved in the United States by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
chelate. n. 1. (Chemistry) chem a coordination compound in which a metal atom or ion is bound to a ligand at two or more points on the ligand, so as to form a heterocyclic ring containing a metal atom. adj. 2. (Zoology) zoology of or possessing chelae. 3. (Chemistry) chem of or denoting a chelate. tr.v. che·lat·ed, che·lat·ing, che·lates. 1. Chemistry To combine (a metal ion) with a chemical compound to form a ring. 2. Medicine To remove (a heavy metal, such as lead or mercury) from the bloodstream by means of a chelate, such as EDTA.
The chelate effect describes the enhanced affinity of chelating ligands for a metal ion compared to the affinity of a collection of similar nonchelating (monodentate) ligands for the same metal. Chelate complexes are contrasted with coordination complexes composed of monodentate ligands, which form only one bond with the central atom. The word chelation is derived from Greek χηλή, chēlē, meaning claw; the ligands lie around the central atom like the claws of a lobster.
A chelate is a chemical compound composed of a metal ion and a chelating agent. A chelating agent is a substance whose molecules can form several bonds to a single metal ion. In other words, a chelating agent is a multidentate ligand. An example of a simple chelating agent is ethylenediamine. ethylenediamine. A single molecule of ethylenediamine can form two bonds to a transition-metal ion such as nickel(II), Ni 2+ .
Definition of CHELATE. 1. : resembling or having chelae. 2. [from the pincerlike way in which the metal ion is held] : of, relating to, or being a chelate. ADVERTISEMENT.
Chelation therapy is a chemical process in which a synthetic solution-EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid)-is injected into the bloodstream to remove heavy metals and/or minerals from the body. Chelation means to grab or to bind.. When EDTA is injected into the veins, it grabs heavy metals and minerals such as lead, mercury, copper, iron, arsenic, aluminum, and calcium and removes them from the body. Except as a treatment for lead poisoning, chelation therapy is controversial and unproved. Chelation is a very effective way to treat heavy-metal poisoning. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved prescription chelation therapy for the treatment of lead poisoning. Injected EDTA binds with the harmful metal and both are then eliminated from the body through the kidneys.
chelate. to combine with a metal in complexes in which the metal is part of a ring; by extension, a chemical compound in which a metallic ion is sequestered and firmly bound into a ring within the chelating molecule. Chelates are used in treatment of metal poisoning. 1  Facebook
chelate. 1. to combine with a metal in complexes in which the metal is part of a ring. 2. by extension, a chemical compound in which a metallic ion is sequestered and firmly bound into a ring within the chelating molecule. Chelates are used in chemotherapy of metal poisoning. to combine with a metal in complexes in which the metal is part of a ring; by extension, a chemical compound in which a metallic ion is sequestered and firmly bound into a ring within the chelating molecule. Chelates are used in treatment
Chelation therapy is a treatment that involves repeated intravenous (IV) administration of a chemical solution of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, or EDTA. It is used to treat acute and chronic lead poisoning by pulling toxins (including heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, and mercury) from the bloodstream. For heavy metal toxicity: EDTA chelation therapy is often given intravenously with calcium, magnesium, and vitamins B and C over a period of 1 to 3 hours. The recommended adult dosage varies depending on the size of the person and the amount of lead or other metal in the body.