The name Carlson itself comes ultimately from the Germanic personal name Carl, which was Latinized as 'Carolus'. Early forms of the name in Britain predate the Norman invasion, but some bearers of this name no doubt come from Norman stock. 
This most interesting surname recorded in a wide range of spellings from Carl, Carlo, and Charles, to patronymics such as Carlson, Charlson, Charlesson, Charleston, Charlestone, and many others is English but ultimately of pre 5th century Germanic origins. It was introduced to Scotland in the 15th century by the Stuarts, who had strong ties with France. In some instances the surname may be of 8th century Anglo-Saxon origin, and derive from the word ceorl, meaning a farmer or bondsman.
Carlson is a patronymic surname meaning son of Carl. It is used as a given name rarely. There are variations to the spelling. People with the name Carlson or its variant spellings include: 
Personal experiences with the name Carlson: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Carlson: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Carlson : | Edit. Usually a surname meaning son of carl. Alternative to Carlton as a formal name for Carl. Derived from the Old English ceorl (freeman, peasant, man). In the Middle Ages, Carl was used as a nickname for a bondman, villain, or a person of low birth and rude manners. Alternatively, Carl is used as a short form of Carlton.
Origin of Carlson, Meaning of Carlson. Origin: Carlsson is a swedish name and it means the son fo Carl If the fathers name was Carl Svenson then the oldest son was often named Sven Carlson. If the child was a daughter her surname would be Carlsdotter, dotter=daughter. Carlson Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the Carlson families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for Carlson Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background.
the nationality of the last name paniagua is mexican NO! The nationality of the last name Paniagua is not Mexican. That's my last name and although I was born in Mexico, my an … cestors came from portugal. It was originally given to individuals who worked as servants throughout Portugal and Spain. + 3 others found this useful.
Carlson Genealogy & History. Carlson is a Germanic surname, ultimately originating in Scandinavia but traveling to England as well. It is a patronymic, meaning son of Carl, of which Charles is a variation, from which we also get Charleston.
Origin of the name Carl: Derived from the Old English ceorl (freeman, peasant, man). In the Middle Ages, Carl was used as a nickname for a bondman, villain, or a person of low birth and rude manners. Alternatively, Carl is used as a short form of Carlton. (karl). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Carlson /carl-son/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Carlson's roots are Scandinavian and Old English, and the name Carlson means son of Carl; free peasant settlement. Carlson is an alternate form of Carlsen (Scandinavian). Carlson is also a variant of Carlton (Old English): place name and surname. Kreatif forms: Calson, Carlcon, Carlsonne. 