Congratulations! As a commis chef you're on the first rung of the ladder to becoming a great chef. In most kitchens you'll do food preparation work and basic cooking under the supervision of a chef de partie or section chef, rotating through sections such as sauce, vegetables, fish and butchery roughly every six months.
A commis chef is a trainee or a recently qualified cook who works under a chef de partie (a chef who is responsible for a certain area in the kitchen such as vegetables, … pastry, fish). The commis chef acts as an apprentice to learn that paritcular area of cooking.
A commis chef is the lowest cook in the restaurant kitchen hierarchy. A commis chef may have only recently completed (or still be in the middle of) their formal training.
Commis chef. A commis chef is the lowest cook in the restaurant kitchen hierarchy. A commis chef may have only recently completed (or still be in the middle of) their formal training. This is generally a training/apprentice type position; the commis is expected to learn on the job and work their way up the
As a commis chef you're on the first rung of the ladder to becoming a great chef. In most kitchens you'll do food preparation work and basic cooking under the supervision of a chef de partie or section chef, rotating through sections such as sauce, vegetables, fish and butchery roughly every six months.
A commis chef is a trainee or a recently qualified cook who works under a chef de partie (a chef who is responsible for a certain area in the kitchen such as vegetables, pastry, fish). The commis chef acts as an apprentice to learn that paritcular area of cooking. 5 people found this useful.
I believe that commis is French for assistant. A Commis is a trainee or assistant Chef and the first step on the ladder of Chef 'ranks'. Clearly, once a trainee Chef becomes qualified, s/he would then be addressed as a Commis Chef. Prior to qualification as a Chef, s/he would be just a trainee Chef.
We lift the lid on life as a commis chef – the bottom of the career ladder but one that may one day lead to the heady heights of a career in the spotlight. This is an entry level job that will teach you about life in the kitchen.