Valspar® Masonry Paint is a smooth emulsion designed to protect and decorate the outside of your home and is ideal for covering masonry and other porous, textured surfaces. This product provides a mould and algae resistant film and protection against cracking, flaking and peeling. Choose from thousands of colours to create the ideal look for your home. This paint is ideal for use on brick and stucco, concrete and cement, fibre cement board, masonry, stone (vertical only), wood siding and cladding and asbestos shingles. It applies easily to properly prepared surfaces. Available in 2.5L and 5L.
Valspar® Garden Colours is a durable coating for sheds, fences, furniture and other garden wood. Uniquely masking the wood grain, but highlighting the natural texture. Choose from 40 pre-selected colours to help maximise the beauty of colour in your garden. Mid-Sheen. Choose from thousands of colours to create the ideal look for your home. This paint is ideal for use on brick and stucco, concrete and cement, fibre cement board, masonry, stone (vertical only), wood siding and cladding and asbestos shingles. It applies easily to properly prepared surfaces. Available in 2.5L and 5L.
Of course these colors are going to look different on every home. I would suggest that if there is a color scheme you like, buy the paint samples, paint a little portion on your home, and tweak them around until you love them. They recently released it and I’m loving all the color. They have bold options, pastels, neutrals, fun accent colors, relaxing tones, warm and cool – pretty much everything. I love this palette they put together. You could use it in so many ways and I think the colors are great compliments to each other.
I am definitely more of a neutral girl for the walls, but I love pops of color in furniture and accessories, and there are so many fun colors in this forecast to do this with. I will be back tomorrow with more paint color combinations. They recently released it and I’m loving all the color. They have bold options, pastels, neutrals, fun accent colors, relaxing tones, warm and cool – pretty much everything. I love this palette they put together. You could use it in so many ways and I think the colors are great compliments to each other.
1. Lyndhurst Duchess Blue 5002-5C-Valspar. Not every beach-blue is light and airy. Valspar's Lyndhurst Duchess Blue is a saturated blue, with a tantalizing touch of green. This rich color would be perfect as an accent wall behind a white fireplace, or for a painted chair. Gossamer Sky 5002-5A-Valspar. Valspar Gossamer Sky is a very livable pale blue with a hint of green, possessing an airy aqua look. Gossamer Sky is relaxed and easy as a wall color, or as a color inspiration for upholstered furniture, or bedding. Image ©Valspar More ».
Neutral greens like Behr Monet Moonrise are a fresh diversion from the usual brown or gray neutral colors. Monet Moonrise is still neutral, but with enough green to make a color statement in your home. Like most neutral greens, this color might work well with deep wood tones, white, and rich gray. More ». 10 Awesome Wall Colors for a First Home | Color.About.com. Neutral doesn't always mean beige or taupe. A muted blue or green can feel every bit as neutral as a brown-based color. Valspar Distant Valley is a sumptuous blue-gray that pairs well with other neutrals, and creamy white. Charcoal gray furniture and accessories would be stunning with this color.
On this color page, you can order a Match of Martha Stewart Magnolia White. Click on the Select Paint button to specify the type of paint you'd like in thi... 
8. Valspar Gossamer Sky is a very livable pale blue with a hint of green, possessing an airy aqua look. Gossamer Sky is relaxed and easy as a wall color, or as a color inspiration for upholstered furniture, or bedding. Gossamer Sky 5002-5A-Valspar. Valspar Gossamer Sky is a very livable pale blue with a hint of green, possessing an airy aqua look. Gossamer Sky is relaxed and easy as a wall color, or as a color inspiration for upholstered furniture, or bedding. Image ©Valspar More ».
White is transcendent, timeless, its versatility unrivaled. Explore a colorful palette that celebrates the simplicity of white. View Palette ». Other Color Resources. 1  Color Gallery Find the perfect hue—and great color combinations—in our Color Gallery. 2  The ultimate source for paint colors. Go with the (Color) Flow. Learn how to connect your rooms through the use of paint color for an overall harmonious & seamless look. 1  Our Favorite Colors Let our favorite paint colors and unique color combinations inspire your next painting project.