If you would like to change or delete your usernames, passwords or cookies, you can easily do so and here are some articles to show you how: 1  Password manager-Remember, delete and change saved passwords in Firefox. 2  Delete cookies to remove the information websites have stored on your computer. 1 Password manager-Remember, delete and change saved passwords in Firefox. 2  Delete cookies to remove the information websites have stored on your computer. 3  Permissions Manager-Give certain websites the ability to store passwords, set cookies and more.
1 Windows Network Passwords (XP/Vista/2003): When you connect to the file system of another computer on your network (something like \\MyComp\MyFolder), Windows allows you to save the password. 2  If you choose to save the password, the encrypted password is stored in a credential file. You can use my Network Password Recovery utility to view all passwords stored in these Credentials files. 1  Dialup/VPN Passwords (2000/XP/Vista/2003): Dialup/VPN passwords are stored as LSA secrets under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Security\Policy\Secrets.
Be aware that even if you know the location of the saved password, it doesn't mean that you can move it from one computer to another. many applications store the passwords in a way that prevent you from moving them to another computer or user profile. You can use my Network Password Recovery utility to view all passwords stored in these Credentials files. 1  Dialup/VPN Passwords (2000/XP/Vista/2003): Dialup/VPN passwords are stored as LSA secrets under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Security\Policy\Secrets.
1 In the Stored User Names and Passwords dialog box, click Add to open the Logon Information Properties dialog box. 2  In the Server box, type the name of the server or share that you want. 3  You can use an asterisk as a wildcard character. 4  The following example entries are valid server names: In the Stored User Names and Passwords dialog box, you can add a new entry, remove an existing entry, or view the properties and edit an existing entry; to do so, click the Add, Edit, or Properties button. To manage stored user names and passwords, follow these steps: To manually add a credential:
In the computer that can connect to the network, type Manage wireless networks into the start menu search. Right click on the properties for the network you want and click Properties. In the security tab you should see an option to Show characters. This will reveal your WiFi password that computer remembers. 
Windows encrypts user and admin passwords on your hard drive to provide better security. It even prevents any external tampering while Windows is running so that the only way to change those passwords would be through Windows itself, which is a problem if you can't remember your password. Most passwords are encrypted and when replaced are not stored for retrieval. This is for your security and to reduce the chance of someone finding out your password. So, you would be unable to locate previous passwords used on your computer due to encryption.
1 User names and passwords on forms stores the usernames and passwords for sites you visit and automatically enters them when you visit the site again. 2  There is a sub-option to check so that Internet Explorer will prompt you each time rather than automatically saving passwords. 
I have mixed up all my passwords. I would just like to see the list of all passwords saved in my computer and straighten things out. I would appreciate any help you can give me on the problem. Thank you, Beverly. 
When you first log on to a server or a Web site, you are prompted for your user name and password. When you type your user name and password for the resource, and then click to select the Remember my password check box, your logon information is stored with your user account. In the Stored User Names and Passwords dialog box, you can add a new entry, remove an existing entry, or view the properties and edit an existing entry; to do so, click the Add, Edit, or Properties button. To manage stored user names and passwords, follow these steps: To manually add a credential:
This is it! Manage stored passwords, certificates, and other credentials. You can delete or change the credentials that you store on your computer for logging on to websites or other computers on a network. For more information about stored credentials, see Store passwords, certificates, and other credentials for automatic logon. Click to open User Accounts. 