Synonyms: musculus fibularis tertius, musculus peroneus tertius, peroneus tertius (muscle) , third peroneal muscle. The definition information for fibularis tertius (muscle) is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
Synonyms: fibularis longus (muscle). The definition information for peroneus longus (muscle) is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
Tweet. : a peroneus muscle that arises especially from the head and side of the fibula, ends in a long tendon that inserts on the side of the first metatarsal bone and the cuneiform bone on the medial side, and aids in everting and pronating the foot. 
peroneus tertius. The muscle arising from the anterior portion of the distal one third of the tibia and the adjacent portion of the interosseous membrane and attaching on the dorsal surface of the fifth metatarsal. The peroneus tertius is a secondary contributor to ankle dorsiflexion and eversion. This muscle is absent in a significant proportion of the population
In human anatomy, the peroneus longus (also known as fibularis longus) is a superficial muscle in the lateral compartment of the leg, and acts to evert and plantar flex the ankle. The terms Peroneus (i.e., Longus and Brevis) and Peroneal (i.e., Artery, Retinaculum) are derived from the Greek word Perone (pronounced Pair-uh-knee) meaning pin of a brooch or a buckle. In medical terminology, both terms refer to being of or relating to the fibula or to the outer portion of the leg.
Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (peroneus is a kind of...): skeletal muscle; striated muscle (a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes). • PERONEUS (noun). The noun PERONEUS has 1 sense: 1. muscle of the lower leg that is involved in moving the foot. Familiarity information: PERONEUS used as a noun is very rare.
Noun. 1. peroneus-muscle of the lower leg that is involved in moving the foot. skeletal muscle, striated muscle-a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter