Let the tenderloin cool before serving. Pan-roasting pork tenderloin Preheat your oven to 425ºF and coat an ovenproof skillet with oil. Sear the tenderloin over medium-high heat until it’s brown on all sides. Roast the tenderloin for 15 to 20 minutes until the internal temperature reads 145ºF. Let it cool before serving. Stuffed pork tenderloin To butterfly the tenderloin, trim the silver skin with a thin sharp knife.
Remove the meat from the refrigerator 20 minutes prior to cooking. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Coat an OVEN proof skillet with cooking spray and heat over medium heat. Once the pan is hot, add the pork medallions and cook for 2-3 minutes or until golden brown. Flip the pork over, add the reserved marinade to the pan along with the 2 tablespoons of chicken broth, then place the pan into the oven and cook for 13-15 minutes or until pork is cooked through. Remove from the oven
1 Preheat oven to 500 degrees. 2  Remove tenderloin from refrigerator. 3  Season meat as desired. 4  Place seasoned meat in an uncovered roasting pan on a shelf in the bottom 1/3 of your oven. 5  Bake EXACTLY 5 1/2 minutes PER POUND. 6  Adjust +/- according to your oven's accuracy and heat retention. 7  NOTE:. 1 Remove pork from oven, lightly cover with foil, and let rest 5-10 minutes to redistribute internal juices. 2  Roast should be done, very slightly pink in the center, and very moist. 3  After resting 10 minutes, the roast should reach a safe 145-150 degrees.
Place the medallions in the baking pan and pour the marinade over them. Place the pan in the oven, uncovered, and roast the medallions for 15 to 20 minutes, or until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of the meat reads 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Marinated pork medallions roast to a tender, juicy finish in the oven. Purchase pre-marinated pork medallions or make your own marinade to add flavor to the meat.
1 Dip both sides of the medallions in seasoning mix. 2  Melt butter and oil together in the same skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Cook each medallion for 4 minutes on each side. 4  Place skillet into the preheated oven and bake until the pork is no longer pink in the center, 17 to 20 minutes. 1 Preheat an oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Place the bacon in a large, oven-safe skillet, and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until lightly browned and still flexible, 6 to 7 minutes. 3  Drain the bacon slices on a paper towel-lined plate. 4  Remove any excess bacon grease from the skillet.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make the glaze: Put garlic and rosemary in a small bowl. Add the vinegar, honey, olive oil, mustard, and salt and pepper, to taste, and stir to combine. For the pork: Slice the tenderloin into 1-inch thick medallions (rounds). Cover the bottom of a medium skillet with a light film of canola oil and heat over medium-high heat until hot. Add the pork slices in 1 layer, season with salt and pepper, and sear for 1 minute. 
3. Roast. Throw that skillet in the oven for about 10 to 15 minutes more, flipping the tenderloin over halfway through cooking, until the meat reaches 140°F (or, if you don't have a meat thermometer, until it feels firm and springs back when pressed with your finger and the juices run clear when poked with a knife). 
Cut pork tenderloin into one inch rounds. Heat oil in large skillet on medium heat. Meanwhile preheat oven to 375 degrees, and spray a baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray. Saute sauté medallions one minute per, side then transfer to baking. sheet 
Swirl to coat the bottom. Roast the pork for 10 minutes: Set the pork in the pan. (It's fine if your pork tenderloin is a little long for the pan; just bend it to fit as we did here.) Return the pan to the oven. Roast for 10 minutes. Flip the pork, reduce the heat, and roast another 10 to 15 minutes: Flip the pork to the other side. 
Broil the tenderloin for 10 to 12 minutes, or 8 to 10 minutes for medallions, turning once midway through that time. An instant-read thermometer inserted horizontally into the thickest part of the tenderloin should read 140 F, or 145 F if they're medallions. 