Need to know if i can get netflix through my time warner hd dvr, i have a time warner bundle, home phone, internet and cable. 1 73% - Can i download or stream my netflix account through my time warner cable box? 2  62% - How do i stream my netflix and hulu movies and films through my time warner cable? 3  74% - Wondering if i can stream netflix through my time warner dvr box?
Time Warner Cable signed a direct interconnection deal with Netflix, making it the fourth of the big four U.S. ISPs to sign paid peering agreements with the streaming video provider. 
In order to subscribe to Netflix all that you need is an internet connection and capable device. The subscription would have nothing to do with Time Warner Cable, other than using the High Speed Internet connection for streaming the videos. 0 comments. 
Netflix has reached a deal with Time Warner Cable to boost video-streaming speeds. Related: Netflix' subscriber sales top HBO's. Netflix argues that the broadband providers are responsible for delivering the high-speed service their customers have paid for. The streaming video company has accused them of shakedown tactics.
Netflix is opening up its wallet once again to improve streaming speeds on one of the country's largest Internet providers. The online video company has reached a deal with Time Warner Cable (TWC) to connect directly to the telecom giant's network, rather than delivering its traffic through a third-party service. Related: Netflix' subscriber sales top HBO's. Netflix argues that the broadband providers are responsible for delivering the high-speed service their customers have paid for. The streaming video company has accused them of shakedown tactics.
‎02-22-2014 06:55 PM. I am having an issue with Netflix that is driving me crazy!!! When watching Netflix shows via the TV app or BluRay player app I can get through about 30-45 minutes with no problem. But then it will all of a sudden stop to reload. And then it will just keep happening over and over.
Advertisements. For the past few months I've struggled to get good quality video on netflix. I can stream it perfect from my phones data plan, but through Time Warner Cable it is terrible, even though I've used their own speed test verify that I have between 10Mbps-20Mbps at any time. Originally Posted by Trademarked. For the past few months I've struggled to get good quality video on netflix. I can stream it perfect from my phones data plan, but through Time Warner Cable it is terrible, even though I've used their own speed test verify that I have between 10Mbps-20Mbps at any time.
Netflix has been working with Time Warner Cable to get its app installed on the cable provider's set-top boxes, but now Bloomberg is reporting that the Comcast deal has put those efforts on hold. 