Those undergoing kidney dialysis treatment possess a very general, average life expectancy of four years. But many scenarios come into play with some patients enjoying a bountiful life for as long as 25 years. We do not yet know how long patients on dialysis will live, says the National Kidney Foundation. We think that some dialysis patients may live as long as people without kidney failure..
On average, dialysis can prolong the lifespan to 3-5 years. But it varies from people to people depending on the specific illness condition. Some can live longer and some die in the first several months after starting dialysis. The biggest advantage of this therapy is that it can imporve kidney function. For how it functions, you can consult the online doctor. Once the kidney function is enhanced, you will live as normal people and live as long as you can. What’s more, you can get rid of dialysis gradually with this therapy.
However, missing dialysis means more toxins will build up in the body so as to the patient becoming sick. Generally, the exact answer of how long can renal failure patients live without renal failure depends on the kidney function that they still have. If the person is passing a reasonable amount of urine, he may be able to survive a few weeks to over a month, otherwise he may survive only a few days to two weeks. 
To illustrate, a healthy 65-year-old man in the general population can expect about 17 years of life in the absence of kidney failure but will live for only 3.6 years on dialysis. A kidney transplant would permit that same man 12 years of life. Answer: In projecting how long an individual is likely to survive after the onset of what is called end-stage renal disease (ESRD), the key factors are: 1. Patient age and gender, 2. Cause of kidney failure, and 3. Method of treatment.
The question “How long do dialysis patients live” is hotly discussed nowadays. It is more concerned by dialysis patients. Maybe this article will solve this confusion and give you more hope. Go on reading and you will find something valuable. The biggest advantage of this therapy is that it can imporve kidney function. For how it functions, you can consult the online doctor. Once the kidney function is enhanced, you will live as normal people and live as long as you can. What’s more, you can get rid of dialysis gradually with this therapy.
Two things to know-you can live a long time on dialysis; do not max out your credit cards. Remember when looking at statistics that averages are made of extremes. If five patients live two years and one patient lives twenty years, the average life span would be five years. 
And usually the longer time that patients on dialysis, the more likely they die from these problems. Therefore, how long can a person live on dialysis becomes a hot topic among kidney failure patients. Actually, how long can a person live on dialysis depends on many factors. In clinic, life span of dialysis patients varies greatly from case to case. And it may range from several days to decades. 
How long you can live on dialysis, and how well you do, will depend on a number of things, including how healthy you are, your attitude, your quality of healthcare and how much you take an active role in your care. Sign up for no-cost Kidney Smart® education class to learn more about kidney disease. 
Average life expectancy on dialysis is 5-10 years, however, many patients have lived well on dialysis for 20 or even 30 years. Talk to your healthcare team about how to take care of yourself and stay healthy on dialysis. If your kidneys have failed, you will need to have dialysis treatments for your whole life unless you are able to get a kidney transplant. Life expectancy on dialysis can vary depending on your other medical conditions and how well you follow your treatment plan.
Infection is commonly seen in dialysis patients. It is an important death cause of the patients. Age. Younger people with diabetes and ESRD on dialysis can live longer than older patients. For example, 88 percent of those under the age of 20 will live through five years of dialysis. Just 21 percent of dialysis patients between 65 and 74 years of age will survive through five years. Treatm