Courgettes contain wide array of minerals including magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, potassium, sodium, copper, iron, zinc, manganese and traces of selenium. Courgette is a rich source of potassium, a heart friendly electrolyte. It helps to lower blood pressure by countering effects of sodium. 1 Courgette flowers (both male and female) are edible and contain same nutrients. 2  The flowers are either deep fried as fritters or made into tempura, after dipping in a light tempura batter. 3  Courgettes can be an excellent substitute for apples. 4  Mature and large zucchinis are used to make pies.
The Health Benefits of Courgette. Courgettes are high in vitamin K and vitamin C. Courgettes, better known in the United States as zucchini, contain vitamin K, vitamin C, potassium and dietary fiber. This vegetable belongs to the same summer squash family as patty pan squash and yellow crookneck squash. Like its close cousins, the bulk of a courgette's nutrients are in its thin peel. Vegetables like courgettes are a good source of both forms of fiber. A 2009 Nutrition Reviews article adds that eating plenty of dietary fiber can also decrease the risk of stroke, hypertension, cancer, obesity and ulcers.
recommendations are for total dietary fibre which includes a mixture of both soluble and insoluble fibre. Men and women over the age of 18 should aim for at least 21-38 grams of total dietary fibre each day. Certain types of foods contain more soluble fibre than insoluble fibre. To help you get more soluble fibre. in your diet, choose foods from the table below. Trusted advice from dietitians. www.dietitians.ca. Dried beans and peas, oat products, psyllium are some of the best sources of soluble fibre. See the list. below for the soluble fibre content from a variety of foods. Insoluble fibre helps promote regularity and a healthy digestive system. • Soluble fibre can be found in some vegetables, fruit and legumes like dried beans and peas. When. water is added to food the soluble fibre thickens and becomes sticky, gummy and gel like. Soluble. fibre can help slow the digestion of food.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Courgettes have no fat and no cholesterol. A 1 oz serving has 1 g fiber, 1 g protein 1 g sodium, 16% RDA vitamin C, 3% RDA vitamin A. They contain thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, potassium, phosphorus, manganese, magnesium, zinc, iron, copper and calcium. Most of the nutrients are in the skin. Yellow courgettes contain antioxidants such as lutein and carotenes. 
Courgette is a popular summer squash. Courgette is known as Zucchini or  Italian Squash in North American and Australia. Scientifically known as Cucurbita pepo, Courgettes belong to the family of Cucurbitaceae. Botanically, Courgettes are immature fruits developed from the swollen ovary of the female flower. 1 Courgette flowers (both male and female) are edible and contain same nutrients. 2  The flowers are either deep fried as fritters or made into tempura, after dipping in a light tempura batter. 3  Courgettes can be an excellent substitute for apples. 4  Mature and large zucchinis are used to make pies.
Properties. Courgettes are vegetables rich in vitamin A (as beta-carotene), B and C, and minerals such as potassium, calcium, iron and phosphorus. From a digestive point of view, courgettes are well tolerated because they contain little fibre. However, the riper the courgettes, the greater the amount of fibre. 
Courgettes, like most fruits and vegetables, contain nutrients that bring in a lot of health benefits. One of the essential vitamins courgettes are rich in is Vitamin C 11mg per 135 grams). This vitamin along with beta-carotene helps prevent the oxidation of cholesterol which when left unchecked accumulate on blood vessel walls. Every 100 grams of this summer squash only gives as low as 15 calories. Because it is rich in minerals and antioxidants, courgettes have a long list of health benefits. The manganese it contains plays an important role in regulating the blood sugar levels in the body.
The fresh Courgettes are full of natural antioxidants and dietary fibers. Dietary fiber reduces constipation and protects against colon cancers. They are found to be rich in vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E,vitamin K, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, folate, pantothenic acid and choline. 1 Courgette flowers (both male and female) are edible and contain same nutrients. 2  The flowers are either deep fried as fritters or made into tempura, after dipping in a light tempura batter. 3  Courgettes can be an excellent substitute for apples. 4  Mature and large zucchinis are used to make pies.
Dietary Fiber. Every cup of cooked courgette supplies 2 grams of dietary fiber, or about 4 percent of the RDA of fiber. The two types of fiber are soluble and insoluble fiber. Vegetables like courgettes are a good source of both forms of fiber. A 2009 Nutrition Reviews article adds that eating plenty of dietary fiber can also decrease the risk of stroke, hypertension, cancer, obesity and ulcers.