To find out how to run a home technology & computing salary sacrifice scheme and increase participation in your employee benefits scheme, simply call us on 0330 2000 231 or complete the online enquiry form opposite for your free information pack. Cost-neutral – the scheme costs nothing for you to run. Delivered by experts – our team have run salary sacrifice benefit schemes for over 12 years. ISO27001 accreditation – peace of mind your data is safe.
Salary sacrifice is where an employee purchases a laptop with pre-tax income, therefore not paying tax on that part of their income. For those employees in the top tax brackets, that means a saving of up to 40% on the cost of the laptop. To take advantage of the salary sacrifice you need to make sure your device fits the ATO’s definition of a Portable Electronic Device. A Portable electronic device is a device that is all of the following: 1  easily portable and designed for use away from an office environment. 2  small and light.
How does the salary sacrifice scheme work? The scheme works as a salary sacrifice arrangement, where employees give up the right to receive a portion of salary, in exchange for use of a home computer, television or tablet over a three year period, free of national insurance and with some tax saving. Cost-neutral – the scheme costs nothing for you to run. Delivered by experts – our team have run salary sacrifice benefit schemes for over 12 years. ISO27001 accreditation – peace of mind your data is safe.
For higher rate tax payers, the Income Tax savings are 16% and the NI savings 2%. Therefore a Standard Rate taxpayer saves at least 20% on the cost of their chosen computer package. Your employees can choose equipment up to the value of £2,500 and pay for it over 36 months through the salary sacrifice scheme. They don’t technically buy the equipment but are loaned it over 3 years. This is a Government requirement for this type of salary sacrifice benefit. Savings. In exchange for having a computer, your employee gives up a small amount of their salary to cover the cost. This means that they pay less Income Tax and National Insurance and therefore make a saving. Basic rate tax payers can save up to 8% of income tax on the full cost of the equipment over the 3 year term.
The ATO is virtually saying you can use your laptop 49% of the time for private use, and still claim a 100% tax deduction via salary sacrifice. For example, most people choose not to salary sacrifice. To take advantage of the salary sacrifice you need to make sure your device fits the ATO’s definition of a Portable Electronic Device. A Portable electronic device is a device that is all of the following: 1  easily portable and designed for use away from an office environment. 2  small and light.
The scheme works as a salary sacrifice arrangement, where you give up the right to receive a portion of salary, in exchange for use of a home computer, television or tablet, free of national insurance and with some tax saving. Access the Latest Computers, TVs and Smartphones through your employer via a convenient Salary Sacrifice Arrangement! Access the latest consumer technology from leading brands such as Apple, Samsung and Hewlett Packard. Equipment is provided by your employer for you to use at home
Take the example of an employee, earning £40,000 per annum, paying 5% into their pension. If this was done via salary sacrifice, the employer would save 13.8% of what was sacrificed, which is £276 p.a. (based on 2012/13 tax rates and assuming the scheme is contracted-in). Multiply this out for 300 employees, and the saving becomes approximately £83k each and every year the scheme runs. Salary sacrifice is a way of paying for employee benefits. It happens when the employee makes a contractual agreement with their employer to give up part of their cash remuneration (usually basic salary) in return for the company agreeing to provide a non-cash benefit.
What are the benefits for Employers. Offers employees great savings on laptops, desktops, tablets and televisions through Salary Sacrifice and up to 12% savings on top of already great prices on cutting edge products from leading manufacturers such as Apple, Sony, Acer, Toshiba and Samsung. 1  HMRC compliant. 2  No Set Up costs. 
A Home Computer and Technology Salary Sacrifice Scheme enables you to offer employees the latest highly desirable products from Apple, Samsung and HP, whilst allowing them to make significant savings via a convenient salary sacrifice arrangement. Cost-neutral – the scheme costs nothing for you to run. Delivered by experts – our team have run salary sacrifice benefit schemes for over 12 years. ISO27001 accreditation – peace of mind your data is safe.