Insulin secretion in type 1 diabetes. Steele C, Hagopian WA, Gitelman S, Masharani U, Cavaghan M, Rother KI, Donaldson D, Harlan DM, Bluestone J, Herold KC. 
Insulin and Metabolism. Insulin is a major metabolism regulating hormone secreted by β-cells of the islets of Langerhans of the pancreas. The major function of insulin is to counter the concerted actions of a number of hyperglycemia-generating hormones and to maintain low blood glucose levels. 
Amylin is a peptide of 37 amino acids, which is also secreted by the beta cells of the pancreas. Some of its actions: 1  inhibits the secretion of glucagon; 2  slows the emptying of the stomach; 3  sends a satiety signal to the brain. The alpha cells of the islets secrete glucagon, a polypeptide of 29 amino acids. Glucagon acts principally on the liver where it stimulates the conversion of. 1  glycogen into glucose ( glycogenolysis ) and. 2  fat and protein into intermediate metabolites that are ultimately converted into glucose (gluconeogenesis).
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Insulin is secreted in the islets of Langerhans, which are clusters of endocrine tissue found throughout the pancreas. They are made up of different cell types that secrete various hormones, including insulin and glucagon
phasic insulin secretion. When the beta cell is suddenly exposed to elevated glucose concentrations, the pattern of insulin secretion is characteristic. After an initial burst of insulin secretion, concentrations fall toward baseline, despite continued glucose stimulation. 
Pancreas and insulin. Your pancreas is one of the organs of your digestive system. It lies in your abdomen, behind your stomach. It is a long thin structure with 2 main functions: 1  producing digestive enzymes to break down food; and. 2  producing the hormones insulin and glucagon to control sugar levels in your body. How insulin works. Insulin is released from the beta cells in your pancreas in response to rising glucose in your bloodstream. After you eat a meal, any carbohydrates you’ve eaten are broken down into glucose and passed into the bloodstream.
Insulin & Other Injectables. Insulin is a naturally occurring hormone secreted by the pancreas. Many people with diabetes are prescribed insulin, either because their bodies do not produce insulin (type 1 diabetes) or do not use insulin properly (type 2 diabetes). 