2) Lowered immune function. Ironic that adequate zinc intake is often said to improve your immune system, but on the other hand too much of this trace mineral can have the opposite effect. Taking high doses of zinc around 200-400 mg/day can have disastrous side effects and one of them is impaired immune function. 1 Zinc is a healthy mineral and supplementation is a healthy choice if need be; 2  Get the right dosage and type of supplement; 3  Having a little too much of this trace mineral in your system cause mild side-effects that go away quickly; 4  Overdosing on this supplement is extremely dangerous and should be taken seriously.
It is safe to take zinc supplements with an approximate 40 mg – 50 mg zinc content on a daily basis. Do not exceed that amount unless you have consulted a physician! If you consume 100 mg – 500 mg per day, you will experience serious side effects. The longer you “overdose” on zinc, the worse your side effects will be. Zinc Supplement Side Effects. The problem with consuming too much zinc is that, while the proper amount of zinc aids your metabolism, too much zinc actually prohibits your metabolism from absorbing the other vitamins and minerals your body needs.
Chest Pain/Heart Problems. Zinc supplements have a side effect of causing heartburn or indigestion. Chest pain can also be a sign that you have overdosed on the zinc supplement. Being very careful, and following your physician’s recommendations on the dosage for the condition you are taking zinc for is critical. According to The National Library of Medicine, Zinc supplements were used by the ancient Egyptians and continue to be used in today’s modern medicine. Zinc supplements have hundreds of medical benefits, and are often prescribed by physicians. However, zinc can also have side effects that can cause more harm than good.
Zinc supplements, when used improperly, have extremely dangerous side effects. Zinc is a tricky vitamin because it is vital to your health and well being, but it is also detrimental if it is over-used or under-used. The recommended daily zinc requirement is 8 mg for adult women and 11 mg for adult men. Zinc Supplement Side Effects. The problem with consuming too much zinc is that, while the proper amount of zinc aids your metabolism, too much zinc actually prohibits your metabolism from absorbing the other vitamins and minerals your body needs.
Routine zinc supplementation is not recommended without the advice of a healthcare professional. In some people, zinc might cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, metallic taste, kidney and stomach damage, and other side effects. Using zinc on broken skin may cause burning, stinging, itching, and tingling. Taking 450 mg or more of zinc daily can cause problems with blood iron. Single doses of 10-30 grams of zinc can be fatal. Infants and children: Zinc is LIKELY SAFE when taken by mouth appropriately in the recommended amounts.
There are many reasons to take zinc and magnesium supplements. Each mineral is necessary for dozens, if not hundreds, of regular bodily activities. Zinc is needed for reproductive health, protein synthesis, and collagen formation. It promotes a healthy liver and strong bones. Excess Zinc. Too much zinc can lead to zinc toxicity. This state is dangerous, because the body will have trouble absorbing other essential nutrients, specifically iron, copper, and magnesium. Other potential problems include a loss of good cholesterol, stomach problems, and kidney damage.
Zinc Safety and Side Effects. Zinc is safe for most adults when applied to the skin, or when taken by mouth in amounts not larger than 40 mg per day for adults age 19 and older. Routine zinc supplementation is not recommended without the advice of a healthcare professional. In some people zinc might cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, metallic taste, kidney and stomach damage, and other side effects. Using zinc on broken skin may cause burning, stinging, itching, and tingling
Zinc may shorten common cold but side effects common. ... Side effects were more common in the people taking zinc, however. They were 64 percent more likely to experience nausea and 65 percent more likely to detect an unpleasant taste. 