An ethnic group or ethnicity is a socially defined category of people who identify with each other based on common ancestral, social, cultural or national experience. Unlike most other social groups, ethnicity is primarily an inherited status. Ethnicity is often assumed to be the cultural identity of a group, often based on language and tradition, while race is assumed to be a biological classification, based on DNA and bone structure. Race is a more controversial subject than ethnicity, due to its common political use.
In evaluating validity information, it is important to determine whether the test can be used in the specific way you intended, and whether your target group is similar to the test reference group. The criterion-related validity of a test is measured by the validity coefficient. It is important to understand the differences between reliability and validity. Validity will tell you how good a test is for a particular situation; reliability will tell you how trustworthy a score on that test will be.
Ethnic Validity: Definition and Model Ethnic vah'dity is the degree to which problem identification and problem solving are acceptable to the client in respect to the client's belief and value systems, as these are associated with the client's ethnic~cultural group. (1985) and Tyler, Brome, and Williams (1991). While both of these models are instructive and have similarities to the model of ethnic validity proposed earlier, there are important differences in these models and the problem-solving framework of school psychology practice. Savage and Adair.
The concept of ecological validity is similar to the concept of ethnic validity in that it encourages considerations of assessment and intervention in refer-ence to the client's world view and the world views of those significant to the client. (1985) and Tyler, Brome, and Williams (1991). While both of these models are instructive and have similarities to the model of ethnic validity proposed earlier, there are important differences in these models and the problem-solving framework of school psychology practice. Savage and Adair.
Validity Research has the knowledge and cultural understanding to get in touch with and converse with targeted ethnic groups. 
The model of ethnic validity proposed by Tyler and associates (Tyler et al., 1991; Tyler et al., 1985; see also Berman, 1989; Lorenzo, 1989) is specific to psychotherapy rather than to the broad range of functions encompassed in comprehensive school psychology practice. (1985) and Tyler, Brome, and Williams (1991). While both of these models are instructive and have similarities to the model of ethnic validity proposed earlier, there are important differences in these models and the problem-solving framework of school psychology practice. Savage and Adair.
It is this reasoning that requires and enables us to construct what I call a Transcultural Ethnic Validity Model (TEVM) (Tyler, 2001). The following paragraphs show how a TEVM can be used to provide an integrated understanding of individuals, their communities, ethnicities, and cultures. The conceptual and empirical framework that I have developed and use in my work, including the organization of this article, I have named Transcultural Ethnic Validity Model (TEVM). This model provides a basis for becoming intra-culturally competent in any context ranging from a stable isolated one to one in rapid flux.
This general definition of ethnic validity requires further elaboration in the context of school psychology practice. Three key elements for establishing ethnic va-lidity are problem solving within a consultation context (Gutkin & Curtis, 1990), acceptability, and teaming strategies. (1985) and Tyler, Brome, and Williams (1991). While both of these models are instructive and have similarities to the model of ethnic validity proposed earlier, there are important differences in these models and the problem-solving framework of school psychology practice. Savage and Adair.
In other words, it is imperative that we establish a transcultural ethnic validity conception of and for ourselves as well as others in order to live effective and enriching lives, to be psychosocially competent, even within our own culture. The conceptual and empirical framework that I have developed and use in my work, including the organization of this article, I have named Transcultural Ethnic Validity Model (TEVM). This model provides a basis for becoming intra-culturally competent in any context ranging from a stable isolated one to one in rapid flux.
Tyler, F. B. (2002). Transcultural ethnic validity model and intracultural competence. In W. J. Lonner, D. L. Dinnel, S. A. Hayes, & D. N. Sattler (Eds.), Online Readings in Psychology and Culture (Unit 16, Chapter 1), Center for Cross-Cultural Research, Western Washington University, Bellingham, Washington USA. 