The Framers of the Constitution added this clause in response to the fear that states would continue a practice that had been widespread under the Articles of Confederation —that of granting private relief.. The Contract Clause prohibits states from enacting any law that retroactively impairs contract rights.
Relying on this clause, which applies both to the States and to the Federal Government, the Supreme Court has held that where the marshal of a state court received state bank notes in payment and discharge of an execution, the creditor was entitled to demand payment in gold or silver. The Contract Clause prohibits states from enacting any law that retroactively impairs contract rights.
Clause 4 of the ​constitution is ​thought to be the most ​important ​section. More examples. 1  There was a ​ penalty clause which said you had to ​ pay ​ half the ​ cost if you ​ cancelled ​ your ​ booking. 2  The clause was ​ added to the ​ contract at Carlos's ​ request. 
Constitutional Clauses. The Constitution (including its Amendments) is made up of hundreds of clauses. Some of the clauses are more important than others or have been hotly debated as to their scope, meaning, or effect. These clauses are given names by which they may be referred. The following includes some of the more important clauses: 
Interpretation. The art or process of determining the intended meaning of a written document, such as a constitution, statute, contract, deed, or will. The interpretation of written documents is fundamental to the process and Practice of Law. 
The Contracts Clause is in a section of our Constitution that lists certain prohibitions on the states. These prohibitions are meant to protect individuals from intrusion by state governments and to keep the states from intruding on the Federal government's duties. The Obligation of Contracts Clause has been interpreted differently throughout history. Originally, the clause prohibited states from meddling with contracts made between private parties. This served to competently protect and preserve private business dealings.
The Obligation of Contracts Clause is commonly referred to as simply the Contracts Clause. The clause is found in Article I of the United States Constitution. Generally speaking, this clause was added to the Constitution in order to prohibit states from interfering with private contracts. The clause states that, 'No State shall...pass any...Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts...'. The clause can be applied to protect all sorts of everyday business dealings. The Obligation of Contracts Clause has been interpreted differently throughout history. Originally, the clause prohibited states from meddling with contracts made between private parties. This served to competently protect and preserve private
Clause. A section, phrase, paragraph, or segment of a legal document, such as a contract, deed, will, or constitution, that relates to a particular point. A document is usually broken into several numbered components so that specific sections can be easily located.
CLAUSE, contracts. A particular disposition which makes part of a treaty; of an act of the legislature; of a deed, written agreement, or other written contract or will. When a clause is obscurely written, it ought to be construed in such a way as to agree with what precedes and what follows, if possible. A section, phrase, paragraph, or segment of a legal document, such as a contract, deed, will, or constitution, that relates to a particular point. A document is usually broken into several numbered components so that specific sections can be easily located.
The Supremacy Clause, for example, is part of Article IV of the U.S. Constitution. noun article, caput, condition, conditiosine qua non, contract, covenant, exception, exemption, paragraph, pars, passage, phrase, provision, proviso, qualification, section, sentence, specification, stipulation, term. A section, phrase, paragraph, or segment of a legal document, such as a contract, deed, will, or constitution, that relates to a particular point. A document is usually broken into several numbered components so that specific sections can be easily located.