In addition to bulging veins, people with vascular disease in the arms could experience: 1  A heavy feeling in your limbs. 2  Changes in the skin of your arms and hands — such as discoloration. 3  Wounds that won’t heal. 4  Muscle weakness. 5  Pain and reduced mobility. Another reason for those bulging hand veins or arm veins might be that a person lifts weights. In fact, in weight lifting and bodybuilding circles, vascularity is a sign of success — it means that you have lost enough fat under the skin that the veins (and muscles) are highly visible.
Join Date: Nov 2001. Rolling veins can be anywhere in the body, and are generally veins that are not as thoroughly anchored to the surrounding subcutaneous tissue. To really understand what it means, it helps to know how a blood draw or catheter placement on a non-rolly vein goes. You prep your site, position your needle, and push through the skin and then the wall of the vein. I always warn a phlebotomist that I've got rolling veins, so they can cut out the Chase the Vein portion of the proceedings and go straight to the special tricks for rolling veins. Really, that simple step can save you a whole lot of poking, prodding, and digging around.
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow.
Superficial vein is a vein that is close to the surface of the body. This differs from deep veins that are far from the surface. Superficial veins are not paired with an artery, unlike the deep veins, which typically have an artery with the same name close by. 
In the case of your arms and hands, an obstruction could occur in the blood and lymph vessels in your arm, or in one of the larger vessels that feeds the vessels in your arm, such as the vessels that run along your collarbone. Another reason for those bulging hand veins or arm veins might be that a person lifts weights. In fact, in weight lifting and bodybuilding circles, vascularity is a sign of success — it means that you have lost enough fat under the skin that the veins (and muscles) are highly visible.
1 The lower your body fat, the more visible your veins will be, especially in hard to see places like your abs. 2  For women, the body fat percentage should be around 15%. 3  To get this percentage of body fat, eat clean. 4  That means loads of fresh vegetables and lean protein while skipping junk foods, soda, and dessert. 1 Below 10% body fat for men should result in most major veins being visible. 2  The lower your body fat, the more visible your veins will be, especially in hard to see places like your abs. 3  For women, the body fat percentage should be around 15%. 4  To get this percentage of body fat, eat clean.
The veins that will pop out are surface veins. The less padding you have between your skin and your veins, the more prominent your veins will be. Eat a diet focused on getting lean by decreasing your body fat. 1  Below 10% body fat for men should result in most major veins being visible. 1 Below 10% body fat for men should result in most major veins being visible. 2  The lower your body fat, the more visible your veins will be, especially in hard to see places like your abs. 3  For women, the body fat percentage should be around 15%. 4  To get this percentage of body fat, eat clean.
However, if you are thin and have concerns about the appearance of the veins in your hands and arms, consult your physician to rule out any health issues related to vascularity that may need treatment. Another reason for those bulging hand veins or arm veins might be that a person lifts weights. In fact, in weight lifting and bodybuilding circles, vascularity is a sign of success — it means that you have lost enough fat under the skin that the veins (and muscles) are highly visible.