Transmembrane proteins are a class of integral proteins (i.e., proteins that penetrate into or through the membrane bilayer). The lipid molecules of the membrane bilayer are predominantly hydrophobic (i.e., they do not interact strongly with polar water molecules). 
Integral proteins float rather freely within the bilayer, much like oceans in the sea. In addition, integral proteins are usually transmembrane proteins, extending through the lipid bilayer so that one end contacts the interior of the cell and the other touches the exterior. In addition to the lipid bilayer, the cell membrane also contains a number of proteins. We have already mentioned the presence of certain proteins in the cell membrane. In this section we will discuss the different classes of proteins found there.
Integral Membrane Proteins. 1  Some are attached to lipids in the bilayer. 2  In others — the transmembrane proteins — the polypeptide chain actually traverses the lipid bilayer. 3  The figure shows a transmembrane protein that passes just once through the bilayer and another that passes through it 7 times. One universal feature of all cells is an outer limiting membrane called the plasma membrane. In addition, all eukaryotic cells contain elaborate systems of internal membranes which set up various membrane-enclosed compartments within the cell. Cell membranes are built from lipids and proteins.
An integral membrane protein (IMP) is a type of membrane protein that is permanently attached to the biological membrane. All transmembrane proteins are IMPs, but not all IMPs are transmembrane proteins. IMPs comprise a significant fraction of the proteins encoded in an organism's genome. 
Membrane(Proteins(.(Func2on(Biological membranes consist of a phospholipid bilayer and a variety of proteins that accomplish vital biological functions. * Structural proteins are attached to microfilaments in the cytoskeleton which ensures stability of the cell. 
Integral proteins have transmembrane domains that insert directly into the lipid bilayer. These transmembrane domains consist predominantly of nonpolar amino acid residues and may traverse the bilayer once or several times. Proteins with one transmembrane domain may have soluble domains at either or both surfaces. Cytochrome b5 has a single hydrophobic segment that forms a hairpin loop, which acts as an anchor to the cytoplasmic surface but is thought not to penetrate the bilayer totally. It is an example of a monotopic protein.
Schematic representation of transmembrane proteins: 1. a single transmembrane α-helix (bitopic membrane protein) 2. a polytopic transmembrane α-helical protein 3. a polytopic transmembrane β-sheet protein. The membrane is represented in light brown. A transmembrane protein (TP) is a type of membrane protein spanning the entirety of the biological membrane to which it is permanently attached. That is, transmembrane proteins span from one side of a membrane through to the other side of the membrane. Alpha-helical proteins are present in the inner membranes of bacterial cells or the plasma membrane of eukaryotes, and sometimes in the outer membranes. This is the major category of transmembrane proteins. In humans, 27% of all proteins have been estimated to be alpha-helical 
A transmembrane protein (TP) is a type of membrane protein spanning the entirety of the biological membrane to which it is permanently attached. Alpha-helical proteins are present in the inner membranes of bacterial cells or the plasma membrane of eukaryotes, and sometimes in the outer membranes. This is the major category of transmembrane proteins. In humans, 27% of all proteins have been estimated to be alpha-helical 
1 Some are attached to lipids in the bilayer. 2  In others — the transmembrane proteins — the polypeptide chain actually traverses the lipid bilayer. 3  The figure shows a transmembrane protein that passes just once through the bilayer and another that passes through it 7 times. One universal feature of all cells is an outer limiting membrane called the plasma membrane. In addition, all eukaryotic cells contain elaborate systems of internal membranes which set up various membrane-enclosed compartments within the cell. Cell membranes are built from lipids and proteins.
The selective permeability endows the membrane two‐way transport of desired materials. Proteins attached to the membrane facilitate this exchange process. Proteins that span across the bilayer in one or multiple passes are known as integral proteins or transmembrane (TM) proteins. TM domains, composed of largely hydrophobic residues, anchor these proteins firmly to the membrane and also participate in the functions. 