Like many inventions today there are disputes in origins of the original inventors. The same dispute applies to who invented the microscope. Dating back to the first century when glass was first invented, the Roman's were investigating the use of glass and how viewing objects through it, made the objects appear larger. Zacharias Jansen and the first compound microscope. Then, during the 1590's, two Dutch spectacle makers, Zacharias Jansen and his father Hans started experimenting with these lenses. They put several lenses in a tube and made a very important discovery.
Grinding glass to use for spectacles and magnifying glasses was commonplace during the 13th century. In the late 16th century several Dutch lens makers designed devices that magnified objects, but in 1609 Galileo Galilei perfected the first device known as a microscope. Charles Spencer demonstrated that light affected how images were seen. It took over one hundred years to develop a microscope that worked without light. The first electron microscope was developed in the 1930’s by Max Knoll and Ernst Ruska.
The 1980s saw the development of the first scanning probe microscopes. The first was the scanning tunneling microscope in 1981, developed by Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer. This was closely followed in 1986 with Gerd Binnig, Quate, and Gerber's invention of the atomic force microscope.
Electron Microscopes: In 1931 Max Knoll and Ernst Ruska invented the first electron microscope that blasted past the optical limitations of the light. Physics dictates that light microscopes are limited by the physics of light to 500x or 1000x magnification and a resolution of 0.2 micrometers. 
Simple Answer: The inventor of the first microscope is not recorded. The simple single-lens form of a microscope was in use by the 13th century by some accounts. The modern compound microscope was first developed in 1590 by the Dutch spectacle-makers Hans Janssen and his son Zacharias Janssen. More: The first microscope was merely a single lens. It is thought that around 1,000 AD use of the lens as a magnifying device was established, to this may be considered the time of the first microscope. The invention of the first lenses in spectacles to improve vision was in Italy in the 13th century.
In 1965 the first commercial scanning electron microscope was developed by Professor Sir Charles Oatley and his postgraduate student Gary Stewart and marketed by the Cambridge Instrument Company as the Stereoscan. The first was the scanning tunneling microscope in 1981, developed by Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer. This was closely followed in 1986 with Gerd Binnig, Quate, and Gerber's invention of the atomic force microscope.
Anton van Leeuwenhoek. It was Anton van Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723), a Dutch draper and scientist, and one of the pioneers of microscopy who in the late 17th century became the first man to make and use a real microscope. Zacharias Jansen and the first compound microscope. Then, during the 1590's, two Dutch spectacle makers, Zacharias Jansen and his father Hans started experimenting with these lenses. They put several lenses in a tube and made a very important discovery.
In the early 20th century a significant alternative to light microscopy was developed, using electrons rather than light to generate the image. Ernst Ruska started development of the first electron microscope in 1931 which was the transmission electron microscope (TEM). The first was the scanning tunneling microscope in 1981, developed by Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer. This was closely followed in 1986 with Gerd Binnig, Quate, and Gerber's invention of the atomic force microscope.
History of the Microscope (includes: Who invented the microscope). During the 1st century AD (year 100), glass had been invented and the Romans were looking through the glass and testing it. They experimented with different shapes of clear glass and one of their samples was thick in the middle and thin on the edges. 