Standard Mileage Deductions. When using your car for any tax deductible purpose, you can either deduct the actual costs of operating the vehicle or take the standard mileage deduction rates. Costs of operating the vehicle can include gas, depreciation, fees, tolls, repairs, insurance and gas. You are not allowed to deduct any amount of money for services that you provide to charities. However, if you drive your vehicle to and from a charitable activity, you can deduct tolls, parking and mileage. Mileage driven for charities was deducted at a rate of 14 cents per mile for 2013.
To get a refund from the EITC you must file a tax return, even if you don’t owe any taxes. Moreover, if you were eligible to claim the credit in the past but didn’t, you can file any time during the year to claim an EITC refund for up to three previous tax years. The most recent numbers show that more than 45 million of us itemized deductions on our 1040s—claiming $1.2 trillion dollars’ worth of tax deductions. That’s right: $1,200,000,000,000!
Similarly, tolls and gas are not deductible for regular transportation to work, but are deductible for work-related trips. If you use your car for business purposes you can deduct either the standard mileage rate (56¢ per mile in 2014) or actual car expenses for the year. For leased cars, whichever method you choose in the first year is the one you will be required to use for the remaining years of the lease.
Tolls and Parking. You can typically write off your actual expenses for using your car for business, or you can just use the Internal Revenue Service's standard mileage rate, which was 56.5 cents per business mile as of the 2013 tax year. 
Best Answer: Commuting costs are never tax deductible. From your question, it sounds like commuting costs. So no. For business travel, yes. That would be an employee business expense, along with car mileage and whatever else you needed to use your own money for. Commuting expenses are not deductible no matter how far your home is from your work, and fact that you may be doing work along the way, does not change the commuting expense from a personal expense to a business expense. Source(s): http://www.googobits.com/articles/p0-173...
Dear foxyroy, Generally, you can claim any business related mileage and tolls related to your business and employment. EXCEPT THAT: You may not claim mileage and tolls for commuting to and from work. You may also be able to claim mileage and tolls on your taxes in connection with the following: 1  job related relocation and you meet certain safe harbor mileage requirements. 2  job search activities. 3  medical expenses to the extent that your total medical expenses exceed 7.5% of your adjusted gross income.
You can deduct half of the cost of your meals, or if you don’t want to keep a lot of records, you can base your deduction on the standard meal allowance for federal workers, which is $46 per day, as of tax year 2012. Special rates may apply for exceptionally expensive areas. 
However, you can claim expenses such as parking and bridge and road tolls for work-related use of the car. Tax.appeal.168, Tax Accountant. Category: Tax. Satisfied Customers: 3161. Experience: 3+ decades of varied tax industry exp. It appears that the rules for deducting toll fees in Australia aren't much different than in the U.S. If the toll fees are work related, the answer to the question is yes, you can deduct the toll fees. On your tax return, the deduction is a D2-work related deduction. You can refer to the following for more information.
Now, however, up to $6,000 can qualify for the credit, but the old $5,000 limit still applies to reimbursement accounts. So if you run the maximum $5,000 through a plan at work but spend more for work-related child care, you can claim the credit on up to an extra $1,000. That would cut your tax bill by at least $200. The most recent numbers show that more than 45 million of us itemized deductions on our 1040s—claiming $1.2 trillion dollars’ worth of tax deductions. That’s right: $1,200,000,000,000!