What Fertilizer to use on your Zoysia Grass LawnFertilizer is described by the percentages of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium contained in the bag. All fertilizer bags are clearly marked with these three numbers, known as the N-P-K ratio. Whenever possible, use a slow release fertilizer with a 3-1-2 ratio. First, you will stimulate leaf growth at a time when zoysia roots should be growing foremost. Second, early leaf growth is particularly vulnerable to late season freeze damage.Mid-Summer: (optional): Fertilize again in mid-summer if your zoysia grass is not healthy dark green.
Zoysia is a warm-season, perennial, turf-type grass that spreads by stolons and rhizomes. Its dense turf is characterized by stiff leaf blades. Zoysia exhibits exceptional wear tolerance, good drought tolerance and moderate shade tolerance. Zoysia has a low-water and nutrition requirement. Plant and Care for Zoysia Grass. Zoysia is a great choice for warmer climates. Zoysia grass is a soft, dense, attractive home turfgrass option. When established and properly cared for, zoysia is heat-and drought-resistant and can stand up to heavy foot traffic.
There are many brands and many types of fertilizers you can use on your Zoysia lawn and each uses a slightly different blend of nutrients. For this first application, a fertilizer high in nitrogen is usually recommended. Nitrogen is the first number in fertilizer. Second Application-Summer. About 6 to 8 weeks after the spring application you can apply another dose of
The first application of fertilizer to zoysiagrass should be made in spring when the grass is 75 – 100% green OR when soil temperatures are above 65 degrees F. Visit Georgia Weather to determine local soil temperature. Fertilize zoysiagrass every seven weeks thereafter until mid-September. 
The grass grows in tight bunches and comes in two basic types: annual and perennial. With many lawn types, a fall fertilizer application is the most critical, but with Zoysia grass, the prime time for fertilizing is May through August. But not all lawns have identical fertilizer needs -- a perfectly good fertilizing schedule for Kentucky Bluegrass can wreak havoc on a Zoysia grass lawn. Read on for details about the fertilizer schedule that will keep your Zoysia grass at its best. During the course of an entire growing season, Zoysia grass needs only about two pounds of nitrogen per 1,000 square feet of lawn to look its best -- much less than other common types of lawns like Kentucky bluegrass
If you fertilize earlier or later than that, it can interfere with the Zoysia's natural seasonal cycle. If you want to choose a lawn fertilizer with the perfect ratio of nitrogen, phosphorous, and potassium (the N-P-K listed on the label), a soil test is best. All grass isn't alike, and neither is all soil. Yours may be particularly nitrogen-deficient or particularly nitrogen-rich. But not all lawns have identical fertilizer needs -- a perfectly good fertilizing schedule for Kentucky Bluegrass can wreak havoc on a Zoysia grass lawn. Read on for details about the fertilizer schedule that will keep your Zoysia grass at its best. During the course of an entire growing season, Zoysia grass needs only about two pounds of nitrogen per 1,000 square feet of lawn to look its best -- much less than other common types of lawns like Kentucky bluegrass
This is especially important with Zoysia grass since you want your lawn to be healthy but not to grow excessively. The guidelines below will help you fertilize the right amount at the right time.Mid-Spring: Zoysia grass lawns begin to green when soil temperatures reach a consistent 60 - 65 degrees. First, you will stimulate leaf growth at a time when zoysia roots should be growing foremost. Second, early leaf growth is particularly vulnerable to late season freeze damage.Mid-Summer: (optional): Fertilize again in mid-summer if your zoysia grass is not healthy dark green.
For established zoysia lawns, 1 pound of nitrogen should be applied per 1,000 square feet of lawn area. The formulation on a bag of fertilizer represents the percentage of that element in the bag. Though not entirely carefree, the need for less fertilization is also a benefit of zoysia. The amount of fertilizer and time to fertilize depend on both the maturity of the lawn, the climate in which it is in and the owner's expectations of the lawn's appearance. (Paul Gilham/Getty Images Sport/Getty Images).
The First Application-Spring. Zoysia grass goes dormant during the winter months. When your grass has geened up by 50% or more in the early spring, it's time for the first application of fertilizer. For this first application, a fertilizer high in nitrogen is usually recommended. Nitrogen is the first number in fertilizer. Second Application-Summer. About 6 to 8 weeks after the spring application you can apply another dose of fertilizer.