302. Is a temporary type of Web forwarding that tells search engines your domain name forwarding may change again soon. It does this so that search engines can continue checking the domain name – which means the final destination page may not get indexed properly by search engines like Google. This article will explain what Web forwarding is and how it can be used. Web forwarding is a way for your domain name to be pointed to another web address or page.
$49.00. How It Works. Web site forwarding is a simple Web address forwarding tool. When your domain name is entered into the location field of a browser, it will automatically redirect the visitor to an existing Web site. TIP: This is helpful if the URL of your existing Web site is long and hard to remember or if you want multiple entry points to your existing Web site to help drive more traffic. Use Web site forwarding (also known as URL forwarding) to point a domain name, or multiple domain names,
URL Forwarding allows you to point your domain or subdomain name to an existing web site no matter where it is on the Internet. Cloaking is the technology to hide the the real URL address of the web site by displaying the your domain name on the address section of the browser. While users enter your domain address on a browser, they actually have been seamlessly re-directed to another web address of your choice.
URL redirection, also called URL forwarding, is a World Wide Web technique for making a web page available under more than one URL address. When a web browser attempts to open a URL that has been redirected, a page with a different URL is opened. 
301. Is a permanent type of Web forwarding which tells search engines that your domain name will be permanently pointing at the new location. It ensures the final destination page is indexed correctly by search engines like Google. This article will explain what Web forwarding is and how it can be used. Web forwarding is a way for your domain name to be pointed to another web address or page.
Web Site Forwarding. Use Web site forwarding (also known as URL forwarding) to point a domain name, or multiple domain names, to an existing Web site.
Configure in your secure domain panel for free. Included in the cost of the domain, web forwarding allows you to point one or more domain names to an existing website. Use additional domains to drive traffic to your primary website by redirecting via web forwarding one or more domain names to a single web address. Misspellings, alternate extensions, abbreviations, or keywords are all popular examples of different domains pointing to the same site. You will have two options: 
Tweet. Web Forwarding has the advantage of making multiple sites look like a single site. You can register misspellings, alternate extensions (e.g., .biz, .net, etc.) and / or abbreviations and then forward them to your primary website. 
EasyCGI's Web Forwarding allows you to point your domain name to any pre-existing web address, so there is no need to transfer files from one host to another or make domain configuration changes. Visitors are automatically redirected to your website address. 