Monkeys prefer the tropical rain forests of Asia, Africa, Central and South America. Although they are good swimmers, monkeys do not live in wet lands. The monkey’s habitat may be in trees or on the ground depending on the terrain and the species. Old World Monkey. Posted by Where do they live on 4/09/12 • Categorized as Mammals. Monkeys are mammals of the primate order and are classified into two categories, Old World Monkeys and New World Monkeys. In order to clear up any confusion Baboons are classified as monkeys but Apes are not
Monkeys are haplorhine (dry-nosed) primates, a paraphyletic group generally possessing tails and consisting of approximately 260 known living species. Many monkey species are tree-dwelling (arboreal), although there are species that live primarily on the ground, such as baboons. Most species are also active during the day (diurnal). Monkeys are generally considered to be intelligent, particularly Old World monkeys. Lemurs, lorises, and galagos are not monkeys; instead they are strepsirrhine (wet-nosed) primates. Like monkeys, tarsiers are haplorhine primates; however, they are also not monkeys.
About Primates. Primates are the mammals that are humankinds closest biological relatives. We share 98.4% of your DNA with chimpanzees. Apes, monkeys, and prosimians such as lorises, bush babies and lemurs make up the 234 species of the family tree. About 90% of primates live in tropical forests. They play an integral role in the ecology of their habitat. They help the forest by being pollinators, seed predators, and seed dispersers. Most primates live in tropical, developing countries, and humans compete with them for resources. In many parts of the world, primates are exploited for food, medicine, and commercial trade. Primates that raid crops are shot or poisoned.
Primates evolved from arboreal animals, and many species live most of their lives in trees. Most primate species live in tropical rain forests. The number of primate species within tropical areas has been shown to be positively correlated to the amount of rainfall and the amount of rain forest area. Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees. Locomotion techniques used include leaping from tree to tree, walking on two or four limbs, knuckle-walking, and swinging between branches of trees (brachiation).
A primate (/ˈpraɪmeɪt/ PRY-mayt) is a mammal of the order Primates (/praɪˈmeɪtiːz/ pry-MAY-teez; Latin : prime, first rank). In taxonomy, primates include two distinct lineages, strepsirrhines and haplorhines. Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees. Locomotion techniques used include leaping from tree to tree, walking on two or four limbs, knuckle-walking, and swinging between branches of trees (brachiation).
Tails— Some New World monkeys, such as spider monkeys, have prehensile tails, but Old World monkeys do not. And one Old World monkey species, the Barbary macaque, has no tail at all! Most monkey species live in the tropical rain forests of Asia, Africa, Central and South America, or the savannas of Africa. 
With the exception of humans, who inhabit every continent, most primates live in tropical or subtropical regions of the Americas, Africa and Asia. They range in size from Madame Berthe's mouse lemur, which weighs only 30 g (1 oz), to the eastern gorilla, weighing over 200 kg (440 lb). Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees. Locomotion techniques used include leaping from tree to tree, walking on two or four limbs, knuckle-walking, and swinging between branches of trees (brachiation).