A gas turbine, also called a combustion turbine, is a type of internal combustion engine. It has an upstream rotating compressor coupled to a downstream turbine, and a combustion chamber in between. The basic operation of the gas turbine is similar to that of the steam power plant except that air is used instead of water. Fresh atmospheric air flows through a compressor that brings it to higher pressure. This high-temperature high-pressure gas enters a turbine, where it expands down to the exhaust pressure, producing a shaft work output in the process. The turbine shaft work is used to drive the compressor and other devices such as an electric generator that may be coupled to the shaft. The energy that is not used for shaft work comes out in the exhaust gases, so these have either a high temperature or a high velocity
Turbine Oil. any oil used to lubricate the bearings and auxiliary machinery in steam and hydraulic turbines, in turbopumps, and in air, gas, and refrigeration turbocompressors. Turbine oils are also used as lubricants and working fluids in various types of closed-cycle industrial machinery. Synthetic turbine oils based on trixylenyl phosphate are used in control systems of high-power steam turbines. The advantage of these oils is their high flame resistance, but they are expensive and somewhat toxic. Spravochnik po primeneniiu i normam raskhoda smazochnykh materialov, 3rd ed., books 1–2.
A steam turbine with the case opened. A turbine (from the Latin turbo, a vortex, related to the Greek τύρβη, tyrbē, meaning  turbulence ), is a rotary mechanical device that extracts energy from a fluid flow and converts it into useful work. 
Turbine oils, particularly those used in steam turbines, are expected to last around 10 to 20 years. For this reason, careful monitoring of both lube oil physical and chemical properties is required, together with common contaminants such as water and solid particles. The Viscosity Index (VI) is an indication of the oil’s change in viscosity with a change in temperature. Most gas and steam turbine OEMs require a turbine oil with a VI of at least 90, which is met by most turbine oil suppliers. The VI for turbine oils should not vary in-service, because turbine oils typically do not contain VI improvers and therefore do not need to be tested routinely
Learn about the history and development of the gas turbine. The gas turbine is used to make mechanical energy from a combustible fuel. In the gas turbines used to make industrial/electrical power the mechanical energy comes in the form of a rotating shaft (as opposed to pressurized thrust of a gas turbine jet engine). This shaft has an enormous amount of power and torque. How it Works: The gas turbine is used to make mechanical energy from a combustible fuel. In the gas turbines used to make industrial/electrical power the mechanical energy comes in the form of a rotating shaft (as opposed to pressurized thrust of a gas turbine jet engine).
Gas turbines are also used in oil refineries to make power for the cracking process. Harnessing the power of an explosion: How the device works: The gas turbine burns fuel in a high pressure combustion chamber, the products of this are forced into a turbine. How it Works: The gas turbine is used to make mechanical energy from a combustible fuel. In the gas turbines used to make industrial/electrical power the mechanical energy comes in the form of a rotating shaft (as opposed to pressurized thrust of a gas turbine jet engine). This shaft has an enormous amount of power and torqu