While it may be possible to detect a pregnancy as early as 5 1/2 weeks. Because the tiny sac containing the baby and its heart is so tiny, an ultrasound may not be able to detect pregnancy at this stage. If the baby can be seen at 6 to 7 weeks, their heart beat may even be detected. Between 7 and 8 weeks, the baby and their heart beat can both be detected relatively easily. After the 8th week of pregnancy the heart beat and the baby can be clearly seen. An ultrasound may be repeated a week or so after this point to check the baby’s progress and growth. A newer type of ultrasound known as a Transvaginal ultrasound is a technique used mainly to visualize the woman’s reproductive organs. This type of ultrasound has a better chance of detecting an early pregnancy.
An ultrasound exam is a procedure that uses high-frequency sound waves to scan a woman’s abdomen and pelvic cavity, creating a picture (sonogram) of the baby and placenta. Although the terms ultrasound and sonogram are technically different, they are used interchangeably and reference the same exam. The viability of sperm varies as well, which means intercourse three to five days prior to ovulation may result in conception. Ultrasound dating of conception is not reliable for determining paternity because the ultrasound can be off by at least 5-7 days in early pregnancy. You may have an ultrasound between 18 to 20 weeks to evaluate dates, a multiples pregnancy, placenta location or complications
Early ultrasound. If you've experienced problems, such as a previous miscarriage or bleeding in the first weeks of this pregnancy, your doctor or midwife may recommend an early ultrasound. This takes place when you're between six weeks and 10 weeks pregnant. Dating ultrasound. In most cases, where there are no problems, you'll have two ultrasounds during your pregnancy. The first will be your dating ultrasound which is booked between 10 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of your pregnancy. During your dating ultrasound, the sonographer will put gel on your belly and move a hand-held device, called a transducer, over your skin. You'll then be able to see a view of your baby
Early Scan. When is it carried out: If you have experienced some problems such as bleeding in the first weeks of your pregnancy or you have previously suffered a miscarriage, you may be recommended to take an early scan. An early scan takes placebetween 6 weeks and 10 weeks of pregnancy. Your midwife can refer you for an early scan if she thinks that there is need to. Many hospitals have early pregnancy clinics, which are open daily.
1 Confirming the presence of your baby’s heartbeat. 2  You may have gone to your doctor with vaginal bleeding or you may be anxious because of problems in a previous pregnancy (such as miscarriage). 3  This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. However, in the early pregnancy, the developing embryo is very small (at 6 weeks gestation, the baby is only 5-9mm long) and a transvaginal ultrasound may be required to get a better image of the baby. Transvaginal ultrasound is safe and commonly performed during all stages of pregnancy, including the first trimester.
You may have an early ultrasound at your practitioner's office at 6 to 10 weeks to confirm and date the pregnancy. Or you may not have one until the standard midpregnancy ultrasound between 16 and 20 weeks. Ultrasound exam. At a mid-pregnancy ultrasound, usually done between 16 and 20 weeks, your baby will be carefully examined. Quad screen (second-trimester prenatal screening). Find out what the multiple marker screening test can tell you.
The most common time for a scan is about 19-20 weeks of pregnancy. This is the best time to check the baby's physical development. Ultrasound scans can be done at any stage of pregnancy, with signs of pregnancy being seen as early as 5 weeks. 
Fetal ultrasound is the safest way to check for problems and get information about your fetus, such as its size and position. It does not use X-rays or other types of radiation that may harm your fetus. It can be done as early as the 5th week of pregnancy. Transvaginal ultrasound is generally done early in a pregnancy to determine fetal age or to detect a suspected ectopic pregnancy. It is occasionally done late in pregnancy to determine the location of the placenta or in a high-risk pregnancy to monitor the length of the cervix.