Depending on how heavy a meal you have eaten, wait at least 30 minutes to two hours before exercising. The bigger the meal the longer you will need to wait. If you just eat a light snack such as pretzels or a fruit drink, you should be ready to work out within 30 minutes. If you exercise first thing in the morning, some fruit or a small amount of juice and water should suffice. Eating a high-carbohydrate snack two hours before exercising can leave you ample energy and a calm stomach for a great workout. Many athletes avoid food within two hours of a very hard workout, but can tolerate a lighter snack within one to two hours of a light workout.
When it comes to eating before exercise, it's all about timing. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort.
How long you should wait after eating to exercise is largely dependent on the size and type of your meal. If you just ate dinner, and it is the largest meal of your day, then you should wait longer than if you just ate a small snack. Jump-roping is an especially high-intensity exercise that increases your heart rate and jostles your insides around. It would be best to wait over an hour before jumping rope after dinner.
If the meal is high in fat, protein or fiber, you may want to wait longer than normal before exercising. However, if the exercise is lifting or low intensity exercise, you may be fine to exercise soon after eating. Aerobic exercises tend to need more time for digestion. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out.
It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later.
How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself
Research shows that eating before exercising is not ideal. The best time to work out, he says, is before you eat. A post-exercise nutrition program helps recovery and minimizes muscle damage, Virgil says. However, if your schedule demands you eat first, Vigil suggests waiting an hour or two after your meal before exercising. That will allow the stomach to empty out. Of course, that rule changes if you've overeaten.
You should wait to exercise if you've eaten a large meal (at least three to four hours, but sometimes up to six, is required). This is because it takes your body some time to digest a large meal, but intense exercise slows your digestion (and instead diverts energy to your muscles). 
up vote 2 down vote. Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later.
To replace the glycogen stores in your body quickly and effectively, eat a snack that contains both protein and carbohydrates. This will provide both fast-acting and sustainable energy to your body. Try to eat a snack within two hours of exercising, but wait a minimum of 15 minutes after exercising before you eat. Bring a snack along to the gym with you, so you can eat as soon as your workout is over. Along with your snack, drink 3 cups of water for every pound of weight that you lost during the workout, notes MayoClinic.com, adding that these pounds are water weight and must be replenished to prevent dehydration. 