Pancreatitis, Acute ». The pancreas is a gland located in the upper, posterior abdomen and is responsible for insulin production (endocrine pancreas) and the manufacture and secretion of digestive enzymes (exocrine pancreas) leading to carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. 
Front View of the Pancreas. The pancreas is about 6 inches long and sits across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine) through a small tube called the pancreatic duct. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body. Pancreas Conditions. 1  Diabetes, type 1: The body’s immune system attacks and destroys the pancreas’ insulin-producing cells. 2  Lifelong insulin injections are required to control blood sugar. 3  Diabetes, type 2: The pancreas loses the ability to appropriately produce and release insulin.
The pancreas is in the abdomen, behind the stomach. It is shaped a little like a tadpole and is approximately 25cm long. The pancreas is an organ of the digestive system and o … f the endocrine (hormonal) system. The pancreas adds its own digestive juices and enzymes to food in the duodenum, via a small duct. 
NEXT. Pancreas location on body picture: location of pancreas in human body. Related (pictures, images, photos): pancreas picture in body, picture of where is pancreas. Rate This Article. (Votes: 15) (Avg: 2.53). 1  Currently 3/5 Stars. 
The pancreas is located deep in the abdomen. Part of the pancreas is sandwiched between the stomach and the spine. The other part is nestled in the curve of the duodenum (first part of the small intestine). To visualize the position of the pancreas, try this: touch your right thumb and right pinkie fingers together, keeping the other three fingers together and straight. Then, place your hand in the center of your belly just below your lower ribs with your fingers pointing to your left.
The pancreas is a glandular organ that produces a number of hormones essential to the body. It forms an integral part of the digestive system. The pancreas is located below and behind the stomach, in the curve of the duodenum, which is a part of the small intestine. The pancreas secretes fluids that help break down food in the small intestine, along with bile and other fluids that aid the metabolism of fats and proteins. The pancreas is also critical to the production of insulin and glucagon, which regulate glucose levels in the blood. If the pancreas stops producing insulin, this leads to diabetes and a number of associated health issues. Other problems that concern the pancreas include pancreatic cancer
Click to read more below. The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas are three of the most important digestive organs in the human body. These organs work together to produce and store secretions that digest our food into its most basic building blocks. 
Pancreas: A fish-shaped spongy grayish-pink organ about 6 inches (15 cm) long that stretches across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine). The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body.
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged. 