Part of the Internet technologies glossary: RFC is also an abbreviation for Remote Function Call. A Request for Comments (RFC) is a formal document from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) that is the result of committee drafting and subsequent review by interested parties. Some RFCs are informational in nature. Of those that are intended to become Internet standards, the final version of the RFC becomes the standard and no further comments or changes are permitted. Change can occur, however, through subsequent RFCs that supersede or elaborate on all or parts of previous RFCs. 
1 A datagram has the following characteristics: \ 2 r\n. 3  Data. - 4  Definition from Techopedia]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Description,Value:[Datagram Definition-A datagram is a unit of transfer assoicated with networking. 1 - Definition from Techopedia]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Description,Value:[Datagram Definition-A datagram is a unit of transfer assoicated with networking. 2  A datagram has the following characteristics: \ 3 r\n
The Internet Layer (RFC 791) is the second layer in the TCP/IP protocol stack. The main functions of the internet layer are transmitting data to and from the Network Access layer, routing data to the correct destination network and device on the destination network, and handling packet errors and fragmentation. The minimum-length of an IPv4 Datagram is 20 bytes (The minimum size of an IP header is 20 bytes and this is the case of an IPv4 header carrying no data) and the maximum is 65,535 bytes (maximum possible value for a 16 bit number is 65,535).
Routing is the process of selecting best path / paths in a network along which to send the IP Datagrams (name of the data packet generated by the Internet Protocol) efficiently. IPv4 Datagrams are encapsulated within an Ethernet Frame. The minimum-length of an IPv4 Datagram is 20 bytes (The minimum size of an IP header is 20 bytes and this is the case of an IPv4 header carrying no data) and the maximum is 65,535 bytes (maximum possible value for a 16 bit number is 65,535).
1 Data. - 2  Definition from Techopedia]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Description,Value:[Datagram Definition-A datagram is a unit of transfer assoicated with networking. 3  A datagram has the following characteristics: 1 - Definition from Techopedia]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Description,Value:[Datagram Definition-A datagram is a unit of transfer assoicated with networking. 2  A datagram has the following characteristics: \ 3 r\n.
2) Fragmentation and Reassembly of Datagrams. To understand what is IPv4 Datagram Fragmentation, first we should know the term MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit). MTU is the size (in bytes) of the largest packet or frame that can pass through a specific device or NIC card. The minimum-length of an IPv4 Datagram is 20 bytes (The minimum size of an IP header is 20 bytes and this is the case of an IPv4 header carrying no data) and the maximum is 65,535 bytes (maximum possible value for a 16 bit number is 65,535).
UDP and ICMP. Another member of the TCP/IP suite is User Datagram Protocol (UDP). (A datagram is almost the same as a packet except that sometimes a packet will contain more than one datagram.) This protocol is used together with IP when small amounts of information are involved. It is simpler than TCP and lacks the flow-control and error-recovery functions of TCP. If computers wish to communicate with one another, they have to know in advance exactly how information is to be exchanged and precisely what the format will be. Therefore, standard methods of transmitting and processing various kinds of information are used and these methods are called protocols.
The end-to-end principle is a classic design principle in computer networking, first explicitly articulated in a 1981 conference paper by Saltzer, Reed, and Clark. Thorough checksum is hence done at the end-points, and the network maintains a relatively low level of complexity and reasonable performance for all clients. In debates about network neutrality, a common interpretation of the end-to-end principle is that it implies a neutral, or dumb network.
(pronounced as separate letters) Short for Internet Protocol. IP specifies the format of packets, also called datagrams, and the addressing scheme. Most networks combine IP with a higher-level protocol called Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) , which establishes a virtual connection between a destination and a source. IP by itself is something like the postal system