The name dogfish also refers to certain unrelated bony fishes (see bowfin). The dogfish sharks are classified in the phylum Chordata, subphylum Vertebrata, class Chondrichthyes, order Selachii. The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed. Copyright © 2012, Columbia University Press.
Sharks belong to the class of boneless fish known as Chondrichthyes. The Chondrichthyes class is divided in two sub-classes Holocephali {Chimeras) and Elasmobranchii {Sharks and Rays}. Similar species of sharks are put into Families, and families with similar characteristics are placed in larger groups called Orders.
2. any small shark of the family Squalidae, esp Squalus acanthias (spiny dogfish), typically having a spine on each dorsal fin. 3. any small smooth-skinned shark of the family Triakidae, esp Mustelus canis (smooth dogfish or smooth hound).
Each Kingdom is then split into smaller groups, called Phyla. Each Phylum is split into smaller groups called Classes, each Class is split into Orders, each Order is split into Families, each Family is split into Genera, and each Genus is split into Species. A Species is a single organism, not a group.
Other members of the spiny dogfish family are found in deep water. The smooth dogfish (Mustelis canis) is found on the Atlantic coast of America from Brazil to Cape Cod. It is gray in color and grows to a length of about 5 ft (150 cm).
dogfish, name for a number of small sharks of several different families. Best known are the spiny dogfishes (family Squalidae) and the smooth dogfishes (family Triakidae).
Click the link for more information. ). The dogfish sharks are classified in the phylum Chordata Chordata, phylum of animals having a notochord, or dorsal stiffening rod, as the chief internal skeletal support at some stage of their development.
The name dogfish also refers to certain unrelated bony fishes (see bowfin). The dogfish sharks are classified in the phylum Chordata, subphylum Vertebrata, class Chondrichthyes, order Selachii. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography.