Jun 15, 2015 | by Richard Sisk. Russia threatened Monday to boost forces on the borders of NATO states and position tactical Iskander missiles in the Russian enclave in Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea if the U.S. goes ahead with a modest buildup of tanks, artillery and other heavy equipment in Eastern Europe. 
He also accused Russia of violating every international commitment it has made by annexing Crimea. Nato has said it will continue to carry out collective defence to protect member states and it has reinforced defences in Eastern Europe. The alliance has also halted all civilian and military co-operation with Russia. Moscow is pressing Nato to explain its plans to enhance its military presence in Eastern Europe, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has said. We not only expect answers, but answers...
With the growing buildup of US and NATO forces in Eastern Europe, one misstep by either side could spark a conflict between the two largest nuclear-armed powers on the planet, which would devastate the planet. Yakubov stated that the positioning of heavy weaponry, tanks and other military vehicles in the Baltics would be seen as “the most aggressive step since the Cold War.” He made clear that any buildup of equipment or forces in Eastern Europe would result in a reinforcement of Russian troops all along the European border.
Image caption The US Air Force has sent 10 F-15 jets to help Nato boost its military presence in the Baltic states. Moscow is pressing Nato to explain its plans to enhance its military presence in Eastern Europe, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has said. We not only expect answers, but answers... based fully on respect for the rules we agreed on, he said
0 3562 28 7. MOSCOW (Sputnik) — NATO military buildup in Eastern Europe is an unprecedentedly dangerous move, which violates all existing agreements, the Russian Foreign Ministry said Thursday. NATO buildup on the Eastern flank, or in the so-called 'front-line countries,' is an unprecedentedly dangerous step that violates all agreements, including the Russia-NATO Founding Act, which is still in force, the ministry's spokesman Alexander Lukashevich said at a news briefing.
MOSCOW — Russia would swiftly respond to any moves by the United States to build up military resources in Eastern Europe by fortifying its western border with more troops, tanks, planes and missile systems, a defense official told the Russian press on Monday. Missile for missile, tank for tank: Putin says he will match any Western military buildup in Eastern Europe.
MOSCOW — Russia would swiftly respond to any moves by the United States to build up military resources in Eastern Europe by fortifying its western border with more troops, tanks, planes and missile systems, a defense official told the Russian press Monday. Plans to fortify military resources in Eastern Europe have yet to get the green light from Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter, U.S. officials said.
Russia says it would match any U.S. military buildup in Eastern Europe. Print Article Comments. Resize Text. Print Article. Comments. Polish tanks participate in a military exercise in Swietoszow, western Poland, on June 13. Plans to fortify military resources in Eastern Europe have yet to get the green light from Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter, U.S. officials said.
But the spark for an arms-buildup race at the Russia-Europe border is likely still subject to approval in Washington. Plans to fortify military resources in Eastern Europe have yet to get the greenlight from Defense Secretary Ashton Carter, U.S. officials said. Missile for missile, tank for tank: Putin says he will match any Western military buildup in Eastern Europe.