A meteoroid is a solid body in interplanetary space before it reaches the Earth's atmosphere. A meteor denotes the fiery streak or shooting star which appears when a tiny meteoroid strikes the Earth's atmosphere and burns up. Most meteors result from meteoroids no more than a few centimeters in diameter.
The Meteor Mic represents the culmination of Samson’s history of building world-class micro-phones, and is a product of Samson’s position on the leading edge of digital microphone technol-ogy. The Meteor Mic is a professional studio microphone with a large 25mm diaphragm, housed in a die-cast fold-up body.
SAMTR. UPC: 809164012733. Samsons Meteor Mic is the universal solution for recording music on your computer. Perfect for your home studio: Meteor Mic is also ideal for Skype: iChat or voice recognition software. With Samsons Meteor Mic: you can make incredible recordings that are out of this world.
1 Asteroid; A relative small body, composed or rock, carbon or metal, which is orbiting the Sun. 2  Comet; A relative small body, which is composed of dirt and ice. 3  Comets are characterized by tails of dust and gas, when the comet is near the Sun. 4  Far away from the Sun, comets look similar to asteroids.
The velocity is depending on the origin of the micro-meteoroid (an asteroid or comet). In general, meteoroids from asteroids are primarily prograde objects with a velocity of 10 up to 40 km/s. Originating from comets, micro-meteoroids can reach a velocity of 70 km/s, because they can be retrograde.
1 Meteoroid; A small particle, originating from an asteroid or comet, usually orbiting the Sun. 2  Meteor; The light trail of a meteoroid, which is burning up in the atmosphere of Earth. 3  This burning is visible as a shooting star.
Producing rich audio recording for any application, Meteor Mic has one of the largest condenser diaphragms (25mm) of any USB mic available. Its cardioid pickup pattern, smooth frequency response and 16-bit, 44.1/48kHz resolution give you professional audio results no matter what you're recording.