Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine back in 1837 is considered to be the first computer by many experts. There were several people whose work is noteworthy in this regard. I recommend Why Was the Computer Invented When It Was by Tom Korner for a good overview on how and when the first computers were developed. The first computer was invented by a British scientist Charles P.Babbage in 1822 but completed in 1871 by Helmet P.Babbage (the son of Charles P.Babbage). The Difference Engine: The first of these devices was conceived in 1786 by J. H. Mueller.
Who invented the first computer is not a question with a simple answer. There have been a lot of major milestones throughout history that warrant mentioning. The adventure starts in the year 1936. 1936- Konrad Zuse invented the Z1 Computer. This was the first computer that was freely programmable. 1942- John Atanasoff and Clifford Berry created the ABC Computer. 1944- John Presper Eckert and John W. Mauchly came up with the idea for the ENIAC 1 computer. 1984-Apple invented the Macintosh Computer. It was the first affordable home computer and created an entirely new revolution in desk top computing. As you can see, the case for who invented the first computer is a hard one to solve.
John Vincent Atanasoff (October 4, 1903 – June 15, 1995) was an American physicist and inventor, best known for inventing the first electronic digital computer. Atanasoff invented the first electronic digital computer in the 1930s at Iowa State College. Challenges to his claim were resolved in 1973 when the Honeywell v. Sperry Rand lawsuit ruled that Atanasoff was the inventor of the computer. His special-purpose machine has come to be called the Atanasoff–Berry Computer. 
The first person to invent computers in Nigeria was a famous and well loved man in the village named Racomankipnunga Doparwookirama, meaning The one who smells of bodily od … ours.. He invented computers in Nigeria that ran on petrol imported from Iran. 3 people found this useful. The first computer was invented by a British scientist Charles P.Babbage in 1822 but completed in 1871 by Helmet P.Babbage (the son of Charles P.Babbage). The Difference Engine: The first of these devices was conceived in 1786 by J. H. Mueller.
Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine back in 1837 is considered to be the first computer by many experts. There were several people whose work is noteworthy in this regard. I recommend Why Was the Computer Invented When It Was by Tom Korner for a good overview on how and when the first computers were developed. The first person to invent computers in Nigeria was a famous and well loved man in the village named Racomankipnunga Doparwookirama, meaning The one who smells of bodily od … ours.. He invented computers in Nigeria that ran on petrol imported from Iran. 3 people found this useful. Eccles-Jordan Trigger Circuit
| Filed Under: Inventions 39 Comments. The answer to the question “who invented the first computer” depends of your definition of a computer. The first known counting devices or tools were Tally Sticks from about 35,000 BC. The Abacus was then invented by the Babylonians in 2400 BC
It has been in use for over three thousand years. However, it's really more of a counting aid. A human still does the actual computations. The Greeks invented a type of mechanical computer in the first century BC that was meant to calculate astronomical events. This is the first instance I know of that an actual machine performed the calculations. Charles Babbage invented the Difference engine back in 1822 and the Analytical Engine in 1837. 
We could argue that the first computer was the abacus or its descendant, the slide rule, invented by William Oughtred in 1622. But the first computer resembling today's modern machines was the Analytical Engine, a device conceived and designed by British mathematician Charles Babbage between 1833 and 1871. 