How does a mutation in the DNA affect the way proteins are made? A: A mutation in the DNA results in misshapen tRNA molecules that do not fit inside the ribosomes. B: A mutation in the DNA results in misshapen tRNA and, ultimately, to a different protein structure. C: A mutation in the DNA affects the structure if mRNA, but it does affect the protein. D: A mutation in the DNA changes how the proteins that are made are passed down from parent to offspring. This Question is Closed. 
The result of these mutations is that it causes the DNA to code for a different protein. If a mutation occurs in a sex cell, the mutation can be passed on to an offspring and affect the offspring's phenotype. 31 people found this useful. Confidence votes 263K. DNA mutation affects the mRna as it is the genetic profile for the being. In replication, the mutation is also replicated propagating the change in all newly developed cells.
A DNA mutation affects proteins because it causes a random change in the sequence of nucleotides in DNA. Which this causes dramatic effects on the cell's structure or functio … n. Confidence votes 263K. DNA mutation affects the mRna as it is the genetic profile for the being. In replication, the mutation is also replicated propagating the change in all newly developed cells.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In genetics, a nonsense mutation is a point mutation in a sequence of DNA that results in a premature stop codon, or a nonsense codon in the transcribed mRNA, and in a truncated, incomplete, and usually nonfunctional protein product. It differs from a missense mutation, which is a point mutation where a single nucleotide is changed to cause substitution of a different amino acid. Some genetic disorders, such as thalassemia and DMD, result from nonsense mutations.
Answer   A mutation is any change to a strand of DNA which is passed on to an organism's offspring.      DNA mutations are caused usually by chemical in … teractions or radiation (natural and manmade), and most are harmless. Confidence votes 263K. DNA mutation affects the mRna as it is the genetic profile for the being. In replication, the mutation is also replicated propagating the change in all newly developed cells.
At most, a point mutation will cause a single amino acid in a protein to change. While this usually is not a deadly mutation, it can cause issues with that protein's folding pattern and the tertiary and quaternary structures of the protein. One example of a point mutation is Sickle Cell Anemia. Point Mutations. A point mutation is usually the least harmful of the types of DNA mutations. It is the change of a single nitrogen base in a DNA sequence. Depending on the placement of that nitrogen base in the codon, it can cause no affect to
Briefly, the DNA in our cells is translated by cell machinery to make proteins. The sequence of amino acids in a protein determines its function. The DNA sequence of a gene determines the amino acid sequence of the resulting protein. Thus, any changes in DNA sequence can result in changes in protein function. This is called a mutation. Mutations can be good, bad or neutral depending upon whether the effect of the mutation is positive, negative, or unnoticed. 
Report Abuse. A mutation in DNA...change in a base in a gene....that in turn can change the amino acid coded for and that in turn can result in the change in the shape and/or function of a protein. Doesn't necessarily mean that all mutations do this but some can. Dr. L · 8 years ago. 
A DNA mutation affects proteins because it causes a random change in the sequence of nucleotides in DNA. Which this causes dramatic effects on the cell's structure or functio … n. Mutations not only change the DNA, but a change to the DNA will change the mRNA. This explains why a mutation in one generation can be passed on to the next generation.