New cars will come with a warranty from the manufacturer that will typically cover you for the first three years, or around 36,000 miles. One of the factors to consider when thinking about an extended warranty is whether you plan to keep the car much beyond the period covered by the manufacturer.
The price of coverage is dependent on which driver and which vehicle is applying for the coverage. Typically, the average extended warranty for used cars cost ranges from $350-$700 per year, but every person and policy is different. Here are a few factors that help determine price:
The first thing that will affect how much you pay for a used car warranty is the car itself. Makes and models are key factors in setting the prices and you can expect to pay anything from $75, all the way up to $4,000.
The cost of used car warranty coverage ranges anywhere from $900 to $3500 depending on your vehicle’s make, model, age, plan type and other factors. Most companies offer interest free financing that lets you pay for the plan on a monthly basis.
In general, the average extended car warranty cost ranges from $350-$700 per year, but every person and policy is different. When your car needs repairs and you don’t have coverage, the mechanic will require payment in full. Do you have $2,700 laying around?
1 For example, WarrantyDirect.com offers 3 types of extended warranty that have varying coverage. 2  Their standard MBI plan, which includes coverage for hundreds of specific components such as engine parts, transmissions, drive axles, and others, can cost anywhere from $44 to $80 per month.
1 On average, an extended warranty can cost anywhere from $35 to as much as $110 per month. 2  For example, WarrantyDirect.com offers 3 types of extended warranty that have varying coverage.
Buying an extended warranty when you purchase your vehicle lets you fold the cost of the warranty into the vehicle's financing. Instead of laying out a lot of cash in one lump sum, you can finance and see just a small bump in your monthly car payment.
One of the first factors in determining how much a used car extended warranty will cost is which type of protection is selected. Remember, most vehicle service contract providers offer additional benefits along with protection plan, such as roadside assistance, car rental, key replacement, etc.