Raccoons and Tularemia. Tularemia is a plague-like disease that is most common in the tules, marshy areas with many reeds and cattails. Raccoons acquire it when they eat small rodents and jackrabbits. Humans can contract this bacterial disease by handling the carcasses of infected raccoons. Tularemia transmitted by a raccoon is most likely to cause an infection that leaves the tip of the thumb or the tips of a finger swollen, black, and blue. While it is possible to catch listerosis from raccoons, the disease is far more often acquired from infected food. Raccoons transmit many dangerous diseases to humans and their pets. The only safe way to handle a raccoon, dead or alive, is with gloves that are thick enough to prevent bites and scratches.
Rabies followed by canine distemper are the 2 most important diseases that affect the CNS of raccoons. Rabies virus (order Mononegavirales, family Rhabdoviridae, genus Lyssavirus) causes an acute, progressive polioencephalomyelitis, with a high mortality. 
Leptospirosis. 1  Leptospirosis is a disease caused by Leptospira bacteria that are carried in the urine of rats, raccoons, and some other animals. 2  Leptospirosis may cause influenza-like symptoms, severe head and muscle aches, high fever, and in some cases serious liver and kidney problems. 1 Rabies is a disease caused by a virus and it is almost always fatal. 2  It is spread through a bite by an infected animal. 3  Although rare, it can be spread through infected saliva getting into an open wound. 4  Rabies can be successfully prevented in people by giving rabies vaccines shortly after an exposure.
Raccoons carry a variety of diseases that can be transmitted to pets and humans. While most people are aware that raccoons can carry rabies, it is important to understand that they only show the telltale symptoms of erratic movements, lethargy, foaming at the mouth, and confusion during the final week of the disease.
A potentially lethal parasitic disease that can be transmitted from raccoons to humans poses a serious danger to people who keep the animals as pets and to people who live in suburban and other areas where raccoons are becoming more prevalent, a Purdue University researcher says. 
Two major diseases affect raccoons and may pose threats to humans and their pets. These are rabies and canine distemper. Rabies can be deadly to humans and pets, while canine distemper affects only pets. Rabies is a virus that is found in mammals. 
Baylisascariasis in Dogs. Most commonly called raccoon disease because of its prevalence in the raccoon population, baylisascariasis comes from contact with raccoon feces, and from ingesting animal tissue that is infected with the Baylisascaris procyonis parasite. 
Rabies-Raccoons are the one of the most common reservoirs, or vectors, to carry rabies. Only a small percentage will have rabies, often segregated by geography. If ill with the disease, in the contagous state they will display symptoms. Anytime you see odd behavior in an animal, it is a good idea to back away from it. Education regarding various raccoon diseases, and whther or not they are passed on to people or pets. Raccoons, like any other mammal, do get sick. Because raccoons are becoming increasingly abundant in urban areas, they frequently come into contact with people and pets.
Don't pick up raccoon poop and then eat lunch without washing your hands. Rabies is the most commonly cited disease associated with raccoons. Never approach a raccoon that looks sick, confused, or that is moving awkwardly. Rabid raccoons may be either lethargic or walking erratically, perhaps in circles. 
Raccoons may carry diseases that can be spread to people (zoonoses) and pets. They can also cause serious scratch and bite injuries. Rabies. 1  Rabies is a disease caused by a virus and it is almost always fatal. 1 Rabies is a disease caused by a virus and it is almost always fatal. 2  It is spread through a bite by an infected animal. 3  Although rare, it can be spread through infected saliva getting into an open wound. 4  Rabies can be successfully prevented in people by giving rabies vaccines shortly after an exposure.