There is NO Medicare rebate for this procedure. Average cost of Laser Mole removal is $250 for individual moles or $500 for several moles. There is a small additional cost if the mole is larger or if there are more than the usual numbers.
1 If you are getting more than one mole removed, the price will be cheaper per mole. 2  Moles that have to be shaved off will cost less than $200 while a mole that has to excised and closed up can cost upwards of $450. 1 Typically, a standard mole removal procedure is going to cost anywhere from $125 to as much as $750 per mole. 2  The price will really come down to the technique that is being used, your dermatologist, and your geographical location. 3  If you are getting more than one mole removed, the price will be cheaper per mole
1 Laser mole removal, a relatively new way of performing mole removal, can cost upwards of $800 for the entire procedure. 2  If the mole has to be removed because of a medical concern, there is a good chance that your health insurance is going to cover the procedure. 1 Typically, a standard mole removal procedure is going to cost anywhere from $125 to as much as $750 per mole. 2  The price will really come down to the technique that is being used, your dermatologist, and your geographical location. 3  If you are getting more than one mole removed, the price will be cheaper per mol
The less expensive treatment options will cost anywhere from about $50 to $200, while freezing and laser mole removal can cost upwards of $600 or more. Most insurance companies will not cover mole removal for purely cosmetic reasons. Patients may be required to pay for the full mole removal procedure. The cost to remove a mole depends on several factors, including but not limited to the mole’s shape, location on the body, size and removal method.
1 Removal of a mole typically costs about $150 to $400. 2  It varies from doctor to doctor and by which technique is used. What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Depending on the type of mole, the surgeon will use one of two techniques. 2  In the first, the surgeon uses a scalpel to shave the mole off at the level of the skin, then cauterizes the wound or applies a liquid to prevent bleeding.
1 A mole biopsy costs $80 to $400 on average. 2  This price will partially determined by the laboratory conducting the exam and the physician’s fees. 3  The price range given is for those who do not have health insurance. 4  If you do have health insurance, check with your policy to see what they are going to cover. 
Of course, getting a mole removed is a little more complicated than the first two options -- and it's more expensive. There isn't a set cost for mole removal because all moles are different and prices vary by doctor, but plan to spend between $100 and $500 [source: Hacker ]. The price of a mole-removal procedure is usually based on the size, shape and location of the mole and the complexity of the procedure.
1 Moles that have to be shaved off will cost less than $200 while a mole that has to excised and closed up can cost upwards of $450. 2  Laser mole removal, a relatively new way of performing mole removal, can cost upwards of $800 for the entire procedure. 1 Typically, a standard mole removal procedure is going to cost anywhere from $125 to as much as $750 per mole. 2  The price will really come down to the technique that is being used, your dermatologist, and your geographical location. 3  If you are getting more than one mole removed, the price will be cheaper per mol
Moles can be unsightly, and some can even lead to cancer, so many dermatologists recommend removing them. As with any medical procedure, removing a mole will cost money. The price of mole removal can range from about $100 to $600 per mole. The cheapest reported price we found for removing a mole was $50, but the average price will depend on a variety of factors. The cost to remove a mole depends on several factors, including but not limited to the mole’s shape, location on the body, size and removal method.