What we've found, however, is that you can't get patients to do anything. The motivation to change one's behavior — even to take one's medication — is largely internal. The patient is responsible and must take an active role in his or her own care. Of course the idea of an active patient can be taken to the extreme. There are several reasons. First, most chronic illness care does not even involve physicians and other health care professionals. Instead, it's estimated that between 95 percent and 99 percent of chronic illness care is given by the person who has the illness.
To be diagnosed with schizophrenia, a patient must have psychotic, loss-of-reality symptoms for at least six months and show increasing difficulty in functioning normally. Before the six-month period is reached, the person is diagnosed as having a schizophreniform disorder. Conversely, the inability of patients with schizophrenia to sort and interpret stimuli and select appropriate responses is one of the hallmarks of the disease. The symptoms of schizophrenia are generally divided into three categories, including positive, disorganized, and negative symptoms.
KEY POINTS: The old models of care, where physicians tell patients what to do and try to motivate them to change, do not work. Because patients' day-to-day decisions have a tremendous impact on their health, they must be active, informed participants in the health care process. There are several reasons. First, most chronic illness care does not even involve physicians and other health care professionals. Instead, it's estimated that between 95 percent and 99 percent of chronic illness care is given by the person who has the illness.
Regardless of diagnosis, patients can experience neurological deficits and changes in mental status based on their current condition, medication regime or acute changes in their overall condition. The recognition of a change in mental status can make a significant impact on a patient's prognosis. 
Neurological symptoms are symptoms caused by, or occurring in, the nervous system. The nervous system consists of two anatomic parts. The central nervous system, which includes the brain and spinal cord, acts as a central processing station. 
For most patients, however, CFS significantly limits their work, school, and family activities for periods of time. While symptoms vary from person to person in number, type, and severity, all CFS patients are limited in what they can do to some degree. CFS often affects patients in cycles: Patients will have periods of illness followed by periods of relative well-being. For some patients, symptoms may diminish or even go into complete remission; however, they often recur at a later point in time.
An estimated 2 to 4 million Americans have some type of dementing illness. 7 The risk of dementing illness increases with age. By the age of 75 years, 10 to 15 percent of elderly persons have a dementing disease; the prevalence of dementia increases to between 25 and 35 percent in persons 85 years of age and older. 2 An estimated 15 to 26 percent of elderly patients with delirium die, usually as a result of the pathologic process responsible for the delirium. 3, 4 Elderly patients with delirium may have underlying dementia. In fact, dementia is a known risk factor for delirium.
Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder that has affected people throughout history. People with the disorder may hear voices other people don't hear. They may believe other people are reading their minds, controlling their thoughts, or plotting to harm them. Voices are the most common type of hallucination in schizophrenia. Many people with the disorder hear voices. The voices may talk to the person about his or her behavior, order the person to do things, or warn the person of danger.
Confusion in the elderly patient is usually a symptom of delirium or dementia, but it may also occur in major depression and psychoses. Until another cause is identified, the confused patient should be assumed to have delirium, which is often reversible with treatment of the underlying disorder. 2 An estimated 15 to 26 percent of elderly patients with delirium die, usually as a result of the pathologic process responsible for the delirium. 3, 4 Elderly patients with delirium may have underlying dementia. In fact, dementia is a known risk factor for delirium.
However, many CFS patients and patients in general may experience other symptoms, including: 1  brain fog (feeling like you're in a mental fog). 2  difficulty maintaining an upright position, dizziness, balance problems or fainting. 3  allergies or sensitivities to foods, odors, chemicals, medications, or noise. CFS often affects patients in cycles: Patients will have periods of illness followed by periods of relative well-being. For some patients, symptoms may diminish or even go into complete remission; however, they often recur at a later point in time.