SHAMANISM [1]. SHAMANISM is understood by some people to be a primitive form of religion or religio-magic practised by the aborigines of northern Asia as well as by all other aborigines in other parts of the world. This opinion is held by Mikhailowski, Kharuzin, and some other Russian scientists. Others hold that Shamanism was only one form of expression of the religious cult of northern Asia, practised in order to avert the evil spirits. This opinion is found in the writings of Jochelson and Bogoras.
With the founding of the Russian Republic in 1991, came a great shaman revival. Shamanism is now the official religion of the Sakha Republic and shamans have re-emerged in Evenkia, Tuva, Mongolia, and other parts of central and northern Asia. In 1992, there was a Shamans Conference in Yakutsk. In Yakutia-now Sakha-there are three levels of shamans. 
WHAT IS A SHAMAN. In the last two decades of the twentieth century, the terms shamanism and shamanistic have been broadly, indeed sloppily, applied to a vast spectrum of religious activity (cf. In Siberia initiation into shamanism entails, on the part of the novice shaman, learning tribal lore and ecstatic techniques and then passing an initiatory ordeal, which amounts to a ritualized experience of suffering, deal, and resurrection.
Shamanism is the ancient spiritual beliefs of the Mongolian and Turkic peoples that live in Central Asia, Siberia, and as far west as parts of Eastern Europe. Shamanism is often called Tengerism in Siberia and Mongolia since it means the honoring of spirits. 
Shamanism (/ˈʃɑːmən/ SHAH-mən or /ˈʃeɪmən/ SHAY-mən) is a practice that involves a practitioner reaching altered states of consciousness in order to perceive and interact with a spirit world and channel these transcendental energies into this world. There is no single agreed upon definition for the word shamanism among anthropologists. The English historian Ronald Hutton noted that by the dawn of the 21st century, there were four separate definitions of the term which appeared to be in use.
Shamanism was first recognized by Western observers working among traditional herding societies in central and northern Asia, and it is from the language of one of these societies, the Tungus-speaking peoples of Siberia, that the term shaman is derived. In Siberia initiation into shamanism entails, on the part of the novice shaman, learning tribal lore and ecstatic techniques and then passing an initiatory ordeal, which amounts to a ritualized experience of suffering, deal, and resurrection.
SHAMANISM. Shamanism is a range of traditional and religious beliefs and practices. It is believed that Shamanism predates all organized religions. A shaman is a type of intermediary between the natural and the spiritual world. In Shamanism, the Shaman will travel from the earthly world to the spiritual world in a trance state using a form of astral projection. 
Kendall 1985:27), just as the term shaman has been broadly & sloppily, to a vast spectrum of religious practitioners. Unfortunately, there is little consensus among researchers, scholars, or laypersons as to exactly what a shaman is &/or does, and some definitions are somewhat culturally biased. In Siberia initiation into shamanism entails, on the part of the novice shaman, learning tribal lore and ecstatic techniques and then passing an initiatory ordeal, which amounts to a ritualized experience of suffering, deal, and resurrection.
The term shamanism was first applied by western anthropologists to the ancient religion of the Turks and Mongols, as well as those of the neighboring Tungusic and Samoyedic-speaking peoples. There is no single agreed upon definition for the word shamanism among anthropologists. The English historian Ronald Hutton noted that by the dawn of the 21st century, there were four separate definitions of the term which appeared to be in use.
Shamanism is still practiced in North and South Korea. In the south, shaman women are known as mudangs, while male shamans are referred to as baksoo mudangs. A person can become a shaman through hereditary title or through natural ability. There is no single agreed upon definition for the word shamanism among anthropologists. The English historian Ronald Hutton noted that by the dawn of the 21st century, there were four separate definitions of the term which appeared to be in use.