Incoming search terms: meaning of dylan in the bible, what does the name dylan mean in the bible, biblical meaning of name dylan, what does dylan mean in spanish, what does the name dylan mean in hebrew. What Does DYLAN Mean and History? From the Welsh elements dy “great” and llanw “tide, flow”. In Welsh mythology Dylan was a god or hero associated with the sea. He was the son of Arianrhod and was accidentally slain by his uncle Govannon.
Meaning & History. From the Welsh elements dy great and llanw tide, flow. In Welsh mythology Dylan was a god or hero associated with the sea. He was the son of Arianrhod and was accidentally slain by his uncle Govannon. Famous bearers include the Welsh poet Dylan Thomas (1914-1953) and the American musician Bob Dylan (1941-), real name Robert Zimmerman, who took his stage surname from the poet's given name. Due to those two bearers, use of the name has spread outside of Wales in the last half of the 20th century
Origin of the name Dylan: Borrowed from the Welsh, Dylan is a name of uncertain derivation. Some believe it to be from an Old Celtic element meaning “sea.” Var: Dillan, Dillon, Dillyn, Dyllan. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Origin of the name Dylan: Borrowed from the Welsh, Dylan is a name of uncertain derivation. Some believe it to be from an Old Celtic element meaning “sea.”. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Welsh Meaning: The name Dylan is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Dylan is: Son of the wave, born near the sea, influence. Famous bearers: Welsh poet Dylan Thomas, American folk singer Bob Dylan. American Meaning: The name Dylan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Dylan is: Son of the wave, born near the sea, influence. Famous bearers: Welsh poet Dylan Thomas, American folk singer Bob Dylan
Dylan is a Welsh male given name. It is derived from the word llanw, meaning tide or flow and the intensifying prefix dy- . Dylan ail Don was a character in Welsh mythology, but the popularity of Dylan as a given name in modern times arises from its use by poet Dylan Thomas. Its use as a surname stems from the adoption of the name by Bob Dylan. In Wales it was the most popular Welsh name given to babies in 2010.
Dylan /dy-lan/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used more generally as boys' name Dylan). Dylan's root is Welsh, and the meaning of Dylan is born from waves. Dylan is a version of Dylana (Welsh). Compare surname Dulan. Kreatif forms: Dailan, Delan, Dylanna. Dylan is a rare given name for females but a somewhat popular surname for all people (#93841 out of 150436, Top 62%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Dylan for girls. Dylan entered the list in 1993 and reached its peak position of #394 in the U.S. in the year 2014
The name Dylan is of Welsh origin, and it means Son of the sea . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. The highest recorded use of the name Dylan was in 2001 with a total of 16,491 babies. (That's a lot of baby Dylans). According to the 1988 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Dylan ranks #97 in popularity as a baby boy's name in Connecticut.
Dylan. Dylan /dy-lan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less widely as girls' name Dylan) is pronounced DIL-an, DUL-an. It is of Welsh origin, and the meaning of Dylan is son of the sea. Mythology: a legendary Welsh hero. Modern use is probably homage to poet Dylan Thomas. Catherine Zeta-Jones, who is Welsh, chose this name for her son with Michael Douglas. Some of the variants are more closely related to the homonym Dillon. 