Felony. A serious crime, characterized under federal law and many state statutes as any offense punishable by death or imprisonment in excess of one year. Under the early Common Law, felonies were crimes involving moral turpitude, those which violated the moral standards of a community.
Under traditional common law, felonies were called “true crimes,” and usually included serious offenses such as: homicide, rape, arson, burglary, robbery, larceny, escaping from a prison, and assisting in a felony. Current, state and federal criminal statutes may categorize various other types of crimes as felonies.
felony-a serious crime (such as murder or arson). crime, criminal offence, criminal offense, law-breaking, offense, offence - (criminal law) an act punishable by law; usually considered an evil act; a long record of crimes.
Felony. A serious crime, characterized under federal law and many state statutes as any offense punishable by death or imprisonment in excess of one year. Under the early Common Law, felonies were crimes involving moral turpitude, those which violated the moral standards of a community.
Noun. 1. felony-a serious crime (such as murder or arson). crime, criminal offence, criminal offense, law-breaking, offense, offence - (criminal law) an act punishable by law; usually considered an evil act; a long record of crimes. seizure, capture-the act of taking of a person by force.
In criminal law, a felony is a category of crimes that are often classified as the most serious types of offenses, and they can be either violent or non-violent.
Meaning: A serious crime (such as murder or arson). Classified under: Nouns denoting acts or actions. Hypernyms (felony is a kind of...): crime; law-breaking ((criminal law) an act punishable by law; usually considered an evil act). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of felony):
A serious crime, characterized under federal law and many state statutes as any offense punishable by death or imprisonment in excess of one year. Under the early Common Law, felonies were crimes involving moral turpitude, those which violated the moral standards of a community.