Known as pyramid texts, these are the earliest significant religious compositions known from ancient Egypt. The last of the great pyramid builders was Pepy II (2278-2184 B.C.), the second king of the sixth dynasty, who came to power as a young boy and ruled for 94 years. It was the largest statue in the ancient world, measuring 240 feet long and 66 feet high. In the 18th dynasty (c. 1500 B.C.) the Great Sphinx would come to be worshiped itself, as the image of a local form of the god Horus. The southernmost pyramid at Giza was built for Khafre’s son Menkaure (2532-2503 B.C.).
For thousands of years, the largest structures on Earth were pyramids—first the Red Pyramid in the Dashur Necropolis and then the Great Pyramid of Khufu, both of Egypt, the latter is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still remaining. A pyramid's design, with the majority of the weight closer to the ground, and with the pyramidion on top means that less material higher up on the pyramid will be pushing down from above.
The ancient Egyptians built pyramids as tombs for the pharaohsand their queens. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdomto the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The three largest and best-preserved of these were built at Gizaat the beginning of the Old Kingdom.
Pyramids. The ancient Egyptians built pyramids as tombs for the pharaohs and their queens. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdom to the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdomto the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The three largest and best-preserved of these were built at Gizaat the beginning of the Old Kingdom.
It was the Egyptians who built the Pyramids. The Great Pyramid is dated with all the evidence, I'm telling you now, to 4,600 years, the reign of Khufu. The Great Pyramid of Khufu is one of 104 Pyramids in Egypt with superstructure, and there are 54 Pyramids with substructure. There is support that the builders of the Pyramids were Egyptians. They are not the Jews as has been said. They are not people from a lost civilization. Those are the people who really built the Pyramids, the poor Egyptians. It's very important to prove how the Pyramid was built. The Pyramid, you know, has magic, it has mystery. It's a structure that was built 4,600 years ago.
These pyramids meant a lot to the Egyptians. The pyramids were made for either the king or queens tomb. They wanted them so big and huge to show how great, strong, and powerful they were. The Egyptians did so much for the kings and queens because they believed that in their afterlife they will become one of the great gods or goddesses. That's why in their tomb there is so much gold and riches. The shape of the pyramid shows that it comes to a point at the top which is where the pharaohs sit.
The Egyptian pyramid was where the Egyptians buried the dead. Only people that were rich enough could have nice pyramids. The pyramid also represented social class. the social pyramid was based on power and size. At the top was the pharaoh. The purpose of the Egyptian pyramids was for the pharaohs to have a  place where wild animals, grave robbers, and the floods of the Nile  didn't have effect on the body. Whe … n first built, the pyramids were  white, being made out of limestone, reflected light.
In the minds of the Ancient Egyptians the pyramid form served a very serious purpose. Ancient Egyptians had a strong belief in life after death. The pharaohs wanted their bodies to last forever, so they had pyramids built to protect their bodies after death. Each pyramid housed a pharaoh's preserved body. The Egyptians did so much for the kings and queens because they believed that in their afterlife they will become one of the great gods or goddesses. That's why in their tomb there is so much gold and riches. The shape of the pyramid shows that it comes to a point at the top which is where the pharaohs sit.
The pyramids are the stone tombs of Egypt's kings-the Pharaohs and one of the world's greatest historical mysteries. They have stood for thousands of years, filled with many hidden secrets: clues about what life (and death) was like in Ancient Egypt. 
Ancient Egyptian Pyramids in Giza. Egyptian pyramids are great monument of a great civilization that was born seven thousand years ago. The ancient Egyptians built more than 90 royal pyramids, from about 2630 BC until about 1530 BC. During that time, the pyramid shape evolved from a series of stepped terraces to sloped pyramidal shape. 