To receive DMARC reports, you must have rua and/or “ruf” tag in your DMARC record. If the addresses in those tags are in a different domain from the one the record is published in, there needs to be an external reporting authorization record in the target domain. When you query a DMARC record you often see results like this: This makes people want to put backslashes into their records. You do not need to do this; those backslashes are not part of the record, and are added by the command that does the query.
To help prevent this sort of abuse, Google is participating in DMARC.org, which gives domain owners more control over what Gmail does with spam emails from their domain. Google Apps follows the DMARC.org standard and allows you to decide how Gmail treats unauthenticated emails coming from your domain. 
If the domain in the From: header is from an organization that publishes a DMARC record, the email is likely to not be delivered. If emails from mailing lists are important to your users, you may therefore consider to apply specific rules for emails coming from mailing lists. When you query a DMARC record you often see results like this: This makes people want to put backslashes into their records. You do not need to do this; those backslashes are not part of the record, and are added by the command that does the query.
Posted on March 4, 2015 by Luke Martinez. DMARC stands for “Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance.” DMARC is protocol that uses SPF and DKIM to determine the authenticity of an email message. DMARC requires both SPF and DKIM to fail in order for it to act on a message. Your DMARC record is published alongside your domain’s other DNS records (SPF, A record, CNAME, DKIM, etc.). Unlike SPF and DKIM, a properly configured DMARC policy can tell a receiving server whether or not to accept an email from a particular sender. Let’s break down a DMARC record. “v=DMARC1” This is the identifier that the receiving server looks for when it is scanning the DNS record for the domain it received the message from. If the domain does not have a txt record that begins with v=DMARC1, the receiving server will not run a DMARC check.
Demarcation point is sometimes abbreviated as demarc, DMARC, or similar. The term MPOE (minimum or main point of entry) is synonymous, with the added implication that it occurs as soon as possible upon entering the customer premises. A network interface device often serves as the demarcation point. 
DMARC relies on SPF and DKIM. In the case of forwarding emails, SPF is likely to fail, in a DMARC sense, at the receiver. You are resending from your infrastructure and it is unlikely your sending IP is in the SPF record of the domain contained in the from header of the email. When you query a DMARC record you often see results like this: This makes people want to put backslashes into their records. You do not need to do this; those backslashes are not part of the record, and are added by the command that does the query.
Status of DMARC. The IETF RFC Editor published RFC 7489, “Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC)” on the Independent Submission stream on March 18th, 2015. RFC 7489, which can be found here, is in the process of being adopted as the official input to the IETF DMARC Working Group. DMARC standardizes how email receivers perform email authentication using the well-known SPF and DKIM mechanisms. This means that senders will experience consistent authentication results for their messages at AOL, Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo! and any other email receiver implementing DMARC.
DMARC stands for “Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance.” DMARC is protocol that uses SPF and DKIM to determine the authenticity of an email message. Let’s break down a DMARC record. “v=DMARC1” This is the identifier that the receiving server looks for when it is scanning the DNS record for the domain it received the message from. If the domain does not have a txt record that begins with v=DMARC1, the receiving server will not run a DMARC check.
The resulting DMARC specification was published on January 30, 2012, and within one year DMARC was estimated to protect 60% of the world's mailboxes. In October 2013, Mailman 2.1.16 is released with options to handle posters from domain with the DMARC policy of p=reject. If not, DMARC includes guidance on how to handle the non-aligned messages. DMARC doesn't directly address whether or not an email is spam or otherwise fraudulent. Instead, DMARC requires that a message not only pass DKIM or SPF validation, but that it also pass alignment.