Vitamin C also stimulates the production of collagen in your skin. Collagen is the protein responsible for making your skin supple. So if you wish to retain smooth and youthful skin then Vitamin C can help. Most fruits are good sources of Vitamin C so try to make fruits a staple addition to your everyday diet. Good sources of Vitamin A include eggs, leafy greens, milk, carrots, pumpkins, liver and more. 2. Vitamin E. Vitamin E is perhaps the most well-known vitamin that is essential for healthy skin.
1 Vitamin A-Retinoids, derivatives of vitamin A, are used to treat acne and other skin disorders. 2  Retinoids are prescribed by dermatologists both topically and orally. 3  A common type of retinoid used in the oral treatment of acne is isotretinoin. 1 Omega-3 Fatty Acids-Omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil, chromium, zinc, and selenium are nutrients that may have both anti-acne and mood regulating properties according to an acne study conducted at the Lasky Skin Clinic in 2008.
So if you wish to keep lines, wrinkles, dull skin and other skin aging symptoms at bay then Vitamin A may can be of great help. Good sources of Vitamin A include eggs, leafy greens, milk, carrots, pumpkins, liver and more. 2. Vitamin E. Vitamin E is perhaps the most well-known vitamin that is essential for healthy skin. This is because Vitamin E is an effective antioxidant that helps fight free radicals in your body. Free radicals are caused by a number of factors such as smoking, pollution and sun exposure
A high-quality liquid multivitamin is a good source for vitamin A, as well as the other vitamins that help with preventing acne. A good Vitamin B complex helps you maintain healthy skin tone. These vitamins also help you relieve anxiety and stress, and stress can be a major factor that can trigger acne. It is also essential for healthy skin, hair and nails. Acne is one of the symptoms of riboflavin deficiency. The dosage of vitamin b2 recommended to fight acne is 100 mg, 3 times daily. You may find that this dose also helps with migraine headaches.
Probiotics and omega-3 fatty acids are also theorized to help promote healthier skin. Probiotics might favorably affect cell signals and decrease harmful bacteria. Omega-3 fatty acids may inhibit the growth of certain bacteria associated with acne. Vitamins, Minerals and Nutrients. A spoonful of vitamin pills in front of some fruit. Photo Credit czekma13/iStock/Getty Images. A June 2014 report in Cutaneous and Ocular Toxicology found that people with the most severe acne also had the lowest levels of vitamin E and zinc in their blood.
8 Vitamin E and Acne. A vitamin is a compound that is not synthesized in adequate amounts in the body even though it is essential only in small amounts. Of all vitamins, only vitamin D does not fit perfectly into this definition since it can be made in sufficient amounts in the skin following exposure to sunlight. 
Vitamin A, used in acne treatments, helps to stimulate the growth of new skin cells. Vitamin A in various forms is the most common treatment for acne. Accutane, Retin-A, and Differin are actually “turbo charged” synthetic forms of this vitamin used to stimulate rapid growth in the skin. But other forms of vitamin A that don’t require a doctor’s prescription can also help you fight acne
Vitamin A and acne. The best plant sources of Vitamin A or Carotene are vegetables and fruits like spinach, broccoli, amaranth, carrots, mango, pumpkin, apricots, papaya, yams etc. The best animal sources of Vitamin A or Retinol are kidney, liver, egg yolk, butter, milk, cheese, fish liver oils etc. Vitamin A functions to improve the skin’s protective tissue and stops acne formation by decreasing sebum creation. Vitamin A is also important for the maintenance and repair of skin tissue. It’s a powerful antioxidant and assists rid the body of harmful toxins. Many prescription drugs are based on types of vitamin A.
VITAMIN E PILLS I know Vitamin E oil is good for putting on top of your skin to clear it from scars, but if you have acne, putting oil on your skin is probably not the way to go. But Vitamin E is an anti-inflammatory, so taking it in pill form can work wonders for acne. 
So it wouldn’t hurt to make sure you get your daily recommended intake of the vitamin E, 15 mg. Tea tree oil may also be able to help with your acne. In one study, 30 people used tea tree oil gel for 45 days, and another 30 people used a placebo. Those who used the gel saw greater improvements in their acne. Tea tree oil is a good alternative to benzoyl peroxide, a well-known ingredient in acne creams. Acne’s relationship with vitamin E isn’t as well studies as with vitamin A or zinc. However, in a recent study, acne sufferers were shown to have vitamin E, A, and zinc deficiencies.