There are hundreds of types of proteins in the cell, each with its own function and physical structure. Proteins are considered the molecular workers of the cell because they are present in all areas and processes of the cell. 
They are sometimes anchored to lipids in the membrane or bound to other membrane proteins (Figure 5). Figure 5: The fluid-mosaic model of the cell membrane. Like a mosaic, the cell membrane is a complex structure made up of many different parts, such as proteins, phospholipids, and cholesterol. Enzymes are another type of protein, and these molecules catalyze the biochemical reactions that occur in cells. Yet other proteins work as monitors, changing their shape and activity in response to metabolic signals or messages from outside the cell.
Protein has a range of essential functions in the body, including the following: 1  Required for building and repair of body tissues (including muscle). 2  Enzymes, hormones, and many immune molecules are proteins. 3  Essential body processes such as water balancing, nutrient transport, and muscle contractions require protein to function. 4  Protein is a 5  ... P 1 Enzymes, hormones, and many immune molecules are proteins. 2  Essential body processes such as water balancing, nutrient transport, and muscle contractions require protein to function. 3  Protein is a source of energy. 4  Protein helps keep skin, hair, and nails healthy.
There are 20 different types of amino acids that can be combined to make a protein. The sequence of amino acids determines each protein’s unique 3-dimensional structure and its specific function. Proteins can be described according to their large range of functions in the body, listed in alphabetical order: For more information about proteins and their functions: KidsHealth from Nemours offers a basic overview of proteins and what they do. Nature Education’s Scitable offers information on the function of proteins.
Structure and Movement. There is protein in every single cell in your body – from your hair to your nails to your muscles and organs. These proteins are known as structural proteins; they quite literally provide the structure for your body. Without them, you could not walk, run or even stand. In fact, the most abundant protein in your body is collagen, which is present in skin, ligaments, tendons and bones. A specific protein in your red blood cells, hemoglobin, is responsible for carrying oxygen from your lungs to your cells. Hemoglobin also takes carbon dioxide from your cells to your lungs, so that it can be expelled from the body.
Messenger proteins, such as some types of hormones, transmit signals to coordinate biological processes between different cells, tissues, and organs. Growth hormone (illustration). Structural component. These proteins provide structure and support for cells. On a larger scale, they also allow the body to move. For more information about proteins and their functions: KidsHealth from Nemours offers a basic overview of proteins and what they do. Nature Education’s Scitable offers information on the function of proteins.
For example, structural proteins maintain cell shape, akin to a skeleton, and they compose structural elements in connective tissues like cartilage and bone in vertebrates. Enzymes are another type of protein, and these molecules catalyze the biochemical reactions that occur in cells. Yet other proteins work as monitors, changing their shape and activity in response to metabolic signals or messages from outside the cell.
For example, plasma membrane proteins carry out functions as diverse as ferrying nutrients across the plasma membrane, receiving chemical signals from outside the cell, translating chemical signals into intracellular action, and sometimes anchoring the cell in a particular location (Figure 4). Enzymes are another type of protein, and these molecules catalyze the biochemical reactions that occur in cells. Yet other proteins work as monitors, changing their shape and activity in response to metabolic signals or messages from outside the cell.
Membrane proteins are proteins that interact with biological membranes. They are one of the common types of protein along with soluble globular proteins, fibrous proteins, and disordered proteins. They are targets of over 50% of all modern medicinal drugs. 