The time it takes to set up direct deposit for your unemployment benefits varies by state. Generally, it takes five to seven days for processing. Some states, such as Washington, can take up to 14 days, whereas Ohio takes only three to four days to set up a direct deposit account. Your state unemployment office verifies that the ABA routing number is valid and the bank account information is accurate.
How to Sign Up for Direct Deposit. Before you sign up for direct deposit, you must have a Tele-Serv Personal Identification Number (PIN) . Sign up for direct deposit or change your payment option online or by phone: 1  Online at Unemployment Benefits Services (ui.texasworkforce.org). 2  Select Payment Option from the Quick Links menu. 3  With our automated phone system, Tele-Serv. 4  Call 800-558-8321 and select option 5
If you do not already have a. debit card: 1  Sign up for direct deposit the next business day after you apply for unemployment benefits. 2  We can then verify your account information before you are scheduled to start requesting payment. Sign up for direct deposit or change your payment option online or by phone: 1  Online at Unemployment Benefits Services (ui.texasworkforce.org). 2  Select Payment Option from the Quick Links menu. 3  With our automated phone system, Tele-Serv.
You may register for Direct Deposit after you login with your NY.GOV ID. 1  Click on Unemployment Benefits (File a Claim / Certify) on the left side of the page. 2  Click on Payment and Tax Witholding Options. 3  Click on Direct Deposit. Then, check to see if your benefit payment was deposited into your checking account. To find out if a payment was released: 1  Login with your NY.GOV ID and click on Unemployment Benefits. 2  Click on the icon to view your payment history.
Direct Deposit is the electronic transfer of your Unemployment Insurance (UI) payment into your checking or savings account at your bank, credit union or savings and loan through a system called the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network. How long does Direct Deposit remain in effect? Direct deposit remains in effect on your unemployment insurance claim for the duration of the claim. This means that even if you return to work for a period of time, become unemployed again and re-activate the same UI claim, the direct deposit remains active on your claim.
Deposit Time. Once your direct-deposit information is verified, you can receive your benefits directly into your bank account. Your filing method will not change, but instead of waiting for a paper check to be mailed, the money will be wired to your bank directly from the unemployment office's account. In most cases, the deposit will appear in your account within 48 hours of your approved claim, though some states take longer and others, less. Generally, it takes five to seven days for processing. Some states, such as Washington, can take up to 14 days, whereas Ohio takes only three to four days to set up a direct deposit account. Your state unemployment office verifies that the ABA routing number is valid and the bank account information is accurate.
Direct Deposit is the electronic transfer of your weekly Unemployment Insurance (UI) payment into your checking or savings account at your bank, credit union or savings and loan through a system called the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network. Any benefits paid which could not be deposited will be resent to you in the form of a paper check. We will continue to pay you by check thereafter. Beginning July 18, 2013, current claimants will be transitioned to direct deposit or Visa pre-paid debit card to receive benefit payments.
Unemployment Insurance (UI) benefits can be paid automatically through direct deposit to a checking or savings account. Direct deposit is a simple, smart, secure choice for receiving benefits. You won’t need a debit card or have to establish a PIN to access funds. Thus, there is no chance of a lost or stolen debit card. 
The Massachusetts Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA) is pleased to offer direct deposit of unemployment benefit payments to new and existing eligible claimants. With Direct Deposit, your weekly unemployment insurance payment is electronically deposited into your checking or statement savings account. Direct Deposit offers many benefits including faster access to your fund