The London Pass allows for flexible sightseeing, with the aim to give back to the sightseer. Not only does the pass grant you free entry into a number of London’s most popular attractions, but it also gives you a wide range of discounts and other offers, too, like reduced cinema tickets and bowling. The price of a three day Adult London Pass is £108 with a travelcard and the price of a Child London Pass with travelcard is £67. To find out more about the breakdown of prices, please visit our prices page.
The London Pass is a fixed rate sightseeing pass that allows you to visit over 55 popular attractions for no extra cost. The London Pass is a 'smart card' - like a credit card with a computer chip inside-which allows you completely cash free entry to over 55 London tourist attractions.
An OysterCard works as an unlimited travel card, but it is more flexible and doesn’t need to be used only in the days that your London Pass is valid. For the 1-day, 2-day, 3-day, and 6-day London Passes, the OysterCard actually contains more travel credit than you will use in those number of days. The attractions other than the state-run museums tend to be expensive, and you have to factor in the value of the London travel pass that comes along with the main London Pass as well. We’ve previously reviewed the Paris Pass and reviewed the New York Pass, and the answer here is at least as complicated.
The London Pass itself has a child price for ages 5 to 15, and I don’t believe any of the included attractions would be free without it. I think the difference is that the Paris Pass covers many museums and most or all of those museums are free for everyone under the age of 18. The attractions other than the state-run museums tend to be expensive, and you have to factor in the value of the London travel pass that comes along with the main London Pass as well. We’ve previously reviewed the Paris Pass and reviewed the New York Pass, and the answer here is at least as complicated.
The London Pass come in two variants — the London Pass and the London Pass with Travel. 1  The London Pass provides you access to a large number of attractions (see the London Pass website for the full list). WHERE TO BUY THE LONDON PASS. The easiest way to get the pass is to buy it online from the London Pass website and have it mailed to your home. This way it is all ready to go once you arrive in London. You can also purchase it online and then pick it up
The travelcard that is included with the London Pass package can be used within Zones 1-6 on London’s local buses, London Underground, National Rail Trains, Docklands Light Rail, and the Tramlink. Show your Travelcard to conductors on the bus, and simply put it through the turnstiles at train stations. 
Note: London Pass 10% discount code until October 15th 2015. London Pass Discount: until October 15th 2015 there is a 10% discount with the PROMO CODE: LM10. It is valid for London Passes bought online with durations of 3 or 6 days and has to be typed in during purchase by the 15th of October 2015. Then you can use the pass within 1 year. The London Pass DISCOUNT for 1 and 2-day passes is the -6% London Pass Voucher Code: OCT6LP. It is valid until October 15th 2015 and it has to be activated and used within 1 year from purchase too. If you are already in London you can still get these online discounts instead of paying the full price
London is a very unusual city so the answer is complicated. The attractions other than the state-run museums tend to be expensive, and you have to factor in the value of the London travel pass that comes along with the main London Pass as well. We’ve previously reviewed the Paris Pass and reviewed the New York Pass, and the answer here is at least as complicated.
A Bus and Tram Pass on your Oyster card allows you to travel when and where you like, as much as you like, on bus and tram services across London. You can't put a Bus and Tram Pass on a Visitor Oyster card. You can get a 7 Day, Monthly or Annual Bus and Tram Pass on Oyster. A Visitor Oyster card is the cheapest way to pay for single journeys on the bus, Tube, DLR, tram, London Overground and most National Rail services in London: 1  Save time – your card is ready to use as soon as you arrive in London.