But it’s not perfect for your bettas. Now the ideal water temperature for beta fish is 75-80ºF (24-27ºC). Betta Splendens, being tropical fish and all, prefer water in the warmer temperature range. Temperatures too cool and you’re exposing your fish to disease. Higher temps and your fish will begin to show signs of distress. How often you need to change the water depends on the size of the tank (note not bowl), whether you have a filter, and the number of fish. Depending on those factors you may need to do water changes every other day, weekly or twice a week. Changing 10%, 25% or half the water or more.
Best Betta Fish Water Temperature. The best water temperature for your Betta fish is within a range. Bettas are tropical fish and so they like their water a little warmer-but not too warm. Consistency in water temperature is also important. The optimal range of water temperature for your Betta fish is 74 -78 degrees Fahrenheit. Betta fish, also called Siamese Fighting Fish, are not so called for their ability to fight in this manner. Consistent, steady, even water temperature within the appropriate range will go a long way to help ensure the health and well-being of your little Betta fishy.
3. Remove some water from your betta’s current container. To do a partial water change, you will take some of the water from your betta’s container and replace it with some of the fresh, treated water. Using a clean scoop or something similar, remove 25 to 50 percent of the water in your betta’s current container. Leave your betta in the container as you remove the water.
Store it in the room housing your betta so its temperature is the same as the betta s jar. It makes it safer when you change his water. If you only have one betta, bottled water might be a good way to go. For those of us who are way past 50 bettas, bottled water is not even an option. Tropical fish live in temperatures ranging from 75F to 82F hence the need for a good heater to keep the water warm. If kept in less than 5 gal tanks you cannot use heaters, they might heat up the water too fast and cook your fish. Instead, keep your jars in a warm room.
The best water temperature for betta fish is around 74-78 Fahrenheit, or 23-25 Celsius. Your betta will generally be fine if the water temperature is slightly out of this range (72-80 F), but 74-78 is what their natural habitat of rice paddies in Thailand and other southeast asian countries contains. Slightly warmer water temperature for Betta fish (80-82 F) can be used if your betta is sick and needs to be quarantined or separated from other fish while he is being treated with medication.
For example, in a room heated to at least 76 degrees, a betta does not need an actual heater, but under normal room temperature conditions, they absolutely do. The ideal range of the species is 76-82 degrees (with a survival range of around 72-86), which under most conditions demands a heater. 
Betta Water Temperature. Bettas need a water temperature between 76 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. This is slightly above room temperature in most houses. In the wild, bettas live in warm rice paddies with low water circulation, high oxygen and stable, warm temperatures. You should reproduce these circumstances for your fish. 
Temperature of water in the betta tank. Maintain the temperature of the water in the tank at 76-82 degrees Fahrenheit. Fish can tolerate moderate temperature changes without any adverse effects. Avoid dramatic, rapid changes in the temperature of the water so it is never consistently too low or too high. Under normal conditions, change 10% of the water in the tank, once a week. It is not necessary or recommended to change all the water at one time. If you siphon off all of the debris and check pH levels during this process, you will create the ideal water conditions for your Betta.