1 Large strip should cook for 3 to 4 minutes, medium shrimp should cook for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 minutes, and small shrimp should cook for 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. 2  Occasionally stir the shrimp with a spatula as it cooks. 3  Do not crowd the pan. 4  The shrimp should be able to fit in a single layer inside the skillet.
1 Bring a large saucepan filled with lightly salted water to boiling. 2  Add the shrimp to the boiling water. 3  Cook for 1 to 3 minutes or until the shrimp are pink and opaque. 4  Drain and rinse shrimp in a colander under cold running water.
Jumbo shrimp take about 7 to 8 minutes, large shrimp take about 5 to 7 minutes, and medium size are done in about 3 to 4 minutes. If your shrimp are to be used in a recipe and not eaten right away after cooking (such as grilling), they should be plunged into cold water to stop the cooking process.
How to Cook Shrimp. Defrosting: Thaw shrimp in the refrigerator and allow 12 to 24 hours to defrost Individually Quantity Frozen (IQF) shrimp. Placing the meat in a pot of cold water is a quick alternative when cooking frozen shrimp.
1 Heat the oven to 400°F: Heat the oven to 400°F with a rack placed in the middle of the oven. 2  If frozen, thaw the shrimp: Place the shrimp you want to cook in a colander in the sink and run cold water over them for about 5 minutes. 3  Toss the shrimp occasionally to make sure they are all exposed to the cold water.
Small shrimp (more than 50 per pound) will be cooked in 2 to 3 minutes, Large(31-35 per pound) shrimp in about 6 to 8 minutes. Note: These times are for 1 pound of shrimp. To check for doneness, take a shrimp out and cut through the thickest part, it should be opaque.
1 Add the shrimp to the boiling water. 2  Cook for 1 to 3 minutes or until the shrimp are pink and opaque. 3  Drain and rinse shrimp in a colander under cold running water.
Instructions. 1  If frozen, thaw the shrimp: Place the shrimp you want to cook in a colander in the sink and run cold water over them for about 5 minutes. 2  Toss the shrimp occasionally to make sure they are all exposed to the cold water.