Find Epoxy Resins ICIS pricing is an independent price assesment for the global chemical industry. United States. Find Epoxy Resins ICIS pricing is an independent price assesment for the global chemical industry. We cover more than 150 chemical commodities (olefins, aromatics, polymers, solvents, intermediates, etc.) from a network of industry experts around the world.
Flexible epoxy resins are used for potting transformers and inductors. By using vacuum impregnation on uncured epoxy, winding-to-winding, winding-to-core, and winding-to-insulator air voids are eliminated. The cured epoxy is an electrical insulator and a much better conductor of heat than air. Epoxy resins are low molecular weight pre-polymers or higher molecular weight polymers which normally contain at least two epoxide groups. The epoxide group is also sometimes referred to as a glycidyl or oxirane group. A wide range of epoxy resins are produced industrially.
SCOPE 1.1 Use this method to determine the epoxide equivalent for epoxy resins and the amine value for polyamide resins. 1.2 Reference ASTM D 1652 and D 2074 (modified by D-9-J). 1.3 The values given in parentheses (if provided) are not standard and may not be exact mathematical conversions. Just prior to titration, add 10 mL (0.35 fl. oz.) glacial acetic acid to the sample, and titrate with the standardized HBr to the same color as the standards. The endpoint for the amine value is not the same as for the epoxide procedure.
4.2 Determining Epoxy Equivalent or Amine Value: 4.2.1 Analytically weigh 1.0 ± 0.001 g of the 75% solids epoxy, 0.4 ± 0.001 g 100% solids epoxy, or 0.4 ± 0.001 g of the 70% solids polyamide sample into a 100-mL (3.4-fl. oz.) beaker (0.75 or 0.35 g for a 100% solids sample). Just prior to titration, add 10 mL (0.35 fl. oz.) glacial acetic acid to the sample, and titrate with the standardized HBr to the same color as the standards. The endpoint for the amine value is not the same as for the epoxide procedure.
Epoxy is a term used to denote both the basic components and the cured end products of epoxy resins, as well as a colloquial name for the epoxide functional group. Epoxy resins are low molecular weight pre-polymers or higher molecular weight polymers which normally contain at least two epoxide groups. The epoxide group is also sometimes referred to as a glycidyl or oxirane group. A wide range of epoxy resins are produced industrially.
The epoxy value is the number of moles of epoxy group per 100 g of resin. Epoxy value is: (100 / MW epoxy resin) x number of epoxy groups in the resin. Amine Value. The amine value is the number of milligrams of KOH equivalent to one gramm of curing agent. 
Epoxy resin may be reacted with itself in the presence of an anionic catalyst (a Lewis base such as tertiary amines or imidazoles) or a cationic catalyst (a Lewis acid such as a boron trifluoride complex) to form a cured network. This process is known as catalytic homopolymerisation. Epoxy resins are low molecular weight pre-polymers or higher molecular weight polymers which normally contain at least two epoxide groups. The epoxide group is also sometimes referred to as a glycidyl or oxirane group. A wide range of epoxy resins are produced industrially.
How Much Does Epoxy Flooring Cost? Epoxy flooring has been used for some time as a protective measure for concrete garage floors and other floors exposed to a lot of heavy activity. However, today's epoxy methods and products serve a wide variety of needs for indoor and outdoor settings. 
Epoxy resins, also known as polyepoxides are a class of reactive prepolymers and polymers which contain epoxide groups. Epoxy resins are low molecular weight pre-polymers or higher molecular weight polymers which normally contain at least two epoxide groups. The epoxide group is also sometimes referred to as a glycidyl or oxirane group. A wide range of epoxy resins are produced industrially.