John Albert Elway, Jr. (born June 28, 1960) is a former American football quarterback and current General Manager and Executive Vice President of Football Operations for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League (NFL). Elway set several career records for passing attempts and completions while at Stanford and also received All-American honors. He was the first selection in the 1983 NFL Draft, famously known as the quarterback class of 1983, where he was taken by the Baltimore Colts before being traded to the Denver Broncos.
John Elway played college football at Stanford and his entire professional career with the Denver Broncos. Elway recorded the most victories by a starting quarterback at the time of his retirement. John retired in 1999 and statistically was the second most prolific passer in NFL history. Elway led his teams to six AFC Championship Games and five Super Bowls, winning his last two. As of 2012, Elway and Tom Brady are the only quarterbacks to start in 5 Super Bowls. John Elway’s also the second player ever to score a rushing touchdown in four different
John Elway — $145 Million. John Elway — former quarterback (there’s a trend here somewhere) for the Denver Broncos and current General Manager for the same Mile High football team — has diversified himself well beyond his Hall of Fame career as a game manager. 
Career/Profession: American Football Player, Entrepreneur. Currently working as the General Manager and vice president of Denver Broncos Football Operation of the National Football League (NFL), John Elway is a retired American Football player in 2012. He has an estimated net worth of about $ 145 million. He is currently the chairman of AFL Committee and the co-owner of the Colorado Crush, Arena Football Team. Appreciated widely during his schooling: Professional Football Player John Elway was born on 28 th June, 1960 in Port Angeles, Washington.
Read More. John Elway is a retired American football player who has total net worth of $145 million dollars. His estimated annual salary is $3 million per year. He has earned his net worth through his entire career as a quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the NFL. Born on June 28, 1960, John Elway is the co-owner of the Arena Football team The Colorado Crush and at present he is the chairman of the AFL executive committee.
$3 Million Per Year. John Elway net worth and salary: John Elway is a retired American football player who has a net worth of $145 million. John Elway earned his net worth through his career as a quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the NFL. John Elway is the co-owner of the Arena Football team The Colorado Crush and is currently the chairman of the AFL executive committee. Elway owns two restaurants in Colorado which are appropriately named Elways. 
About John Elway. Currently working as the executive vice president of Denver Broncos’ football operations, John Elway is a retired professional football player with an estimated net worth of $45 million in 2012. After playing college football at Stanford University, John Elway was selected as Denver Broncos’ first overall pick in the first round of the 1983 NFL Draft. John Elway debuted into the NFL in 1983 and retired in 1999. After college, Elway spent his entire professional football career with the Broncos
When John played football, John Elway was known as a quarterback. When John attended school in Stanford, John Elway was on his school football team. His professional football years were spent playing for the team of Denver Broncos, which raised John Elway net worth a lot. John Elway was the person who directed his team to win AFC Championship Games and Super Bowls. After John retired, John Elway got involved into some company and he’s also called the owner of Colorado Crush that’s an arena football team. Such business ventures additionally add more money to the overall sum of John Elway net worth.