Unless you're a student of history or in law enforcement (or live in Berkeley, California) you've probably never heard of August Vollmer. August Gus Vollmer was born in New Orleans, Louisiana in 1876 to John Vollmer and Philopine Klundt, both German immigrants. Following the death of his father, his mother moved the family back to Germany in 1884. Even in death Vollmer seemed to do the extraordinary things by donating his body to the University of California and all his books to the Police Department. Such a stellar career in Law Enforcement should be celebrated. He truly was a legend in every sense of the word.
Legendary Lawman August Vollmer. Last month we examined a true legend in the law enforcement community. Allan Pinkerton and his legacy have been examined in numerous books and movies and that will probably continue as Hollywood continues its search for new material. Even in death Vollmer seemed to do the extraordinary things by donating his body to the University of California and all his books to the Police Department. Such a stellar career in Law Enforcement should be celebrated. He truly was a legend in every sense of the word.
August Vollmer, the founder of professional policing, was born in New Orleans, Louisiana on March 7, 1876. In his early years, Vollmer had a variety of jobs including firefighting, a coal and feed business, a private in the military, and a mail carrier. 
August Vollmer was born on March 7, 1876 in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA. He died on November 4, 1955 in California, USA. 
Vollmer was born in New Orleans to German immigrant parents, John and Philopine (Klundt) Vollmer. His father saw to it that he learned to box and swim, both of which he excelled at. In 1898, August enlisted in the United States Marines, fighting in 25 battles in the Spanish–American War in the Philippines. Vollmer left the military in August 1899 and returned to Berkeley. In March 1900, he began working for the local post office.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. August Gus Vollmer (March 7, 1876 – November 4, 1955) was a leading figure in the development of the field of criminal justice in the United States in the early 20th century. He was also the first police chief of Berkeley, California. In 1898, August enlisted in the United States Marines, fighting in 25 battles in the Spanish–American War in the Philippines. Vollmer left the military in August 1899 and returned to Berkeley. In March 1900, he began working for the local post office.
AMERICAN. POLICE CHIEF. August Vollmer was a pioneer in the science of forensic investigations. The founder of professional policing, he was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, on March 7, 1876. Vollmer held a variety of jobs in his early years, including firefighting, a coal and feed business, a private in the military, and a mail carrier. 
Biography. August Vollmer is known as the father of modern day law enforcement and a significant figure in the creation of the modern day criminal justice system. Vollmer was born in New Orleans, Louisiana in 1876. At an early age, Vollmer's father died and his mother took him to Germany, where he studied and grew up. Conclusion. August Vollmer was, and remains, a significant figure in the American criminal justice system. Vollmer's contributions helped form the foundation of police departments throughout the country and how police perform their functions in modern times. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
August Gus Vollmer (March 7, 1876 – November 4, 1955) was a leading figure in the development of the field of criminal justice in the United States in the early 20th century. In 1898, August enlisted in the United States Marines, fighting in 25 battles in the Spanish–American War in the Philippines. Vollmer left the military in August 1899 and returned to Berkeley. In March 1900, he began working for the local post office.