The ATP World Tour 500 series (previously known as the Grand Prix Super Series, ATP International Series Gold and the Championship Series) is the third highest tier of men's tennis tournament after the four Grand Slam tournaments, and the ATP World Tour Masters 1000. 
I mean seriously. I have known what they stand for for years and I am only 19. Please don't tell me you also do not know what FIFA stands or what NCAA does. ATP stands for Association of Tennis Professionals and is the men's tour while WTA stands for Women's Tennis Association and is the women's tour. Source(s): Myself. JCam · 8 years ago.
· just now. Report Abuse. ATP which is men's tennis means Association of Tennis Professionals. This was founded by Jack Kraemer WTA which is women's tennis means Women's Tennis Association. This was founded by Billie-Jean King.
Noun. 1. ATP-a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue; the major source of energy for cellular reactions. adenosine triphosphate. nucleotide, base-a phosphoric ester of a nucleoside; the basic structural unit of nucleic acids (DNA or RNA). 1. (Biochemistry) adenosine triphosphate; a nucleotide found in the mitochondria of all plant and animal cells. It is the major source of energy for cellular reactions, this energy being released during its conversion to ADP. Formula: C10H16N5O13P3.
ATP. n. 1. (Biochemistry) adenosine triphosphate; a nucleotide found in the mitochondria of all plant and animal cells. It is the major source of energy for cellular reactions, this energy being released during its conversion to ADP. Formula: C10H16N5O13P3.
The global governing bodies of men's tennis, the ITF and the ATP, in cooperation with national federations like the USTA, have developed a layered system of competition that gives players a chance to climb the rankings and pay scales of professional tennis. 
About. The ATP is the governing body of the men's professional tennis circuits-the ATP World Tour, the ATP Challenger Tour and the ATP Champions Tour. With 62 tournaments in 31 countries, the ATP World Tour showcases the finest male athletes competing in the world’s most exciting venues. 
adenosine triphosphate: a nucleotide that is the primary source of energy in all living cells because of its function in donating a phosphate group during biochemical activities; composed of adenosine, ribose, and three phosphate groups and formed by enzymatic reaction from adenosine diphosphate and an orthophosphate. 1. (Biochemistry) adenosine triphosphate; a nucleotide found in the mitochondria of all plant and animal cells. It is the major source of energy for cellular reactions, this energy being released during its conversion to ADP. Formula: C10H16N5O13P3.
Medical Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP—called also adenosine triphosphate. Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT