Ungulate. Ungulates are the hoofed mammals, belonging to the phylum Chordata. The word ungulate comes from Latin ungula, meaning hoof.. Ungulates are a large group of dissimilar vertebrate animals, grouped together because their outermost toe joints are encased in hooves. There are four ungulate orders. Those ungulates having an odd number of toes belong to the order Perissodactyl
The word 'ungulate' comes from the Latin 'ungula' , meaning hoof. It has long been used as a term to describe any hooved herbivorous mammal, but the ungulates have not been thought to constitute a single group of closely related animals until recently. The 'ungulates' were considered to comprise the Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates like pigs or cattle), the Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates like horses or tapirs) and various fossil groups of primitive ungulates.
Many hoofed mammals live in grasslands and savannahs. Ungulates have evolved features that are adaptive for life on open grasslands, in particular long legs to increase running speed. To lengthen the legs, ungulates evolved digitigrade locomotion: that is, they walk on their toes. The hoof of a horse or cow is anatomically an enlarged toe. Artiodactyls such as deer, sheep, and goats walk on two toes; perissodactyls walk either on three toes (rhinos, tapirs, some extinct horses) or on one toe (living horses)
Even-toed ungulate. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The even-toed ungulates (order Artiodactyla) are ungulates (hoofed animals) whose weight is borne approximately equally by the third and fourth toes, rather than mostly or entirely by the third as in odd-toed ungulates (perissodactyls), such as horses. Cladogram showing relations within Artiodactyla. As with many extant mammal groups, even-toed ungulates first appeared during the early Eocene (about 55 million years ago). In form, they were rather like today's chevrotains: small, short-legged creatures that ate leaves and the soft parts of plants.
un·gu·late (un'gyoo-lit) [L., unguis, a hoof; -atus suffix meaning provided with]. NOUN: a mammal having hooves. Literally, ungulate refers to any animal with hooves-a hoof being an enlarged toenail (see below). However, in practice, the use of the name ungulate has been inconsistent. In ungulates, the tough unguis encircles the tip of the digit as a cylinder, enclosing the subunguis within in. Since the unguis is harder than the subunguis, it does not wear down as quickly, resulting in a firm (sometimes sharp) leading edge to the hoof.
Ungulates (pronounced /ˈʌŋɡjʉleɪts/) are any members of a diverse clade of primarily large mammals that includes odd-toed ungulates such as horses and rhinoceroses, and even-toed ungulates such as cattle, pigs, giraffes, camels, deer, and hippopotami. 
The ancestors of the even-toed ungulates were omnivores that preferred plant material; now, even-toed ungulates are generally herbivorous, although species in the suborder Suina are, like their primitive ancestors, omnivores. Cladogram showing relations within Artiodactyla. As with many extant mammal groups, even-toed ungulates first appeared during the early Eocene (about 55 million years ago). In form, they were rather like today's chevrotains: small, short-legged creatures that ate leaves and the soft parts of plants.
Which leaves us with the true ungulates: Artiodactyls and Perissodactyls; two groups of large, herbivorous animals equipped with hooves. Although they no longer form a good taxonomic group, their similar biologies makes it convenient to continue using the name ungulate in a descriptive sense. In ungulates, the tough unguis encircles the tip of the digit as a cylinder, enclosing the subunguis within in. Since the unguis is harder than the subunguis, it does not wear down as quickly, resulting in a firm (sometimes sharp) leading edge to the hoof.