• A Quantity Surveyor is someone who tries to work out what the construction cost of your property is likely to be. I say ‘try’ because as you can appreciate, lots can go wrong during construction, such as weather conditions, industrial disputes. A quantity surveyor works within the construction industry. 
1. Understand the Duties of a Quantity Surveyor. The first step in becoming a QS(Quantity Surveyor) is to understand what role a Quantity Surveyor plays in the construction industry. Many people, when asked what a Quantity Surveyor is will just give the reply They survey quantities.
Starting salary. £20,000 + per year. As a quantity surveyor you would play a key role in a building project, managing the costs from the early design plans, through to the building's completion. You would make sure that projects meet legal and quality standards, and that clients get good value for their money. To be a quantity surveyor you should have: 1  a good knowledge of construction methods and materials. 2  budget handling skills. 3  excellent IT and maths skills. 4  a methodical approach to work. 5  good organisational skills. 6  a clear understanding of Building Regulations and other legal guidelines.
What the term 'quantity surveyor' means. The quantity surveyor is the person responsible for figuring out just what a construction project is going to cost. They have other roles too, especially making sure that construction costs and production are managed as efficiently as possible.
A quantity surveyor (QS) is a professional working within the construction industry concerned with construction costs and contracts. Services provided by a quantity surveyor may include: 1  Cost planning and commercial management throughout the entire life cycle of the project from inception to post-completion. 2  Value engineering.
A quantity surveyor may work for either the client or contractor, and could be based either in an office or on site. The title of the job may also be referred to as a construction cost consultant or commercial manager. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Quantity surveyors manage all costs relating to building projects. From the initial calculations to the final figures, surveyors seek to minimise the costs of a project and enhance value for money, whilst still achieving the required standards and quality.
Quantity Surveying. Discover the kind of work a quantity surveyor undertakes and when you may need one. A quantity surveyor is an expert in the art of costing a building at all its stages. Chartered quantity surveyors are highly trained professionals offering expert advice on construction costs. 
The New Zealand Institute of Quantity Surveyors is the professional organisation in New Zealand for quantity surveyors, estimators, cost managers and cost consultants in the construction industry. promotes the profession of quantity surveying nationally and internationally. We provide networking, industry advocacy, professional development, registration, and accreditation of education for quantity surveyors. The institute is based in Wellington and is run by a council with support staff.
Construction Q present our snappy guide to what exactly a Quantity Surveyor does-and how they can help you save money on a whole variety of construction projects. Produced by Manchester Video Production Company Hyperfine Media Ltd-www.hyperfinemedia.co.uk. 