Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Tenth Amendment (Amendment X) to the United States Constitution, which is part of the Bill of Rights, was ratified on December 15, 1791. 
Among his recommendations Madison proposed opening up the Constitution and inserting specific rights limiting the power of Congress in Article One, Section 9. Seven of these limitations would become part of the ten ratified Bill of Rights amendments. Ultimately, on September 25, 1789, Congress approved twelve articles of amendment to the Constitution and submitted them to the states for ratification. 
The Bill of Federalism is a list of ten proposed amendments to the United States Constitution by Barnett. It would enshrine in the Constitution certain ideas based on states' rights and free market libertarianism. Barnett drafted the bill in response to the Tea Party movement 's emphasis on limiting federal powers. This is based on the 22nd Amendment of the US Constitution which limits the President to two 'four year' terms in office and two years of another person's term for a total of 10 years.
Download a PDF of the Bill of Rights. The first 10 amendments to the Constitution make up the Bill of Rights. Written by James Madison in response to calls from several states for greater constitutional protection for individual liberties, the Bill of Rights lists specific prohibitions on governmental power. Amendment I. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.
The Bill of Rights is a list of limits on government power. For example, what the Founders saw as the natural right of individuals to speak and worship freely was protected by the First Amendment’s prohibitions on Congress from making laws establishing a religion or abridging freedom of speech. Amendment I. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.
And to a certain extent, so is the power given to the states and the people in the Tenth Amendment. Like several other amendments in the Bill of Rights, the Tenth Amendment has practically been rendered moot by the national government and the courts. 
Go To 1 2 3Section: 4 Federalism and Individual Rights Chapter 19, Section 1 The Bill of Rights • The most famous of the Constitution’s guarantees apply only to the National Government, not the government of the States. but the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment. “nationalizes” most of those guarantees. Go To 1 2 3Section: 4 Section 1 Overview • Section 1 The Unalienable Rights • The guarantees in the Bill of Rights reflect Americans’ long-held commitment to personal freedom as well as the principle of limited government.
The student is expected to: . . . (D) analyze how the U.S. Constitution reflects the principles of limited government, republicanism, checks and balances, federalism, separation of powers, popular sovereignty, and individual rights. 
Believed the constitution was set up to protect individuals and did not want to limit the rights of people to just the first 10 amendments. The principle of federalism allows states to have power too. The system of checks and balances keeps the military in control and is necessary to protect our country against enemies. Our country believes in free speech to help create a government that is representative of the people. Our Bill of Rights protect individuals and promotes individuality and privacy.