Your propane dealer or local welding gas dealer can tell you where it can be done. Really old tanks with the round valve handle will not be worth the effort, as they will require valve upgrading. If you buy used, make sure the tank has a three lobed handle-they are the most recent and safest. There are several clever scales on the market whereby you can push a ‘tare button’ (very useful). I’ve been using the H-100 hanging scale (multiple uses), for my 20 & 30 pound portable propane tanks (bbq and RV). Here’s a bbq grill tank gauge that’s calibrated specifically for a 20-pound (5-gallon) tank.
If it has the in and outside threads on it it is a new OPD valve you will need to have it hooked up to something to to see if it is empty of propane.You can look on the side of the safety fence for the markings you will see the empty weight. If I got to do it faster, you can air it out you must have the valve removed. wash it out with the oil grease cutting cleaner. Then you can make up a fitting to screw in the cylinder with a hose and valve. Hook it to any inert gas cylinder and add the gas to the propane bottle then when filled you can weld. If you are going to do a lot of them you can make up a gizmo fitting for exhaust gases to fill the cylinder as you are welding on it. One other way that is expounded on the net is to fill with water full and plug the holes with a pipe plug or the valve. A word of caution
500 gal propane tank with leak at a single point in the weld bead around the base of the threaded bung for the filler valve. The tank will still reek of propane, but there isn't really any in the tank. The smell of rotting garlic comes from the Mercaptans that are added to fuel gasses to make them stink. These mercaptans can form a oily coating on the inside of the tank. The only way to remove the mercaptans is with a bleach rinse.
Water Capacity). This is the weight of the tank if it were filled with water (yes, water). The typical 20-pound (5-gallon) barbeque grill tank would hold 47.6 pounds of water. Regulations limit the propane level to not exceed 42% of the water capacity of the tank. There are several clever scales on the market whereby you can push a ‘tare button’ (very useful). I’ve been using the H-100 hanging scale (multiple uses), for my 20 & 30 pound portable propane tanks (bbq and RV). Here’s a bbq grill tank gauge that’s calibrated specifically for a 20-pound (5-gallon) tank.
The hard thing is ensuring all the propane is out of the tank. Most consumers will not use every last wisp of propane, and the leftover gas can cause a fire or explosion. Due to this risk, it is extremely important not to place propane tanks in the trash unless you are absolutely certain they are empty. They can cause serious injury or even death if put in compactor trucks, incinerators and other waste management equipment. As you do that, you are probably eying at least one propane tank and wondering if it still holds any gas. Hopefully, if the answer is no, you are wondering how to recycle it. Propane tanks present a real danger in the waste stream because they can cause fires or even explosions.
Is there a temporary repair for propane tank leak at a weld. I have a 30 foot 1995 Holiday Rambler Endeavor. My wife in in it away from home and there is a small propane leak at where the shutoff valve is welded to the tank. The tank is full. They can suck the propane out of the tank and sell you a new filled tank. Another option is to take the tank off and away from surrounding RV and buildings and empty it. Take the empty tank to WalMart, Home Depot, etc and get a filled exchange tank. The last time I exchanged tanks the cost was under 30.00
A 5-gallon propane tank is easy to recycle. The body is steel and the valve is copper. Both of these are valuable products with ready markets. It is important to leave an unwanted propane tank in its original form. Put caps back on small bottles and do not attempt to remove the valve from large tanks. As you do that, you are probably eying at least one propane tank and wondering if it still holds any gas. Hopefully, if the answer is no, you are wondering how to recycle it. Propane tanks present a real danger in the waste stream because they can cause fires or even explosions.
Welding on Propane tanks is pretty simple. First; Empty the tank, either by venting or by transfer to another tank. Second; Fill the tank with water and drain. This removes all the gas. The tank will still reek of propane, but there isn't really any in the tank. The smell of rotting garlic comes from the Mercaptans that are added to fuel gasses to make them stink. These mercaptans can form a oily coating on the inside of the tank. The only way to remove the mercaptans is with a bleach rinse. However, just because you smell mercaptans does not mean there is still gas in the tank. Third grind out the hole, and weld the damaged area