1 Minerals and vitamins: Milk is rich in many nutrients that are essential for good health, for stronger bones (Calcium, Vitamin D, Phosphorous), for more energy (B vitamins), for a stronger immune system and for healthier skin (Vitamin A).
Cow's milk is also often fortified with vitamin D, which is also beneficial for bone health. However, other nutrients are also necessary for bone health, such as vitamin K, strontium, magnesium and vitamin C.
Milk from many animals, particularly cows, has long been a regular food staple for many, but not all, cultures. It provides other food sources such as cheese, yogurt, butter and kefir and is a source of protein, vitamin D and calcium. On the flip side, it's also a trigger for lactose intolerance.
You want about three servings or of dairy a day, or three servings of soy milk. One serving of milk is one cup, and one cup of whole milk has 150 calories and almost eight grams of fat. That's quite a bit of fat – out of that, 5 grams are saturated fat which is not good for you.
Cow's milk has about double the amount of protein as soy milk. They're both a good source of calcium (if it's added in soy milk), potassium, phosphorous, vitamin D and other nutrients. Soy and cow's milk have different types of protein. The protein in cow's milk is called casein.
To its credit, chocolate milk has the same nutrients as regular, nonflavored milk. Whether flavored or plain, milk is a valuable source of protein, vitamin D, calcium, and potassium, which are especially important in bone health and growth in children.
In terms of health, cow's milk is a complete protein source. It has eight grams of protein and 12 grams of carbohydrates per cup. Cow's milk on it's own — without fortification — has 300 milligrams of calcium, which is 30 percent of the recommended daily allowance for most adults.
Milk and bone health. Cow's milk can be a source of calcium, a mineral that is important in the development and maintenance of healthy bones and teeth. Everyone has heard that milk is good for the bones. That is because cow's milk offers a rich source of calcium, a mineral essential for
For example if you drink eight ounces of skim milk, that's 90 calories. The fat will be minimal, and it's low in saturated fat. Cow's milk is naturally an excellent source of calcium. It has vitamin D and it has potassium and it's a complete protein source as well. With other forms of dairy – cheese, yogurt and other sources – you are getting some, but not all, of the nutrients from milk.