PNF Stretching. PNF stretching (or proprioceptive muscular facilitation) is one of the most effective forms of flexibility training for increasing range of motion (1,2). PNF techniques can be both passive (no associated muscular contraction) or active (voluntary muscle contraction). 
PNF stretching, or proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretching, is a set of stretching techniques commonly used in clinical environments to enhance both active and passive range of motion in order to improve motor performance and aid rehabilitation. In the early to mid 1900s physiologist Charles Sherrington popularized a model for neuromuscular facilitation and inhibition. This subsequently led Herman Kabat, a neurophysiologist, to develop the clinical PNF stretching technique using natural movement patterns.
PNF-Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation. PNF, also referred to as contract-relax stretching, is a very effective form of increasing flexibility. 
Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation Stretching Protocols PNF Reciprocal Inhibition: Take muscle to be stretched to tension. Have patient contract antagonist muscle. This inhibits the agonist. 
Medical Definition of PROPRIOCEPTIVE NEUROMUSCULAR FACILITATION. : a method of stretching muscles to maximize their flexibility that is often performed with a partner or trainer and that involves a series of contractions and relaxations with enforced stretching during the relaxation phase—abbreviation PNF. 
What is PNF Stretching?Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) is a more advanced form of flexibility training that involves both the stretching and contraction of the muscle group being targeted. PNF stretching was originally developed as a form of rehabilitation, and to that effect it is very effective. The muscle group to be stretched is positioned so that the muscles are stretched and under tension. The individual then contracts the stretched muscle group for 5 - 6 seconds while a partner, or immovable object, applies sufficient resistance to inhibit movement.
What is PNF. Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation or PNF is a type of flexibility therapy. It is based on the principles of functional human anatomy and neurophysiology, Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation uses proprioceptive input to improve muscle flexibility and strength. These exercises combine muscle contraction and relaxation with passive and partner-assisted stretching. Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation is also used as a rehabilitative therapy to improve the flexibility, strength, and range of motion, of a damaged or stiff muscle. It is also used to treat lower back, neck and shoulder pain associated with poor posture
Learn how to use PNF Stretching to take your Flexibility to the next level. Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) is a more advanced form of flexibility training that involves both the stretching and contraction of the muscle group being targeted. PNF stretching was originally developed as a form of rehabilitation, and to that effect it is very effective
Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretching: mechanisms and clinical implications. Sharman MJ(1), Cresswell AG, Riek S. Author information: (1)School of Human Movement Studies, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. 