Normal anatomy of the cerebellum (left). Chiari I malformation (right). With the size of the posterior fossa too small, the cerebellar tonsils may herniate through the skull into the spinal canal. The tonsils block the flow of CSF (blue) and may cause fluid buildup inside the spinal cord, called a syrinx. Syringomyelia, hydrocephalus, and other complications.
In the Arnold-Chiari Malformation, the Tonsils abnormally extend through the opening in the base of the Skull (the Foramen Magnum) and exert abnormally increased pressure on the Brain Stem as well as the upper portion of the Spinal Cord. The Spinal Cord connects to the Medulla above it and then on up to the rest of the Brain Stem. The Arnold-Chiari Malformation is defined by the pathological downward extension of the Cerebellar Tonsils through the Foramen Magnum and into the upper Cervical Spinal Canal.
Chiari malformation is a congenital (i.e. present at birth) structural problem at the base of the skull that affects the brain and spinal cord. In fact it is not a malformation of the brain at all. More accurately, the lower portion of the skull, the portion known as the posterior fossa, is too small to accomodate the lower portion of the brain. As a result, a portion of the cerebellum called the tonsils is forced to protrude into the spinal column. Types of Chiari Malformation (CM). Type I involves the extension of the cerebellar tonsils (the lower part of the cerebellum) into the foramen magnum.There are usually no other associated malformations of the brain. This is the only form of Chiari malformation to present in adult life.
Chiari I malformation is a condition in which the bony space enclosing the lower part of the brain is smaller than normal. Crowding causes the cerebellar tonsils to push through the skull and down into the spinal canal. The herniated tonsils block the normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Chiari I malformation (right). With the size of the posterior fossa too small, the cerebellar tonsils may herniate through the skull into the spinal canal. The tonsils block the flow of CSF (blue) and may cause fluid buildup inside the spinal cord, called a syrinx. Syringomyelia, hydrocephalus, and other complications.
However, the small size or shape of the Chiari skull is mismatched to the size of the brain. Thus, a crowding of the brainstem, cerebellum, and tonsils occurs. Crowding pushes the tonsils out of the skull through the opening (foramen magnum) where the spinal cord exits (Fig. 3A). The tonsils put pressure on the spinal cord, blocks CSF flow, and results in the Chiari signs and symptoms. 
Chiari malformations (CMs) are structural defects in the cerebellum, the part of the brain that controls balance. Normally the cerebellum and parts of the brain stem sit in an indented space at the lower rear of the skull, above the foramen magnum (a funnel-like opening to the spinal canal). CMs are classified by the severity of the disorder and the parts of the brain that protrude into the spinal canal. Type I involves the extension of the cerebellar tonsils (the lower part of the cerebellum) into the foramen magnum, without involving the brain stem.
The term Herniation means that a portion of the Cerebellum (the tonsils) has been pushed down through the normal opening in the Base of the Skull (the Foramen Magnum) into the upper (or Superior) part of the Spinal Canal. The Spinal Cord connects to the Medulla above it and then on up to the rest of the Brain Stem. The Arnold-Chiari Malformation is defined by the pathological downward extension of the Cerebellar Tonsils through the Foramen Magnum and into the upper Cervical
The Chiari (kee-ar-ee) malformations are congenital abnormalities of the posterior fossa (base of brain where the spinal column joins the skull). This usually causes a protrusion of the cerebellum through the bottom of the skull (foramen magnum) into the spinal canal. 
The flocculonodular lobe of the cerebellum which can also be confused for the cerebellar tonsils, is one of three lobes that make up the overall composition of the cerebellum. The cerebellum consists of three anatomical and functional lobes: anterior lobe, posterior lobe, and flocculonodular lobe. A Type I Chiari malformation is a congenital anomaly of the brain in which the cerebellar tonsils are elongated and pushed down through the opening of the base of the skull (see foramen magnum), blocking the flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as it exits through the medial and lateral apertures of the fourth ventricle.