Viridans streptococci can be differentiated from Streptococcus pneumoniae using an optochin test, as viridans streptococci are optochin-resistant; they also lack either the polysaccharide-based capsule typical of S. pneumoniae or the Lancefield antigens of the pyogenic members of the genus. Viridans streptococci have the unique ability to synthesize dextrans from glucose, which allows them to adhere to fibrin-platelet aggregates at damaged heart valves.
In addition to streptococcal pharyngitis (strep throat), certain Streptococcus species are responsible for many cases of pink eye, meningitis, bacterial pneumonia, endocarditis, erysipelas, and necrotizing fasciitis (the 'flesh-eating' bacterial infections). In the medical setting, the most important groups are the alpha-hemolytic streptococci S. pneumoniae and Streptococcus viridans group, and the beta-hemolytic streptococci of Lancefield groups A and B (also known as “group A strep” and “group B strep”).
The results summarized in the viridans group Streptococci are due to their physiological and cellular structural characteristics and antigenic properties different species. Streptococci viridans group are the most common cause of infective endocarditis in native heart valves (1-2 F lle/100.000/Jahr).
Streptococcal infections are any type of infection caused by the group of bacteria Streptococcus. 1  There are many different types of Streptococci and infections vary in severity from mild throat infections to pneumonia. 2  Streptococcal infections are primarily treated with antibiotics. 3  Streptococci are divided into two key groups: 4  alpha 5  .... beta ... 
(Redirected from Streptococcus viridans). The viridans streptococci are a large group of commensal streptococcal bacteria species that are either α-hemolytic, producing a green coloration on blood agar plates (hence the name viridans, from Latin vĭrĭdis, green), or nonhemolytic. Viridans streptococci have the unique ability to synthesize dextrans from glucose, which allows them to adhere to fibrin-platelet aggregates at damaged heart valves.
/Strep·to·coc·cus/ (-kok´us) a genus of gram-positive, facultatively anaerobic cocci occurring in pairs or chains; it is separable into the pyogenic group, the viridans group, the enterococcus group, and the lactic group. Streptococcus (plural, streptococci). Any of several species of bacteria that are spherical in shape and form pairs or chains. Streptococci cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, and pneumonia, and are often involved in lymphadenitis.
Alpha-hemolytic streptococci. Most of these species are referred to as a group – viridans streptococci. They are also sometimes referred to as “green strep” owing to the color of blood agar surrounding the colonies. Many different species comprise the viridans streptococci. 
The pseudo taxonomic non-Linnean term Streptococcus viridans is often used to refer to this group of species, but writers that do not like to use the pseudotaxonomic term (which treats a group of species as if they were one species) prefer the terms viridans streptococci or viridans streptococcal species. Viridans streptococci have the unique ability to synthesize dextrans from glucose, which allows them to adhere to fibrin-platelet aggregates at damaged heart valves.
Streptococcus pneumoniae and a group of oral streptococci (Streptococcus viridans or viridans streptococci) display alpha hemolysis. This is sometimes called green hemolysis because of the color change in the agar. Other synonymous terms are incomplete hemolysis and partial hemolysis. In the medical setting, the most important groups are the alpha-hemolytic streptococci S. pneumoniae and Streptococcus viridans group, and the beta-hemolytic streptococci of Lancefield groups A and B (also known as “group A strep” and “group B strep”).
viridans streptococcus any of a group of streptococci with no defined Lancefield group antigens but not Streptococcus pneumoniae, usually α-hemolytic; part of the normal flora of the respiratory tract but also causing dental caries, bacterial endocarditis, and other disorders in immunocompromised hosts. Streptococcus (plural, streptococci). Any of several species of bacteria that are spherical in shape and form pairs or chains. Streptococci cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, and pneumonia, and are often involved in lymphadenitis.