Introduction. Aspergillosis is the name of a group of conditions caused by a fungal mould called aspergillus. It usually affects the respiratory system (windpipe, sinuses and lungs), but it can spread to anywhere in the body. 
Aspergillosis is an infection, allergic reaction, or fungal growth caused by the Aspergillus fungus. The fungus usually grows on decaying vegetation and dead leaves. Being exposed to the fungus does not necessarily mean that you will get aspergillosis; it is more likely to infect people with a weak immune system. Aspergilloma. If you have tuberculosis or another lung disease, being exposed to the fungus can cause you to develop a fungus growth. Also called a fungus ball, this type of growth usually consists of fungus, clots, and white blood cells.
Aspergillosis is an infection or allergic reaction caused by various kinds of mold (a type of fungus). Mold is often found outdoors on plants, soil, or rotting vegetable matter. In most cases, aspergillosis is caused by a type of mold called Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus mold can often be found on dead leaves, compost piles and other decaying vegetable matter, stored grain, and even foods and spices. The mold spores may be carried indoors on shoes and clothing and can grow on carpeting.
Aspergillosis is primarily an infection of the lungs caused by the inhalation of airborne spores of the fungus Aspergillus. Spores are the small particles that most fungi use to reproduce. Although virtually everyone is exposed to this fungus in their daily environment, it rarely causes disease. Definition. Aspergillosis refers to several forms of disease caused by a fungus in the genus Aspergillus. Aspergillosis fungal infections can occur in the ear canal, eyes, nose, sinus cavities, and lungs. In some individuals, the infection can even invade bone and the membranes that enclose the brain and spinal cord (meningitis)
Definition. Aspergillosis is an infection caused by a type of mold. The illnesses resulting from aspergillosis infection usually affect the respiratory system, but their signs and severity vary greatly. The mold that triggers the illnesses, aspergillus, is everywhere, indoors and outdoors. 
Aspergillosis. Aspergillosis is an infection caused by Aspergillus, a common mold (a type of fungus) that lives indoors and outdoors. Most people breathe in Aspergillus spores every day without getting sick. 
Back to Top Causes. Aspergillosis is caused by the fungus aspergillus, which is commonly found in nature but only rarely causes illness in people. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is the most serious type of aspergillosis infection. It can affect any organ, particularly the heart, lungs, brain, and kidneys. People with a weakened immune system (for example, from chemotherapy or HIV) are most likely to develop this kind of infection
Aspergillosis is an infection, growth, or allergic response caused by the Aspergillus fungus. This fungus grows on dead leaves, stored grain, compost piles, or other decaying vegetation. The Aspergillus species includes more than 150 types of mold that occur widely in the indoor and outdoor environment. 