When the diaphragm contracts in inspiration, initially the lower ribs are fixed and the dome of the diaphragm descends, thus increasing the vertical diameter of thorax. Respiration involves Inspiration and Expiration which are accompanied by the alternate increase and decrease of the volume of thoracic cavity. By elevation of first and second ribs by scalene muscles which is otherwise fixed in quiet respiration, by elevation of clavicle by sternocleidomastoid and other muscles also elevate the ribs, thus help expanding the thoracic cavity and ultimately in inspiration. Accessory muscles involved in forced expiration are.
During forced expiration, the internal intercostal muscles (excluding the interchondral part) contract and depress the rib cage. The abdominal muscles also aid expiration because, when they contract, they force abdominal organs up against the diaphragm and further decrease the volume of the thorax. By this means, the intrapulmonary pressure can rise 20 or 30 mmHg above the atmospheric pressure. The events that occur during inspiration. Expiration, aided by contraction of abdominal muscles and. such as the scalenes and sternocleidomastoid, internal intercostal muscles, increases intrapulmonary. decreases intrapulmonary pressure to -20 mmHg or. pressure to +30 mmHg or higher. lower. and expiration are summarized in table 16.2 and shown in figure 16.15.
white line forming structure for muscular attachment runs from xiphoid process to the pubic symphysis transverse section can see develops into linea semilunaris divides again into 3 sheets of aponeurosis. 
They are aided during forced breathing by the scalenus muscles, levatores costarum, sternocleidomastoid, pectoralis major, platysma myoides, and serratus superior posterior. Muscles of forced expiration include the external and internal oblique, rectus abdominis, and transverse abdominis. 
During forced exhalation, as when blowing out a candle, expiratory muscles including the abdominal muscles and internal intercostal muscles generate abdominal and thoracic pressure, which forces air out of the lungs. 
Deep to external obliques (between external obliques and transverse abdominis); attaches from inguinal ligament and iliac crest to cartilaginous portion of lower ribs and abdominal aponeurosis, lateral to rectus abdominis; flexes trunk. Lateral to rectus abdominus; deepest of anterior abdominal muscles; runs laterally; attaches from posterior aspect of vertebral column to transversus abdominis aponeurosis and inner surface of ribs 6-12; inferior attachment at pubis.
A. During quiet inspiration, the diaphragm and external intercostal muscles contract and thus increase the volume of the thorax. B. During quiet expiration, these muscles relax, and the elastic recoil of the lungs and thorax causes a decrease in thoracic volume. C. Forced inspiration and expiration are aided by contraction of the accessory respiratory muscles. 
In human physiology, the muscles of respiration are those muscles that contribute to inhalation and exhalation, by aiding in the expansion and contraction of the thoracic cavity. The diaphragm and, to a lesser extent, the intercostal muscles drive respiration during quiet breathing. Additional 'accessory muscles of respiration' are typically only used under conditions of high metabolic demand (e.g. exercise) or respiratory dysfunction (e.g. an asthma attack). The diaphragm is the major muscle responsible for breathing. It is a thin, dome-shaped muscle that separates the abdominal cavity from the thoracic cavity. During inhalation, the diaphragm contracts, so that it's centre moves caudally (downward) and its edges move rostrally (upward).
If, on the other hand, 12th rib is fixed by quadratus lumborum and oblique muscles of anterior abdominal wall, the intercostal muscles (especially internal intercostal) lower the 1st to 11th ribs, as in expiration. By elevation of first and second ribs by scalene muscles which is otherwise fixed in quiet respiration, by elevation of clavicle by sternocleidomastoid and other muscles also elevate the ribs, thus help expanding the thoracic cavity and ultimately in inspiration. Accessory muscles involved in forced expiration are.
Muscles of Respiration. During quiet breathing, the predominant muscle of respiration is the diaphragm. As it contracts, pleural pressure drops, which lowers the alveolar pressure, and draws air in down the pressure gradient from mouth to alveoli. Expiration during quiet breathing is predominantly a passive phenomenon, as the respiratory muscles are relaxed and the elastic lung and chest wall return passively to their resting volume, the functional residual capacity.