I can keep the greenhouse at about 45-50 if the temp drops to the low 20s other than that the temp will stay in the 50s at night. When I first started growing plants 5 years ago in an unheated greenhouse my tomato seedlings in flats survived in the greenhouse unheated to temps in the low 40s without any damage. 
This is doubly true when the air is saturated with relative humidity. Advertisement. The growing temp for tomato seedlings should be maintained at constant temps of between 58-60 degrees F. (14-16 C.), whether starting in the greenhouse or indoors, and then not transplanted until the last frost has passed. Tomato temperature tolerance for extreme heat or cold snaps is of extreme importance to the development of blossoms and subsequent fruit set. Blossom drop will occur in the spring if daytime temperatures are warm but night temps drop below 55 degrees F. (13 C.).
My seedlings are 5 weeks old and growing healthy but oh so slow? This can be a sign of inadequate nutrients in the potting mix, too low temperatures, or improper light level. Make sure the temps range from 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit and that the lights are on at least 14 to 16 hours per day. If you start seed 5 to 8 weeks before transplanting, your seedlings can grow in seed flats and will be about 10 inches tall at transplanting. If you start 8 to 12 weeks early, then plan on growing them in pots up to 12 inches diameter. Find out your last frost date by calling your co-operative extension agent.
Most tomatoes are warm season plants and should only be planted after the danger of frost has passed. Tomato temperature tolerance for extreme heat or cold snaps is of extreme importance to the development of blossoms and subsequent fruit set. Blossom drop will occur in the spring if daytime temperatures are warm but night temps drop below 55 degrees F. (13 C.).
Extreme temperatures cause tomato plants and fruit to suffer damage. Tomatoes (Lycopersicon esculentum) grow well in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 2 through 10 when planted in the full sun. This fruit is commonly categorized as a vegetable. Temperatures below 55 degrees Fahrenheit are too low to grow a healthy tomato plant. The low temperatures interfere with normal pollination of the blossoms, which drop off the plants. Fruit fails to set, so no tomatoes are produced.
Thin to the strongest seedlings in the week or two after germination. Seedlings should be thinned when they are large enough to handle. Set tomatoes in the garden from 18 to 36 inches apart in rows 24 to 48 inches apart depending on how large the variety will grow. Grow young seedlings on at 60° to 70°F; allow a gentle breeze to rustle over young seedlings each day so that they grow strong stems. About four weeks after germination, about two weeks after potting up seedlings the first time, pot them up again to 4-inch pots.
Ideal germination temperatures fall between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Once the seedlings appear, they grow best at 65 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit. When the temperature drops below 65 degrees Fahrenheit, the seedlings grow very slowly and the summer harvest is delayed. Temperatures below 55 degrees Fahrenheit are too low to grow a healthy tomato plant. The low temperatures interfere with normal pollination of the blossoms, which drop off the plants. Fruit fails to set, so no tomatoes are produced.
Your seedlings will grow best around 65F (18C) with gentle air circulation and lots of light. Research has proven that lowering seedlings' night-time temperature (55-60 degrees) and occasionally brushing your hands gently across the tops of the seedlings a couple minutes a day will contribute to stronger plants. 
Tomatoes are a warm-season annual that grow best when the soil temperature is at least 55°F and the air temperature ranges between 65° and 90°F. Tomatoes require from 50 to more than 90 warm, frost-free days to reach harvest. Tomatoes are commonly grown from seedlings started indoors and transplanted into the garden. Grow young seedlings on at 60° to 70°F; allow a gentle breeze to rustle over young seedlings each day so that they grow strong stems. About four weeks after germination, about two weeks after potting up seedlings the first time, pot them up again to 4-inch pots.
Setting out plants Set tomatoes in the garden when the weather has warmed and soil temperatures are above 60 degrees F. Temperatures below 50 degrees F impair tomato growth. In southern Missouri, plant tomatoes outside from April 20 to May 15. 