The liver functions as an organ of the immune system through the function of the Kupffer cells that line the sinusoids. Kupffer cells are a type of fixed macrophage that form part of the mononuclear phagocyte system along with macrophages in the spleen and lymph nodes. The liver performs many essential functions related to digestion, metabolism, immunity, and the storage of nutrients within the body. These functions make the liver a vital organ without which the tissues of the body would quickly die from lack of energy and nutrients.
Pink and brown and shaped like a boomerang, the liver is the second largest organ in the body (the skin always steals this glory). It's located just below the right rib cage in the upper right side of the abdomen above the pancreas and the small intestine. Your liver does three main things: helps digest stuff, make proteins, and gets rid of bad stuff. The reason why it's so vital is that it serves as your body's border inspection station.
Primary functions of the liver. The liver is the largest organ in the body. It is located below the diaphragm in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity. An adult's liver weighs approximately 3 pounds and extends approximately from the right 5th rib to the lower border of the rib cage. The gallbladder is located beneath the right lobe of the liver. The primary function of the gallbladder is to store and concentrate bile. Bile is comprised of bile salts, bilirubin, phospholipids, cholesterol, bicarbonate and water.
Weighing in at around 3 pounds, the liver is the body’s second largest organ; only the skin is larger and heavier. The liver performs many essential functions related to digestion, metabolism, immunity, and the storage of nutrients within the body. These functions make the liver a vital organ without which the tissues of the body would quickly die from lack of energy and nutrients.
The liver is a reddish brown wedge-shaped organ with four lobes of unequal size and shape. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body. Terminology related to the liver often starts in hepar-or hepat-from the Greek word for liver, hēpar (ἧπαρ, root hepat-, ἡπατ-). There is currently no way to compensate for the absence of liver function in the long term, although liver dialysis techniques can be used in the short term.
The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. The liver has multiple functions. It makes many of the chemicals required by the body to function normally, it breaks down and detoxifies substances in the body, and it also acts as a storage unit.
The liver is a gland and plays a major role in metabolism with numerous functions in the human body, including regulation of glycogen storage, decomposition of red blood cells, plasma protein synthesis, hormone production, and detoxification. Terminology related to the liver often starts in hepar-or hepat-from the Greek word for liver, hēpar (ἧπαρ, root hepat-, ἡπατ-). There is currently no way to compensate for the absence of liver function in the long term, although liver dialysis techniques can be used in the short term.
Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes. 
7 Functions of the Liver. The liver is a four-lobed, triangular-shaped organ weighing a little more than 3 pounds. It is the largest gland in the human body, according to Procto-med.com. The liver is part of the gastrointestinal system and is located in the upper abdomen to the right of the stomach. The liver carries out many functions necessary for survival, including processes of metabolism, digestion and cleansing of the blood.
The liver has many functions, controlling storage and concentration of nutrients such as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals, making proteins and clotting factors, and producing bile, a digestive compound. It's located just below the right rib cage in the upper right side of the abdomen above the pancreas and the small intestine. Your liver does three main things: helps digest stuff, make proteins, and gets rid of bad stuff. The reason why it's so vital is that it serves as your body's border inspection station.