Securitization: An Overview. Securitization * is the process of creating securities by pooling together various cash-flow producing financial assets. These securities are then sold to investors. Securitization, in its most basic form, is a method of financing assets. Any asset may be securitized as long as it is cash-flow producing.
Securitization refers to the process of turning assets into securities -- financial instruments that can be readily bought and sold in financial markets, the way stocks, bonds and futures contracts are traded. Securitization. Securitization turns mortgages into liquid assets. The process works like this: A bank or other institution gathers hundreds or thousands of mortgages into a pool.. It then divides that pool into shares and sells those shares as securities.
Securitization. Securitization is the process of pooling various types of debt -- mortgages, car loans, or credit card debt, for example -- and packaging that debt as bonds, pass-through securities, or collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), which are sold to investors.
DEFINITION of 'Securitization'. The process through which an issuer creates a financial instrument by combining other financial assets and then marketing different tiers of the repackaged instruments to investors. The process can encompass any type of financial asset and promotes liquidity in the marketplace. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Securitization'. Mortgage-backed securities are a perfect example of securitization. By combining mortgages into one large pool, the issuer can divide the large pool into smaller pieces based on each individual mortgage's inherent risk of default and then sell those smaller pieces to investors.
Securitization is the process of converting an asset, or group of assets, into a marketable security. Often times, the securitized assets are divided into different layers, or tranches, tailored ... BREAKING DOWN 'Securitization'. Mortgage-backed securities are a perfect example of securitization. By combining mortgages into one large pool, the issuer can divide the large pool into smaller pieces based on each individual mortgage's inherent risk of default and then sell those smaller pieces to investors.
Securitization. Securitization is the process of pooling various types of debt -- mortgages, car loans, or credit card debt, for example -- and packaging that debt as bonds, pass-through securities, or collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), which are sold to investors. 
Definition: Securitization is a process by which a company clubs its different financial assets/debts to form a consolidated financial instrument which is issued to investors. In return, the investors in such securities get interest. Description: This process enhances liquidity in the market. Tweet. Securitization is a process by which a company clubs its different financial asse
By Chris Gallant AAA |. A: Securitization is the process of taking an illiquid asset, or group of assets, and through financial engineering, transforming them into a security. A typical example of securitization is a mortgage-backed security (MBS), which is a type of asset-backed security that is secured by a collection of mortgages. 
Confidence votes 113. Securitization Securitization is the process of transforming collateral or obligations into traded securities. An easy way to understand this is through example. The mortgage backed securities market is one of the largest and most liquid in the United States. 