Cell division is simpler in prokaryotes than eukaryotes because prokaryotic cells themselves are simpler. Prokaryotic cells have a single circular chromosome, no nucleus, and few other organelles. Eukaryotic cells, in contrast, have multiple chromosomes contained within a nucleus, and many other organelles. 1 Cell division is part of the life cycle of virtually all cells. 2  Cell division is the process in which one cell divides to form two new cells. 3  Most prokaryotic cells divide by the process of binary fission. 4  In eukaryotes, cell division occurs in two major steps: mitosis and cytokinesis.
Prokaryotic Cell Reproduction. Prokaryotic cells reproduce by a process that is called binary fission. The DNA in such cells is contained in a single circular chromosome called a plasmid within the cytoplasm. The reproductive process starts with the replication of the chromosome. Eukaryotic Cell Reproduction. The life of eukaryotic cells is characterized by a cell cycle with two major phases: the interphase and cell division. During the interphase, the cell takes in nutrients, grows, and duplicates its chromosomes
DIFERENCES: 1. eukaryotes have a nucleus, while prokaryotes do not 2. eukaryotes have membrane-bound organelles, while prokaryotes do not. The organelles of eukaryotes allow them to exhibit much higher levels of intracellular division of labor than is possible in prokaryotic cells. 
1 For one, the eukaryotic is much larger in size compared to a prokaryotic cell. 2  Eukaryotic cells have membrane-bound organelles. 3  Prokaryotic cells have only one organelle: the ribosomes. 4  Ribosomes look different in size and shape in prokaryotes than eukaryotes. 1 Eukaryotic cells have membrane-bound organelles. 2  Prokaryotic cells have only one organelle: the ribosomes. 3  Ribosomes look different in size and shape in prokaryotes than eukaryotes. 4  Eukaryotic has nucleus, the control center of the cell.
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. A prokaryote is a single-celled organism that lacks a membrane-bound nucleus (karyon), mitochondria, or any other membrane-bound organelle.
1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells. The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA
slide 4 of 5. In conclusion, the prokaryotes' reproduction of binary fission is very simple compared to eukaryotic cells. With the right conditions, prokaryotes have the ability to mold vast amounts of new daughter cells in the right environment. Even though some prokaryotes later evolved in eukaryotes, they still reproduce using a process called binary fission. Less complex than eukaryotic reproduction, binary fission allows multiple types of prokaryotes to reproduce rather quickly and even to form innumerable societies.