In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). 
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fruct
They exist in many forms and are mainly found in starchy foods such as bread, pasta, and rice, as well as in some beverages, e.g. fruit juices and sugar-sweetened drinks. Carbohydrates represent the most important source of energy for the body, and are vital for a varied and balanced diet. 
The main purpose of the carbohydrate is to provide fuel for your body to function. Carbohydrates are types of sugars. They perform several functions. The most important func … tion is as the primary source of energy for the body. But there are many types of carbohydrates that perform a myriad of functions in the body. Answer   Your body gets carbohydrates from the foods we eat. Excellent sources of carbohydrates include bread, cereal, rice, grains, potatoes and other fruits and … vegetables. Your body can get carbohydrates from other foods as well but they may be mixed with the other two large nutrients -- fat and protein.
Most carbohydrates are eventually stored as glycogen in the muscles of the body. Found in foods such as grains, fruit and vegetables, carbohydrates make up the body's go-to energy supply. Every cell in the body requires energy to function, so you must have a steady source of energy -- even when carbohydrates aren’t immediately available. Glycogen Formation. Carbohydrates exist as simple carbohydrates, known as sugars or monosaccharides, or complex carbohydrates, known as polysaccharides. When the body digests complex carbohydrates, it breaks those compounds down into a sugar known as glucose, which the body metabolizes for energy.
Carbohydrates are your body’s most efficient fuel source, and it is the only source of fuel for certain vital tissues such as your brain and blood cells. Therefore, your body has ways of storing the carbs you eat for future use. Digestion and Absorption of Carbohydrates. Your diet consists of simple and complex carbohydrates. Simple carbs, such as those in white table sugar, consist of one or two sugar molecules, whereas the complex carbs found in whole grains and potatoes have up to one million sugar molecules.
Confidence votes 25. The Carbohydrates found in the human body are Glycogen, which is made up of branched chains of Glucose molecules, and it is located in the muscles and in the liver. Answer   Your body gets carbohydrates from the foods we eat. Excellent sources of carbohydrates include bread, cereal, rice, grains, potatoes and other fruits and … vegetables. Your body can get carbohydrates from other foods as well but they may be mixed with the other two large nutrients -- fat and protein.
Carbohydrates provide fuel for your body in the form of glucose or sugar. There are two types of carbohydrates -- simple and complex. Simple carbohydrates are sugars, such as the ones found in candy, fruits and baked goods. Complex carbohydrates are starches found in beans, nuts, vegetables and whole grains. Two-thirds of Americans are either obese or overweight.
While both grains and vegetables are carbohydrates, most grains should be avoided and most vegetables are acceptable. Your body prefers the carbohydrates in vegetables rather than grains because it slows the conversion to simple sugars like glucose, and decreases your insulin level. Simple carbohydrates are sugars, such as the ones found in candy, fruits and baked goods. Complex carbohydrates are starches found in beans, nuts, vegetables and whole grains. Two-thirds of Americans are either obese or overweight.