Spasms are uncontrolled, repetitive contractions of a muscle. Spasms may occur in any muscle in your body, such as those in your face, fingers or calves. Spasms can be brief or long lasting, uncomfortable or painful. A spasm may also be referred to as a muscle cramp. Leg cramps, sometimes called charley horses, are sudden and uncontrollable muscle contractions or spasms. 
The most common causes of hand or finger cramps or spasms are muscle spasm, diabetes, and carpal tunnel syndrome. Other possible causes, such as multiple sclerosis, are more rare. 
Causes. Cramps or spasms in the muscles often have no clear cause. Possible causes of hand or foot spasms include: 1  Abnormal levels of electrolytes or minerals in the body. 2  Brain disorders, such as Parkinson disease, multiple sclerosis, dystonia, and Huntington disease. 3  Chronic kidney disease and dialysis. 
Causes. Cramps or spasms in the muscles often have no clear cause. Possible causes of hand or foot spasms include: 1  Abnormal levels of electrolytes or minerals in the body. 2  Brain disorders, such as. , , 3  dystonia, and. 4  Parkinson disease. 5  multiple sclerosis. 6  Huntington disease. 7  Chronic kidney disease and dialysis. 
Finger spasm: Introduction. Finger spasm: Sudden involuntary contraction of the muscles in the fingers. See detailed information below for a list of 18 causes of Finger spasm, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Finger spasm: Causes | Symptom Checker ». The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Finger spasm. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Muscle injury. 2  Nerve irritation. 3  Nummular eczema. 4  Nerve compression. 5  Hypocalcaemia. 6  Electrolyte abnormality. 7  Spinal damage.
Back to Top Causes. Cramps or spasms in the muscles often have no clear cause. Possible causes of hand or foot spasms include: 1  Brain disorders, such as parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, dystonia, and Huntington's disease. 2  Chronic kidney disease and dialysis. 3  Damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or multiple nerves (polyneuropathy) that are connected to muscles. 
True cramps involve part or all of a single muscle or a group of muscles that generally act together, such as the muscles that flex several adjacent fingers. Most authorities agree that true cramps are caused by hyperexcitability of the nerves that stimulate the muscles. 
In some situations, hand cramps can occur as a result of chronic medical conditions that affect your entire body, such as thyroid disorders, dystonia (abnormal prolonged muscle contractions), or diabetes. Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care. Trauma or injury to a nerve in your hand can also cause hand cramps. Even breathing too fast (hyperventilation) can result in hand cramps, as carbon dioxide levels in the blood become too low. Everyday, simple reasons, such as fatigue from overuse, can lead to temporary, acute cramps in the hand.
Cramps in your hand can arise from a number of different causes. Hand cramps develop as a result of conditions affecting muscles and nerves in your hand. Trauma or injury to a nerve in your hand can also cause hand cramps. Even breathing too fast (hyperventilation) can result in hand cramps, as carbon dioxide levels in the blood become too low. Everyday, simple reasons, such as fatigue from overuse, can lead to temporary, acute cramps in the hand.