How much do cashiers at cheesecake factory make? 1  82% - How much does cahiers make in the cheesecake factory? 2  82% - How much does a cheesecake factory manager make? 3  76% - How much do you make hosting at cheesecake factory? 4  74% - How much do bussers make at cheesecake factory in california? 5  73% - How much money do you make serving at cheesecake 6  ... 5 If this is all you wanna ask What do cashiers make at kmart then let me tell ya that I think salary ranges state from state in NJ they make $8 an hour in k mart as a cashier.They are second lowest on the totem pole, most lowly is fast food, fast food employees make about $7.75 in NJ.
Compensation for The Cheesecake Factory, Inc. employees is around $43K annually on average. For the most part, employee paychecks at The Cheesecake Factory, Inc. fluctuate depending on your role at the company; where you live and how long you've been working also matter, but to a lesser degree. Jobs. Restaurant General Managers are the best paid with the average salary hovering at $71K per year; Assistant General Managers, Restaurant Managers, and Kitchen Managers also rank near the top of the list, pulling in $66K, approximately $56K, and around $55K, respectively.
Report Abuse. I worked for Cheesecake Factory for 3 years and it varies from state to state. In some states, tipped employees make less than minimum wage (which is generally less than $3) and in other states, they make minimum wage. It depends on the state. It's usually hard to put an hourly amount on serving since one hour you could get very little in tips while in the next hour you can make $75 or more from some really good tippers. I would generally say around $30 to $35 hour though, if that's calculating before tip out. karmagfaqs · 8 years ago.
The average The Cheesecake Factory salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Cook to $130,000 per year for General Manager. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I worked at the Cheesecake Factory for 6 years during college. Depending on the state you live in, the server minimum wage will be different. It's usually around $4-$5 an hour. Don't plan on seeing a paycheck though because they take it all for taxes on your cash tips. Tips vary