Below you will find a wealth of materials to educate you about medical cannabis issues, including information to make the case for allowing medical cannabis — such as summaries of studies, lists of supportive organizations, state-by-state polling, and rebuttals to common concerns. 
Medical marijuana is any part of the marijuana plant that you use to treat health problems. People use it to get relief from their symptoms, not to try to get high. Most marijuana that's sold legally as medicine has the same ingredients as the kind that people use for pleasure. 
Solutions for your medical needs. In the right hand column you can see our state laws map which will let you know whether medical marijuana is legal in the state you live in. Click on the state on the map or the drop down and you can find out about the state laws. A marijuana doctor in your state will be able to help you to get a medical marijuana card which allows you to purchase medical marijuana. You can find a medical marijuana doctor using our directory. 1) Legal Protection … Read more ›.
A total of 23 states, the District of Columbia and Guam now allow for comprehensive public medical marijuana and cannabis programs. Recently approved efforts in 14 states allow use of low THC, high cannabidiol (CBD) products for medical reasons in limited situations or as a legal defense. Medical marijuana growers or dispensaries are often called caregivers and may be limited to a certain number of plants or products per patient. This issue may also be regulated on a local level, in addition to any state regulation.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA. The Medicinal Marijuana Association is the leading source of information on medical marijuana. Our mission is to promote and support the use of medicinal marijuana by providing patients with information about its many benefits. Learn More Doctors We make it easy to prescribe medicinal marijuana. Find Out How Forum Participate in our Medicinal Marijuana forum and learn from other people’s experiences. Join Forum GET STARTED WITH MEDICINAL MARIJUANA Determine whether medical marijuana can help you achieve a better quality of life.
Medical Use. Marijuana, or cannabis, as it is more appropriately called, has been part of humanity's medicine chest for almost as long as history has been recorded. Marijuana is also a powerful appetite stimulant, specifically for patients suffering from HIV, the AIDS wasting syndrome, or dementia. Emerging research suggests that marijuana's medicinal properties may protect the body against some types of malignant tumors and are neuroprotective.
If you live in a state where medical marijuana is legal and your doctor thinks it would help, you’ll get a “marijuana card.” You will be put on a list that allows you to buy marijuana from an authorized seller, called a dispensary. Doctors also may prescribe medical marijuana to treat: 1  Muscle spasms caused by multiple sclerosis. 2  Nausea from cancer chemotherapy. 3  Poor appetite and weight loss caused by chronic illness, such as HIV, or nerve pain. 4  Seizure disorders. 5  Crohn's disease.
In 1996, California voters passed Proposition 215, making the Golden State the first in the union to allow for the medical use of marijuana. Since then, 22 more states, the District of Columbia and Guam have enacted similar laws. Medical marijuana growers or dispensaries are often called caregivers and may be limited to a certain number of plants or products per patient. This issue may also be regulated on a local level, in addition to any state regulation.
We have compiled the following index of medical marijuana information to serve as a marijuana library to all our users for legal medical marijuana reference of their state's laws, guidelines, qualifications and programs regarding Medical Cannabis. If your looking for more information on how you can obtain legal medical marijuana after being approved by a licensed physcian, than please feel free to visit PotLocator.com for more information. PotLocator will help you locate and find safe access to your medicine in a safe and secure fashion.