A menu will pop up, and at the bottom will be an option to Cancel Friend Request.. Click it to retract the friend request. You will be asked to confirm if you really want to cancel. 1  If you see the Add Friend button instead of Friend Request Sent, the person has deleted your friend request.
You can see all of your pending requests by using the Activity Log. You can access the Log by going to your profile page and clicking the Activity Log button to the right of your name. 1  In the left menu of the Activity Log click More, underneath Photos, Likes, and Comments. 2  Click Friends in the expanded list. Click it to retract the friend request. You will be asked to confirm if you really want to cancel. 1  If you see the Add Friend button instead of Friend Request Sent, the person has deleted your
2. Visit the person's profile. In order to cancel the request, you will need to visit their profile. Click their name in the log to open their page, or search for it in the Facebook search bar. 3. Hover the mouse over the Friend Request Sent button. Click it to retract the friend request. You will be asked to confirm if you really want to cancel. 1  If you see the Add Friend button instead of Friend Request Sent, the person has deleted your
No. The friend request will be removed from your list of friends to confirm, and the person who sent it won't be notified. More info. Get help for mobile apps and browsers. 
First, click on the friend requests button. You’ll see here pending requests sent to you and suggestions that Facebook makes called “People You May Know.”. Scroll to the bottom of this list and click “See All” to show all your Facebook friend requests. Here on the resulting page, we see we’ve 10 pending friend requests that we can either confirm or delete. You can add your friend request to a specific list (Close Friends, Acquaintances, etc.) or suggest friends to your new, future friend. Simply select “Cancel Request” to delete it, and you’re done. Now go through the rest of your old sent requests and do the same thing for each want you want to cancel.
When you receive a friend request on Facebook, you can decline it and delete it from your Requests List by selecting “Delete Request.” Facebook users are not notified when you decline their requests in this way, and they will be able to send you another friend request in the future. 
To suggest a friend to someone: 1  Click Friends at the top of your friend's profile. 2  Click Suggest Friends. 3  To find a particular friend, you can type their name in the field or scroll through your complete friends list. 4  Click Suggest Friend next to a friend's name to send a suggestion. You can add friends by importing your contacts. You can also add friends from their profiles: 1  Enter your friend's name or email in the search bar at the top of any Facebook page. 2  Select their name to go to their profile. 3  Click the Add Friend butt
1 Click Friends at the top of your friend's profile. 2  Click Suggest Friends. 3  To find a particular friend, you can type their name in the field or scroll through your complete friends list. 4  You can click the All Friends dropdown to sort your friends by network or friend list. You can add friends by importing your contacts. You can also add friends from their profiles: 1  Enter your friend's name or email in the search bar at the top of any Facebook page. 2  Select their name to go to their profile. 3  Click the Add Friend button
Bar future requests. When you deny a friend request on Facebook, you'll be sent a prompt asking you if you know this person outside Facebook itself. Tips. 1  Don't explain. 2  If someone with whom you don't want to be Facebook Friends sends you a Friend request, just delete it. 3  If you don't know them well enough to Friend them, you don't know them well enough to explain in a way they will accept.