Buffalo RiverWorks is located at 333 Ganson Street, accessible via the Michigan Street Bridge or from the south via Ohio Street. It is directly across the Buffalo River from Riverfest Park. Barry A. Muskat is a frequent contributor and Spree’s architecture critic.
Now, RiverWorks is bringing that same community athletics spirit to the banks of the Buffalo River. With two rink surfaces and holding around 5,000 people at maximum capacity, RiverWorks is also the penultimate multi-use facility.
Hockey and curling get underway today at Buffalo RiverWorks, the new sports and entertainment center on the Buffalo River.
Buffalo Riverworks is an adaptive reuse of the former GLF grain mill operation and will serve as a multi-purpose recreational and events center.
Buffalo RiverWorks. October 7 at 12:38pm ·. Here are the weekly features @ The Ward, serving up some great specials this week by Chef Adam and crew. Come on down for a bite before the hockey game, we are only 1/2 mile from First Niagara Center.
Buffalo RiverWorks is also the city’s first privately-funded waterfront tourism, sports, and entertainment destination. As a true adaptive reuse of historic properties, the complex combines a gritty, industrial feel with a wide array of modern green features.
Beginning in the 2015 season, the Queen City Roller Girls are moving to the Buffalo RiverWorks Event Center, the Buffalo Brewery District’s newest offering in their growing mix of hospitality locations in downtown Buffalo located downtown on Ganson St. along the waterfront.
Buffalo RiverWorks—333 Ganson, on the site of the old GLF Mills on the banks of the Buffalo River—is not just the city’s latest premier entertainment destination. It is also the waterfront’s first bonafide year-round attraction.
As the number of industrial uses along the Buffalo River continues to dwindle, one site is being considered for a cleaner, more public use. A partnership made up of Doug Swift, Earl Ketry, and John Williams are planning an entertainment complex for the Grange League Federation (GLF) elevator site at 327 Ganson Street.