Tips. 1  The FAA requires 40 hours of flight time for the private pilot certificate, but the national average is about 65 hours. 2  Actual flight time varies depending on how often you fly and it is important to master each step before pursuing the next one. 1 The FAA requires 40 hours of flight time for the private pilot certificate, but the national average is about 65 hours.
Instructor fees are estimated at $35 per hour. Although the cost for the FAA minimum of 40 hours is shown, it is quite uncommon for a student to earn their Private Pilot’s License with 40 hours of training. The cost for the national average of 72 hours is a much better predictor of what your license will cost. 
A sport pilot license permits a pilot to fly only light sport aircraft during the day and in good weather. According to the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association's cost calculator, the cost for a private license runs on average $9,900, a recreational runs $7,700 and a sport license about $4,400. Wright Aero Inc. in Minnesota charges $42 an hour for an instructor, plus $45 for aircraft rental. The per hour rental costs also depend on the type of plane a pilot trains on. San Jose Flight Instruction students going for private or recreational licenses use the newest Cessna 172, which costs $150 per hour.
The FAA has requirements for each of the various pilots' licenses. They specify skill capabilities and aeronautical experience... flight time. If you were to get your Private Pilot's License in the legal minimum, it would cost approximately $9,500 and take 35 flight hours. However, nationwide the average flight time to get the Private is over 70 hours. At Horizon Aviation, we believe 50-60 hours is a realistic goal
The cost of getting a Private Pilot's License varies depending on which type of flight training program you you choose. Save. GoVote.org. The cost of getting a Private Pilot's License varies depending on which type of flight training program you you choose. Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part 141 flight schools require an approved, structured course of training, which includes a specified number of hours of ground training.
In the United States under the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), you can get a Private Pilot License (PPL) which will allow you to fly different kinds of aircraft and carry passengers for pleasure and personal flights. 1 The FAA requires 40 hours of flight time for the private pilot certificate, but the national average is about 65 hours. 2  Actual flight time varies depending on how often you fly and it is important to master each step before pursuing the next one
The FAA has established the minimum number of flight hours needed to obtain a certificate. Under Part 61 of the federal aviation regulations, the minimums are 20 hours for a sport pilot certificate, 30 hours for a recreational certificate, and 40 hours for a private pilot certificate. The added requirements allow them to reduce the minimum hours of private pilot training to 35 hours. However, many schools believe that a true average flight training time for a private pilot is between 50 and 60 hours, whether the school operates under Part 61 or Part 141.
Flight Training. A minimum of forty hours of flight time are required by the FAA in order to get your private pilot's license. Most people get their license in approximately 60 hours. Within the required hours, a set amount of instructional, solo, cross county and night flights are needed. 