· just now. Report Abuse. You can apply for a 'UK' driving licence at the age of 16 (disabled people can take the car test at 16) But you cannot take a 'car' driving test-nor drive on the public roads-until you are 17 years old. However you can ride a motorcycle on a provisional licence at 16... Source(s): An ex-driving examiner. 
If you're between the ages of 15 1/2 years old and 17 1/2 years old, you'll apply for a provisional permit. The difference is that teens under 17 1/2 years old need to complete Driver's Ed, whereas older teens can obtain their learner's permit without Driver's Ed. 1 16 years old: Eligible for a provisional license (with completion of driver's education). 2  17 1/2 years old: Allowed to apply for a provisional permit without taking driver's education. 3  18 years old and older: Allowed to apply for a driver's license without getting a learner's permit.
You can apply for your provisional licence 3 months prior to your 17th birthday and it will take effect from the date of your birthday. You are right about the suitably qualified driver to sit with you needing to be over 21 and to have held a full licence for at least three years. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. You can apply for your provisional driving licence at 16 but it will only cover you for a moped and/or a tractor. If you are severally disabled then you may get a provisional for a car at 16. Your provisional for a moped will cover you for a car once you reach 17.
The same holds true if you want to learn to drive a motorcycle or a moped. You must be 17 years old to be able to hold a provisional licence. You may apply for the licence up to 3 months before you turn 17, but you may not drive with your provisional licence until you reach that age. If you only need to your licence to drive a moped, the minimum age is 16 years old. There are a few different ways that you can apply for your provisional licence. 
To get your first provisional driving licence online for a car, motorcycle or moped you must: 1  be a resident of Great Britain-there’s a different service in Northern Ireland. 2  meet the minimum age requirement. 3  meet the minimum eyesight requirement. Apply for your first provisional driving licence. Get your first provisional driving licence for a car, moped or motorcycle from. online. Apply using your Government Gateway ID. If you don’t have one or need to re-register, you’ll get an ID as part of your application.
If you are 17 or over and have a provisional licence, you can ride a motorbike with an engine capacity up to 125cc, and in Northern Ireland, the bike must not exceed 14.6bhp (brake horsepower). For a list of the types of vehicles you can drive at what age and on what licence, click here. 
You can apply for a provisional driving licence when you’re 15 years and 9 months old. You can start driving when you’re: 1  17 if you want to drive a car. 2  16 if you want to ride a moped or light quad bike. Apply for your first provisional driving licence. Get your first provisional driving licence for a car, moped or motorcycle from. online. Apply using your Government Gateway ID. If you don’t have one or need to re-register, you’ll get an ID as part of your application.