Exposure at Work. Though everyday exposures to chemicals are usually too low to cause harmful health problems, exposure in the workplace can be more serious. Chemical exposures in the workplace can happen at high levels and over long periods of time. 
The term solvents usually refers to organic solvents, which contain carbon. Organic solvents can be classified into three main types: oxygenated solvents, hydrocarbon solvents, and halogenated solvents. Oxygenated solvents contain oxygen and are synthesized from other chemicals. Regular exposure to solvents can cause memory and hearing loss, mental illness, depression, fatigue, confusion, dizziness, feeling drunk or high, lack of coordination, headache, nausea, stomach pains, skin rashes, cracking or bleeding skin, and irritated eyes, nose, and throat.
Alkali burns are the most dangerous. Alkalis or chemicals that have a high pH penetrate the surface of the eye and can cause severe injury to both the external structures like the cornea and the internal structures like the lens. In general, more damage occurs with higher pH chemicals. Acids usually damage only the very front of the eye. However, they can cause serious damage to the cornea and also may result in blindness. 1  Common acids causing eye burns include sulphuric acid, sulphurous acid, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, acetic acid, chromic acid and hydrofluoric acid.
When these fibers become weak, they cannot hold the shape and the cornea becomes progressively more cone shaped. Keratoconus is caused by a decrease in protective antioxidants in the cornea. The cornea cells produce damaging by-products, like exhaust from a car. Normally, antioxidants get rid of them and protect the collagen fibers. It usually develops in one eye first and then later in the other eye. With severe keratoconus, the stretched collagen fibers can lead to severe scarring. If the back of the cornea tears, it can swell and take many months for the swelling to go away. This often causes a large corneal scar
Often the cause of keratoconus is unknown. Some studies have found that keratoconus runs in families and that it happens more often in people with certain medical problems such as certain allergic conditions. Some think that chronic eye rubbing can cause keratoconus. Keratoconus changes vision in two ways: 1  As the cornea changes from a ball shape to a cone shape, the smooth surface also becomes slightly wavy. 2  As the front of the cornea expands, the eye becomes more short-sighted so that only nearby objects can be seen clearly.
Other chemicals dissolved in solvents can also pass through the skin along with the solvent. Gloves and protective clothing are the best protection. A group of solvents known as “glycol ethers” and certain alcohol solvents are especially absorbable through the skin and cause internal health effects. Solvents and the eyes A direct liquid solvent splash into the eyes can cause extreme irritation or even damage. Some solvent vapors can also be irritating to the eyes.
There are a variety of chemical contaminants found in a variety of sources. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are common chemical contaminants found in office and home environments and are a source of odors. VOCs are organic (containing carbon) chemicals that can easily evaporate into the air. Many products found in the office environment may have the potential to release VOCs. Odors are organic or inorganic compounds and can be both pleasant and unpleasant. Some odors can be health hazards and some are not. While most chemical contaminants originate from within the building, chemicals can be drawn into a building from the outdoors as well.
The exact cause of keratoconus is unknown. There are many theories based on research and its association with other conditions. However, no one theory explains it all and it may be caused by a combination of things. It is believed that genetics, the environment and the endocrine system all play a role in keratoconus. 1 Eye Rubbing: Keratoconus corneas are more easily damaged by minor trauma such as eye rubbing. 2  Poorly fit contact lenses (that rub against the irregularity of the KC cornea) have been suggested as a possible cause of keratoconus; this has not been proven and remains questionable.