Histopathological examination of tissues starts with surgery, biopsy, or autopsy. The tissue is removed from the body or plant, and then placed in a fixative which stabilizes the tissues to prevent decay. The most common fixative is formalin (10% formaldehyde in water). The second method of histology processing is called frozen section processing. This is a highly technical scientific method performed by a trained histoscientist (a Medical Laboratory scientist specialist in Histopathology.
To see the tissue under a microscope, the sections are stained with one or more pigments. The aim of staining is to reveal cellular components; counterstains are used to provide contrast. The most commonly used stain in histopathology is a combination of hematoxylin and eosin (often abbreviated H&E). The second method of histology processing is called frozen section processing. This is a highly technical scientific method performed by a trained histoscientist (a Medical Laboratory scientist specialist in Histopathology.
Microscopic view of a histologic specimen of human lung tissue stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Histology (compound of the Greek words: ἱστός histos tissue, and - λογία -logia science) is the study of the microscopic anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E stain) is the most commonly used light microscopical stain in histology and histopathology. Hematoxylin, a basic dye, stains nuclei blue due to an affinity to nucleic acids in the cell nucleus; eosin, an acidic dye, stains the cytoplasm pink.
Although clinical medicine (which is a term that refers to the context of diagnosing, treating, or trying to treat and advise a patient) is a very important application of histopathology, histopathology is not. Hence histopathology is the study of microscopic changes or abnormalities in tissues that are caused as a result of diseases.
Medical Definition of HISTOPATHOLOGY. 1. : a branch of pathology concerned with the tissue changes characteristic of disease. 2. : the tissue changes that affect a part or accompany a disease. — his·to·path·o·log·ic \-ˌpa-thə-ˈlae-ˈlä\ jik or·his·to·path·o·log·i \-cal-ji\ kəl. adjective 
Some stains are only used to study very specific types of biological tissue. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E stain) is the most commonly used histology stain for light microscopy. Hematoxylin stains the nuclei within cells blue (recall that the cell structure of every biological includes a nucleus). 1 Histology is the study of the microscopic structures of cells and tissues of plants and animals. 2  It is often carried out by examining a thin slice (called a section) of tissue under a light microscope or an electron microscope.
Histology is an essential tool of biology and medicine. Histopathology, the microscopic study of diseased tissue, is an important tool in anatomical pathology, since accurate diagnosis of cancer and other diseases usually requires histopathological examination of samples. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E stain) is the most commonly used light microscopical stain in histology and histopathology. Hematoxylin, a basic dye, stains nuclei blue due to an affinity to nucleic acids in the cell nucleus; eosin, an acidic dye, stains the cytoplasm pink.
Blinded histopathology evaluation is an experimental tool in biomarker qualification studies that is appropriate only under conditions in which well-defined criteria for specific desired end points have been achieved prior to the blinded review of said end point. Histopathology evaluation in nonclinical safety biomarker qualification studies must be performed by a qualified pathologist using a consistent evaluation method. Sampling bias in tissue selection and sectioning is inherent to histopathology evaluation and must be managed appropriately.
Histopathology is the microscopic examination of biological tissues to observe the appearance of diseased cells and tissues in very fine detail. The word histopathology is derived from a combination of three Greek words: 1  histos meaning tissue, 2  pathos meaning disease or suffering, and. 3  logos meaning study. Hence histopathology is the study of microscopic changes or abnormalities in tissues that are caused as a result of diseases.
Specifically, in clinical medicine, histopathology refers to the examination of a biopsy or surgical specimen by a pathologist, after the specimen has been processed and histological sections have been placed onto glass slides. In contrast, cytopathology examines free cells or tissue fragments. The second method of histology processing is called frozen section processing. This is a highly technical scientific method performed by a trained histoscientist (a Medical Laboratory scientist specialist in Histopathology.