On the summit of South Mountain, a spur of the Blue Ridge chain, stands the rugged stone tower known as the Washington Monument -- the first monument dedicated to the memory of George Washington. Rising majestically to a height of 34 feet, the tower was built by the citizens of the village of Boonsboro, Maryland. 
The George Washington Equestrian Monument. Following President George Washington's death in 1799, the General Assembly wanted to build a suitable monument and have his remains interred on the Capitol grounds. In 1849, after years of debate and fundraising, a resolution was passed and a commission was appointed. 
The Washington Monument was built to commemorate George Washington for his leadership in the Revolutionary War. Why was the Washington monument built? The Washington Monument was built to commemorate George Washington for his leadership in the Revolutionary war. 17 people found this useful
1 The History of the Washington Monument The Washington Monument was commissioned as a tribute to George Washington's military leadership in the late 1700s. Why was the Washington monument built? The Washington Monument was built to commemorate George Washington for his leadership in the Revolutionary war. 17 people found this useful
The original tower, built in 1827, was the first monument dedicated to George Washington to be completed. The Baltimore Washington Monument was completed two years later, although it had been started considerably earlier in 1815. The famous Washington Monument in the District of Columbia was not completed until 1885. The Washington Monument, located four miles (6 km) east of the town of Boonsboro, in Washington County, Maryland, United States, honors the Father of Our Country, George Washington. The monument sits near the summit of South Mountain's Monument Knob (1,539 feet (469 m))
Washington Monument State Park. The Washington Monument, located four miles (6 km) east of the town of Boonsboro, in Washington County, Maryland, United States, honors the Father of Our Country, George Washington. The monument sits near the summit of South Mountain's Monument Knob (1,539 feet (469 m))
The Washington Monument is a 555ft/169m tall obelisk built between 1848 and 1884 in honor of the first President of the United States, George Washington. It is the tallest free standing masonry structure in the world. Washington Monument. As early as 1783, when George Washington was still alive, plans by Pierre Charles l'Enfant for an equestrian statue of Washington were approved by Congress.
The Washington Monument, built in honor of America’s revolutionary hero and first president, is dedicated in Washington, D.C. The 555-foot-high marble obelisk was first proposed in 1783, and Pierre L’Enfant left room for it in his designs for the new U.S. capital. After George Washington’s death in 1799, plans for a memorial for the “father of the country” were discussed, but none were adopted until 1832–the centennial of Washington’s birth.