To ensure international peace and security.   The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic de … velopment, social progress, human rights and ultimately world peace. 2 people found this useful.
The main purpose of the united nations is to keep international peace, the UN gets involved in many civil wars if the country ask for help. However, with the description of the UN's purpose they have not been very successful in the past. Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Purposes of the UN-to maintain international peace and security, to safeguard human rights, to provide a mechanism for international law, and to promote social and economic progress, improve living standards, and fight diseases.
The United Nations provides a place for the countries of the world to do two things. First and most important it allows countries a neutral means of communication. This is important because most conflicts that don't involve fighting over things can be resolved if both sides sit down and talk it out. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. It regulates the activity of the world's governments. That being said, the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation.
To ensure international peace and security.   The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic de … velopment, social progress, human rights and ultimately world peace. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. It regulates the activity of the world's governments. That being said, the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation.
The United Nations (UN) is an international organization whose stated aims are to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress and human rights issues. Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Purposes of the UN-to maintain international peace and security, to safeguard human rights, to provide a mechanism for international law, and to promote social and economic progress, improve living standards, and fight diseases.
1 United Nations: The Members of the Security Council The United Nations' Security Council is charged with the maintenance of international peace and security. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. It regulates the activity of the world's governments. That being said, the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation.
The United Nations is an international organization designed to make the enforcement of international law, security, economic development, social progress, and human rights easier for countries around the world. Prior to the United Nations (UN), the League of Nations was the international organization responsible for ensuring peace and cooperation between world nations. It was founded in 1919 to promote international cooperation and to achieve peace and security..
Article I of the Charter of United Nations specifies the purposes of the UN. The Charter of United Nations (UN Charter) is the UN's governing document, much like the Constitution of the United States of America. The UN Charter sets out four main purposes: 1  Maintaining worldwide peace and security. History of the United Nations. The predecessor entity to the UN was the League of Nations. The League of Nations was established during WWI in 1919 by the Treaty of Versailles (one of the peace treaties adopted at the end of WWI).
The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights and ultim … ately world peace. for a+ prevent war ;) class 2010-2011. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. It regulates the activity of the world's governments. That being said, the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation.
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. 