A: Zestril/Prinivil (lisinopril) is a medication, called an ACE inhibitor, used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), CHF (congestive heart failure), to improve survival after a heart attack, and to protect the kidneys in people with diabetes. A: Lisinopril is a medication that is used to treat high blood pressure. It is in a class of medications called ACE inhibitors. ACE is a chemical in the body that is used in a chemical reaction that causes our blood vessels to narrow in response to various conditions.
A: Zestril/Prinivil (lisinopril) is an ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitor, used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), CHF (congestive heart failure), and to improve survival after a heart attack, and incontinence is not a listed side effect. A: Lisinopril is a medication that is used to treat high blood pressure. It is in a class of medications called ACE inhibitors. ACE is a chemical in the body that is used in a chemical reaction that causes our blood vessels to narrow in response to various conditions.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Lisinopril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor used for treating high blood pressure, heart failure and for preventing kidney failure due to high blood pressure and diabetes. Other ACE inhibitors include: 1  enalapril (Vasotec), 2  quinapril (Accupril), 
A: Lisinopril belongs to a class of drugs called angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. ACE inhibitors work by relaxing blood vessels and lower blood pressure. Lisinopril is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), congestive heart failure, and to improve survival after a heart attack. A: Lisinopril is a medication that is used to treat high blood pressure. It is in a class of medications called ACE inhibitors. ACE is a chemical in the body that is used in a chemical reaction that causes our blood vessels to narrow in response to various conditions.
Uses. Lisinopril is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. It is also used to treat heart failure and to improve survival after a heart attack. Lisinopril is an ACE inhibitor and works by relaxing blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily. Tell your doctor right away if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: fainting, symptoms of a high potassium blood level (such as muscle weakness, slow/ irregular heartbeat), signs of infection (such as fever, chills, persistent sore throat), change in the amount of urine.
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic (water pill) that helps prevent your body from absorbing too much salt, which can cause fluid retention. Lisinopril is in a group of drugs called ACE inhibitors. ACE stands for angiotensin converting enzyme. Lisinopril lowers blood pressure and also relieves symptoms of fluid retention. Hydrochlorothiazide and lisinopril is a combination medicine used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). Hydrochlorothiazide and lisinopril may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
This medication is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. This product contains two medications: lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Lisinopril is an ACE inhibitor and works by relaxing blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily. Hydrochlorothiazide is a water pill (diuretic) that causes you to make more urine, which helps your body get rid of extra salt and water.
A: Lisinopril (Prinivil/Zestril) belongs to a class of drugs called angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. It is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), congestive heart failure, and to improve survival after a heart attack. A: Lisinopril is a medication that is used to treat high blood pressure. It is in a class of medications called ACE inhibitors. ACE is a chemical in the body that is used in a chemical reaction that causes our blood vessels to narrow in response to various conditions.