Saltwater intrusion is the movement of saline water into freshwater aquifers, which can lead to contamination of drinking water sources and other consequences. Saltwater intrusion occurs naturally to some degree in most coastal aquifers, owing to the hydraulic connection between groundwater and seawater. Because saltwater has a higher mineral content than freshwater, it is denser and has a higher water pressure. As a result, saltwater can push inland beneath the freshwater. Certain human activities, especially groundwater pumping from coastal freshwater wells, have increased saltwater intrusion in many coastal areas
Another problem that takes place when saltwater intrusion occurs in coastal freshwater aquifers is the changing of the saltwater-freshwater interface. Also known as the zone of dispersion or transition zone, this is the area where the body of saltwater and freshwater meet and form a hydrologic barrier. When this occurs, it will move the saltwater freshwater interface inland, resulting in a higher saline concentration in the aquifers' water, rendering it useless for human consumption, unless it is treated. Figure 4. Saltwater Intrusion Situation(University of Florida, 2000)).
Seawater intrusion due to pumping. The most common source for seawater intrusion is when the pressure in the aquifers is lowered, this causes an up dwelling of saline water into the aquifers. As you can see from fig. 2, the usage of groundwater causes a depression in the water level and a seawater intrusion. Seawater intrusion is when saline water, defined as water with a concentration of dissolved salts of more than 1000 mg/L, migrates into the groundwater system. When the fresh water in aquifers gets replaced by saline water the wells becomes useless for drinking and agriculture.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Saltwater intrusion is the movement of ocean water into fresh groundwater that causes contamination of the freshwater by salt. This is a process of nature and usually occurs near the coastlines where the fresh groundwater level approaches the same level as the sea. 
Seawater intrusion is the movement of seawater into fresh water aquifers due to natural processes or human activities. Seawater intrusion is caused by decreases in groundwater levels or by rises in seawater levels. 
Salt water intrusion occurs in coastal freshwater aquifers when the different densities of both the saltwater and freshwater allow the ocean water to intrude into the freshwater aquifer. When this occurs, it will move the saltwater freshwater interface inland, resulting in a higher saline concentration in the aquifers' water, rendering it useless for human consumption, unless it is treated. Figure 4. Saltwater Intrusion Situation(University of Florida, 2000)).
Answers. Best Answer: Saltwater intrusion can happen if to much water is removed from an aquifer. Normally excess water from the aquifer would flow out into the ocean keeping the saltwater out of the aquifer. When to much water is removed from the aquifer, by say irrigation, water stops flowing into the ocean and allows saltwater to enter or intrude the freshwater aquifer. Source(s): Noah · 8 years ago.
Saltwater intrusion occurs when large amounts of saltwater move into an aquifer's freshwater supply and create brackish water. Generally, it occurs when the water level of an aquifer is lowered and freshwater is being withdrawn at faster rate than at which it is being replenished. The rate at which saltwater intrusion occurs depends upon the water level of the aquifer and the rates of replenishment and withdrawal. A certain amount of mixing between freshwater and saltwater in a coastal aquifer is natural. This happens in an area know as a zone of dispersion. The overall flow of freshwater in the aquifer moves toward the ocean. This movement keeps the saltwater from intruding.
The intrusion of salt water can also affect habitats and ecosystems. Seawater intrusion can occur naturally, usually together with storm surges, the storm presses salt water into the aquifers. But the most common cause of seawater intrusion is overexploitation of the groundwater by humans. Seawater intrusion is when saline water, defined as water with a concentration of dissolved salts of more than 1000 mg/L, migrates into the groundwater system. When the fresh water in aquifers gets replaced by saline water the wells becomes useless for drinking and agriculture.