If you want Greek yogurt, strain it through cheesecloth and save the whey for a drink. I prefer whole milk. The bacteria thrive in the fat. If you make yogurt with 0% or 2% milk you will need to add a thickener like gelatin so I just use 4% milk.
Add a small amount of the sweetener to your yogurt and mix thoroughly with a spoon or fork. If you are using fresh fruit to sweeten your yogurt, smash it with the spoon or fork to allow it to blend thoroughly into the yogurt. Taste your yogurt to determine whether it is sweet enough for your taste. If not, add more sweetener and mix again. Repeat until the plain yogurt is sweetened to
The milk used to make yogurt contains naturally occurring sugar called lactose, which is considered a nutritious part of your daily diet when consumed in moderation. Because it's a naturally occurring sugar, lactose isn't refined or processed like added sugars are. Most yogurts, however, contain added sugar.
1 Mix together the remaining sugar, and pectin power in a small pot; whisk in cold water and mix well until dissolved. 2  Set aside. 3  In a small bowl, set aside the yogurt culture needed. 4  When milk has reached 130° F, add sugar and vanilla, and stir for 2 minutes
Add the starter to the milk. Add 2 tablespoons of the existing yogurt, or add the freeze-dried bacteria. Stir with a whisk or use a blender (such as a stick blender) to evenly distribute the bacteria throughout the milk. If you still have stringy ropes you may be heating your milk too fast or too long (scalding).
It’s much less expensive then buying the containers and you can mix and match flavors. STEP 1: Start by adding 1/2 cup of plain greek yogurt to a mason jar or a container. STEP 2: Add 1/4 cup of your favorite fruit on top. Make sure the fruit is nicely chopped or smashed. This allows for their natural juices and sugars to release and mix in with the yogurt. The best fruit to use is ripe, organic berries.
STEP 3: Layer another 1/2 cup of greek yogurt on top, then add another 1/4 cup of smashed/chopped fruit. STEP 4: Cover and place in the fridge overnight at least 12 hours. When ready to eat, give the yogurt a nice stir to incorporate the fresh fruit juices.