Thepoisonga.. Clematis is in the Ranunculaceae family (buttercups) and all members of that family are toxic. It's a feature of t'internet that as soon as someone says a plant is toxic someone else will say 'one leaf is enough to wipe out the whole human race'.
Toxicity. All parts of the clematis plant carry a toxin known as anemonin, or irritant glycoside. Clematis vines prove toxic to humans, cats, dogs and horses. Toxic reactions occur when the plant is eaten, inhaled or touched.
To a degree, yes, as are many other plants in the Buttercup Family. RightDiagnosis.com offers these observations: “Clematis poisoning: A flowering vine often used as an ornament house or garden plant. The plant contains a chemical (anemonin) which can cause severe mouth pain if eaten.
Below is a list of many common flowers and plants that are toxic to dogs. Let your cursor hover over an item to see a picture and find out more information.
Wisteria (Wisteria spp.) plants are a group of climbing, woody vines or shrubs that produce large white, blue or violet flowers. Wisteria are grown as climbing vines in many home landscapes, but they can also be trained into tree form. Wisteria seeds contain wisterin, which is a glycoside and a toxic resin.
All parts of the clematis plant carry a toxin known as anemonin, or irritant glycoside. Clematis vines prove toxic to humans, cats, dogs and horses. Toxic reactions occur when the plant is eaten, inhaled or touched.
Clematis contains an irritating glycosides, and when ingested by pets, can cause drooling, vomiting and diarrhea. Thankfully, this plant has a very bitter taste, which deters most pets from consuming large amounts.
Popular among gardeners, clematis is a flowering vine from the Ranunculaceae family. While beautiful and decorative for the garden, clematis contains glycosides that, when ingested by your favorite pooch, can be fatal. Luckily, clematis has a natural form of protection -- a bitter taste. While your pooch may take an initial nibble and experience mild symptoms, a large meal of clematis is unlikely.