Myxoma is a benign jelly-like tumor of the heart that affects patients aging 30-60 years of age and often leads to heart attack. Get detailed information about the disease, including its causes, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Cardiac Myxoma is considered to be the one of the most common non-malignant tumors affecting the heart. In a few cases, this disorder occurs due to hereditary reasons and affects young individuals. This condition is more prevalent among women and normally affects individuals above the age of 40.
A myxoma (New Latin from Greek 'muxa' for mucus) is a myxoid tumor of primitive connective tissue. It is the most common primary tumor of the heart in adults, but can also occur in other locations. 
The most common type of primary cardiac tumor is myxoma. Most of these are benign. Patients of any age can develop a myxoma. They are more common in women than men. Most times, the tumor grows in the left upper chamber of the heart (left atrium) at the atrial septum, which divides the two upper chambers of the heart. 
Myxomas are the most common type of primary heart tumor. The tumor is derived from multipotential mesenchymal cells and may cause a ball valve-type obstruction. About 75% of myxomas occur in the left atrium of the heart, usually beginning in the wall that divides the two upper chambers of the heart. An atrial myxoma is a benign tumor of the heart, commonly found within the left and right atria on the interatrial septum.
Carney complex is a hereditary condition associated with: spotty skin pigmentation; myxomas, which are benign (noncancerous) connective tissue tumors; and benign or cancerous tumors, meaning it can spread to other parts of the body, of the endocrine (hormone producing) glands. 
Myxoma is an intracardiac tumor; it is found inside the heart. Seventy five percent of all myxomas are found in the left atrium, and almost all other myxomas are found in the right atrium. It is very rare for a myxoma to be found in either of the ventricles. 
What is Myxoma (heart tumor), treatment and surgery. Myxoma is a nonmalignant tumor that grows in the HEART, nearly always in one of the atria and most commonly in the left atrium. Myxoma arises from the ENDOCARDIUM and may be either firm or soft in consistency.
Topic Overview. In rare cases, a tumor (myxoma) growing on the valve surface or in the left atrium of the heart can cause a blockage of the mitral valve that is similar to mitral valve stenosis. Myxomas are tumors of connective tissue. They can occur almost anywhere in the body and can become quite large. 
A myxoma is a primary heart (cardiac) tumor. This means that the tumor started within the heart. Most heart tumors start somewhere else. Primary cardiac tumors are rare. Myxomas are the most common type of these rare tumors. About 75% of myxomas occur in the left atrium of the heart, usually beginning in the wall that divides the two upper chambers of the heart. The rest are in the right atrium.
Myxoma. Myxoma is a non-cancerous (benign) tumor of the heart. In fact, it is the most common primary heart tumor. A primary heart tumor is one that originates within the heart as opposed to another organ or tissue. Approximately 75% of myxomas are located within the left atrium. Typically, myxomas grow off of the inter-atrial septum (wall that separates the two atria).