French Language, this language is spoken today by a vast Francophone population, the history of the French language begins with the colonisation of Gaul by the Romans. The Celts who inhabited Gaul when the Romans came were Indo-Europeans, related to the Greeks, Romans and Germanic peoples in both culture and language. 
The French language (French: francais, français pronounced) frahnseh is A romance language that was first spoken In, France, Belgium, Luxembourg quebec And. Switzerland about 220 million people Speak french as a native or a second. language The French language (French: francais, français pronounced) frahnseh is A romance language that was first spoken In, France, Belgium, Luxembourg quebec And. switzerland
Origin and History. French dialects developped from the Vulgar Latin which was brought to Northern Gaul with the Roman conquest in the 1st century B.C. (see Rome). The history of French language is divided into 6 main periods: 1  Gallo-Romance (5th-8th centuries). 2  The Vulgar Latin in Gaul has developped specific features that made it distinct from the Latin spoken in the other regions of the Roman empire. 3  The Reichenau Glosses are a good example of its phonetics and vocabulary.
This “French” language was in fact one of a number of different languages descended from Latin that were spoken in various parts of post-Roman Gaul. Others included notably the so-called “Provencal” provençal (language “or langue’d”), oc spoken in much of the southern half of what is today Metropolitan. france French is used in Haiti as one of its official languages and as the language of higher education. The popular language spoken in Haiti is a so-called “creole” (a term derived from the Spanish word criolla denoting a person “born in the colonies”).
French is descended from Vulgar Latin, the vernacular Latin (as distinguished from literary Latin) of the Roman Empire (see Latin language). When ancient Gaul (now modern France) was conquered by the Romans in the 2d and 1st cent. By the 9th cent. the language spoken in what is now France was sufficiently different from Latin to be a distinct language. It is called Old French and was current from the 9th to the 13th cent.
French is a Romance language (meaning that it is descended primarily from Vulgar Latin) that evolved out of the Gallo-Romance dialects spoken in northern France. In the history of the French language, the most important of these groups are the Franks in northern France, the Alemanni in the modern German/French border area, the Burgundians in the Rhone rhône valley and The visigoths in The aquitaine region And. spain
French is the official language in 29 countries, most of which are members of la francophonie, the community of French-speaking countries. It is spoken as a first language in France, southern Belgium, western Switzerland, Monaco, certain parts of Canada and by various communities elsewhere. French is the native language of about 20% of the Swiss population, and is spoken by 50.4% of the population. French is also an official language of Luxembourg, Monaco, Andorra and Aosta Valley (Italy), while French dialects remain spoken by minorities on the Channel Islands.
French, as it is spoken today by a vast Francophone population, began to become standardized with Charlemagne’s conquest of the Gauls and Franks in the 16th Century. The history of the modern French language in France emerged with the combination of Latin and Provencal. Provençal keep reading to learn. more French is used in Haiti as one of its official languages and as the language of higher education. The popular language spoken in Haiti is a so-called “creole” (a term derived from the Spanish word criolla denoting a person “born in the colonies”).
To trace the history of the French language as a Romance language we must go back to the annexation of ancient France (, or what was then known as Gaul) by the Roman Empire. The Romans were certainly not the first inhabitants of France. Actually, when they arrived Gaul already had a large Celtic population. The French language is spoken by 238 million people worldwide, and by 24% of the EU's population (as a first, or second language).