Haystack Rock. The Rock is located near Cannon Beach on the North coast of Oregon, Haystack Rock is a unique monolith that attracts wildlife and tourists alike. Towering 235 feet over the beach, the Rock is home to nesting seabirds in the summer and marine invertebrates all year long. It is one of the largest sea stacks on America's Pacific coast. The rocky reefs of Haystack Rock and the neighboring Needles have abundant and rich intertidal life.
Haystack Rock ... Haystack Rock is a large 235-feet-high basalt sea stack located at Cannon Beach, Oregon. It is protected as a sanctuary for birds and marine creatures.
Click image to enlarge. Haystack Rock, Cannon Beach, Oregon. Image taken July 14, 2010. To the north of Cannon Beach is Tillamook Head, a large headland jutting into the Pacific Ocean, and further up the coast is Seaside, the location of Lewis and Clark's Salt Works. Cannon Beach is an eight-mile-long beach and also a small Oregon community south of Seaside, Tillamook Head, and Ecola State Park. At 235 feet high, Haystack Rock is one of the prominent features visible from the beach.
There are two monoliths called Haystack Rock on the Oregon Coast. There are different kinds of monoliths but basically a monolith is a single massive rock or stone. It is located just north of two smaller rock formations called the Needles. Haystack Rock in Pacific City The Haystack Rock in Pacific City is 327 feet tall and is NOT accessible by foot. Haystack Rock in Pacific City is claimed to be world's fourth largest monolith that can NOT be reached by land.
Anyway, they are both great monoliths worth seeing, they are both called Haystack Rock, and they are both on the Beautiful Oregon Coast. Haystack Rock in Cannon Beach Haystack Rock in Cannon Beach is 235 feet tall and is accessible by foot during low tide. It is located just north of two smaller rock formations called the Needles. Haystack Rock in Pacific City The Haystack Rock in Pacific City is 327 feet tall and is NOT accessible by foot. Haystack Rock in Pacific City is claimed to be world's fourth largest monolith that can NOT be reached by land.
Haystack Rock is located about 1.5 miles (2.4 km) south of downtown Cannon Beach in Clatsop County and about 80 miles (130 km) west of Portland. The nearest major road is U.S. Route 101. Haystack Rock is part of the Tolovana Beach State Recreation Site. Haystack Rock is a 235-foot (72-meter) sea stack in Cannon Beach, Oregon. It is sometimes claimed locally to be the third-tallest such  intertidal  (meaning it can be reached by land) structure in the world, but there are no official references to support this
Home: Recreation: HaystackHaystack Rock. Haystack Rock-a dedicated, protected Marine Garden-rises 235 feet out of the sand and the sea at the low tide line in Cannon Beach Oregon. Haystack Rock and the area around it are abundant with sea life. Care must be taken to avoid trampling this delicate life. The Rock is also home to many birds, including tufted puffins, gulls, and cormorants. Volunteer interpreters and protectors of the Rock and the life that it supports are on the beach during morning low tides during the summer. For a schedule of this Haystack Rock Awareness Program, click here.
Haystack Rock in Cannon beach is claimed to be the third largest monolith that can be reached by land. It is located just north of two smaller rock formations called the Needles. Haystack Rock in Pacific City The Haystack Rock in Pacific City is 327 feet tall and is NOT accessible by foot. Haystack Rock in Pacific City is claimed to be world's fourth largest monolith that can NOT be reached by land.