If a body is shipped on a common carrier, it must be embalmed prior to shipping or sealed in an airtight casket or transportation container. The cost for shipping human remains via air within the United States ranges from $275 to $1,500 plus applicable tax. 
1 Members of the Baha'bahá I í faith are. 2  Not, embalmed instead the body is washed and placed in, a cotton linen or. 3  Silk shroud the body is to be buried within'one hour s journey from the place, of death if this.  is feasible 1 Traditional Jewish law forbids embalming or cremation, and burial is to be done as soon as possible – preferably within 24 hours. 2  However, under certain circumstances, burial may be delayed if it is impossible to bury a person immediately, or to permit the deceased to be buried in Israel.
Report Abuse. Most states have a law that bodies must be disposed of, usually the limit is 10-14 days, depending on the state. In other words, within 10 days of death the body must be embalmed and buried or cremated. Bodies must either be embalmed or kept under refridgeration after 24 hours. But they must be in some way disposed of fairly soon after death. Source(s): Licensed Funeral Director.
The purpose of embalming is to preserve a dead human body from natural decomposition and to also restore a natural appearance. It is required whenever a body will be presented at a public viewing, when a body must be held without refrigeration, or whenever a body will be shipped on an airline. One funeral director I know exhumed a body 5 years after it was buried. The remains were well preserved except for some mold growing on the face. However, if given enough time, these remains will eventually break down.
Even if perfectly embalmed, every body will sooner or later decompose. How soon depends on the quality of embalming, burial container, burial location (such as mausoleum or in-ground). One funeral director I know exhumed a body 5 years after it was buried. The remains were well preserved except for some mold growing on the face. However, if given enough time, these remains will eventually break down.
Best Answer: Generally fairly soon after death; decomposition starts fast (and as embalming is to preserve the body, it only makes sense to perform it on a body that isn't already rotten). Due to muscles relaxing, a person's face doesn't look much like the person after 24 hours, which is why we have morticians. In other words, within 10 days of death the body must be embalmed and buried or cremated. Bodies must either be embalmed or kept under refridgeration after 24 hours. But they must be in some way disposed of fairly soon after death. Source(s): Licensed Funeral Director.
In some cases there is no choice as to whether the deceased will be embalmed. Each state has their own laws regarding embalming but most states agree that if a body is to be moved between states after death for the purposes of burial or funeral, it must be embalmed before it can be moved. 
Yes, however, for the best outcome, an autopsy should be performed on an unembalmed body after proper refrigeration. If there is a long delay (beyond one week) between the time of death and the autopsy, embalming is recommended to preserve the body tissues. Embalming interferes with most of the toxicology studies.
For viewings and burials, local laws differ on embalming requirements (some areas require a body to be embalmed if it isn’t buried after it’s been dead for 10 days). Alabama, Alaska, and New Jersey require embalming if you’re transporting a body to their state (which is a stupid law). 