Job Description for a Hospital CEO. If you want to run a hospital and be at the top of the managerial position, consider becoming a hospital CEO, also known as a chief executive officer. In this position, you are required to manage the operations of the hospital on a daily basis. Duties. Being a hospital CEO, you will be required to teach the vision of the hospital to employees and the community. You will offer moral support and promote the mission of the hospital. Guiding the staff through difficult times is also required. Consideration
4. Being a model. As the head of a hospital, everyone looks to the CEO to gauge the state of the organization. The CEO plays a large role in setting the tone and culture of a hospital. For example, Mr. Caponi says a “can-do,” positive attitude can help motivate others in the hospital to work to overcome challenges. Dr. Miller says he purposely does not travel often because his responsibility as CEO is to be at the hospita
Administrators have the largest role in a hospital. One role is directing staff. Administrators meet with department heads to make sure hospital goals are being carried out correctly. Additionally, they control the day-to-day operations of the hospital, making sure patient care is being met in compliance with state standards and hospital policies. Administrators oversee and approve all budget and financial information for the facility and continually seek to improve procedures for patient care.
While the CEO is generally responsible for global issues such as strategic development, dealing with the board of directors and external issues, the COO is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the hospital. However, COOs in different organizations may have different duties and roles. Education and Salary. The COO job is not for a newbie. The COO must be well-educated, with a minimum of a master’s degree in a field such as health science or health-care administration. Some organizations prefer that a COO have at least 10 years of management experience.
In an organization that has a board of directors, the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position that is primarily responsible to carry out the strategic plans and policies as established by the board of directors. In this case, the chief executive reports to the board of directors. In a form of business that is usually without a board of directors (sole proprietorship, partnership, etc.), the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position (other than partnerships, etc.) that sets the direction and oversees the operations of an organization.
The COO is often responsible for physician relations. Large hospitals often have both a chief executive officer and a chief operating officer, or COO. Even smaller organizations may have both positions to ensure that one person is not overwhelmed with multiple responsibilities. Education and Salary. The COO job is not for a newbie. The COO must be well-educated, with a minimum of a master’s degree in a field such as health science or health-care administration. Some organizations prefer that a COO have at least 10 years of management experience.
The CEO usually works alongside a team consisting of the CNO (Chief Nursing Officer), CMO (Chief Medical Officer), COO (Chief Operating Officer) and the CFO (Chief Financial Officer)- this is the hospital’s executive management team. Do you dream of becoming a hospital CEO? By understanding this career path and reading the blogs of some prominent hospital CEOs, you’ll have a much better grasp of what you need to get there.
The title chief of staff identifies the leader of a complex organization, institution, or body of persons and it also may identify a principal staff officer (PSO) , who is the coordinator of the supporting staff or a primary aide-de-camp to an important individual, such as a president or a senior military officer. In general, a chief of staff provides a buffer between a chief executive and that executive's direct-reporting team. The chief of staff generally works behind the scenes to solve problems, mediate disputes, and deal with issues before they are brought to the chief executive.
Julie Manas, President of the Western Wisconsin Division of Hospital Sisters Health System and President and CEO of Sacred Heart Hospital (Eau Claire, Wis.): What is the single most important thing a CEO does? Listen. Too often, as CEOs, we're looked to for response. 