Mammalian atrial cardiocytes synthesize and secrete a hormone called atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), which causes natriuresis, diuresis and inhibition of smooth muscle contraction, aldosterone and renin release. 
atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a hormone involved in natriuresis and the regulation of renal and cardiovascular homeostasis. It is synthesized as a prohormone in the granules of the myocytes of the atrium and is released into the circulation in response to atrial dilation or increased intravascular fluid volume. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide or atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) is a hormone secreted from cells in the right atrium of the heart when right atrial pressure increases. The release of this cardiac peptide is stimulated by increases in the stretch of the atrial wall caused by an increase in blood pressure or blood volume. atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a hormone involved in natriuresis and the regulation of renal and cardiovascular homeostasis.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is a 28-amino acid peptide that is synthesized, stored, and released by atrial myocytes in response to atrial distension, angiotensin II stimulation, endothelin, and sympathetic stimulation (beta-adrenoceptor mediated). Atrial and Brain Natriuretic Peptides. Natriuretic peptides are peptide hormones that are synthesized by the heart, brain and other organs. The release of these peptides by the heart is stimulated by atrial and ventricular distension, as well as by neurohumoral stimuli, usually in response to heart failure.
The atrial natriuretic hormone (ANP) is a cardiac hormone which gene and receptors are widely present in the body. Its main function is to lower blood pressure and to control electrolyte homeostasis. Because of a local production, ANP may also act as a paracrine hormone that influences the function of many endocrine systems (ovarian function for instance). In the central nervous system, ANP acts as a neurotransmitter in order to regulate pituitary and vegetative functions.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Atrial natriuretic factor, also called atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), is a hormone produced in the atria of the heart in most mammals. It reduces the amount of sodium in circulation and lowers the blood pressure. High levels of atrial natriuretic factor are an important sign of congestive heart failure. ANP helps to control water balance and hydration levels. ANP is a hormone produced in the atria of the heart in most mammals. Reducing ANP levels is a goal for the treatment of heart disease.
Medical Definition of ATRIAL NATRIURETIC PEPTIDE. : a peptide hormone secreted by myocytes of the cardiac atria that in pharmacological doses promotes salt and water excretion and lowers blood pressure—abbreviation ANP. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about atrial natriuretic peptide. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is a cardiac hormone involved in the physiological maintenance of blood volume and arterial blood pressure. ANP transgenic mice with increased plasma ANP levels show chronic hypotension [1] , whereas, ANP gene knock-out mice exhibit fluid retention and hypertension [2–4] . 
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), atrial natriuretic hormone (ANH), or atriopeptin, is a powerful vasodilator, and a polypeptide hormone secreted by heart muscle cells. It is involved in the homeostatic control of body water, sodium, potassium and fat (adipose tissue). 