When you think of fast dogs, the tall and lean Greyhound is the first breed that usually springs to mind. This long-legged, smooth-coated racing breed has been clocked at speeds up to 45 miles per hour, sparking its nickname: the 45-mph couch potato. 
I had a chance to time some whippets over the 900 yard course. The fastest I clocked completed the course in approximately 38 seconds, and many whippets completed the course in about 40 seconds. Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. CCod kid.
Whippet Dogs. It’s plain to see, Whippets are incredibly fast animals. They can run as fast as 40 miles per hour. But in the home they are relaxed and discreet, displaying excellent manners and just the right amount of charm. They love to cuddle on the couch for hours and hours, soaking up the love and attention. The Look of a Whippet. Whippets, for the most part, look like medium-sized Greyhounds. They have lean, balanced frames covered in smooth, dense coats that can come in a number of colors including black, red, light brown, tiger-striped, brindle, white or slate—either solids or mixed.
However humans have changed dogs so that some dogs can run much faster than most other animals. The really fast dogs are greyhounds, whippets, salukis, and Afghan hounds which are called sighthounds since their job is to spot their quarry by sight, and run it down. 
I own a whippet and bought a guide to the breed a couple years later, according to the book I bought it says that whippets can run up to 45 mph. I know my dog Grayson is super fast so I'm thinking that is probably a pretty accurate statement. He can keep up with our neighbors Greyhound, no problem. Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. CCod kid.
A whippet is a lean, muscular dog that looks very much like a small greyhound. It was bred from the Italian greyhound and the terrier and it is a very swift animal. A whippet, which can run as fast as 35 miles an hour, weighs from 18 to 23 pounds and stands from 18 to 22 inches high. It may be black, red, white, fawn or brindle. When you examine a whippet you immediately notice its muscular neck, its narrow, pointed head and its long, thin, tapered tail
So, if you believe my stopwatch, and that the top dog stayed right on course, that would be about 49 miles per hour. I own a whippet and bought a guide to the breed a couple years later, according to the book I bought it says that whippets can run up to 45 mph. I know my dog Grayson is super fast so I'm thinking that is probably a pretty accurate statement. Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. CCod kid.
Bigger muscles, faster whippet. Differences in a muscle gene make some whippets even faster. Whippets are really fast dogs. They can run up to 35 miles per hour. And many of the fastest ones have a genetic mutation that makes them so fast. A new study found that whippets that had a certain change in the myostatin gene were stronger and faster.