It's easy to take photos of moving subjects and action photos. 1  Open the HTC Camera app. 2  Point the camera on what you want to capture. 3  Touch and hold. 4  The camera takes up to 20 consecutive shots of your subject. 5  HTC Camera determines the best shot and assigns it as the cover photo (indicated by). 1 After taking the shots, do any of the following: 2  To keep just one photo, select the photo that you like the most, and then touch. 3  All other photos are deleted. 4  To change the cover photo for your burst shot, select the photo, and then touch. 5  To delete one or several photos within the burst shot, touch.
HTC claims a shutter speed of up to 10 frames per second (fps), but in real-world testing, the camera output a less-impressive but still-useful 4fps -- click the image below to see it full size. Pro Tip: Use burst mode sparingly, as all those images consume precious storage space. In-camera effects. As well as the image adjustment settings from the camera's settings menu, various creative effects can be also applied and viewed in real-time from the effects menu. Tap the circular icon by the side of the shutter to reveal 16 looks, ranging from vignette and dots to greyscale and sepia.
Introducing the camera app. Assuming you're holding the camera in portrait mode, on the left-hand side there are three icons -- the top icon is flash, which can be set to on, off or automatic. The automatic mode judges the light conditions for a given shot and scene mode and fires the flash if it deems it necessary. In-camera effects. As well as the image adjustment settings from the camera's settings menu, various creative effects can be also applied and viewed in real-time from the effects menu. Tap the circular icon by the side of the shutter to reveal 16 looks, ranging from vignette and dots to greyscale and sepia.
Press it to enable the phone's LED light in case you're shooting in low light. Use LED light when taking videos in the dark. image. Zoe mode makes it easy to take photos and videos without having to switch modes or change settings. a single tap on the button takes a photo, and holding down the button shoots a video. 9. The camera on the HTC One (M8) has a power-saving stand-by mode. You enable it by pressing the power key with the Camera app running. Then if you press the power key again, your lock screen and pattern will be bypassed (assuming you have these enabled) so that you can take the photo instantly.
Still, this doesn't mean that the UltraPixel camera is a bad one. Quite the opposite – it can take pretty pictures and videos despite having just 4MP to work with. And it might serve you even better if you're familiar with all its modes, settings, and peculiarities. Below we've compiled a list of 11 tips and tricks on taking better photos and videos with your HTC One (M8) . 9. The camera on the HTC One (M8) has a power-saving stand-by mode. You enable it by pressing the power key with the Camera app running. Then if you press the power key again, your lock screen and pattern will be bypassed (assuming you have these enabled) so that you can take the photo instantly.
A few simple tips will help you get better pictures from your HTC One. The HTC One's Ultrapixel camera is one of its main selling points, as is the vast assortment of photo features arranged around it. HTC Sense’s “sightseeing mode” also means you can easily jump in and out of the app at ease. Lock the screen at the camera app, then the second you press the power button again, you’ll bypass the lock screen and jump back into the camera app.
Upon pressing the shutter icon, the camera once again takes several exposures and, using HTC ImageSense's smile detection, chooses either the best shot or -- here's the clever bit -- the best bits of each of the shots to create a single composite image with each of the subjects' eyes open and mouths a-smiling. In-camera effects. As well as the image adjustment settings from the camera's settings menu, various creative effects can be also applied and viewed in real-time from the effects menu. Tap the circular icon by the side of the shutter to reveal 16 looks, ranging from vignette and dots to greyscale and sepia.
Improving focus and sharpness. 1  HTC One has autofocus, which works best on a subject that is not moving too much. 2  If the subject is moving, on the Viewfinder, press and hold the subject to lock the focus. 3  You can manually adjust the sharpness of a photo by editing in Gallery. 1 To change the focus, on the Viewfinder, tap the one you want to focus on. 2  If the subject is moving, on the Viewfinder, press and hold the subject to lock the focus. 3  You can manually adjust the sharpness of a photo by editing in Gallery. 4  You can also set the sharpness before taking a photo in the Camera settings.
Improving focus and sharpness. 1  HTC One has autofocus, which works best on a subject that is not moving too much. 2  To change the focus, on the Viewfinder, tap the one you want to focus on. 3  If the subject is moving, on the Viewfinder, press and hold the subject to lock the focus. 1 To change the focus, on the Viewfinder, tap the one you want to focus on. 2  If the subject is moving, on the Viewfinder, press and hold the subject to lock the focus. 3  You can manually adjust the sharpness of a photo by editing in Gallery. 4  You can also set the sharpness before taking a photo in the Camera settings.
So, in this hands-on guide to Androidography we take the HTC One X, one of this year's top-performing Android phones, and share with you the apps, accessories and shooting tips you'll need to get podium-topping pics of your very own. In-camera effects. As well as the image adjustment settings from the camera's settings menu, various creative effects can be also applied and viewed in real-time from the effects menu. Tap the circular icon by the side of the shutter to reveal 16 looks, ranging from vignette and dots to greyscale and sepia.