A Lime Ribbon brings awareness to Lymphoma. Show support and strength for Lymphoma survivors, patients and their family and friends. Choose from Lime Green T-shirts, Ribbons, Bracelets, Mugs, Hats, Car Magnets and more. Find unique Lime Green awareness products for your next fundraiser or benefit.
Lavender awareness ribbons are associated with cancer and epilepsy. Light blue is the ribbon to support Prostate Cancer, Trisomy 18, Addison's Disease, Lymphedema and Behcet's Disease. The Light Green ribbon symbolizes support for STD and HPV.
Awareness Ribbon Colors and Their Meanings. The meaning of Awareness Ribbons are based on their color or color combination. Many illnesses and causes use the awareness ribbon as their symbols of support or awareness, so there is often more than one cause for each color ribbon.
Meaning: The light blue awareness ribbon is a symbol of childhood cancer (alternative color: pink), prostate cancer, Trisomy 18, and scleroderma. Meaning: The teal awareness ribbon is a symbol for ovarian, cervical, and uterine cancers as well as sexual assault, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and tsunami victims.
Lavender Ribbon-Lavender awareness ribbons are associated with cancer and epilepsy. Light Blue Ribbon-Light blue is the ribbon to support Prostate Cancer, Trisomy 18, Addison's Disease, Lymphedema and Behcet's Disease. Light Green Ribbon-The Light Green ribbon symbolizes support for STD and HPV.
For example Canada has granted official mark status for pink (breast cancer) awareness ribbons to the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation. NOTE: Because many awareness ribbon colors may have multiple associated meanings Disabled World is listing only ribbons regarding health and disabilities.
Green Ribbon-Green awareness ribbons stand for Organ & Tissue Donors, Mental Health, Neurofibromatosis, Kidney Cancer, Cerebral Palsy, Bipolar and Tourette syndrome. Green-Orange Ribbon-The green-orange ribbon stand for Ritual Abuse and Dual Diagnosis. It's a special tribute to our friend Jim.
Meaning: We've all seen the yellow awareness ribbon used as a symbol to show support for our troops, but it is also a symbol for MIA/POW, suicide prevention, adoptive parents, amber alerts, bladder cancer, spina bifida, endometriosis, and a general symbol for hope.