The scientific name for Sugar Gliders is Petaurus Breviceps, which is a species of small and tree dwelling marsupial. They are mainly native to countries, including Australia, Indonesia, New Guinea, and Tasmania. These Sugar Gliders are also known as 'pocket pets,' because of the following two reasons. Firstly, they are small in size and, secondly, they like being carried in pockets or pouches. That is why many Sugar Glider owners keep these charming animals in their pockets to carry them wherever they go.
Sugar gliders have become a popular exotic pet. They are small and relatively easy to care for, and have a cute if not unusual appearance. As with any other exotic pet, a potential owner should be aware of their care requirements and personality before acquiring a sugar glider. Sugar gliders are illegal in some places so you will need to check the laws where your live (see  How to Find Out if a Pet is Legal Where You Live ). Sugar gliders make endearing, playful, and entertaining pets. As mentioned above they are very social, and ideally they should be kept in pairs or groups, and in any case they should have a good deal of social interaction with their owners. They are fairly clean and do not have complex housing requirements.
Sugar gliders are marsupials; the young are born very immature and grow in a pouch on the mother's abdomen. Sugar gliders have furry membranes that extend from their wrists to their ankles (the membrane is called a patagium) that allows them to glide through the air. In the wild they move from tree to tree by gliding. 
The first issue to consider is whether or not a sugar glider fits well into your lifestyle and expectations. It is ultimately important to us that our gliders become part of good homes and you should be quite certain that you want to be owned by a sugar glider before making the commitment. 
(Petaurus Breviceps). A Sugar Glider is a small marsupial possum found in the tree tops of Australia, Tasmania, Indonesia, and Papua-New Guinea. They are so named because they have a preference for sweet foods and a patagium (gliding membrane). The gliding membrane is connected from the wrist to the ankle. (Petaurus Breviceps) A Sugar Glider is a small marsupial possum found in the tree tops of Australia, Tasmania, Indonesia, and Papua-New Guinea.
The sugar glider (Petaurus breviceps) is a small, omnivorous, arboreal, and nocturnal gliding possum belonging to the marsupial infraclass. The common name refers to its preference for sugary nectarous foods and ability to glide through the air, much like a flying squirrel. A sugar glider female gives birth to one (19%) or two (81%) babies (joeys) per litter. The gestation period is 15 to 17 days, after which the tiny joey (0.2 g) will crawl into a mother's pouch for further development.
Please try again later. Learn the real drawbacks to owning your pet sugar glider and make sure you have the adequate time to care for them properly; lean more in this free pet care video on caring for sugar gliders. Expert: Elizabeth Cantu. Bio: Elizabeth Cantu has owned and been working with parrots since 1994. 
So watch out for the shyster. A sugar glider is not a pocket pet, it is an undomesticated tree-dwelling wild animal that is a marsupial and has very special needs. They are not simple to keep, feed or care for and they do have a large list of health maladies that an owner must be aware of. Sugar gliders bite. Biting is a very important way that sugar gliders experience their world. In the wild they will normally constantly explore trees by biting into and removing bark looking for bugs and larvae. In captivity, they explore you.
The sugar glider has a squirrel-like body with a long, partially (weakly) prehensile tail. The length from the nose to the tip of the tail is about 24 to 30 cm (12–13 inches), and males and females weigh 140 grams and 115 grams respectively. A sugar glider female gives birth to one (19%) or two (81%) babies (joeys) per litter. The gestation period is 15 to 17 days, after which the tiny joey (0.2 g) will crawl into a mother's pouch for further development.