SPDY: An experimental protocol for a faster web. Executive summary As part of the Let's make the web faster initiative, we are experimenting with alternative protocols to help reduce the latency of web pages. For technical details, see the SPDY draft protocol specification. SPDY implementation: what we've built This is what we have built: A high-speed, in-memory server which can serve both HTTP and SPDY responses efficiently, over TCP and SSL.
This is SPDY. A multi-plexed binary TLS-wrapped protocol from the future. SPDY (pronounced speedy) is a replacement for HTTP, and feels like a wrapper for it. SPDY is a packet (frame) oriented binary protocol, usually wrapped in TLS (SSL), and as such a little harder to follow than HTTP. The easiest way to see SPDY in action is with Google Chrome / Chromium. Browse to chrome://net-internals in one tab, and to https://www.google.com in another. Click SPDY in the sidebar, click a session, then click SPDY_SESSION (you’re in Events now).
The first draft of HTTP/2 is using SPDY as the working base for its specification draft and editing. Implementations of SPDY exist in Chromium, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Amazon Silk, Internet Explorer, and Safari. In February 2015, Google announced its plans to remove support for SPDY in favor of HTTP/2. SPDY is a versioned protocol. In its control frames there are 15 dedicated bits to indicate the version of the session protocol. 1  Version 1: version 1 of the SPDY protocol is not used anymore. 2  Version 2: soon to be discontinued.
SPDY is being developed as an open networking protocol and has been suggested to IETF as a method of HTTP/2.0. SPDY is a sub-project of the Google Chromium project, and thus Chromium client implementations and server tools are all being developed with open sources. SPDY operates by domain. This means that it requires as many connections as the number of domains, and that request multiplexing is available only in a single domain. Moreover, as it is difficult to make all domains support SPDY, you may not get the merits of SPDY when there are too many domains.
SPDY is a two-layer HTTP-compatible protocol. To break that down into more manageable terms, SPDY is like HTTP, but with additional features designed for today's Web. The upper layer provides HTTP's request and response semantics, while the lower layer manages encoding and sending the data. SPDY has been in development for a couple of years, but a few things will start to accelerate its deployment. First, Google has put out a SPDY module for Apache, which will make it much easier for organizations to deploy SPDY. Nginx is expected to have an implementation by end of May.
The name SPDY is a trademark of Google and is not an acronym. SPDY is a versioned protocol. In its control frames there are 15 dedicated bits to indicate the version of the session protocol. 1  Version 1: version 1 of the SPDY protocol is not used anymore. 2  Version 2: soon to be discontinued.
Public. Sites that support the SPDY protocol do not load on the first attempt in Internet Explorer 11 on Windows 8.1 if an HTTP proxy server is configured. 
Therefore, it can be said that SPDY is a protocol designed to use TCP connection more efficiently by improving the data transfer format and connection management of HTTP. As a result of such efforts, in a test with the top 25 websites, SPDY worked 39-55% faster compared to HTTP + SSL. SPDY operates by domain. This means that it requires as many connections as the number of domains, and that request multiplexing is available only in a single domain. Moreover, as it is difficult to make all domains support SPDY, you may not get the merits of SPDY when there are too many domains.
Google’s whitepaper on SPDY claims that these performance improvements could range from 27% – 60% compared to page load times across TCP without SSL and 39% – 55% compared to TCP with SSL. In addition to these performance gains, SPDY also contains some significant security enhancements. This is because all current iterations of SPDY have SSL (secure sockets layer) built in and mandated, providing encrypted traffic at all times.
SPDY (pronounced speedy) is an open networking protocol developed primarily at Google for transporting web content. SPDY manipulates HTTP traffic, with particular goals of reducing web page load latency and improving web security. SPDY is a versioned protocol. In its control frames there are 15 dedicated bits to indicate the version of the session protocol. 1  Version 1: version 1 of the SPDY protocol is not used anymore. 2  Version 2: soon to be discontinued.