It's important to recognize that the term sanding sealer means different things to different wood finishers. Many people use nothing but a coat of dewaxed shellac as a sanding sealer. Zinsser SealCoat, a pre-mixed 2 lb. cut of crystal-clear dewaxed shellac, is one of the most lauded products in this category. For that reason, if you use sanding sealer, stick to one or two coats at the most, and plan to sand most of it back off. For the same reason, and because it tends to shrink as it cures, it is not advisable to use sanding sealer instead of pore filler.. From the Woodworker's Journal eZine archives.
The purpose of Sanding Sealer is to seal the wood and form a base coat for a protective clear finish. If the wood has been stained, Sanding Sealer is not necessary. In addition, it's possible to scuff the stain while sanding the sealer. Sanding Sealer is best used on bare wood. Minwax® Professional Formula Sanding Sealer is a clear sealer formulated for application over bare wood. Its quick dry feature allows for sealing and topcoating your project in just one day. Seals wood grain. Easy to sand. Dries in one hour. Use on unstained, bare wood floors, furniture, doors and cabinets.
Save time and trouble. If you routinely apply sanding sealer before finishing, you may be taking an extra, unnecessary step. Truth is, any film-forming finish works as a sealer because it closes off the pores of the wood and lays a base for the topcoats. Some situations, however, benefit from a sealer. For example, when refinishing furniture with lacquer or polyurethane, silicone on the surface can cause the new finish to pull away from the contaminated spots -- a condition called fisheye.
Sanding sealer is basically lacquer, but it contains zinc stearate, which is a soapy substance that makes the sealer easier to sand. The first coat of finish inevitably raises the wood grain, and when you use sanding sealer for that coat, the job of sanding the grain back down is more easily accomplished. Save. prudkov/iStock/Getty Images. It's important to seal wood before painting it to ensure an even coating -- but when you're going to finish the wood with a clear coating like lacquer, you want something extra from the sealer. It should be easy to sand, and should provide a smooth undercoat that bonds well with the finish
If you use the type of sanding sealer that is correct for the type of finish you are applying, adhesion problems are minimal. There are some other downsides to using sanding sealer as I described in my initial write up. They re-labled a 2# cut of shellac as a sanding sealer for use under oil based poly and waterborne finishes. As a initial coat between sanded, virgin wood and any other top coat, shellac offers no benefit. There is an exception with using an oil based or waterborne finish over an tropical, oily wood.
You spray or brush sanding sealer -- depending on the volatility of the product you use -- on freshly sanded wood. It typically dries in 30 minutes to an hour, and you then sand it by hand, using 150- or 220-grit sandpaper. The bulk of the product should be sanded off. Save. prudkov/iStock/Getty Images. It's important to seal wood before painting it to ensure an even coating -- but when you're going to finish the wood with a clear coating like lacquer, you want something extra from the sealer. It should be easy to sand, and should provide a smooth undercoat that bonds well with the finish
I have used sanding sealer in the past to get a smooth, sealed surface before varnishing (I usually use rub-on polyurethane). I have had mixed results, however, with respect to the final quality of the finish and getting a natural look out of the wood grain. -- Equestrian Sports. The most fun you can have with your boots still on... Sanding Sealer, in the marketing sense, is a product that is best suited to filling the finish vendor's pockets with extra profit.
Introduction. Sanding sealers, also called first-coat sealers by some manufacturers, are recommended when refinishing furniture. Although using a sanding sealer is a good step to take regardless of the type of stain you are using, it is especially necessary when using water-based stains. 
Woodworking Tips: Finishing-Applying a sanding sealer to your raw project is a great way to seal the surface and allow your final topcoats to lay on the wood much smoother and with finer luster. A WoodWorkers Guild of America (WWGOA) original video. 