Plants are hardy to about -25°c[187]. Marsh mallow is often cultivated in the herb garden, as a culinary and medicinal herb as well as for ornament[61]. Its roots were at one time the source of the sweet 'marsh mallow', but this sweet is now made without using the plant[4]. 
MARSHMALLOW Overview Information. Marshmallow is a plant. The leaves and the root are used to make medicine. Don’t confuse marshmallow with the mallow (Malva sylvestris) flower and leaf. Marshmallow leaf and root are used for pain and swelling (inflammation) of the mucous membranes that line the respiratory tract.
Garden Culture. Common marshmallow plants grow best in sandy, moist soil and are not fussy about the soil's pH level. They need partial shade to full sun. Prepare their seeds for sowing by placing them in damp peat moss inside a plastic bag, and keep the bagged seeds in a refrigerator for four to six weeks. The common marshmallow’s leaves, flowers, roots and seeds are edible. The roots contain a mucilagelike material that can be cooked into a soft sweet food -- the original marshmallow candy. Making it begins with peeling and thinly slicing several roots.
Althaea officinalis (marsh-mallow, marsh mallow, or common marshmallow) is a perennial species indigenous to Europe, Western Asia, and North Africa, which is used as a medicinal plant and ornamental plant. 
The marshmallow plant grows in more than one continent. The common marshmallow plant (Althaea officinalis) is a green perennial that grows large, bee-pollinated, white flowers from July to September, followed by seedpods that ripen from August to October. The common marshmallow’s leaves, flowers, roots and seeds are edible. The roots contain a mucilagelike material that can be cooked into a soft sweet food -- the original marshmallow candy. Making it begins with peeling and thinly slicing several roots.
At least 15 U.S. states and some Canadian provinces have common marshmallow plants growing wild. Those U.S. states are New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Arkansas, North Dakota and Nebraska. The common marshmallow’s leaves, flowers, roots and seeds are edible. The roots contain a mucilagelike material that can be cooked into a soft sweet food -- the original marshmallow candy. Making it begins with peeling and thinly slicing several roots.
The use of marshmallow to make sweets dates back to ancient Egypt, where the recipe called for extracting sap from the plant and mixing it with nuts and honey. Another pre-modern recipe uses the pith of the marshmallow plant, rather than the sap. The stem was peeled back to reveal the soft and spongy pith, which was boiled in sugar syrup and dried to produce a soft, chewy confection. The marshmallow plant's sap was also used by gladiators in ancient Rome. Marshmallow probably came first into being as a medicinal substance, since the mucilaginous extracts come from the root of the marshmallow plant, Althaea officinalis, which were used as a remedy for sore throats.
1 Marshes are the native growing ground for the mallow plant; hence the name marshmallow. 2  Mallow plants are native in Asia and Europe and are also grown in eastern United States. 3  In the 1800s, the sap of mallow plants were not only used to make marshmallows, but doctors also used this sap to soothe colds and sore throats. Today I found out marshmallows were once made from the sap of marshmallow plants. Whether they are a hot chocolate topping treat, in the form of a sugar-coated critter, or roasting over a campfire, marshmallows are a favorite treat for many people.
Marshmallow Plant. The Marshmallow plant (Althea officinalis) is a very pretty perennial wild plant found in marshes by the sea. It can easily grow in gardens as well. It is native to Europe. It can grow to be about 1.5 meters tall (4 feet) tall. 