Pigmented Leather is the most durable and is used in the majority of furniture upholstery and almost all car upholstery. The durability is provided by a polymer surface coating which contains pigments. Aniline leathers feel like real skin-light and flexible-whilst a heavily pigmented (protected) leather can feel rather like plastic. Leather upholstery in cars is almost exclusively pigmented to protect it from years of heavy use, as are domestic upholstery leathers.
This leather is identified to have a pale greenish blue color when the pigment color is removed by dry or wet rubs. These opaque black napa lamb leathers are common in garment and accessories such as wallet, briefcase and bag. Pigmented auto leather seats may have the same look as other pigmented upholstery but the quality is more stringent to resist UV lights, dry and wet rubs and to withstand extreme temperature fluctuation.
Napa pigmented leather is absorbent and is common in garment and is the softest among pigmented leathers but also the most delicate when comes to either dry or wet rubbing. Semi-aniline leather common in upholstery is semi-absorbent thus more delicate than the standard pigmented upholstery. Pigmented auto leather seats may have the same look as other pigmented upholstery but the quality is more stringent to resist UV lights, dry and wet rubs and to withstand extreme temperature fluctuation.
B) How to care for and clean Non-Pigmented Leathers (including Pure Aniline, Semi-Aniline Leathers). Non-Pigmented Leathers are more difficult to care for and to clean. It is important to note that a Semi-Aniline Leather falls into this category even though it has a small amount of pigment in it. Semi-Aniline leather is pure aniline leather that has a small amount of pigment or clear finish thus allowing the natural characteristics of the hide to still show through while offering some of the benefits of color consistency and increased wearability.
Because no other coating or pigment is used, this leather is superbly soft and supple with rich, penetrating color. Only about 5% of this leather is good enough to be used as is. This kind of leather is called 'Aniline dyed Leather' or 'Unfinished Leather'. And only a soil resistant treatment is applied to the surface. It is more durable leather than the 'Aniline dyed Leather' or 'Unfinished Leather' and it is often used in situations that require heavy duty characteristics. However, if too much pigment is applied, this will impair the breathing capability of the leather.
1 Finished split leather The split section of the hide is coated with a pigment and finish and is then printed with a grain pattern designed to look like the top surface of the leather. 2  Finish split leather should only used in non contact areas. 1 Pigment Coated (Pigmented) Leather has had an additional surface coating added which is designed to add to its durability.
Pigmented or coated leather. Production. For these leathers the hides with the most natural features are used. A colour layer is applied to receive a pleasant levelling of the surface. The natural features are nearly no longer visible, they are coated, therefore the term “coated leathers“. Pigmented or coated leathers are carefree leathers, liquids are-as mentioned above-generally rejected and can be easily wiped up with a cloth. The not immediately visible body and hair fats affect also this kind of leather badly.
In general non-pigmented leather can be identified by the lack of a shiny and glossy surface, however this is not a foolproof method of identification. This type or leather tends to absorb oils and stains and develops a patina over time as the leather ages. Semi-Aniline leather is pure aniline leather that has a small amount of pigment or clear finish thus allowing the natural characteristics of the hide to still show through while offering some of the benefits of color consistency and increased wearability.
Leathers are made from the skins of many animals but mainly cattle, goat, sheep and pigskins. Although there is a great variety of leather types, a leather can usually be put into one of three categories 1  :-. Aniline. 2  Semi-aniline. 3  Pigmented (protected). Aniline leathers feel like real skin-light and flexible-whilst a heavily pigmented (protected) leather can feel rather like plastic. Leather upholstery in cars is almost exclusively pigmented to protect it from years of heavy use, as are domestic upholstery leathers.