The dwarf lanternshark (Etmopterus perryi) is a little-known species of dogfish shark in the family Etmopteridae and possibly the smallest shark in the world, reaching a maximum known length of 21.2 cm (8.3 in). Perhaps the smallest living shark species, male dwarf lanternsharks mature at a length of 16–17.5 cm (6.3–6.9 in) and females from a length of 15.5 cm (6.1 in) with 19–20 cm (7.5–7.9 in) long pregnant individuals known.
The Pale Catshark at 8.27 is the smallest shark in the world. The Pale Catshark is a rare cat shark of the Scyliorhinidae family and only specimen found on the Makassar Strait. 
The world's biggest school of sharks was observed in Galapagos, it was a single school of 1100 Hammerhead Sharks. The world's smallest shark is a small type of the Cat Shark. The shark is just 6 inches, when it is fully grown. The Thresher Shark can jump 20 feet out of the water. The world's most dangerous shark is the Bull Shark. The world's biggest shark is the Whale Shark (a shark is a fish). The Whale Shark can be up to 53 feet long and weight more than 13 ton. (The Blue Whale is a mammal that is why it is not the biggest fish.). The world's fastest shark is the Mako Shark
Shark is the largest sea mammal in the world. There are a lots of shark species which are present in different oceans of the world. Among these shark species Whale Shark is the biggest shark in the world. Here is the list of names of largest sharks in the world with their habitat info. The Whale Shark is the largest and the heaviest living shark because its weight is more than 21 tons and its length is more than 12 meter. It is found in open oceans and warm waters. It feeds on plankton but some times it also uses other small fishes as food.
Sharks come in all sizes. The largest is the whale shark, which has been known to get as large as 18 meters (60 feet). The smallest fits in your hand. And the great white shark is somewhere in the middle. See photos and learn more about the wide diversity of sharks, read 5 reasons to revere sharks, and see even more articles about sharks.
Tweet. The smallest shark in the world is the Dwarf Lanternshark; a dogfish that lives in the Caribbean Sea. They grow to a maximum of 17 centimeters and eat small fish and shrimp. The next smallest shark in the world is the Pygmy Shark that grows up to 25 centimeters long. These sharks are very closely related.
The smallest shark, a dwarf lantern shark (Etmopterus perryi) is smaller than a human hand. It's rarely seen and little is known about it, having only been observed a few times off the northern tip of South America at depths between 283–439 meters (928–1,440 feet). 