When to change spark plugs. Your vehicle owner’s manual should offer a recommendation on when to replace spark plugs in your car. Typically it’s around every 30,000 miles, but will vary by car and may be longer for newer model cars. Spark plugs come in different materials and newer platinum and iridium spark plugs last longer than old copper ones. Typically a spark plug replacement at a qualified auto repair shop will cost between $100 and $200. A Toyota Camry will likely be on the lower end of the range, while a Mercedes-Benz sedan will be on the higher end of that range (or even exceed the range depending on the model and where you take the car for the repair).
If you have a mechanic do it, the price will vary depending on the car, the number of plugs, and the cost of the plugs themselves. For most vehicles with 4 or 6 cylinders and as many plugs, a mechanic will likely charge in the $50 to $120 range. The interval for replacement of your spark plugs will depend on your vehicle. Older vehicles can require replacement as often as every 10,000 miles with most vehicles over 10 years old needing them about every 30,000 miles.
Best Answer: If you just want to replace that spark plug, it will cost you less than $5.00 for one. You may need to buy a spark plug wrench which will cost about the same. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/video_110_replace-sp... leveretth · 7 years ago. How much would cost me if I buy parts from... show more I went to Precision tune and did a diagnosis on my car, it turned out to be Cylinder #2 misfire, and all spark plug have excessive carbon build up. I was offered a tune up for 150 total, or tune up + air induction cleaning + ignition wires for about 320.
It would be best that you change all 6 of the plugs and wires in your car, along with the air and fuel filters; and the oil and oil filter if it is more than 3000 miles since the last oil change. When you change the spark plugs and wires, do them one at a time. How much would cost me if I buy parts from... show more I went to Precision tune and did a diagnosis on my car, it turned out to be Cylinder #2 misfire, and all spark plug have excessive carbon build up. I was offered a tune up for 150 total, or tune up + air induction cleaning + ignition wires for about 320.
Costs of Replacement. The cost to change your spark plugs will depend on whether you do it yourself or pay a mechanic to do it. A few high-end vehicles may require special tools to replace the plugs, but most can be done by a home mechanic with just a little know-how. If you prefer to DIY, click here for instructions. The interval for replacement of your spark plugs will depend on your vehicle. Older vehicles can require replacement as often as every 10,000 miles with most vehicles over 10 years old needing them about every 30,000 miles.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: would cost maybe 80 dollars.. But, it would be a lot easier to head down to the local Auto Zone, and buy some pre set spark plugs.. It's easy, would cost maybe 28 dollars, if it was 4 cylinder, maybe 40 max, if it was a six cylinder, and that would be a good spark plug. When they are preset, all you do is take the spark plug cover off, get a little socket set, and unscrew the old spark plug. Add the cost of the four spark plugs to one hour labor and you should have a rough idea. Maybe $100 here or 50 pounds in the UK. bobweb · 7 years ago.
When the spark plugs wear out, it is harder for it the air-fuel mixture to ignite, resulting in engine misfires. If one of the spark plugs has failed, the car will still start and run, but it will run poorly. On some vehicles, spark plug replacement may be labor intensive and involve removal of the intake plenum. The spark plugs are an important part of the ignition system. When you turn the ignition key (car's key) on, it causes the ignition coil to generate the spark which ignites the air-fuel mixture in the engine cylinders to start the engine.
If your spark plugs fail, your car won’t run. If your spark plugs are in poor condition, your car will not run well and your fuel economy will suffer. What does an average spark plug replacement cost. The cost to replace spark plugs varies significantly based on the type of car you have and where you take your car. Typically a spark plug replacement at a qualified auto repair shop will cost between $100 and $200. A Toyota Camry will likely be on the lower end of the range, while a Mercedes-Benz sedan will be on the higher end of that range (or even exceed the range depending on the model and where you take the car for the repair).
Parts: $9 - $14. The average cost for a spark plug replacement is between $130 to $168. Labor costs are estimated between $121 to $154 while parts are priced between $9 to $14. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. 