Try drinking cranberry juice and also water... you need to flush out the bacteria from your system, the cranberry juice will help with that. And no, don't mix it in alcohol.. just try drinking juice. BTW, 3 glasses a wine a day is too much alcohol for a person. Add your answer. Alcohol and UTI (Urinary trac infection). I constantly suffer from UTI, and i am 24 f. I enjoy my wine in the evening, and I often drink 3 glasses of white wine over the period of evening - 125 ml per glass (its not very much over the evening, my friends drink double that amount easily).
1 If you are susceptible to UTIs, drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry pills may help prevent recurrence. 2  Eat antioxidant-rich foods, including fruits (such as blueberries, cherries, and tomatoes), and vegetables (such as squash and bell peppers). Introduction. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are caused by bacteria and are 10 times more common among women than men. More than 50% of women will have at least one UTI during their lifetime.
While your alcohol consumption is a problem, it probably isn't related to your UTI's. However, you should not drink alcohol while taking your antibiotics, and make sure you finish taking all of your medication. Add your answer. Alcohol and UTI (Urinary trac infection). I constantly suffer from UTI, and i am 24 f. I enjoy my wine in the evening, and I often drink 3 glasses of white wine over the period of evening - 125 ml per glass (its not very much over the evening, my friends drink double that amount easily).
Caffeine-Containing Beverages. Caffeine is a natural stimulant in your body. Drinking sodas, coffee, tea or energy drinks when you have a UTI can stimulate your digestive and urinary tract -- not a good idea when your goal is to soothe instead. When you have a UTI, drinking sugar-sweetened drinks like fruit juices, sports drinks and other sweetened beverages can have adverse effects. Because you may be experiencing adverse symptoms like cramping and diarrhea, sugar-containing foods can contribute to or aggravate these symptoms
Sugar-Sweetened Drinks. When you have a UTI, drinking sugar-sweetened drinks like fruit juices, sports drinks and other sweetened beverages can have adverse effects. Because you may be experiencing adverse symptoms like cramping and diarrhea, sugar-containing foods can contribute to or aggravate these symptom
When you experience a UTI, your physician will recommend drinking lots of fluids to flush UTI-causing bacteria through your urethral tract. The goal is to drink hydrating fluids -- like six to eight glasses of filtered water -- for maximum fluid output. When you have a UTI, drinking sugar-sweetened drinks like fruit juices, sports drinks and other sweetened beverages can have adverse effects. Because you may be experiencing adverse symptoms like cramping and diarrhea, sugar-containing foods can contribute to or aggravate these symptoms
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is very common, but can be unpleasant and very uncomfortable. UTIs are an infection of your upper urinary tract (kidney and ureters), lower urinary tract (bladder and urethra), or both. 1  If you develop a UTI you will likely feel a burning sensation when you urinate as well as a need urinate often. 2  You may also feel pain in your lower abdomen.
A great homeopathic cure for a urinary tract infection is to drink a lot of cranberry juice. Cranberry juice helps to flush out the toxins that are inside of your body. It helps to get rid of the bacteria that are causing you so much pain. 
1 ounce diluted with 7 ounces water drunk 3-4 times a day helps clear infection. Drinking Cran water regularly to ward off or prevent urinary tract infection is not a bad idea for those prone to UTI. Cran water is a regular part of my diet. It also helps remove water retention. 