hair dryer, electrical energy enters the hair dryer and is converted to kinetic energy as a small motor spins a fan blade the electrical energy is converted to thermal by a gr … ind of wires that heat up.
(2) Thermal energy can be transfered to other objects causing them to heat up. When you heat up a pan of water, the heat from the stove causes the molecules in the pan to vibrate faster causing the pan to heat up. The heat from the pan causes water molecules to move faster and heat up.
Energy can take on many forms and can change from one form to another. Many different types of energy can be converted into heat energy. Light, electrical, mechanical, chemical, nuclear, sound and thermal energy itself can each cause a substance to heat up by increasing the speed of its molecules. So, put energy into a system and it heats up, take energy away and it cools.
Electrical energy is a form of energy that occurs as a result of either stored or moving charged particles. When the energy is stored it is called electric potential energy and when it is moving in an electric current it is a form of kinetic energy. Our most common form of electrical energy is found in our wall outlets. Thermal energy is energy that results from moving atoms or molecules and is commonly referred to as heat. The faster the atoms or molecules move, the more heat or thermal energy they have.
(3) Electrical energy is converted into thermal energy when you use objects such as heating pads, electrical stove elements, toasters, hair dryers, or light bulbs. A thermal infrared image of a hair dryer and a flourescent light bulb. (4) Chemical energy from the foods we eat is converted into heating our bodies.
In a thermal power station fuel such as coal, oil or gas is burned in a furnace to produce heat-chemical to heat energy. 1  this heat is used to change water into steam in the boiler. 2  the steam drives the turbine-heat to kinetic energy. 3  this drives the generator to produce electricity-kinetic to electrical energy.