Many expats think wearing the ghutra is part of tradition or culture, it’s actually much more than that. Arabs used to use it to protect the mouth and eyes from blown dust and sandstorms, centuries ago traveling on a camel the ghutra helped immensely. Today most don’t even know it serves as protection. To my surprise many that wear the ghutra on a daily basis had no idea, since we have a dust storm every other weekend the ghutra comes in handy. I don’t know if the abaya is of any help for the ladies in that situation. Photos courtesy of BBC & Al Anba News
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. The keffiyeh is a type of headdress worn by men in many Arabic countries. It is known by numerous other names, including many alternate spellings of the word keffiyeh. Other names include shemag, yashmag, ghutra, mashada and hatta. In Palestine, the scarf, typically made of cotton, or cotton and wool, has a spider-web pattern and is often black and white. In other countries keffiyeh may vary in design and color. In addition to being traditional garb, the keffiyeh serves an incredibly functional purpose.
Ghutra is a square shaped cotton fabric. It is folded diagonally to form a triangular shape. When it is worn, Gutrah is also folded from the front. Men wear gutrah on the top of Kufeya. It is made from cotton or a a polyester mix. However, this color is commonly changed into darker colors such as brown, navy blue, black during the winter. Winter's thawb are made from wool. The collar of the thawb comes in different styles.
The Palestinian keffiyeh is a gender-neutral chequered black and white scarf that is usually worn around the neck or head. The Palestinian keffiyeh has become a symbol of Palestinian nationalism, dating back to the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine. The wearing of the keffiyeh often comes with criticism from various political factions in the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The slang “keffiyeh kinderlach” refers to young left-wing American Jews, particularly college students, who sport a keffiyeh around the neck as a political/fashion statement.
The keffiyeh has been worn by Arabs residing in regions in Arabia, Jordan and Iraq for over a century. During the 1960s, usage of the black and white Palestinian keffiyeh grew as Palestinian nationalism increased and the Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat adopted it as a symbol. The keffiyeh is almost always of white cotton cloth, but many have a checkered pattern in red or black stitched into them. The plain white keffiyeh is most popular in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf – in Kuwait and Bahrain, to the exclusion of almost any other style.
The keffiyeh is usually folded in half (into a triangle) and the fold worn across the forehead. Often, the keffiyeh is held in place by a circlet of rope called an agal (Arabic: عقال ‎, ʿiqāl). Some wearers wrap the keffiyeh into a turban, while others wear it loosely draped around the back and shoulders. The keffiyeh is almost always of white cotton cloth, but many have a checkered pattern in red or black stitched into them. The plain white keffiyeh is most popular in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf – in Kuwait and Bahrain, to the exclusion of almost any other style.
The Taqiyah. The Taqiyah is a small white cap that keeps the ghutra from slipping off the head. In some places like Egypt, Sudan and other African countries, Tagiya is worn by itself with no other headcover. When worn by itself, Tagiyah can be of any color, while when worn under a headcover, it is always white. This type of clothing is very popular in the Middle east and other Islamic countries. The style may vary slightly from country to country. The headdress consists of three things: the Taqiyah, the Ghutra ,and the Iqal. Some men may choose not to wear the Iqal. The Ghutra. Ghutrah, which is a part of the headdress worn by Arab men, is a square scarf made of cotton, and is worn folded into a triangular shape with the fold in the front over the Tagiyah
On the top of Ghutra or Shumag, doubled black rope-like cord called igal is worn in order to hold ghutra in place. Igal is generally made of tightly woven black goat-hair and sheep's wool. Igal should not wrap around the forehead as kufeya do. It is made from cotton or a a polyester mix. However, this color is commonly changed into darker colors such as brown, navy blue, black during the winter. Winter's thawb are made from wool. The collar of the thawb comes in different styles.