Another criterion for the location of Tornado Alley (or Tornado Alleys) can be where the strongest tornadoes occur more frequently. Tornado Alley can also be defined as an area reaching from central Texas to the Canadian prairies and from eastern Colorado to western Pennsylvania. The southeastern U.S. region is particularly prone to violent, long track tornadoes. Much of the housing in this region is less robust than in other parts of the USA and many people live in mobile homes. As a result, tornado related casualties in the southern U.S. are particularly high.
The location that has the highest frequency of tornadoes is called tornado ally. Tornado Ally is mostly known as the middle of the United states, which is northern Texas, Okla … homa, eastern Colorado, and the southwestern part of Iowa. Some people also say Ohio and Illinois are are part of it, too. Tornado Alley is located in the central U.S. as that is where warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico meets with cool air from Canada and dry … air from the Rocky Mountains. The warm, moist air acts a fuel for thunderstorms while the incoming cool, or dry air mass, sometimes both, act as a trigger for their development.
Tornadoes are most common in the central part of the United States, known as the Great Plains. This area is suited to bring all of the ingredients together to forms tornadoes. More than 500 tornadoes typically occur in this area every year and is why it is commonly known as Tornado Alley.. Copyright 2009 WFMZ. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed
About 90% of all tornadoes worldwide occur in the United States. More than half strike within a couple of hundred miles of Missouri and Arkansas. Tornadoes occur frequently in … Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Tennessee, and Mississippi. They are a bit less frequent in the northern plains states and Ohio Valley. Nearly every state in the USA has had tornadoes at some time. (tornado alley) Why they occur is because: they get warm moist air from the gulf of Mexico that collides with cold … dry air from Canada, and they get contained in this area by the mountain ranges that are on either side, when the air collides they swirl around each other causing a tornado. 2 people found this useful.
Tornado Alley is a region in the United States that gets more tornadoes, especially strong ones, than anywhere else in the world. It is located on the Great Plains, stretching … from Texas to South Dakota and Iowa. Tornado Alley is located in the central U.S. as that is where warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico meets with cool air from Canada and dry … air from the Rocky Mountains. The warm, moist air acts a fuel for thunderstorms while the incoming cool, or dry air mass, sometimes both, act as a trigger for their development.
The are a combination of factors. Tornado Alley is located in the central U.S. as that is where warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico meets with cool air from Canada and dry … air from the Rocky Mountains. The warm, moist air acts a fuel for thunderstorms while the incoming cool, or dry air mass, sometimes both, act as a trigger for their development.
East of the Rocky Mountains is where tornadoes most often occur, specifically in a sub-region known as Tornado Alley. Tornado Alley includes the Midwest states of Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Nebraska, as well as the southern state of Texas. 
Tornadoes occur in many parts of the world, including Australia, Europe, Africa, Asia, and South America. Even New Zealand reports about 20 tornadoes each year. Two of the highest concentrations of tornadoes outside the U.S. are Argentina and Bangladesh. 
Bob The Storm Chaser (Geography Project). Commonly Tornadoes are found in the USA, but can be found all over the world. The area of the US called tornado alley seems to get the most tornadoes. This area includes parts of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. Tornadoes occur here because of three things, heat, moisture, and lifting. The moisture comes from the Gulf of Mexico, the heating from the sun, and the lifting comes from the dry line