Good point! Let's define large meal as a meal containing more than 600 calories with several ounces of protein or meat, carbohydrates, vegetables, and dessert—a typical dinner or large lunch. If you have a meal like this, you should wait three to four hours before running. 
Timing. Make it a practice to eat large meals at least three to 4 hours before working out. If you have a smaller sized meal, you can work out two to 3 hours after eating. Light snacks are typically fine when eaten right before and even during exercise. When you are done working out, you can enjoy a meal immediately. 
How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself.
The effects of Botox injections last about four to six months, and exercise after a procedure usually is tempered for a short period of time. The side effects of the toxic injection usually don't last more than 24 or 48 hours for most patients. 
You should wait to exercise if you've eaten a large meal (at least three to four hours, but sometimes up to six, is required). This is because it takes your body some time to digest a large meal, but intense exercise slows your digestion (and instead diverts energy to your muscles). If you exercise first thing in the morning, get up early enough (two to three hours ahead of time) to eat a full breakfast. If you only have an hour to spare you should still eat something, just make it a light snack.
After four hours, or certainly by the next day, all activities can be resumed.”. The basic idea then is to give yourself a minimum of four hours and a whole day can’t hurt. This is actually pretty easy … just plan your Botox session after you’ve had your workout for the day and ideally the day before a rest day. in Health. “The point of all this is to allow the Botox to bind and enter the nerve and get the best effect possible. Exercise, hanging upside down, and putting your head down all increase blood flow to your face and have the potential of “washing out ” the Botox and lessening the effect. Rubbing the area may cause the Botox to spread to an area that was unintended
When it comes to eating before exercise, it's all about timing. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort.
3. If you have a history of cold sores, you will need to start an antiviral medication, Valtrex, 24 hours before the procedure. Notify Dr. Emdur or her nurse if you do have a history of cold sores and do not have a prescription for Valtrex. After. 1
up vote 2 down vote. Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during. It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy.