A. A. A. A rash indicates an abnormal change in skin color or texture. Rashes are usually caused by skin inflammation, which can have many causes. There are many types of rashes, including eczema, granuloma annulare, lichen planus, and pityriasis rosea. Eczema and Your Skin. Eczema is a general term that describes several different conditions in which skin is inflamed, red, scaly, and itchy. Eczema is a common skin condition, and atopic dermatitis (also called atopic eczema) is one of the most common forms of eczema. Eczema can occur in adults or children.
Rashes Caused By Allergies. Hives. The most common allergic rash is hives, an extremely itchy rash that consists of raised large welts on the surface of the body, often circular with a pale center. Hives can result from an allergic reaction to medicines, foods, viral infections, or insect stings and bites. 1 For localized itchy rashes, apply 1% hydrocortisone cream if the rash is not a result of fungus, chicken pox, or bacterial infection. 2  If your child has just started taking a new medicine, and develops a rash, consult your physician immediately.
Rash facts. 1  Rash is not a specific diagnosis. 2  Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 3  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 4  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 1 Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes.
There are many types of skin rashes. A rash is an outbreak of many red bumps or patches on the body. Many conditions can cause an itchy rash. In adults, several types of skin inflammation, various allergic reactions (contact dermatitis), and sometimes infection with a mite or virus can be the cause of a new rash on the skin. Hives (Urticaria) Hives (urticaria), also known as welts, is a common skin condition with an itchy rash of pink to red bumps that appear and disappear anywhere
A rash is a skin condition that is marked by a change in the appearance of the skin. The change usually occurs as a different color and/or texture. Bumps, roughness, redness or blotchiness are common among many various rash types. The following are some of the most common skin rashes along with their symptoms, causes and treatment options: 1  Eczema: Also known as atopic dermatitis, eczema is a chronic condition which causes the skin to become red, scaly and itchy. 2  It usually appears in patches on the face, neck, limbs or trunk.
You may experience itchiness anywhere along this rash on your legs, and it may come and go. In general, red itchy bumps on your legs are not a cause for alarm. Most doctors have seen this type of rash before and know how to diagnose. You may feel the urge to scratch these bumps, but that is not advisable. You can open up the skin and cause an infection by over-scratching. 
1 Eczema: Also known as atopic dermatitis, eczema is a chronic condition which causes the skin to become red, scaly and itchy. 2  It usually appears in patches on the face, neck, limbs or trunk. 3  This type of rash usually appears periodically and will have periods where it subsides. The following are some of the most common skin rashes along with their symptoms, causes and treatment options: 1  Eczema: Also known as atopic dermatitis, eczema is a chronic condition which causes the skin to become red, scaly and itchy. 2  It usually appears in patches on the face, neck, limbs or trunk.
1 Skin Welt/Rash: This type of rash can occur as a result of injury or irritation to the skin. 2  It usually appears as a raised, red area where contact occurred. 3  Pain medications along with soothing creams may be used to treat these types of rashes. The following are some of the most common skin rashes along with their symptoms, causes and treatment options: 1  Eczema: Also known as atopic dermatitis, eczema is a chronic condition which causes the skin to become red, scaly and itchy. 2  It usually appears in patches on the face, neck, limbs or trunk.
1 Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 2  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 3  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes. 4  Rashes lasting more than a few days that are unexplained should be evaluated by a doctor. 1 Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 2  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 3  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 4