1 If you're under 18 years old, your permit is valid for 2 years and you must hold it a minimum of 9 months before you can apply for an initial driver's license.
If you're new to Illinois and have a learner's permit from your previous state, your permit may transfer to Illinois, but it depends on your out-of-state driving experience and driver's education requirements. To find out if you meet the GDL requirements for Illinois, you can contact the SOS at (888) 261-5238.
Your permit's validity varies based on age: 1  If you're under 18 years old, your permit is valid for 2 years and you must hold it a minimum of 9 months before you can apply for an initial driver's license. 2  If you're 18 years old or older, you'll receive an Illinois learner's permit that is valid for only 1 year.
To qualify for an Illinois Real Estate Broker License in the State of Illinois you must be at least 21 years old, a high school graduate or equivalent (G.E.D.), successfully complete the required coursework and pass the state licensing exam.
You must be 16 years old to get a permit, and you must also present your birth certificate, Social Security card, and a parent or legal guardian if you're under the age of 18. KY instruction permits cost $12.
Learner's Permit Age Requirements. Illinois has established age-related requirements for obtaining an instruction permit. If you are 15 to 17 years old, you need to: 1  Be currently enrolled in a state-approved driver's education course.
Once you are at least 16 years old and have held your IL instructional permit for at least 9 months without any traffic violations, you are eligible for your initial Illinois provisional license. You will need to have completed your Driver's Ed course, and you'll take and pass a DMV road test at the time that you apply.
when you are 17 yrs 6 months old   Correction: You must be at least 15 years old to get your permit. To get your liscense, you must be at least 16, and have had your permit … for at least 6 months. 17 people found this useful.