Why Are they Called Bearded Dragons. Bearded dragons are called bearded because the spikes and scales they have around their head resembles a beard. They use this as a defense mechanism and will expand their throat whenever they feel threatened. The bearded dragon's scientific name is Pogona Vitticeps and they are medium sized lizards which are generally 12-24 inches in length from their head to the tip of their tail.
Crickets are the most popular insects fed to bearded dragons, but they can also be fed other insects such as black soldier fly larvae, locusts, superworms, waxworms, silkworms, butterworms, grasshoppers, hornworms, mealworms, and even some varieties of roaches, such as dubia roaches. Bearded dragons—most commonly, the inland or central bearded dragon—are kept as pets. Introduced as pets to the US during the 1990s, they are a popular exotic species pet even though Australia, from the 1960s onward, has banned the sale of its wildlife to the pet trade.
Bearded Dragons are lizards, in the genus Pogona, that are native to Australia. Bearded Dragons are often kept as exotic pets, especially the Inland Bearded Dragon (species Pogona vitticeps). These pets are also affectionately called Beardies by those who breed or raise them. They are a popular breed among children, because of their friendly and calm nature
A significant portion of the Bearded Dragon's diet may consist of leafy greens. Dragons enjoy many types of readily available greens, including: collard greens, spring greens, escarole, turnip greens, mustard greens, romaine lettuce, dandelion greens, parsley, and carrot tops. Bearded Dragons are often kept as exotic pets, especially the Inland Bearded Dragon (species Pogona vitticeps). These pets are also affectionately called Beardies by those who breed or raise them.
Because Bearded Dragons are omnivores, they need a balanced diet of meat and vegetable matter. Hatchlings eat mostly small insects. As they grow, they will start to eat more vegetable matter. The diet of a juvenile dragon (2-4 months of age) will consist of approximately 80% insects and 20% greens. The Bearded Dragon is tan to yellow in color. It is called bearded because of the dragon's ability to flare out the skin in the throat region when it is threatened or territorial. Its body has a flattened appearance, which becomes even more pronounced if the dragon is alarmed.
Generally speaking, the bearded dragon is a solitary animal. Male bearded dragons are usually housed alone, as they will fight with other males and breed with females. Captive adults reach about 42 to 61 cm (17 to 24 in) from head to tail, weigh 350 to 600 g (10 to 20 oz) and live for about 8 to 12 years with good care. Bearded dragons—most commonly, the inland or central bearded dragon—are kept as pets. Introduced as pets to the US during the 1990s, they are a popular exotic species pet even though Australia, from the 1960s onward, has banned the sale of its wildlife to the pet trade.
Confidence votes 56. When a bearded dragon gets scared, a pouch near the throat inflates and darkens, so as to intimidate the foe. They also look like small dragons. Also the beardie is showing off. 1 That is the same reason why many bearded dragon owners give their pets a name. 2  When it comes to naming this type of reptile, …. 3  Dividing and Transplanting Bearded Iris Bearded iris must be divided every three to five years to prevent overcrowding and increase bloom production.
In the wild, Bearded Dragons are originally from Austalia, however, there are different species in different parts of the country. Bearded Dragons are the common name for given to a small group of lizards known also as Pogona which are found only throughout Australia. Bearded Dragons are the common name for given to a small group of lizards known also as Pogona which are found only throughout Australia. 