How Attorneys Are Paid. Unlike real estate agents, lawyers are paid on an hourly basis, and therein lies the biggest drawback of hiring a real estate lawyer in the purchase of your home--attorney's fees range from $175-$400 per hour.
He will also be with you at settlement along with your realtor and possibly your lending agent. All of these people are working for you to make sure you are protected. Depending on where you live hiring a real estate attorney can typically cost from $800 – $1,000; check for the costs in your specific area.
While any licensed lawyer can take on real estate cases, it's highly preferred that you hire someone who focuses heavily or solely specializes in real estate law. As a general rule of thumb, at least 50% of the lawyer's practice should be in real estate. 3.
Tenant Eviction: $300 to $1,200 flat fee excluding filing and sheriff fees (beware of lawyers who charge for evictions by the hour-in some cases their total fees can exceed $3,000). Real Estate Legal Advice: $150 to $400 hourly fee (minimum charge of 1 to 2 hours).
Whether you choose to hire a buying agent, a real estate attorney, or both, remember that you are in charge of the process and they are there to provide you with a service. Be clear in communicating your needs and desires, get agreements in writing, and stay active in the process.
Between $800 to $1,500 is where the fees should be for attorneys on a real estate transaction, and where most attorneys I've seen are at. This fee is just a small fraction of the total expenses related to a coop purchase. There are 2 major parts to closing costs, lender related fees and title related fees.
Attorney’s fees are generally the bulk of the cost associated with creating a trust. The cost for an attorney to draft a living trust can range from $1,000 to $1,500 for individuals and $1,200 to $2,500 for married couples.
Hiring a real estate attorney may seem like just another person and an added cost, but this cost could save you hundreds or even thousands of dollars in the long run.