5 Things Not to Wear on a First Date. by eHarmony Staff. Dating, Dating Style, First Dates. Don’t let your first date attire ruin your chances for a second date. What you wear is the perfect opportunity to present who you are before you say a word. To win your date over with captivating style, consider the location, time of day and weather as these factors will weigh heavily on your attire choice and stay away from our top five things you shouldn’t wear on a first date.
What to Wear on a First Date. If you’re going out on a date with a woman, dress like a man. Dress in a manner that she understands you take her seriously, that this date could lead to the biggest commitment of your lives. Because it just might. A man going on a first date should ensure he is well groomed, dressed sharp, and then he should forget about his appearance and have a great time. The sole purpose of all this proper dressing talk is to give you the confidence to focus on the woman you’re with.
You should wear something nice. If your going out to a nice restaurant, you should wear a nice button up shirt and maybe some nice jeans. If your going out casually, like to the movies, wear something nice still, but not too over the top. If you are going out to eat, you may not want to wear anything white or light for a top. If you drop food, you can wipe it off so it is not noticeable with colors that are a little darker. You won't have to be paranoid the rest of the date with pasta sauce on your chest.
What to Wear on a First Date, and Why it Really Matters. Meghan Blalock March 19, 2014 4:15pm. For most of us, getting dressed for a date—especially if it’s a first date, or even a second or a third date—is pretty second nature. 
In the past few weeks, there has been a lot of debate on what should and shouldn't be worn on a first date. Flip-flops, tracksuits and turtlenecks have been thrown around as items you should absolutely never wear. Well, sort of. While we totally encourage you to wear your favorite pair of sneakers and your most beloved pair of jeans, there are seven things that should never be worn on a first date... under any circumstance. 1. Red lipstick
Dress for the occasion. Obviously, you're not going to wear a three-piece suit to go on a hike, so make sure you know what's appropriate for your first date. What you want to do with your outfit is make a good impression on your date and dressing inappropriately is a sure way to not impress! Most relationships are built on a series of first impressions, and a first date is a prime opportunity to forge a stronger connection with someone. While it's not an exact science, see Step 1 to get started choosing the proper attir
Two Methods: Dressing as a Guy Dressing as a Girl. Most relationships are built on a series of first impressions, and a first date is a prime opportunity to forge a stronger connection with someone. While it's not an exact science, see Step 1 to get started choosing the proper attire for your first date.
Working up the courage to ask someone out is the tough part. Don’t waste anxiety on figuring out what to wear on the first date. Find a no-fail uniform—and then replicate it when you get a second date. Of course, you’ll need to dress up a little on a first date to show some effort. But not too much. 
Jeans and a polo shirt is fine for a first date. I think glasses can be really nice but choose whatever you'll feel more comfortable in. If you go for cologne, ask a (girl) friend if it smells good first and NEVER wear too much. 