Do not choose a baby first name based on these short name descriptions. Your baby's name must be in harmony with: your baby's birthdate (inner potential) and your family's surname (last name) It is essential that you understand the qualities of your family name. Extended Description of this Name (viewable to Premium Members only). However, you do not know the meaning of relaxation, for when supposedly resting, your mind is forever active, planning out some new project or seeking new ways to improve your present enterprise.
Welcome to some of the best Chaudhry genealogy resources found on the web. We hope you will participate on the Chaudhry forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Chaudhry genealogy and is completely free to participate. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Chaudhry history, Chaudhry ancestory, and Chaudhry family connections. If you are a Chaudhry, or are realated to the Chaudhry family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information.
Recorded in over a dozen Romanish forms including Chaudhry, Choudhury and possibly Houdhury, this is a surname popular on the Indian subcontinent, although its origins are said to be Persian and Turkish. Although Chaudhry is more generally found as a Muslim name, it is one that over the centuries has also been used at least descriptively, in parts of the sub continent and Asia, not originally under Muslim influence. Surnames as used in the western sense are a relatively new feature in many pasrts of the world
Chaudhry at RootsWeb databases. Chaudhry in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Chaudhry genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Chaudhry surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Chaudhry history, Chaudhry ancestory, and Chaudhry family connections. If you are a Chaudhry, or are realated to the Chaudhry family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information.
While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc. Find out where people with the family name Chaudhary lived before coming to the United States. 
Jasmine is a feminine given name. It refers to the scented flowering plant, jasmine. It is originated from Persian یاسمین or یاسمن, which means the Yas flower. The name has been popular in a number of countries in recent years. In the United States, it first entered the top 1,000 list of most popular names in 1973
Alternate spellings for Chaudhry include: Chowdhury, Chowdary, Chaudhury, Choudhury, Choudhry, Chaudhuri, Chaudhary,Choudry, Chaudry or Choudhary. 
CHAUDHRY. THE SIR NAME AND TITLE. CHAUDHRY pronounced (CHAUDREEY) Historically, this term literally means “a holder of four or owner of the fourth part.” It is a title indicating the ownership of ancestral land found in the South Asia area. It is often taken as a surname. It does not indicate a tribe, but rather a position held.