Clostridium. Clostridium are rod-shaped, Gram-positive (bacteria that retain a violet or dark blue Gram staining due to excessive amounts of peptidoglycan in their cell walls) bacteria that are capable of producing spores. Sporolactobacillus is a group of anaerobic, rod-shaped, spore forming bacteria that include Sporolactobacillus dextrus, Sporolactobacillus inulinus, Sporolactobacillus laevis, Sporolactobacillus terrae and Sporolactobacillus vineae.
Bacillus. Bacillus is a specific genus of rod-shaped bacteria that are capable of forming spores. They are sporulating, aerobic and ubiquitous in nature. Bacillus is a fairly large group with many members, including Bacillus cereus, Bacillus clausii and Bacillus halodenitrificans. Sporolactobacillus is a group of anaerobic, rod-shaped, spore forming bacteria that include Sporolactobacillus dextrus, Sporolactobacillus inulinus, Sporolactobacillus laevis, Sporolactobacillus terrae and Sporolactobacillus vineae.
Petri dish with bacterial culture. Term for the dormant form of spore-forming bacteria. The formation of bacterial spores is usually triggered by unfavourable growth conditions. Depending on the type of bacteria, spores are divided into endospores, exospores, myxospores, and cysts. 
Some non-spore-forming bacteria are pathogenic and can cause disease via ingestion of spores. One such bacterium is the Gram negative Serratia entomophila, a naturally occurring pathogen of grass grubs in New Zealand. Non-spore-forming bacteria that are not active invaders may enter the hemocoel when the insect has been stressed and/or injured. Once in the hemocoel, many non-spore-forming bacteria multiply rapidly and may cause death of the insect from bacterial septicemia within one or two days.
Spore-forming bacteria. When certain bacteria grow, they have the ability to develop resistance to extreme heat, dryness and chemicals. These bacteria are called spore formers because they develop a shell which is capable of protecting the cell under adverse conditions. The spore is the resting stage of the live bacteria and it can begin to grow into an active cell when proper growth conditions are provided. These bacteria produce diseases in humans, animals and plants and are called pathogenic bacteria. They are a relatively few in number and produce disease by growing on or in certain tissues and producing harmful poisons or toxins, which people and animals consume. Spoilage bacteria.
An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. The name endospore is suggestive of a spore or seed-like form (endo means within), but it is not a true spore (i.e., not an offspring). It is a stripped-down, dormant form to which the bacterium can reduce itself.
Bacterial Spores are a bacterial defensive strategy to survive in harsh environments. Several types of bacteria are capable of using this mechanism. The spores themselves do not cause the disease, they must be first be reactivated to functional bacteria in the proper environment. Bascillis anthasis or more commonly know as anthrax is the most well know due to the potential terrorist threat. 
Spore-Forming Bacteria: The Spore Staining Method Introduction There are two genuses of bacteria that are capable of forming spores. The aerobic spore formers are the genus Bacillus; the anaerobic spore formers are the genus Clostridium. As spores are formed in the bacteria in response to any of the above challenges, they develop a thick protective wall. By the stage of wall development, these pre-spores are called endospores and the rest of the bacterium is called a sporangium.
Some bacteria are capable of forming spores around themselves, which allow the organism to survive in hostile environmental conditions. Bacterial spores are made of a tough outer layer of keratin that is resistant to chemicals, staining and heat. Sporolactobacillus is a group of anaerobic, rod-shaped, spore forming bacteria that include Sporolactobacillus dextrus, Sporolactobacillus inulinus, Sporolactobacillus laevis, Sporolactobacillus terrae and Sporolactobacillus vineae.