By definition, sport psychology is the study of mental factors as they relate to athletics. Sport psychology is commonly referred to as sport and exercise psychology, as it is used for team sports as well as individual fitness endeavors.
Sport psychology professionals are interested in how participation in sport, exercise, and physical activity may enhance personal development and well-being throughout the life span. Sport psychologists are also involved in assisting coaches in working with athletes as well as helping improve athletes' motivation.
Applied sport and exercise psychology involves extending theory and research into the field to educate coaches, athletes, parents, exercisers, fitness professionals, and athletic trainers about the psychological aspects of their sport or activity.
A sports psychologist applies the theories and principles of psychology to sport and exercise. The field of sports psychology is relatively young, but it is a broad discipline that can help professional and amateur athletes alike.
To provide clarity for the profession, the authors offer a definition of applied sport psychology conceptualized as a sub-field of performance psychology. The constructs of performance and performance issues are also defined.
Sport psychology is an interdisciplinary science that draws on knowledge from many related fields including biomechanics, physiology, kinesiology and psychology. It involves the study of how psychological factors affect performance and how participation in sport and exercise affect psychological and physical factors.
Sports psychology is essentially the study of how the mind affects physical activity and athletic performance.
Sport Psychology. Sport psychology is a proficiency that uses psychological knowledge and skills to address optimal performance and well-being of athletes, developmental and social aspects of sports participation, and systemic issues associated with sports settings and organizations.
Exercise psychology and sport psychology involve the scientific study of the psychological factors that are associated with participation and performance in sport, exercise and other types of physical activity.