Geography. Morocco is located in North Africa along the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. Its borders are Algeria and the Western Sahara, and shares borders with the Spanish enclaves Ceuta and Melilla. Morocco's northern coast and interior regions are mountainous with the Atlas Mountains located primarily in the middle and southern portions of the country. Morocco's highest point is Jebel Toubkal, with an elevation of 13,665 feet above sea level.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Morocco is located in the northwestern corner of the African continent. It is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Mediterranean Sea to the north, and Algeria to the east and southeast. The Strait of Gibraltar separates it from Spain at its northern tip. Its southern border is the Sahara Desert. With an area of 446,550 square kilometers (172,413 square miles) and a coastline of 1,835 kilometers (1,140 miles), Morocco is slightly larger than California. Morocco's capital city, Rabat, is located in the northwest of the country overlooking the Atlantic Ocean. Other major cities are Casablanca on the Atlantic Ocean, Marrakech (the business capital) in the center, and Tangier in the north, on the Strait of Gibraltar
Located in the continent of Africa, Morocco covers 446,300 square kilometers of land and 250 square kilometers of water, making it the 58th largest nation in the world with a total area of 446,550 square kilometers. Location of Rabat on a map. Rabat is the capital city of Morocco. It has a population of 1,655,753, and is located on a latitue of 34.01 and longitude of -6.83.
Where is Morocco located on the world map? The given Morocco location map shows that Morocco is located in the north-west part of Africa continent. Morocco map also shows that Morocco shares its international boundary with Algeria from the west; however, in the southern region it has boundary with disputed region Western Sahara. Besides, from the north-west side, it has coastline with Mediterranean Sea and in the western side Atlantic Ocean lies. 
Lowest Point: Sebkha Tah at -180 feet (-55 m). Morocco is a country located in Northern Africa along the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea (map). It is officially called the Kingdom of Morocco and it is known for its long history, rich culture and diverse cuisine. Morocco's capital city is Rabat but its largest city is Casablanca. History of Morocco. Morocco has a long history that has been shaped over decades by its geographic location on both the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea.
Morocco is a country located in Northwest Africa, right on the edge of the African continent, bordering Algerian to the east, Mauritania to the south, the Atlantic Ocean to the west and the Mediterranean Sea to the north. 
Satellite view is showing Rabat, seaport and the capital of Morocco, located at the country's west coast to the Atlantic Ocean, at the estuary mouth of the Bou Regreg River. Rabat has a population of about 1.2 million inhabitants. 
Morocco is geographically located in Northern Africa along the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea. It is bordered by Algeria and Western Sahara. It also still shares borders with two enclaves that are considered a part of Spain-Ceuta and Melilla. Morocco's capital city is Rabat but its largest city is Casablanca. History of Morocco. Morocco has a long history that has been shaped over decades by its geographic location on both
Mauritania Mauritania is located in North West Africa. It is bound by Senegal to the southwest, Mali to the south and east, Algeria to the northeast, Western Sahara (occupied by Morocco) to the north and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.... Morocco Morocco is located in the northwestern corner of Africa. It is bound by Western Sahara to the southwest, Algeria to the southeast and east, the Mediterranean sea to the northeast and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.... Niger Niger is located in