Pectin is a naturally occurring carbohydrate in fruit that is concentrated in the fruit's skin and the core. When cooked, Pectin solidifies to a gel, causing fruit preserves to set. Fruit uses Pectin to build cell walls with. To test to see how much Pectin is present in a fruit juice or stewed-down fruit, put 1 tablespoon of rubbing alcohol into a glass, and add 1 tablespoon of juice from the fruit (allow the juice to cool for a minute or two first), and let stand for 2 to 3 minutes. A jelly-like blob should form.
Commercial pectin is made from apples or citrus fruit and is available in both the powdered and liquid forms. The powdered and liquid forms are not interchangeable in recipes. Fruits low in pectin are often combined with those high in pectin. Orange (high pectin) and rhubarb jam (low pectin) for instance, blends two fruits with quite different pectin contents and as a result usually does not require commercial pectin.
Tips from The Kitchn. Pin it. I rarely use commercial pectin in my jams, relying instead on the natural pectin of the fruit (plus I like a looser set). But there are times when a little boost is helpful if I'm preserving low-pectin fruits, making a larger batch, or wanting to reduce cooking time.
The skins or rind of many citrus fruits also contain great amounts of natural pectin which is why many marmalades are easy to get to the gel stage. These types of fruits are great to use in your jams and preserves because they naturally thicken your recipes. Fruits low in pectin are often combined with those high in pectin. Orange (high pectin) and rhubarb jam (low pectin) for instance, blends two fruits with quite different pectin contents and as a result usually does not require commercial pectin.
Often their gel like consistency is achieved using naturally occurring pectin that is found in fruits and vegetables. If not enough pectin is present in the fruit or vegetable, then pectin or some other gelling agent has to be added. The formula for making jam is essentially: mix 50% fruit with 50% sugar, add plenty of water and bring the whole lot to around boiling temperature where the naturally occurring pectin is activated. If the fruit does not contain enough pectin, then pectin can be added to ensure a jelly can set properly. Generally prepackaged cubes do not set as well as home made jelly. Vegetarian gelatin, often agar agar-E406, sets pretty hard when compared to jelly that uses gelatin.
Pectin is a naturally occurring substance in fruit that makes sweet preserves gel. However, some fruits are low in pectin and need added pectin in order to gel. You can buy commercial pectin, or you can make your own from citrus peels. You can also make pectin from apples. High-pectin citrus peel is what makes marmalade gel without added pectin. Keep in mind that it is the white pith, or inner part of the citrus peel that is rich in pectin. Under-ripe fruits have more of this pith than fully ripe fruits
The key is the high pectin fruit will thicken the mixture without added pectin in the right ratios. For jellies, because it is the juice only of any of the fruits below, you will need to add a commercial liquid pectin or cook the mixture to 220º which will firm it enough to hold the shape. The highest quality pectin is found in just-ripe fruit. Pectin from under-ripe or over-ripe fruit will not form a gel. Fruits low in pectin are often combined with those high in pectin. Orange (high pectin) and rhubarb jam (low pectin) for instance, blends two fruits with quite different pectin contents and as a result usually does not require commercial pectin.
Lemons and other citrus fruits are rich in pectin, which thickens jams. I use a lot of lemon zest, peels, and juice in my kitchen so whenever I have leftover seeds, I save them in a container in the freezer. They last forever and can be pulled out when needed. I rarely use commercial pectin in my jams, relying instead on the natural pectin of the fruit (plus I like a looser set). But there are times when a little boost is helpful if I'm preserving low-pectin fruits, making a larger batch, or wanting to reduce cooking time.
Like most citrus fruit, they are an excellent source of Vitamins C and B6. The pectin in lemons provides a very important type of dietary fibre. Lemons and limes do not contain fat, sodium, nor cholesterol. But they contain significant amounts of potassium, calcium, folate, thiamin, niacin, vitamin B6, phosphorus, magnesium and copper. 
Pectin and Plants. Pectin is a carbohydrate substance derived from plants, usually fruits. It’s found in the plant cell walls and often binds cells together. Most fruits and some vegetables contain pectin, but apples, plums, grapes and citrus fruits like grapefruit, oranges and lemons are the best sources of pectin. Its concentration is highest when the fruit is at the just-ripe stage. Most commercial pectin is made from apples or citrus fruits