The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood.
1 To check your overall health. 2  Your doctor may test your hemoglobin as part of a complete blood count during a routine medical examination to monitor your general health and to screen for a variety of disorders, such as anemia. 3  To diagnose a medical condition.
Why the Test is Performed. The hemoglobin test is a commonly ordered blood test and is almost always done as part of a complete blood count (CBC). Common reasons or conditions for ordering the hemoglobin test include: 1  Symptoms such as fatigue, feelings of poor health, or unexplained weight loss.
Why it's done. You may have a hemoglobin test for several reasons: 1  To check your overall health. 2  Your doctor may test your hemoglobin as part of a complete blood count during a routine medical examination to monitor your general health and to screen for a variety of disorders, such as anemia. 3  To diagnose a medical condition.
Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia).
A glycohemoglobin test, or hemoglobin A1c, is a blood test that checks the amount of sugar (glucose) bound to the hemoglobin in the red blood cells. When hemoglobin and glucose bond, a coat of sugar forms on the hemoglobin.
1 Your doctor may test your hemoglobin as part of a complete blood count during a routine medical examination to monitor your general health and to screen for a variety of disorders, such as anemia. 2  To diagnose a medical condition.