While other Mangifera species (e.g. horse mango, Mangifera foetida) are also grown on a more localized basis, Mangifera indica —the common mango or Indian mango—is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions. The mango is a juicy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees, cultivated mostly for edible fruit. The majority of these species are found in nature as wild mangoes. They all belong to the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae.
The Mango (Mangifera) genus of trees is part of the sumac plant family (Anacardiaceae), known for its other toxic genus groups, such as Poison Sumac (Rhus), and the Poison Ivy, Poison Oak genus (Toxicodendron). Mangifera tree species are mainly cultivated in Asia, however specific species have been introduced to other parts of the world for food production. About 27 species in the Mangifera genus produce edible fleshy fruits the most well known being the common Mango (Mangifera indica). The other edible Mangifera species generally produce less desirable fruit and are commonly referred to as wild mangos
Mango Scientific Name is the combination of its genus (Mangifera) and species (M. indica), which makes Mangifera Indica as Mango scientific name. The scientific name of Mango determines its relationship with other fruits. Mango scientific name is derived from the Latin or Greek languages. Scientific name of Mango consists of two parts: First part of the scientific name of Mango defines the genus to which the species belongs whereas the second part of the scientific name of Mango defines the species within the genus.
Mango in French. Name of fruits are common in most of the languages but might be different in pronunciation. Might be a tongue twister to say Mango in French or German but an easy way to communicate. Mango in French is called Fruit du manguier or Mangue or Manguier and Mango in German is known as Mango or Mangofrucht. Mango scientific name is derived from the Latin or Greek languages. Scientific name of Mango consists of two parts: First part of the scientific name of Mango defines the genus to which the species belongs whereas the second part of the scientific name of Mango defines the species within the genus.
A picture of a Mango Tree. The common Mango tree (Mangifera indica) is the most well known species within the Mangifera genus of flowering trees, which is presently comprised of approximately 69 species. These trees are native to subtropical and tropical southeast Asia. Mangifera tree species are mainly cultivated in Asia, however specific species have been introduced to other parts of the world for food production. About 27 species in the Mangifera genus produce edible fleshy fruits the most well known being the common Mango (Mangifera indica). The other edible Mangifera species generally produce less desirable fruit and are commonly referred to as wild mangos
ORIGIN. Common mango (Mangifera indica L.) originated as alloploid and its native home was suggested as Eastern India, Assam to Burma or possibly further in the Malay region (Popenoe, 1920). Vavilov (1926) also suggested Indo-Burma region as the centre of origin of mango. Truly wild common mango trees have been recorded in Bangladesh (Chittagong Hills), northeastern India (Assam valley) and Myanmar. Owing to its cultivation and dissemination for thousands of years, in India semi-wild trees can be found in the forests throughout the subcontinent.