Earth's Atmosphere. The atmosphere is a mixture of nitrogen (78%), oxygen (21%), and other gases (1%) that surrounds Earth. High above the planet, the atmosphere becomes thinner until it gradually reaches space. It is divided into five layers. Most of the weather and clouds are found in the first layer. 
The troposphere. The troposphere is one of the four layers of the atmosphere (0-10km in altitude) containing water vapour. Clouds are formed by water condensing and as air cools. This is why cloud formation is possible because the temperature of the troposphere decreases with altitud
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body. Terrestrial cloud formation is the result of air in any of the lower three principal layers of Earth's atmosphere (collectively known as the homosphere) becoming saturated due to either or both of two processes: cooling of the air, and adding water vapor.
The troposphere contains about 75% of all of the air in the atmosphere, and almost all of the water vapour (which forms clouds and rain). The decrease in temperature with height is a result of the decreasing pressure. If a parcel of air moves upwards it expands (because of the lower pressure). The atmosphere can be divided into layers based on its temperature, as shown in the figure below. These layers are the troposphere, the stratosphere, the mesosphere and the thermosphere. A further region, beginning about 500 km above the earth's surface, is called the exosphere.
The Troposphere. This is the lowest part of the atmosphere-the part we live in. It contains most of our weather-clouds, rain, snow. In this part of the atmosphere the temperature gets colder as the distance above the earth increases, by about 6.5°C per kilometre. This change of temperature with height varies from day to day, depending on the weather. The atmosphere can be divided into layers based on its temperature, as shown in the figure below. These layers are the troposphere, the stratosphere, the mesosphere and the thermosphere. A further region, beginning about 500 km above the earth's surface, is called the exosphere.
The troposphere. The troposphere is one of the four layers of the atmosphere (0-10km in altitude) containing water vapour. Clouds are formed by water condensing and as air coo … ls. This is why cloud formation is possible because the temperature of the troposphere decreases with altitude. + 39 others found this useful.
A cloud is a visible aggregate of tiny water droplets and/or ice crystals suspended in the atmosphere and can exist in a variety of shapes and sizes. Some clouds are accompanied by precipitation; rain, snow, hail, sleet, even freezing rain. The purpose of this module is to introduce a number of cloud classifications, different types of precipitation, and the mechanisms responsible for producing them.