exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Ridma Wathsarani. Confidence votes 13. the transduction in hearing takes place at the organ of corti which includes tectorial membrane,sensory cells, basilar membrane and the auditory nerve. A signal transduction is a really complicated process when a molecule signals to a receptor which then alters other molecules as a response to this. The signal can produce a … wide variety of responses. Brittany Dobbs.
Sound transduction uses all of the bones, membranes, and other structures previously discussed in order to relay the sensory information regarding sound to the brain. The process has been simplified and broken down into the five steps displayed below, and in Figure 11. This process description will illustrate the path sound waves take in order to reach the brain, and how the inner ear is capable of distinguishing between the range of frequencies a human hears (50- 18,000 Hz).
Transduction in the nervous system typically refers to stimulus alerting events wherein a physical stimulus is converted into an action potential, which is transmitted along axons towards the central nervous system where it is integrated. In the visual system, sensory cells called rod and cone cells in the retina convert the physical energy of light signals into electrical impulses that travel to the brain.
Sound Transduction in the Ear. Sound Transduction is the process by which the ear senses ambient sounds and translates them into nerve impulses in order to relay the information to the brain. For patients with hearing conditions, doctors, and medical students alike it is important to know the mechanism behind hearing. This process description will illustrate the path sound waves take in order to reach the brain, and how the inner ear is capable of distinguishing between the range of frequencies a human hears (50- 18,000 Hz).
The first phenomenon to take place when a stimulus reaches a receptor is called reception. During reception, the receptors absorb the physical energy of the stimulus, such as light. After reception a process called transduction occurs, whereby the physical energy is transformed or transduced into electrochemical energy. 
the transduction in hearing takes place at the organ of corti which includes tectorial membrane,sensory cells, basilar membrane and the auditory nerve. Signal transduction pathway   The signal transduction pathway is the mechanism by which the energy of a photon signals a mechanism in the cell that leads to its electrical … polarization.
For other uses, see Transduction. Transduction in general is the transportation or transformation of something from one form, place, or concept to another. In psychology, transduction refers to reasoning from specific cases to general cases, typically employed by children during their development. 
Figure 2: Detailed Anatomy of the Inner Ear. Credit: HowStuffWorks.com. In order to understand the process of sound transduction that takes place in the ear, it is important to first learn about all of the various parts in the middle and inner ear that are integral to the process. This process description will illustrate the path sound waves take in order to reach the brain, and how the inner ear is capable of distinguishing between the range of frequencies a human hears (50- 18,000 Hz).
This is how the new genes are expressed in the bacterial cell. In some cases, instead of transferring of whole F factor, only the chromosomal genes can move to the recipient cell. Transduction:- Process of transduction takes place through bacteriophage. This process was discovered in 1956 by Joshua Lederberg and Norton Zinder. In this process, the bacteriophage or virus injects its genetic material while killing the host cell and reproduces itself in the host
The transduction process takes place in the taste buds, specialized concentrations of receptor cells located on the papillae. Figure 8-2. Interaction between taste and smell occurs when the liquid in the cup is taken into the mouth. 