Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that takes place in the cytosol of cells in all living organisms. This pathway can function with or without the presence of oxygen. In humans, aerobic conditions produce pyruvate and anaerobic conditions produce lactate. The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is a series of set of metabolic reactions and processes. These reactions takes place in the cells of organisms, where the organisms convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate. Aerobic respiration takes place in the presence of oxygen, by which ATP is is produced by the cells by oxidation of organic compounds. The end product of glycolysis, pyruvate ente rs t he mitochondria to be fully oxidiz ed by the Krebs cycle.
Glycolysis. The first step in aerobic respiration is glycolysis, which literally means the breakdown of glucose. This process takes place in the cytoplasm, which is a jelly-like substance in your cells. SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Aerobic respiration is a physiological process that takes place in your body to generate an energy molecule called adenosine-5'-triphosphate, or simply ATP. All of your body's cells rely on ATP for normal functioning
1 The process of respiration takes place in the cells. 2  Many small mitochondria in the cell is the actual location for respiration. 3  Oxygen is needed for respiration to take place efficiently. 4  When oxygen is used the process is called aerobic respiration. Breathing. In order to get the oxygen to the cells humans need to breathe air into the lungs. The lungs are where gas exchange takes place between the air and the blood. Therefore breathing is only a physical action at the start of the whole respiration process for humans.
From now on, I will refer to this step as the Krebs cycle. The Krebs cycle is the second step in aerobic respiration and takes place in the matrix of the mitochondria (middle of the mitochondria). This is a multi-step process, but don’t worry, we don’t have to memorize all of the compounds or each enzyme involved. 
Cellular Respiration. The term cellular respiration refers to the biochemical pathway by which cells release energy from the chemical bonds of food molecules and provide that energy for the essential processes of life. All living cells must carry out cellular respiration. 
Respiration. Respiration is the process of releasing energy from the breakdown of glucose. Respiration takes place in every living cell, all of the time and all cells need to respire in order to produce the energy that they require. 
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 