due to the. formed by the rotating limb (i.e. the distal end of the limb traces a circle while the movement of the length of the limb traces a cone shape). Short definition of Circumduction: Circumduction is a conical movement of a limb extending from the joint (e.g. shoulder or hip) at which the movement is controlled.
Circumduction is a combination of flexion, extension, abduction and adduction. The shoulder, hip, wrist and ankle are all examples of joints which can circumduct, because circumduction movements of (e.g. the arm and hand) result in the outer edge of the limb (e.g. the finger tips) tracing circles in space.
Motion, the process of movement, is described using specific anatomical terms. Motion includes movement of organs, joints, limbs, and specific sections of the body. The terminology used, describes this motion according to its direction relative to the anatomical position of the joints.
1 Circumduction is a combination of flexion, extension, abduction and adduction. 2  The shoulder, hip, wrist and ankle are all examples of joints which can circumduct. 
Medical Definition of CIRCUMDUCTION. : movement of a limb or extremity so that the distal end describes a circle while the proximal end remains fixed. — cir·cum·duct \-ˈdəkt\ transitive verb. What made you want to look up circumduction? 
circumduction. Definitions: 1. Movement of a part, an extremity, in a circular direction. Synonyms: cycloduction, circumductio. The definition information for circumduction is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
because circumduction movements of (e.g. the arm and hand) result in the outer edge of the limb (e.g. the finger tips). . Another way to express this is to say that circumduction is the movement of the distal end of a body part so that it traces a circle. formed by the rotating limb (i.e. the distal end of the limb traces a circle while the movement of the length of the limb traces a cone shape). Short definition of Circumduction: Circumduction is a conical movement of a limb extending from the joint (e.g. shoulder or hip) at which the movement is controlled.
Alternative definition of the noun circumduction. noun. 1  The circular (or, more precisely, conical) movement of a body part, such as a ball-and-socket joint or the eye. 2  It consists of a combination of flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction. 
Circumduction. In anatomy, circumduction means to move a limb in a circular manner. Circumduction is defined as the movement pattern which is a combination of flexion, extension, adduction and abduction. circumduction (Noun). The circular (or, more precisely, conical) movement of a body part, such as a ball-and-socket joint or the eye. It consists of a combination of flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction. Windmilling the arms or rotating the hand from the wrist are examples of circumductive movement