perforation. a hole or break in the containing walls or membranes of an organ or structure of the body. Perforation occurs when erosion, infection, or other factors create a weak spot in the organ and internal pressure causes a rupture. It also may result from a deep penetrating wound caused by trauma. occurs when an infectious process erodes the tympanic membrane or leads to increased pressure in the middle ear. esophageal perforation. causes local cellulitis and obstruction of the esophagus. gallbladder perforation. sometimes occurs as a complication of cholecystitis and gallstones.
A hole or rupture in the eardrum, a thin membrane that separates the ear canal and the middle ear, is called a perforated eardrum. The medical term for eardrum is tympanic membrane. In this case,there may be infected or bloody drainage from the ear. Infections can cause a hole in the eardrum as a side effect of otitis media. Symptoms of acuteotitis media (middle ear fluid with signs of infection) include a senese of fullness in the ear, some hearing loss, pain, and fever.
Perforation. A perforation is a small hole in a thin material or web. There is usually more than one perforation in an organized fashion, where all of the holes are called a perforation. The process of creating perforations is called perforating, which involves puncturing the workpiece with a tool. Other purposes include filtrating fluids, sound deadening, allowing light or fluids to pass through, and to create an aesthetic design. Various applications include packaging films, medical films, micro perforated plate and sound and vapor barriers.
Halliburton has long been known for the breadth of its perforating. technologies. Introducing new ultra-deep penetrating MaxForce®. shaped charges, an ultra high-pressure gun system rated to 30,000 psi, and an electronic firing head that operates with a full suite of. safety features, even under extreme pressures. The lab provides insight into physical phenomena occurring in the reservoir during complicated perforating and multiphase flow events.This provides operators with information needed to design perforation systems and solutions that optimize a well’s production.
a complication of ulcerative colitis (see colitis), intestinal obstruction, ulceration and other disorders in which there is inflammation of the intestinal wall or obstruction of the intestinal lumen. ulcer perforation. a complication of duodenal and gastric ulcers. occurs when an infectious process erodes the tympanic membrane or leads to increased pressure in the middle ear. esophageal perforation. causes local cellulitis and obstruction of the esophagus. gallbladder perforation. sometimes occurs as a complication of cholecystitis and gallstones.
A perforated eardrum is a hole or tear in the eardrum. It can be uncomfortable, but usually heals within a few weeks or months provided your ear is kept dry and there’s no infection. The eardrum, also known as the tympanic membrane, is a thin layer of tissue that separates the outer ear from the middle ear. A hole in the eardrum can be caused by: 1  a middle ear infection, if pus builds up inside your ear and puts pressure on your eardrum. 2  an injury to the eardrum, such as a severe blow to the ear or poking an object such as a cotton bud deep into the ear. 3  a sudden loud noise, such as a loud explosion. Your GP may prescribe antibiotics if your perforated eardrum was caused by an infection or if there is a risk that an infection will develop while your eardrum heals. You can reduce your risk of developing an infection by keeping your ear dry until it's healed.
Report Abuse. A perforated eardrum is a hole or rupture in the eardrum, a thin membrane that separates the ear canal and the middle ear. The medical term for eardrum is tympanic membrane. The middle ear is connected to the nose by the eustachian tube, which equalizes pressure in the middle ear. 
Middle ear infections may cause pain, hearing loss, and spontaneous rupture of the eardrum, resulting in a perforation. In this case,there may be infected or bloody drainage from the ear. Infections can cause a hole in the eardrum as a side effect of otitis media. Symptoms of acuteotitis media (middle ear fluid with signs of infection) include a senese of fullness in the ear, some hearing loss, pain, and fever.
perforation. a hole or break in the containing walls or membranes of an organ or structure of the body. Perforation occurs when erosion, infection or other factors create a weak spot in the organ and internal pressure causes a rupture. It also may result from a deep penetrating wound caused by trauma. occurs when an infectious process erodes the tympanic membrane or leads to increased pressure in the middle ear. esophageal perforation. causes local cellulitis and obstruction of the esophagus. gallbladder perforation. sometimes occurs as a complication of cholecystitis and gallstones.
perforation. n. 1. the act of perforating or the state of being perforated. 2. a hole or holes made in something. per·fo·ra·tion. n. 1. A hole or series of holes punched or bored through something, especially a hole in a series, separating sections in a sheet or roll. 2.