Students must complete a four-year bachelor’s degree to enter a doctor of physical therapy program. While completing the undergraduate degree, they may have to take required prerequisite courses, such as biology, chemistry, physics, social science and statistics, to gain admittance to the graduate program. 
1 Most schools offer only doctoral degrees. 2  Some schools, such as Arkansas State University, continue to offer a master's degree. 3  Tuition for the 2.5-year master's of physical therapy totals about $12,500 for state residents and $32,000 for out-of-state students. 1 However, for out-of-state students, costs can be comparable to private universities. 2  The University of Delaware, for example, charges a total of $28,871 for in-state residents enrolled in their 2.5-year doctor of physical therapy program, but out-of-state students pay $75,156 for the same program.
How much does massage therapy school cost? The cost of massage therapy school ranges between $6 to $17 per hour of education, with the average cost* around $9 to $10 per hour. This means if your state has no—or minimal—requirements, you can choose to take a shorter program, which will cost you less in massage therapy tuition. 
1 Tuition for the 2.5-year master's of physical therapy totals about $12,500 for state residents and $32,000 for out-of-state students. 2  Tuition at private schools can cost significantly more. 3  The University of Southern California charges $75,000 for its 3-year doctorate program. 1 However, for out-of-state students, costs can be comparable to private universities. 2  The University of Delaware, for example, charges a total of $28,871 for in-state residents enrolled in their 2.5-year doctor of physical therapy program, but out-of-state students pay $75,156 for the same program.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a physical therapist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensing to find out if this is the career for you. Physical therapists work with patients to help them retrain injured or debilitated muscles by moving, stretching and strengthening various parts of the body. To become a physical therapist, a person must obtain a professional degree, usually a doctorate in physical therapy.
1 Some schools, such as Arkansas State University, continue to offer a master's degree. 2  Tuition for the 2.5-year master's of physical therapy totals about $12,500 for state residents and $32,000 for out-of-state students. 3  Tuition at private schools can cost significantly more. 1 However, for out-of-state students, costs can be comparable to private universities. 2  The University of Delaware, for example, charges a total of $28,871 for in-state residents enrolled in their 2.5-year doctor of physical therapy program, but out-of-state students pay $75,156 for the same program.
Undergraduate Studies. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school. Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices.
Salary ranges for physical therapist assistants will vary according to experience and the type of employment setting. A new graduate physical therapist assistant will make approximately $40,000 to $50,000 per year. Experienced physical therapist assistants will make up to $66,000 per year. 