I would say they have 1 clutch per year. They usually lay 8-15 eggs in a clutch. Some ducks lay daily, while other ducks lay unpredictably. 
Answers. Best Answer: It really depends on the breed you have. Some ducks only lay in the 100s per year, others, like Campbells (I had one of these), can lay as many as 350 per year! :] My campbell generally laid an egg per day. Sometimes there would be 2, other days there would be none. :P We filled up our fridge pretty quickly!
I have two peking ducks and have found a total of three days over the last three months. They are both one year old. One strategy to be able to find eggs is to keep them confined in their house or pen until they have laid. Usually ducks lay their eggs first thing in the morning so you let them out and the eggs are there for you. My ducks have houses with nest boxes and they almost always use them before I let them out before 6:45 am.
The average number of eggs a duck can lay each year depends largely on the breed of duck. As with other types of poultry, some duck breeds are raised for meat, some for eggs and some to produce a balance of both. Good egg-laying duck breeds can out-lay chickens. The laying season for ducks is usually about 35 to 45 weeks long each year.
I have 2 male ducks, one a mallard and the other 1/2 black and 1/2 mallard. I have 1 female that is also 1/2 mallard and 1/2 black duck. Today 12/7/08 I saw the black male mating with the female and that has trigger several questions. Most ducks start laying between 4 to six months if a drake is present. If not they may take longer however the eggs will not hatch. When a drake is not present these eggs should b gathered daily and refridgerated for eating. If a drake is present each duck will lay between 10 to 15 eggs in about a week.
Muscovy will lay up to 180 eggs a year and hatch about four sets of ducklings if they get lots of high protein feed. Muscovy ducks are great mothers and do a good job raising their young. Muscovy take longer to hatch than other poultry... an egg takes 33 to 35 days to hatch. A chicken, for example, hatches in 21 days. Since Muscovy are genetically disimilar to other domestic waterfowl, many folks believe that they're more of a goose than a duck. For instance, they eat grass, as do geese, have a similarly long egg incubation period of 35 days (compared with 28 days for ducks), and they don't quack.
My ducks lay 1 egg per day, everyday. I think there was only one month in which they didn't lay any eggs. Ducks don't normally sit on their nest of eggs till they have a full clutch(which is approx. 12-15 eggs). One of my girls started laying not to long ago and after there was about 7 or 8 eggs i gathered them.