Here are tips on using a meat thermometer to measure the minimum interior temperature so that you know when it's done, at its peak flavor, and also safe for eating. Meat and poultry are cooked and juicy at certain temperatures but become dry and tough if cooked much longer. Use the thermometer toward the end of the minimum cooking time and allow it to remain in the meat for only 15 seconds, at a depth of two inches or to the indicator mark on the thermometer's stem. Follow these guidelines for accurate readings:
For beef, lamb, or veal insert the meat thermometer away from bone, fat, or cartilage. The meat should reach a temperature of between 63 °C (145 °F) for medium-rare, and 77 °C (170 °F) for well done. A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
For hamburgers you should insert the thermometer probe through the side of the patty, all the way to the middle. Make sure to check each piece of meat or patty because heat can be uneven. Temperature should be 71 °C (160 °F) for beef, lamb, veal, or pork and 74 °C (165 °F) for poultry. A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
A meat thermometer is a unit which will measure core temperature of meats while cooking. It will have a metal probe with a sharp point which is pushed into the meat, and a dial or digital display. A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
If your turkey has a pop-up temperature indicator, it is recommended that you also check the internal temperature of the turkey in the innermost part of the thigh and wing and the thickest part of the breast with a food thermometer. The minimum internal temperature should reach 165 °F or higher for safety. Instant read thermometers have plastic heads and cannot go into the oven while the turkey is cooking. However, it will register the temperature of food within 15 seconds when the metal tip is inserted up to the dimple on the stem, thus the name instant read..
To be certain, we recommend using an instant-read thermometer, such as the ones made by Taylor Precision Products. Round-dial and digital instant-read thermometers are available from kitchen supply stores and hardware stores and cost from $12 to $20. Instant-read thermometers give readings quickly, but they are not oven-safe and must not be left in the meat while it is cooking. Use the thermometer toward the end of the minimum cooking time and allow it to remain in the meat for only 15 seconds, at a depth of two inches or to the indicator mark on the thermometer's stem. Follow these guidelines for accurate readings:
For poultry insert the meat thermometer into the thigh, but do not touch the bone. The suggested temperature for poultry to reach before it is safe to consume is 74 °C (165 °F), unless the poultry is stuffed, in which case the temperature in the center of the stuffing should be about 74 °C (165 °F). A meat thermometer with various cooking temperatures denoted for various meat types. The probe can be inserted into the meat before starting cooking, and cooking continued until the desired internal temperature is reached.
If your traditional meat thermometer does not have a calibration nut, toss it and invest in a new one. If using an oven-proof food thermometer, place it in the turkey at the start of the cooking cycle. It will allow you to check the internal temperature of the turkey while it is cooking. For turkey breasts, place thermometer in the thickest part. Instant read thermometers have plastic heads and cannot go into the oven while the turkey is cooking. However, it will register the temperature of food within 15 seconds when the metal tip is inserted up to the dimple on the stem, thus the name instant read..