Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body. It is essential for the development and maintenance of strong bones and teeth, where about 99% of the body's calcium is found. Calcium also helps the heart, nerves, muscles, and other body systems work properly.
1 Calcium helps bones develop properly and grow strong. 2  Calcium is also needed for many other activities in your body. 3  If your body doesn't get enough calcium from foods and drinks, it takes the calcium from bones, which can weaken your bones. 4  Your body needs vitamin D to help it use calcium. To build bones and keep them strong, your body needs calcium and vitamin D. 1 
When trying to understand why calcium is important, it’s essential that you know exactly what role calcium plays in your body. Approximately 99% of the calcium currently in your body is stored in your teeth and bones. Calcium is also important for many other bodily functions, such as muscle contraction and exocytosis. Your body has very strict guidelines about the amount of calcium required to ensure your body will function normally. Calcium’s role in bone formation takes place in a process called “bone mineralization”. Bones are made of a combination of mineral complexes, the most important of which is calcium phosphate.
Calcium is a mineral that gives strength to your bones. Calcium is also necessary for many of your body’s functions, such as blood clotting and nerve and muscle function. During the teenage years (particularly ages 11-15), your bones are developing quickly and are storing calcium so that your skeleton will be strong later in life. 1 Most basic multivitamin/mineral tablets have very little calcium in them. 2  Look for a calcium supplement that has vitamin D added. 3  Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. 4  Avoid “oyster shell” or “natural source” calcium supplements.
Calcium is essential for strong, healthy bones. As the most abundant mineral in your body, calcium is essential for your body's overall nutrition and health. The rest of the calcium in your body plays key roles in cell signaling, blood clotting, muscle contraction and nerve function.
Your body uses 99 percent of its calcium to keep your bones and teeth strong, thereby supporting skeletal structure and function. The rest of the calcium in your body plays key roles in cell signaling, blood clotting, muscle contraction and nerve function. Cells use calcium to activate certain enzymes, transport ions across the cellular membrane, and send and receive neurotransmitters during communication with other cells
The remaining 99% of the body's calcium supply is stored in the bones and teeth where it supports their structure and function [ 1 ]. Bone itself undergoes continuous remodeling, with constant resorption and deposition of calcium into new bone. The balance between bone resorption and deposition changes with age. Milk, yogurt, and cheese are rich natural sources of calcium and are the major food contributors of this nutrient to people in the United States [ 1 ]. Nondairy sources include vegetables, such as Chinese cabbage, kale, and broccoli. Spinach provides calcium, but its bioavailability is poor.
1 Calcium is a mineral that gives strength to your bones. 2  It’s important to get enough calcium during your teen years so you’ll have strong bones now and when you’re older. 3  You may need a calcium supplement if you don’t get enough calcium in your diet. 1 Most basic multivitamin/mineral tablets have very little calcium in them. 2  Look for a calcium supplement that has vitamin D added. 3  Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. 4  Avoid “oyster shell” or “natural source” calcium supplements.
Good Sources of Calcium. 1  Most foods in the milk group: milk and dishes made with milk, such as puddings and soups. 2  Cheeses: mozzarella, cheddar, Swiss, Parmesan, cottage cheese. 3  Yogurt. 4  Canned fish with soft bones, including sardines, anchovies, salmon. Milk and Milk Products. Milk and milk products provide three-fourths of the calcium in the American diet. Other foods contain calcium too, like broccoli and collard greens. However, these vegetables also contain substances that impair the body’s ability to absorb calcium.
Calcium is a mineral found in many foods. The body needs calcium to maintain strong bones and to carry out many important functions. Almost all calcium is stored in bones and teeth, where it supports their structure and hardness. The body also needs calcium for muscles to move and for nerves to carry messages between the brain and every body part. In addition, calcium is used to help blood vessels move blood throughout the body and to help release hormones and enzymes that affect almost every function in the human body. Calcium is found in many foods. You can get recommended amounts of calcium by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Milk, yogurt, and cheese are the main food sources of calcium for the majority of people in the United States.