If you have never been to Egypt, then you should look at the Nile River. You will be able to find many pictures that have captured the true beauty and essence of the Nile River found on the Internet. Within this article, we will be telling you some facts about the Nile River in ancient Egypt. The Nile River is not only a good source of irrigation for crops, but it is also a great source for drinking. The Nile River also waters the payrus reeds that are used for such things as building materials and paper. The Egyptians are very thankful to have the Nile River as they always have been.
There is no doubt without the Nile river and its unique annual inundation the ancient Egyptian civilization would have suffered the same fate as the Mesopotamians and Sumerians and it most certainly would not have developed into the magnificent culture it did. Each year in June the tropical rains that fall in the ancient volcanic ranges of Ethiopia and Uganda would reach Egypt and the Nile river would flood the ribbon of flat lands along its bank.
The Nile River was an important factor in the success of ancient Egypt. Without the Nile River, it could never have existed as we know it or have produced the wonders of its civilization that it is known for today. Due to the success of cultivating the Nile, Egypt became densely populated and developed a form of writing, hieroglyphics and used papyrus made from the reeds growing on the side of the Nile to make paper to write their history on. The river provided food in the form of fish, and provided the water for agriculture.
The Nile River also provided a lot of building materials for the Ancient Egyptians. They used the mud from the riverbanks to make sundried bricks. These bricks were used in building homes, walls, and other buildings. The Egyptians also quarried limestone and sandstone from the hills along the side of the Nile. Fertile Land. The most important thing the Nile provided to the Ancient Egyptians was fertile land. Most of Egypt is desert, but along the Nile River the soil is rich and good for growing crops. The three most important crops were wheat, flax, and papyrus.
Even so, the Nile River did not have an especially significant role in ancient Egypt’s religious life; perhaps it was viewed as too consistent and led them to take their world for granted (Baines, 2007). Due to the success of cultivating the Nile, Egypt became densely populated and developed a form of writing, hieroglyphics and used papyrus made from the reeds growing on the side of the Nile to make paper to write their history on. The river provided food in the form of fish, and provided the water for agriculture.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Nile River was a crucial element in the development of Ancient Egypt Civilization. This civilization depended on the annual floods of the Nile to make their lands very fertile for growing essentials like flax, papyrus, and wheat right on the banks of the river. The major rivers played a huge part in the development of early civilizations due to the fact that they helped fertile the soil, which made it easier to grow crops.
It was via the Nile the huge granite blocks used in the construction of the pyramids and other important monuments and building were brought from Aswan in Upper Egypt to Giza and Saqqarra and other locations. Each year in June the tropical rains that fall in the ancient volcanic ranges of Ethiopia and Uganda would reach Egypt and the Nile river would flood the ribbon of flat lands along its bank.
They did have a God of the Nile, ‘Hapy’, who was the bringer of water and fertility (Baines, 2007). Another God associated with the Nile was Osiris, who was a king of Egypt, killed on the river bank by his brother, chopped into pieces and cast into the river (Baines, 2007). Due to the success of cultivating the Nile, Egypt became densely populated and developed a form of writing, hieroglyphics and used papyrus made from the reeds growing on the side of the Nile to make paper to write their history on. The river provided food in the form of fish, and provided the water for agriculture.
The Nile River played an important role in shaping the lives and society of Ancient Egypt. The Nile provided the Ancient Egyptians with food, transportation, building materials, and more. Fertile Land. The most important thing the Nile provided to the Ancient Egyptians was fertile land. Most of Egypt is desert, but along the Nile River the soil is rich and good for growing crops. The three most important crops were wheat, flax, and papyrus.
The ancient Egyptians used the Nile River as it played a big role on the civilization, history and life of Egypt. The Nile River is known for producing soil that is extremely fertile and this makes it easy for the cities in ancient Egypt to grow crops. Most of Egypt has desert land that is dry. The Nile River is not only a good source of irrigation for crops, but it is also a great source for drinking. The Nile River also waters the payrus reeds that are used for such things as building materials and paper. The Egyptians are very thankful to have the Nile River as they always have been.