This document will illustrate the following types of moraines: end moraine, ground moraine, hummocky moraine, kame moraine, lateral moraine, medial moraine, recessional moraine, terminal moraine, thrust moraine, De Geer moraine and Rogen moraine. Bulldozing actionA glacier advances over the bare land (). The sediment of the medial moraine is composed of rock fragments that are eroded by the advancing ice or deposited onto the ice margin by rock falls from the valley walls. Many large valley glaciers exhibit multiple medial moraines, representing the merged tributaries that formed the valley glacier.
Hummocky moraine. Definition: A strongly undulating surface of ground moraine, with a relative relief of up to 10 m, and showing steep slopes, deep, enclosed depressions and meltwater channels. It results from the downwasting (i.e. thinning) of ice which may be stagnant or active. The most accessible examples of hummocky moraine are in the Pass of Drummochter (Lukas, 2002). Here the complexes of hummocks, ridges and meltwater channels are well seen from the A9, especially in the late morning after light snow.
Lateral moraines above Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada. Lateral moraines are parallel ridges of debris deposited along the sides of a glacier. The unconsolidated debris can be deposited on top of the glacier by frost shattering of the valley walls and/or from tributary streams flowing into the valley. The till is carried along the glacial margin until the glacier melts. End moraines, or terminal moraines, are ridges of unconsolidated debris deposited at the snout or end of the glacier. They usually reflect the shape of the glacier's terminus.
Recessional moraines are often observed as a series of transverse ridges running across a valley behind a terminal moraine. They form perpendicular to the lateral moraines that they reside between and are composed of unconsolidated debris deposited by the glacier. End moraines, or terminal moraines, are ridges of unconsolidated debris deposited at the snout or end of the glacier. They usually reflect the shape of the glacier's terminus.
Note the moraines around the margins, and the folds formed by compression as the debris-rich ice enters the flat lowland. The folds are clear evidence that plastic deformation is a strong component of glacial flow. Date taken Feb.11, 2000. When the final ice melted, these deposits became positive features; channels became ridges and depressions became hills. Hummocky moraine, formed over a large region of stagnant ice (fig. 14) may contain a mixture of irregular and interstratified till and meltwater deposits.
Definition: a strongly undulating surface of ground moraine, with a relative relief of up to 10 m, and showing steep slopes, deep, enclosed depressions and meltwater channels. It results from the downwasting (i.e. thinning) of ice which may be stagnant or active. 
‘Hummocky moraine’ on Skye is shown to consist of three principal sediment-landform associations: (1) recessional moraines; (2) chaotic ice-stagnation moraines; and (3) drumlins and fluted moraines. Second, chaotic moraines consist of randomly-distributed hummocks, mounds and rim-ridges and record deposition in contact with inactive ice. Finally, drumlins and fluted moraines are longitudinally-oriented subglacial bedforms formed by a combination of lodgement and sediment deformation.
Glaciers carry and deposit debris that they erode from what they flow over. At the edge of the ice, some of this debris is deposited in moraines; other types of moraines form under or on top of melting ice. Moraines Moraines Canadian Landscapes Fact Sheets http://landscapes.nrcan.gc.ca. The sediment of the medial moraine is composed of rock fragments that are eroded by the advancing ice or deposited onto the ice margin by rock falls from the valley walls. Many large valley glaciers exhibit multiple medial moraines, representing the merged tributaries that formed the valley glacier.
Moraines are accumulations of rock and debris that have been carried by ice sheets and glaciers. The material may be unsorted or at best poorly stratified (in contrast to the water-formed eskers). Moraines may be spread across the countryside as ‘ground-moraine’ or may have a more distinct landform expression. When either a glacier or an ice sheet reaches their maximum extent, the material being pushed in front forms a distinctive ridge of rock and debris called a terminal or end-moraine. This feature may be up to 50 metres high and has a steep side at its front
Moraines clearly seen on a side glacier of the Gorner Glacier, Zermatt, Switzerland. The lateral moraine is the high snow-free bank of debris in the top left hand quarter of the picture. End moraines, or terminal moraines, are ridges of unconsolidated debris deposited at the snout or end of the glacier. They usually reflect the shape of the glacier's terminus.