Tucker Surname This surname of TUCKER was derived from the Old English TUCIAN-to torment and a nickname for courage. It was also an occupational name 'the tucker' a fuller or weaver of cloth. The name is strongly represented in Devon and Wiltshire. Tucker isn't necessarily a name that originated in Ireland. It probably originated in Germany as Tucher (towel-maker) and was anglicized to Tucker. The Tuckers in Ireland may have come from England or Germany or elsewhere in Europe. Or it could be an anglicized version of O'Tuachair.
Fuller Name Meaning. English: occupational name for a dresser of cloth, Old English fullere (from Latin fullo, with the addition of the English agent suffix). The Middle English successor of this word had also been reinforced by Old French fouleor, foleur, of similar origin. 
If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Fuller in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Fuller surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch. Learn what others know about your family tree. Fuller in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Fuller genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Fuller surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list.
Tucker Surname Origin:Irish The Tucker surname is derived from the Gaelic O Tualhair or Tuachair meaning “people der.” According to Woulfe, this was the name of two distinct septs, one of the Ely-O’Carroll Territory of north Tippetary and South Offaly, and the other of north Connacht. Tucker isn't necessarily a name that originated in Ireland. It probably originated in Germany as Tucher (towel-maker) and was anglicized to Tucker. The Tuckers in Ireland may have come from England or Germany or elsewhere in Europe. Or it could be an anglicized version of O'Tuachair.
If English it is an occupational surname for a fuller, a cloth-softener, also known as a walker. Tucker was the usual term in the south-west of England, Walker in the west and north y and Fuller in the south-east and east Anglia. Tucker isn't necessarily a name that originated in Ireland. It probably originated in Germany as Tucher (towel-maker) and was anglicized to Tucker. The Tuckers in Ireland may have come from England or Germany or elsewhere in Europe. Or it could be an anglicized version of O'Tuachair.
Walker is an occupational surname for a fuller, or one who originally walked on raw, damp cloth in order to shrink and thicken it. Derived from the Middle English walkcere, meaning a fuller of cloth, and the Old English wealcan, to walk or tread.. Walker is the 28th most popular surname in the United States and the 15th most common in England. Surname Origin: English, Scottish. Alternate Surname Spellings: WALLKER, WALKAR, WALKERE.
Hobbies include hiking, genealogy and travel. The English surname Fuller is from the Latin fullo. Fuller is an occupational name for a dresser of cloth, from Old English fullere. The work of the fuller was to scour and thicken the raw cloth by beating and trampling it in water. This surname is found mostly in southeast England and East Anglia. it is took from a fuller in the medieval times who scoured and thickened raw cloth and comes from America and France. the first know recording of someone with the last name of … fuller lived in Yorkshire and came from France.
Walker Name Meaning. English (especially Yorkshire) and Scottish: occupational name for a fuller, Middle English walkere, Old English wealcere, an agent derivative of wealcan ‘to walk, tread’. This was the regular term for the occupation during the Middle Ages in western and northern England. Compare Fuller and Tucker.