Transesterification: alcohol + ester → different alcohol + different ester. Strong acids catalyse the reaction by donating a proton to the carbonyl group, thus making it a more potent electrophile, whereas bases catalyse the reaction by removing a proton from the alcohol, thus making it more nucleophilic. The reverse reaction, methanolysis, is also an example of transesterification. This process has been used to recycle polyesters into individual monomers (see plastic recycling). It is also used to convert fats (triglycerides) into biodiesel.
Medical Definition of TRANSESTERIFICATION. : a reversible reaction in which one ester is converted into another (as by interchange of ester groups with an alcohol in the presence of a base). What made you want to look up transesterification?
In organic chemistry, transesterification /ˌtraenzˌɛstərɨfɨˈkeɪʃən/ ˌtrænzˌɛstərɨfɨˈkeɪʃən is the process of exchanging the organic Group″ r of an ester with the organic Group′ r of an. Alcohol these reactions are often catalyzed by the addition of an acid or base. catalyst The reverse reaction, methanolysis, is also an example of transesterification. This process has been used to recycle polyesters into individual monomers (see plastic recycling). It is also used to convert fats (triglycerides) into biodiesel.
Transesterification is an organic process in which the combination of an alcohol with an ester produces a different alcohol. You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Transesterification is an organic process in which the combination of an alcohol with an ester produces a different alcohol. The process may require the addition of a catalyst to facilitate the change.
In the transesterification mechanism, the carbonyl carbon of the starting ester (RCOOR 1) undergoes nucleophilic attack by the incoming alkoxide (R 2 O −) to give a tetrahedral intermediate, which either reverts to the starting material, or proceeds to the transesterified product (RCOOR 2). The reverse reaction, methanolysis, is also an example of transesterification. This process has been used to recycle polyesters into individual monomers (see plastic recycling). It is also used to convert fats (triglycerides) into biodiesel.
Transesterification is a chemical reaction used for the conversion of vegetable oil to biodiesel. In this process vegetable oil is chemically reacted with an alcohol like methanol or ethanol in presence of a catalyst like lye. After the chemical reaction, various components of vegetable oil break down to form new compounds. The triglycerides are converted into alkyl esters, which is the chemical name of biodiesel. Biodiesel, a renewable fuel, is produced from vegetable oils and animal fats by a process called transesterification. It breaks down the molecules of vegetable oils into constituent molecules forming biodiesel as the main product and glycerin as the byproduct.
In organic chemistry, transesterification is the process of exchanging the alkoxy group of an ester compound by another alcohol. These reactions are often catalyzed by the addition of an acid or base-Source. Transesterification: a reversible reaction in which one ester is converted into another (as by interchange of ester groups with an alcohol in the presence of a base). The main reaction for converting oil to biodiesel is called transesterification. 
Biodiesel production is the process of producing the biofuel, biodiesel, through the chemical reactions transesterification and esterification. This involves vegetable or animal fats and oils being reacted with short-chain alcohols (typically methanol or ethanol). Base-catalyzed transesterification reacts lipids (fats and oils) with alcohol (typically methanol or ethanol) to produce biodiesel and an impure coproduct, glycerol. If the feedstock oil is used or has a high acid content, acid-catalyzed esterification can be used to react fatty acids with alcohol to produce biodiesel.
Biodiesel is an alternative fuel similar to conventional or fossil diesel. Biodiesel can be produced from straight vegetable oil, animal oil/fats, tallow and waste cooking oil. The process used to convert these oils to Biodiesel is called transesterification. This process is described in more detail below. The largest possible source of suitable oil comes from oil crops such as rapeseed, palm or soybean. In the UK rapeseed represents the greatest potential for biodiesel production. A successful transesterification reaction is signified by the separation of the ester and glycerol layers after the reaction time. The heavier, co-product, glycerol settles out and may be sold as it is or it may be purified for use in other industries, e.g. the pharmaceutical, cosmetics etc.
In organic chemistry, transesterification /ˌtraenzˌɛstərɨfɨˈkeɪʃən/ ˌtrænzˌɛstərɨfɨˈkeɪʃən is the process of exchanging the organic Group″ r of an ester with the organic Group′ r of an. alcohol The reverse reaction, methanolysis, is also an example of transesterification. This process has been used to recycle polyesters into individual monomers (see plastic recycling). It is also used to convert fats (triglycerides) into biodiesel.