The trek around Kangchenjunga can be done entirely as a basic lodge/tea-house trek in September-October-November and in March-April-May. Kangchenjunga is the third highest mountain in the world at 8586m/28,169ft and is on the border between Nepal and Sikkim (India). We only cover trekking in Nepal on this site. My wife and I trekked the Kanchenjunga trek south-to-north route described below in October-November 2012 with a good friend from Germany and the north-to-south route in November-December 2013.
Kangchenjunga is the world's third tallest mountain and is located in the Himalayas, about 100 miles east of Mount Everest. It is 28,169 feet (8,586 m.) above sea level. Also spelled Kanchenjunga or Kinchinjunga, it is situated in the eastern Himalayas on the border between northeastern India and eastern Nepal, 46 miles (74 km) north-northwest of Darjeeling, a town in the Indian state of West Bengal.
Kangchenjunga sometimes spelled Kanchanjanga or Kinchinjunga is the third largest mountain in the world. Kangchenjunga is located on the Sikkim (India)-Nepal border as part of the Himalayan mountain range. Kangchenjunga has 5 peaks, of which the true Summit is 28,169 feet or 8586 meters. The name Kangchenjunga means The Five Treasures of the Snow in the local dialect, referring to its five summits all over 8000 meters. Kangchenjunga has an enormous mass with numerous satellite peaks along its ridges.
Our Kanchenjunga trekking is one of the great wilderness treks in eastern Nepal. Kanchenjunga (8,586m/28,170ft) is a massive and independent mountain of rock and ice, which sits astride the Nepal India border. Flights from Kathmandu to Biratnager and Suketar lead to the start of our Kanchenjunga Base Camp Trek.
How are the himalaya and kanchenjunga the same as each other Kanchenjunga is a part of himalayas. Himalaya is a mountain range where as Kanchenjunga is a sub range containing … several peaks and the third highest peak of the world is also named as Kanchenjunga which lies in Kanchenjunga sub range of Himalayas. Answered. There … also is a monsoon season in  this part of the world. Mount Kanchenjunga in Nepal is considered  to be the third highest mountain with a height of over 8,500  meters.
When the Kanchenjunga Conservation Area was designated in March 1997, it was Nepal’s third Conservation Area. In April 2003, a Kanchenjunga Conservation Area Management Council was formed with the support of WWF Nepal, comprising seven Conservation Area User Committees, 44 User Groups, and 32 Mother Groups. 
Mountains in Sikkim. Sikkim is a land of the high mountains that seem to touch the heavens and define the paradise of nature. These mountains form a part of the Himalayas, the highest mountain range. The Mount Kanchenjunga, the third highest mountain in the world is situated in the Sikkim. This mountain range can be seen from almost any part of Sikkim and border the Sikkim from the northern, eastern and western side. 
Kangchenjunga (Nepali:कञ्चनजङ्घा Kanchanjaŋghā), in the Himalayan Range, is the third highest mountain in the world after Mount Everest and K2, with an … elevation of 8,586 m (28,169 ft). There … also is a monsoon season in  this part of the world. Mount Kanchenjunga in Nepal is considered  to be the third highest mountain with a height of over 8,500  meters.
The main peak of Kangchenjunga is the second highest mountain in Nepal after Mount Everest. Three of the five peaks – Main, Central and South – are on the border between North Sikkim and Nepal. Two peaks are in the Taplejung District, Nepal. Kangchenjunga Main is the highest mountain in India, and the easternmost of the mountains higher than 8,000 m (26,000 ft). It is called Five Treasures of Snow after its five high peaks, and has always been worshipped by the people of Darjeeling and Sikkim