maternal fetal medicine specialist. The baby's heart starts to beat at around 6 weeks. You may be able to hear – and see – your baby's heart beat for the first time when you're about 8 weeks pregnant if you have an early ultrasound exam. Otherwise, you'll probably first hear it with a fetal Doppler at a regular prenatal care visit. Your caregiver may be able to find it with the Doppler as early as 10 weeks, but it's more common to hear it at 12 weeks. How early the sound can be picked up depends on your baby's position in your uterus, your weight, and the accuracy of your due date.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. it will take a babys heart 40 days or 6 weeks to develop it will go through a phase called looping. Then when the baby is born after its first breath the valves in vetro are closed and the ones used in life open. Since the baby is using its owns lungs now. 
A baby's heart begins to beat 18 days from conception, and by 21 days the heart is pumping blood through a closed circulatory system. A baby's brainwaves can be detected at 6 weeks from conception. 1 At 8 weeks from conception, a baby's heartbeat can be detected by ultrasonic stethoscope. 2  By 9 weeks from conception, a baby is able to bend her fingers around an object in her hand. 3  By 11 to 12 weeks from conception, the baby is breathing fluid steadily and continues to do so until birth.
The fetal heart is a lot different than a newborn heart. A fetus does not use their own lungs until they are born so they fetal heart does not pump blood through the lungs in order to collect oxygen. Just a few weeks after conception, the fetal heart takes up the majority of the fetus’ very small body. The heart resides high in the chest, but after a few more weeks will move down to its normal position in the chest cavity. The fetus’ heart begins to beat at 5 weeks gestation, at around 80-85 beats per minute. This rate increases about 3 beats per minute per day during the first month. 
An unborn baby has a heartbeat as early as near the end of the first month of pregnancy, during week four or week five, according to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. This is just two to three weeks after conception. 
Time Frame. A baby develops a heartbeat early in the first trimester. The first trimester is the first 12 weeks of pregnancy as measured by the first day of the last period, according to MayoClinic.com. These early weeks are marked by intense hormonal changes in the woman’s body and rapid growth in the baby’s body. Considerations. Seeing and hearing your baby’s heartbeat is a miraculous feeling for many moms-to-be, but the first trimester is a fragile time in the development of a baby. A firm heartbeat does not always mean that the baby is developing normally. If the baby is not healthy, a miscarriage may occur at this time.
Fetal development 10 weeks after conception. Twelve weeks into your pregnancy, or 10 weeks after conception, your baby is developing fingernails. Your baby's face now has a human profile. By now your baby might be about 2 1/2 inches (60 millimeters) long from crown to rump and weigh about 1/2 ounce (14 grams). Fetal development seven weeks after conception. In the ninth week of pregnancy, or seven weeks after conception, your baby's arms grow, develop bones and bend at the elbows. Toes form, and your baby's eyelids and ears continue developing. By the end of this week, your baby might be about 3/4 inch (20 millimeters) long.
Fetal development three weeks after conception. The fifth week of pregnancy, or the third week after conception, marks the beginning of the embryonic period. This is when the baby's brain, spinal cord, heart and other organs begin to form. The embryo is now made of three layers. Conception typically occurs about two weeks after your last period begins. To calculate your due date, your health care provider will count ahead 40 weeks from the start of your last period. This means your period is counted as part of your pregnancy — even though you weren't pregnant at the time.