Best Answer: 1. Diurnal (Daily) range of temperature The difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures of any one day, thus it calculated by: Maximum temperature – Minimum temperature --------------------------------------... 2. Average (mean) daily temperature This can be calculated in two ways:- a. The average of the maximum and minimum temperature over a period of 24 hours, so it is calculated by: (Maximum temperature + Minimum temperature)/2 b. The average of the hourly temperatures over a period of 24 hours, so it is calculated by: Total of hourly temperatures/24 --------------------------------------..
The definition of temperature range is the dirrefernce between the highest and lowest temperature that is occurring over an area in a certain amount of time. + 4 others found this useful. Jody Woodell Richmond. Body temperatures vary, even within humans. The adult average is lower than 37° C, and skin temperature can vary from around 32° to 35° C (90° to 95° F), and will be cold … er when losing heat to the environment. The body temperatures of mammals range from around 97° to over 103° Fahrenheit. Birds have average temperatures of around 105° Fahrenheit
A location which combines an average temperature of 19 degrees Celsius, 60% average humidity and a temperature range of about 10 degrees Celsius around the average temperature (yearly temperature variation) is considered ideal in terms of comfort for the human species. The average temperature range is 5.7 degrees only. Temperature variation along the year in Aracaju is very damped (standard deviation of 1.93 for the maximum temperature and 2.72 for the minimum temperature).
4. Annual temperature range The difference between the highest mean monthly temperature and the lowest mean monthly temperature, so it is calculated by: Highest mean monthly temperature – Lowest mean monthly temperature --------------------------------------... 5. Average (mean) daily temperature This can be calculated in two ways:- a. The average of the maximum and minimum temperature over a period of 24 hours, so it is calculated by: (Maximum temperature + Minimum temperature)/2 b.
The map shown to the left illustrates that the high plains average temperature range in March is 30 degrees or more, while many other areas of the country average near 20 degrees. During the winter and spring it is not unheard of to see temperature swings of 50 degrees or more within one calendar day. The 2000s decade has also had more 50 degree daily temperature spreads than any other decade. There have been 14 days so far this decade. Previously the 1950s had the most 50-degree days with 10 days. A graph of the number of days with 50+ temperature ranges per decade is available by clicking here.
Atmospheric temperature range is the numerical difference between the minimum and maximum values of temperature observed in a given location during a period of time (e.g., in a given day, month, year, century) or the average (average of all temperature ranges in a period of time). The average temperature range is 5.7 degrees only. Temperature variation along the year in Aracaju is very damped (standard deviation of 1.93 for the maximum temperature and 2.72 for the minimum temperature).
The highest temperature minus the lowest temperature is the temperature range. The temperature range is how many degrees is in between the highest and lowest temperatures. Body temperatures vary, even within humans. The adult average is lower than 37° C, and skin temperature can vary from around 32° to 35° C (90° to 95° F), and will be cold … er when losing heat to the environment. The body temperatures of mammals range from around 97° to over 103° Fahrenheit. Birds have average temperatures of around 105° Fahrenheit
You might live in an area with an average yearly temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Your friend might live in another part of the country or world with an average daily temperature of 20 degrees Celsius. A scientist might tell you she runs her experiments at an average temperature of 273 kelvins. 