Central Nervous System Overview. The central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord (see Multimedia File 1). 1  The brain plays a central role in the control of most bodily functions, including awareness, movements, sensations, thoughts, speech, and memory. The basic unit of the central nervous system is the neuron (nerve cell). Billions of neurons allow the different parts of the body to communicate with each other via the brain and the spinal cord.
The Nervous System. The human nervous system is broadly divided in to two sections, the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS is made up of the brain and the spinal cord. The PNS is made up of the nerves which radiate out from the spinal cord to the rest of the body. 
The nervous system has three general functions: a sensory function, an interpretative function and a motor function. 1  Sensory nerves gather information from inside the body and the outside environment. 2  The nerves then carry the information to central nervous system (CNS). 1 Sensory nerves gather information from inside the body and the outside environment. 2  The nerves then carry the information to central nervous system (CNS). 3  Sensory information brought to the CNS is processed and interpreted. 4  Motor nerves convey information from the CNS to the muscles and the glands of the body.
The nervous system is divided into two parts: 1  the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord. 2  the peripheral system which connects the central nervous system to the rest of the body. 1 Sensory nerves gather information from inside the body and the outside environment. 2  The nerves then carry the information to central nervous system (CNS). 3  Sensory information brought to the CNS is processed and interpreted. 4  Motor nerves convey information from the CNS to the muscles and the glands
Structure. The nervous system is divided into two parts: 1  the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord. 2  These structures are protected by bone and cushioned from injury by the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). 3  the peripheral system which connects the central nervous system to the rest of the body. 1 Sensory nerves gather information from inside the body and the outside environment. 2  The nerves then carry the information to central nervous system (CNS). 3  Sensory information brought to the CNS is processed and interpreted. 4  Motor nerves convey information from the CNS to the muscles and the glands
The nervous system is a complex collection of nerves and specialized cells known as neurons that transmit signals between different parts of the body. It is essentially the body’s electrical wiring. Structurally, the nervous system has two components: the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. According to the National Institutes of Health, the central nervous system is made up of the brain, spinal cord and nerves. The peripheral nervous system consists of sensory neurons, ganglia (clusters of neurons) and nerves that connect to one another and to the cent
In vertebrate species it consists of two main parts, the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS contains the brain and spinal cord. The PNS consists mainly of nerves, which are enclosed bundles of the long fibers or axons, that connect the CNS to every other part of the body. 
The central nervous system (CNS) is the part of the nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord. Microscopically, there are differences between the neurons and tissue of the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. The central nervous system is divided in white and gray matter. This can also be seen macroscopically on brain tissue.
Central Nervous System. The central nervous system is divided into two parts: the brain and the spinal cord. The average adult human brain weighs 1.3 to 1.4 kg (approximately 3 pounds). The brain contains about 100 billion nerve cells (neurons) and trillions of support cells called glia. Some differences between the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and the central nervous system (CNS): 1  In the CNS, collections of neurons are called nuclei. 2  In the PNS, collections of neurons are called ganglia. 3  In the CNS, collections of axons are called tracts. 4  In the PNS, collections of axons are called nerves