Synopsis. Andrew Jackson was born on March 15, 1767, in the Waxhaws region between North Carolina and South Carolina. A lawyer and a landowner, he became a national war hero after defeating the British in New Orleans during the War of 1812. Jackson was elected the seventh president of the United States in 1828. Known as the people's president, Jackson destroyed the Second National Bank, founded the Democratic Party and is known for his support of individual liberty. He died on June 8, 1845.
Andrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 – June 8, 1845) was the seventh President of the United States (1829–1837). Nominated for president in 1824, Jackson narrowly lost to John Quincy Adams. Jackson's supporters then founded what became the Democratic Party. Nominated again in 1828, Jackson crusaded against Adams and the corrupt bargain between Adams and Henry Clay he said cost him the 1824 election.
Andrew Jackson Genealogy. President Andrew Jackson, known today as the first citizen president, personifies the American dream. Jackson's family history is filled with immigrants turned patriots, family loss and triumph. Andrew Jackson, seventh president of the United States, was the first of his family to be born in the Colonies on 15 March 1767 in the town of Waxhaws, on the border of North Carolina and South Carolina. 
On March 4, 1829, Andrew Jackson became the first United States president-elect to take the oath of office on the East Portico of the U.S. Capitol. Jackson was the first President to invite the public to attend the White House ball honoring his first inauguration. Nominated for president in 1824, Jackson narrowly lost to John Quincy Adams. Jackson's supporters then founded what became the Democratic Party. Nominated again in 1828, Jackson crusaded against Adams and the corrupt bargain between Adams and Henry Clay he said cost him the 1824 election.
Andrew Jackson was the seventh President of the United States from 1829 to 1837, seeking to act as the direct representative of the common man. More nearly than any of his predecessors, Andrew Jackson was elected by popular vote; as President he sought to act as the direct representative of the common man. 
Bill Clinton. George W. Bush. Andrew Jackson, the seventh US President (1829-1837), began life on March 15, 1767 in a log cabin on the frontier between the Carolinas. He was the first President not born of wealth, a fact that was not missed by the common people, who loved him. 
Andrew Jackson. Andrew Jackson, considered the father of the modern Presidency, significantly contributed to the expansion of that office. He was considered the first popularly elected President, and, throughout his Presidency, acted his role as a populist. Elected 1828 1832.
Life in Brief: Andrew Jackson, seventh President of the United States, was the dominant actor in American politics between Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. Born to obscure parents and orphaned in youth, he was the first self-made man and the fi… more life in brief ». 1 Life in Brief Life in Brief: Andrew Jackson, seventh President of the United States, was the dominant actor in American politics between Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. 2  Born to obscure parents and orphaned in youth, he was the first self-made man and the first westerner to reach the White House. 3  He became ….
Andrew Jackson, seventh President of the United States, was the dominant actor in American politics between Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. Born to obscure parents and orphaned in youth, he was the first self-made man and the first westerner to reach the White House. 