These are the sympathetic afferent fibers. A few of the taste fibers of the vagus nerve descend in the fasciculus solitarius and end around its cells. The somatic sensory fibers (afferent general somatic) are only a few in number. Vagus nerve branches in the thorax. The inferior cardiac branch is also called the ramus cardiaci inferiors. On the right side, it arises from the trunk of the vagus as it lies beside the trachea. On the left side, it originates from the recurrent laryngeal nerve only.
Gross Anatomy. The vagus nerve is the longest cranial nerve. It contains motor and sensory fibers and, because it passes through the neck and thorax to the abdomen, has the widest distribution in the body. It contains somatic and visceral afferent fibers, as well as general and special visceral efferent fibers. (See Table 1, below.). Vagus nerve branches in the thorax. The inferior cardiac branch is also called the ramus cardiaci inferiors. On the right side, it arises from the trunk of the vagus as it lies beside the trachea. On the left side, it originates from the recurrent laryngeal nerve only.
Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium. 1 Afferent, Efferent, and Mixed Nerves. 2  Some of the nerves in the body are specialized for carrying information in only one direction, similar to a one-way street. 3  Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves.
The nervous system consists of the brain, spinal cord, sensory organs, and all of the nerves that connect these organs with the rest of the body. Together, these organs are responsible for the control of the body and communication among its parts. 1 Afferent, Efferent, and Mixed Nerves. 2  Some of the nerves in the body are specialized for carrying information in only one direction, similar to a one-way street. 3  Nerves that carry information from sensory receptors to the central nervous system only are called afferent nerves.
The spinal cord and nerves are the connections, like the gates and wires in the computer. Nerves carry electrochemical signals to and from different areas of the nervous system as well as between the nervous system and other tissues and organs. 1 Central nerves connect areas within the brain and spinal cord. 2  Peripheral nerves connect the spinal cord with your limbs. 3  Autonomic nerves connect the brain and spinal cord with your organs (heart, stomach, intestines, blood vessels, etc.).
In addition to the seven cervical vertebrae, cervical anatomy features eight cervical nerves (C1-C8) that branch off of the spinal cord and control different types of bodily and sensory activities. Each cervical nerve is named based on the lower cervical vertebra that it runs between. 
The peripheral nervous system consists of the peripheral nerves, and the autonomic nervous system is made of autonomic nerves. Fast reflexes, like removing your hand quickly from a heat source, involve peripheral nerves and the spinal cord. Thought processes and autonomic regulation of your organs involve various parts of the brain and are relayed to the muscles and organs through the spinal cord and peripheral/autonomic nerves. Print. 1 Central nerves connect areas within the brain and spinal cord. 2  Peripheral nerves connect the spinal cord with your limbs. 3  Autonomic nerves connect the brain and spinal cord with your organs (heart, stomach, intestines, blood vessels, etc.).
The 12 Cranial Nerves. There are twelve Cranial Nerves that supply the head, neck and internal organs. Here you can find a structured list of the nerves in numerical order, which includes their position, exit from the skull, what each nerve supplies and whether it is a motor or sensory nerve. 
One of the body's largest and longest nerves is the sciatic nerve. It descends from the sacral plexus through the buttocks and into the thighs to supply nerve impulses to and from the muscles and skin in the hip joints and thighs, the lower legs, feet and most of the skin below the knee. The nerves of the leg and foot arise from spinal nerves connected to the spinal cord in the lower back and pelvis. As these nerves descend toward the thighs, they form two networks of crossed nerves known as the lumbar plexus and sacral plexus.
A nerve provides a common pathway for the electrochemical nerve impulses that are transmitted along each of the axons to peripheral organs. In the central nervous system, the analogous structures are known as tracts. Neurons are sometimes called nerve cells, though this term is potentially misleading since many neurons do not form nerves, and nerves also include non-neuronal Schwann cells that coat the axons in myelin. Each nerve is a cordlike structure that contains many axons. Within a nerve, each axon is surrounded by a layer of connective tissue called the endoneurium. The axons are bundled together into groups called fascicles, and each fascicle is wrapped in a layer of connective tissue called the perineurium.