1 The cost of spaying, a more complicated surgery, usually ranges from about $50 to $175. 2  Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 3  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
Surgery Costs Dog Spay: $90 Over 50 pounds add $25 Over 100 pounds add $35 In heat or pregnant add $20-$40 Dog Neuter: $85 Over 50 pounds add $25 Over 100 pounds add $35 Cryptorchid Surgery (undescended testicle) add $20-$40 We require a $25 deposit to hold your appointment. The cost of the medication will depend on the weight of your pet. In the event that you have to cancel your appointment, you must do so by calling 770-593-1155 72 HOURS BEFORE YOUR APPOINTMENT and speak to a member of our staff. If there is no answer, we are on the other line.
Georgia Low-Cost Spay/Neuter Resources. There are many organizations throughout Georgia that offer access to affordable, low-cost spay & neuter services for your dog or cat. If you operate a low-cost spay & neuter resource or clinic in Georgia and are not on this list, please click here and request to be added.
You are here. Georgia SPCA offers Low Cost Spay and Neuter surgeries to the public. The decision to spay or neuter your pet is one that has an impact that is important to understand: One hundred thousand animals are killed in metro Atlanta each year. Roughly half the animals that go to shelters are destroyed. Spay/Neuter. Georgia SPCA offers Low Cost Spay and Neuter surgeries to the public. The decision to spay or neuter your pet is one that has an impact that is important to understand:
1 Spaying a pregnant dog costs about $50 to $125 extra. 2  Laser surgery can reduce pain, bleeding and swelling, and can be more precise, but costs between one-quarter and one-third more. 3  Most veterinarians offer the option of pre-anesthesia blood work, to make sure the liver and kidneys are working properly, for about $40. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
1 Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 2  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.