Click here for more info: Learn and REMEMBER 200 Words a Day of Spanish Language vocabulary and phrases. Learn and REMEMBER 200 Words a Day of Spanish Language vocabulary and phrases. Say it in Spanish. Choose the links on how to say some common Spanish words!
the word Of in spanish is de which is also used to express from, and ownership. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Don Dfoofnik. 1,118,689 Contributions. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong.
When used  to describe a permanent property like place of origin, the  translation is Yo soy or just Soy. When used to describe  temporary conditions like how you're feeling, or when the present  progressive is used, the translation is Yo estoy or just Estoy. 3 people found this useful. Tejano.
Use (How to) Pronounce to learn the pronunciation of words and phrases you encounter. Just type in a word or phrase and hear it. Learn words that are commonly mispronounced. Learn the intonation of phrases.
With (How to) Pronounce, you can easily check the pronunciation of a word or phrase and memorize it. You can also check how a native speaker of the language you are learning could say a word in your language.
If you would like to say I am in Spanish, there are two different verbs: soy-I am (always, or a continuing characteristic) estoy-I am (for now, temporarily, or with … another verb form) The phrase I am has multiple uses depending on context.
When used  to describe a permanent property like place of origin, the  translation is Yo soy or just Soy. When used to describe  temporary conditions like how you're feeling, or when the present  progressive is used, the translation is Yo estoy or just Estoy. 3 people found this useful.
Content specialist at Answers.com with a background in literature and history. The infinitive (unconjugated) verb 'to find' is 'encontrar.' Encontrar has several meanings and is conjugated as a transitive verb. It means to find after losing something, to locate (or to be located), or to come across/chance upon.