ANDERSON Surname Meaning & Origin: Patronymic surname meaning son of Andrew.. Andrew (man, manly) was the first of Jesus' disciples, and was a revered name in medieval times due to its church connections. St. Andrew is the patron saint of both Scotland and Russia. Swedish patronymic son names traditionally end in-son, not-sen.
In Scotland, the name first appeared in records of the 14th century as Fitz Andreu (meaning son of Andrew), and developed in various forms by the Scottish Gaelic patronymic of MacGhilleAndrais which means the servant of St. Andrew. Variations of this name were MacAndrew, Gillanders and Anderson. The name soon migrated to other parts of Scotland due to the popularity of the name Andrew as associated with the Patron Saint of Scotland and the largest grouping lies in the north-east of Scotland from the Mearns through Aberdeenshire, Banff and Moray.
This article is about the surname Anderson. For other uses, see Anderson (disambiguation) . Anderson, Andersson, or Andersen is a surname deriving from a patronymic meaning son of Anders/ Andrew  (itself derived from the Greek name Andreas, meaning man or manly). Variations of this name were MacAndrew, Gillanders and Anderson. The name soon migrated to other parts of Scotland due to the popularity of the name Andrew as associated with the Patron Saint of Scotland and the largest grouping lies in the north-east of Scotland from the Mearns through Aberdeenshire, Banff and Moray.
[ 3 syll. an-der-son, and-ers-on ] The baby boy name Anderson is pronounced as AE ND-erSahN †. Anderson is used predominantly in the English language and it is derived from Scandinavian origins. The meaning of the name is son of Andrew. Its meaning is from the word ' son '. The first name is derived from the surname. In the USA, the Scandinavian surname Anderson was introduced into the USA by immigrants, making it one of the most common American surnames. Anderson is a variation (English) of the name Anders (Dutch, English, Finnish, and Scandinavian)
This interesting surname is of English and Scottish origin, and is a patronymic of the surname Andrew, which is derived from the personal name from the Greek Andreas, a derivative of andreios, manly, from aner, man, male. 
Anderson /an-der-son/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name. Anderson's roots are Scandinavian and Greek, and Anderson means man, warrior. Anderson is an alternate spelling of Anders (Scandinavian, Greek): version of Andrew. Compare last name Andersen. Kreatif forms: Ainderson, Andernon, Andersonno
Anderson Name Meaning. Scottish and northern English: very common patronymic from the personal name Ander(s), a northern Middle English form of Andrew. See also Andreas.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Anderson. Anderson is the transferred use of a Scottish and English patronymic surname meaning ‘son of Andreas’ which is the Greek equivalent to Andrew. Andrew is the anglicized form of the Greek name “Andreas”, stemming from “andr” which translates into ‘manly, brave, warrior’
Greek Meaning: The name Anderson is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Anderson is: Son of Ander. Norse Meaning: The name Anderson is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Anderson is: Son of Ander. American Meaning: The name Anderson is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Anderson is: Son of Ander.