The Himalayas are a large mountain range in south central Asia,  roughly between India and the Tibetan Plateau in southwest China.  The small countries within the mountains … are Nepal and Bhutan, and  Tibet (which is claimed and occupied as a region of China).    The Himalayas pass through the countries of India, Pakistan,  Afghanistan, China, Bhutan, Nepal and Burma. Most of the Himalayas are located in Nepal, Bhutan and the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in India. The outlying part … s of the range lie in Tibet, Pakistan (some in disputed territories) and Burma. 18 people found this useful.
The Himalayas. The Himalayas are mountains that are located in southern Asia. They are a part of in Nepal, India, Pakistan, Tibet and Bhutan. The mountains are the highest in the world, reaching almost 9,000 meters above sea level. The Himalayas separate the Indian subcontinent from the inner part of Asia.
Report Abuse. The Himalayas are located in the northern part of India, the southern part of Nepal, and in a region called Tibet (Tibet is a part of China). Some parts of the Himalayas also go through the eastern region of Pakistan. The Lesser Himalayas, located in northwestern India in the states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, in north-central India in the state of Sikkim, and in northeastern India in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, range from 1,500 to 5,000 meters in height.
Nepal's Himalayas also contain nine of the fourteen highest peaks in the world, which includes the highest peak ever recorded-Mount Everest. The Himalayas can be found located in South Asia crossing over a large geography of land covering a distance of 1550 miles or 2500 kilometers in total. Parts of the Himalayas can be found situated in Afghanistan, Nepal, China, Bhutan, Pakistan, the Tibetan Plateau and covers a number of states in India. The Himalayas are broken up into three parts, the Western Himalayas, the Inner or Central Himalayas and the Eastern Himalayas.
The Mountain range in Asia referred to as the Himalayas crosses 6 countries: Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Kashmir and Afghanistan.   located in south centeral As … ia The Himalayas pass through India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan and Nepal and Burma. In India it stretches across five states: Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and in China it is Tibet.
Most of the Himalayas are located in Nepal, Bhutan and the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in India. The outlying part … s of the range lie in Tibet, Pakistan (some in disputed territories) and Burma. located in south centeral As … ia The Himalayas pass through India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan and Nepal and Burma. In India it stretches across five states: Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and in China it is Tibet.
The small countries within the mountains are Nepal and Bhutan, and Tibet (which is claimed and occupied as a region of China). The Himalayas pass through the countries of India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan, Nepal and Burma. located in south centeral As … ia The Himalayas pass through India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan and Nepal and Burma. In India it stretches across five states: Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and in China it is Tibet.
The Himalayas are bordered on the north by the Tibetan Plateau, on the south by the Indo-Gangetic Plain, on the northwest by the Karakoram and Hindu Kush ranges, and on the east by the Indian states of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. Lifted by the collision of the Indian tectonic plate with the Eurasian Plate, the Himalayan range runs northwest to southeast in a 2,400 kilometres (1,500 mi) long arc. The range varies in width from 400 kilometres (250 mi) in the west to 150 kilometres (93 mi) in the east.
The Himalayas span five countries: India, Nepal, Bhutan, China (Tibet), and Pakistan, with the first three countries having sovereignty over most of the range. Lifted by the collision of the Indian tectonic plate with the Eurasian Plate, the Himalayan range runs northwest to southeast in a 2,400 kilometres (1,500 mi) long arc. The range varies in width from 400 kilometres (250 mi) in the west to 150 kilometres (93 mi) in the east.