A benign tumor is not a malignant tumor, which is cancer. It does not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body the way cancer can. In most cases, the outlook with benign tumors is very good. But benign tumors can be serious if they press on vital structures such as blood vessels or nerves.
A tumor does not mean cancer-tumors can be benign (not cancerous), pre-malignant (pre-cancerous), or malignant (cancerous). There are many different types of tumors and a variety of names for them-their names usually reflect their shape and the kind of tissue they appear in.
Cancer is one of the most dangerous diseases that develop in the human body with time due to various causes and there are various types of cancer benign and malignant in nature. Cancer develops when there is an uncontrollable growth of cells in the human body.
Generally this type of cancer does not spread beyond the brain but other cancers may spread to brain and invade the tissues. 4.Breast cancer-there are certain invasive types of breast cancer generally found in women. These cancers invade the tissue and result in the malignant cancer.
Some tumours are classed as malignant or cancerous. Benign tumours are not cancerous and are not usually life-threatening. A benign tumour tends to be slower growing and does not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body the way cancer can. In most cases the outlook with benign tumours is very good.
These are some of the most common types of benign tumors: Adenomas are benign tumors starting in the epithelial tissue of a gland or gland-like structure. The epithelial tissue is the thin layer of tissue covering organs, glands, and other structures. A common type of adenoma is a polyp in the colon.
Types of cancers-. Under the types of cancer benign and malignant, various types of cancers are described as follows-. * Benign Tumours (cancers)-. 1.Fibromas-it is the non-malignant tumour of fibrous tissues. These tumours may develop in any part of the body and later may also spread in other tissues too.