Oligodendroglioma is a type of glioma, which is a brain tumor that arises from the brain tissue. Oligodendrogliomas most resemble oligodendrocytes, the cells that encircle and insulate the nerve cells of the brain. Oligodendrogliomas often are more anatomically discrete than astrocytomas, another type of glioma, and they are usually more superficial in the brain.
Oligodendroglioma is a type of glioma. Gliomas start in glial cells, which support and protect nerve cells in the brain (neurons). Oligodendroglioma develops from a type of glial cell called an oligodendrocyte. These cells make up the fatty covering of nerve cells. Oligodendrogliomas are a type of brain tumour that belongs to a group of tumours called gliomas. They develop from the cells that make up the fatty covering of nerve cells. The symptoms can include: 1  headaches. 2  seizures (fits). 3  changes in behaviour. 4  weakness in an arm or leg. 5  problems with coordination and speech
Oligodendroglioma: A rare, slow-growing brain tumor that begins in cells called oligodendrocytes, which provide support and nourishment for cells that transmit nerve impulses. Also known as oligodendroglial tumor. 
Oligodendroglioma treatment. Oligodendrogliomas are a type of glioma brain tumour. Oligodendrogliomas develop from cells called oligodendrocytes. These cells make a white fatty substance that covers nerves, called myelin. High grade oligodendroglioma. High grade oligodendrogliomas tend to glow brightly (enhance) on a CT scan or MRI scan when a particular drug is injected into the bloodstream. You usually have surgery to remove the tumour. It is not usually possible to remove all of it.
An oligodendroglioma is a low-grade (relatively benign) tumor arising from a type of cell of the central nervous system known as an oligodendrocyte. 1  Oligodendrocytes make up a supportive network for the nerves of the brain and spinal column. 
An oligodendroglioma is a type of brain tumour. This information is about oligodendrogliomas, their symptoms and treatments. It should be read along with our general information about brain tumours which has more detailed information about tests, treatments and their side effects. Oligodendrogliomas are a type of brain tumour that belongs to a group of tumours called gliomas. They develop from the cells that make up the fatty covering of nerve cells. The symptoms can include: 1  headaches. 2  seizures (fits). 3  changes in behaviour. 4  weakness in an arm or leg. 5  problems with coordination and speech
Treatment for oligodendroglioma. Oligodendrogliomas are a type of glioma brain tumour. The treatment depends on whether it is a slowly growing type (low grade or grade 2) or a faster growing type (grade 3 or anaplastic tumour). High grade oligodendroglioma. High grade oligodendrogliomas tend to glow brightly (enhance) on a CT scan or MRI scan when a particular drug is injected into the bloodstream. You usually have surgery to remove the tumour. It is not usually possible to remove all of it.
1 Oligodendroglioma: Oligodendroglioma is a well-differentiated (WHO grade II), diffusely infiltrating tumor of adults, typically located in the cerebral hemispheres and composed predominantly of cells which morphologically resemble oligodendroglia. A rare brain tumour that develops from cells which make up the supporting connective tissue around brain nerve cells. Symptoms will depend on ... more ».
Print. An oligodendroglioma tumor is a slow-growing brain tumor that usually occurs in young adults. These tumors are frequently located within the frontal, temporal or parietal lobes and cause seizures in a relatively high percentage of patients. To diagnose an oligodendroglioma brain tumor, a neurologist (a doctor with special additional training in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the brain, spinal cord and nerves) performs a complete examination, which may include a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan or a computed tomography (CT or CAT) scan.