Alternatively, an individual may recharacterize a Roth IRA contribution to a Traditional IRA contribution in order to claim a tax deduction for the amount, or because he or she is ineligible for the Roth IRA contribution. An individual may choose to recharacterize an IRA contribution to change the initial designation. For instance, an individual who makes a Traditional IRA contribution may recharacterize the contribution to a Roth IRA, thereby changing the contribution to a Roth IRA contribution, or vice versa.
If you recharacterize the 2009 contribution as a Roth contribution, you save $500 in taxes. Example: You contributed $5000 to a Roth IRA in April 2007 even though you were eligible for a deductible IRA. In October 2008, your Roth has lost 40% of its value. If you recharacterized a deductible IRA contribution as a Roth IRA contribution, you will owe extra tax. If you recharacterized a non-deductible IRA to a Roth IRA or vice versa, your tax owed will not change, but you still need to amend the return to correct your IRS Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs.
IRA Contribution. An individual may choose to recharacterize an IRA contribution to change the initial designation. For instance, an individual who makes a Traditional IRA contribution may recharacterize the contribution to a Roth IRA, thereby changing the contribution to a Roth IRA contribution, or vice versa.
Recharacterizing a Roth IRA Conversion. If you previously converted a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, you can undo the conversion by recharacterizing the account. For a 2012 conversion, the deadline for a recharacterization is October 15, 2013. You may wish to recharacterize your Roth IRA if: 
When you recharacterize contributions, money goes from one IRA to another IRA as if you contributed to the other IRA in the first place. When you recharacterize a conversion, money goes from your Roth IRA back to a Traditional IRA, as if you didn’t convert it. 
You can generally recharacterize all or a portion of what you converted. And if you change your mind again, assets that you recharacterize to a traditional IRA can be reconverted to a Roth IRA in the next tax year after the conversion or 30 days after the recharacterization, whichever is later. 
To treat the $400 as a Roth IRA contribution, Jack must recharacterize the amount to his Roth IRA and must include any earnings or subtract any loss on the $400. The value of Jack\'s Traditional IRA when he recharacterizes the $400 in April is $7,600. An individual may choose to recharacterize an IRA contribution to change the initial designation. For instance, an individual who makes a Traditional IRA contribution may recharacterize the contribution to a Roth IRA, thereby changing the contribution to a Roth IRA contribution, or vice versa.
If you made a conversion of a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, or contributed to either one, you can switch the type of IRA by doing a recharacterization through October 15 of the year after you made the original conversion or contribution. If you recharacterized a deductible IRA contribution as a Roth IRA contribution, you will owe extra tax. If you recharacterized a non-deductible IRA to a Roth IRA or vice versa, your tax owed will not change, but you still need to amend the return to correct your IRS Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs.
You generally can recharacterize your rollover or conversion by October 15 of the following year, regardless of whether you requested an extension to file your tax return. For example, for your conversion to a Roth IRA in 2013, you have until October 15, 2014, to recharacterize. This deadline applies even if: 1  you did not request an extension to file your 2013 tax return, and. 2  you file your return on or before April 15, 2014. Yes, if you recharacterize all or part of a rollover or conversion to a Roth IRA, you cannot reconvert the amount recharacterized to the same or another Roth IRA until the later of: 1  30 days after the recharacterization, or. 2  the year following the year of the rollover or conversion