The cost of thatching your roof will vary greatly according to a number of factors. These include: 1  The size of the roof. 2  The shape and design of the roof. 3  The types of thatching material used. 4  The type and pattern of ridge used. 5  The height to the ridge. 6  The height to the apex.
Damage or no, you'll have to plan on replacing the roof ridge every 8 to 10 years. Finally, if birds are just a tremendous nuisance in your area, chicken mesh wiring can be laid over the roof so that no critters can get at it. When done properly, such wiring does not overly affect the look of your thatched roof.
In short if an average cottage takes 2-3 Thatchers 4 weeks to thatch the wage bill is going to be considerable; if this runs over to 5 or 6 weeks whilst the cost to the thatch owner may not increase the Thatchers earnings will have taken a nose dive.
Replacing a typical thatch roof costs on average £10 per square foot or about £100 per square metre. Mr New said: Check the roof every two or three years. The life of a thatched roof ranges from 25 years to 70 years; this varies depending on where the house is situated and on what kind of material the roof is made of.
A normal domestic house roof of 350 m2 roof area would take 6 teams about seven days to thatch. How much does it cost?The cost of a thatch roof is dependant primarily on the maximum span of the roof. The greater the span, the higher the cost per square meter.
To create a true cost comparison I have given the quoted prices and then shown how much each of the prices works out per 100 sq feet as this is still the way nearly all Thatchers will price work. 1. From 27-10-2010, www.telegraph.co.uk £75 – £100 per sq’ or £750 – £1000 per square.
First it has to be said that thatching is incredibly labour intensive and labour rates are not at the bottom end of earnings – and rightly so. Often customers have said to me “I never realised there was so much work involved”.
The thatching cost usually is based on the area of roof to be thatched. Thatchers work on “square”. feet by. (. square feet). The average roof is around. square although some properties are 4 square and some. square.