I always take 800mg of ibuprofen before getting tattooed. It doesn't do anything for the pain (that I can tell), but keeps swelling down. I did take a Percocet once before getting a elbow tattoo. It did help with the pain some, but you still have the pain, you just don't care that you have pain. It also relaxes you some.
I am precribed tha xanax. I&#39;m getting a quarter size tat on my foot. I&#39;m nervous about the pain. I&#39;m sure it&#39;s fine to take the tylenol, but I wonder if it&#39;s okay to take a xanax. any help would be appreciated. And don&#39;t... Source(s): xanax tylenol tattoo: https://shortly.im/2wfjH. Cletis · 1 month ago
I assume your meaning what medications can i take before getting a tattoo, and the answer would not be asprine. Asprine are blood thinners and can cause serious problems, as … can drinking. Do not take asprine or drink with in 48 hours before getting a tattoo. 6 people found this useful. The best person to ask about this is your tattoo artist. As a person with 5 tattoos, and 2 of them are big pieces, I'd recommend not taking ANY drugs beforehand. But my advice … to you is to find the shop you're getting the tattoo done at and ask the people there.
Report Abuse. Tylenol or Advil are fine but absolutely NO aspirin. Aspirin is a blood thinner so do not take it before or after getting a tattoo. It can lead to bleeding and bruising where the tattoo is. Also, do not drink any alcohol. I doubt you'll need it. I just got a new tattoo a few days ago and except for being a little sore, it's not bothering me at all.
I have always taken 4 Tylenol before a tattoo. I have 7. Aspirin thins the blood, so stay away from that. Also, painkillers like opiates are not a good idea. They can make you drowsy. I have never heard of being able to take anything before a tattoo. If you really want a tat, you need to put up with the pain.. that's what makes getting a tattoo exciting.
Best Answer: it's recommended to not take any painkillers (especially ones that contain aspirin) because they can thin out your blood and can affect the way your skin reacts to the tattoo. painkillers can also affect the way ur tattoo heals, because they reduce blood clotting and will slow down the healing process. this can all affect the way ur skin retains the ink so i would say if u really want a tattoo then suck it up and deal with the pain. I have never heard of being able to take anything before a tattoo. If you really want a tat, you need to put up with the pain.. that's what makes getting a tattoo exciting.
Nope, basically it's pointless for a person to take painkillers before a tattoo, and it can actually be detrimental to the tattoo because of the blood thinning factor. So anyone who says it's worth while for someone to do that doesn't really know what they're on about. It doesn't do anything for the pain (that I can tell), but keeps swelling down. I did take a Percocet once before getting a elbow tattoo. It did help with the pain some, but you still have the pain, you just don't care that you have pain. It also relaxes you some.
Don't take aspirin. It impairs your ability to clot, so it can make you bleed more during the tattoo and the ink may migrate/blur once applied. Acetominophen (Tylenol) is OK but won't do a whole lot for you in this situation. It's best for generalized pain like a headache or muscle soreness. I have never heard of being able to take anything before a tattoo. If you really want a tat, you need to put up with the pain.. that's what makes getting a tattoo exciting.
Ibuprofen and Aspirin should not be taken when getting a tattoo because they thin your blood and cause bleeding which is bad for the tattoo. Acetaminophen however is safe because it does not thin the blood which is the primary reason artists tell their clients not to take pills. I don't take any medication before a tattoo because they can cause adverse reactions to the tattoo process. Any blood thinners can cause undue amounts of bleeding and make it difficult for the ink to settle. Some people do take non-blood-thinner painkiller