Author's name not mentioned in text. When you do not include the author's name in the text, place the author's last name in the parenthetical citation before the page number(s). There is no punctuation between the author's name and the page number(s). If you include the author whose words you are quoting in your text, you do not need to include the author's name again in your citation. Example. In last month's issue of. , Lenny Cravitz admitted that Jimmy Hendrix was an extraordinary man (qtd. in Riverwell 220).
If the author's name is not mentioned in the text. If the author's name is not used in the sentence introducing the source material, then include the author's last name in the parenthetical citation before the page number(s). MLA Parenthetical Documentation. In MLA style, in-text citations, called parenthetical citations, are used to document any external sources used within a document (unless the material cited is considered general knowledge).
If you use a source that does not supply an author's name, substitute, by using the title or an abbreviated title, for the author's name in the sentence or in the parenthetical citation. In the citation, do not forget to include the page number(s) unless the source is one page or less in length. If you include the author whose words you are quoting in your text, you do not need to include the author's name again in your citation. Example. In last month's issue of. , Lenny Cravitz admitted that Jimmy Hendrix was an extraordinary man (qtd. in Riverwell 220).
If there are four or more authors. If a source has four or more authors, include the first author's last name followed by et al. (Latin for and others), either in the text or in the parenthetical citation. MLA Parenthetical Documentation. In MLA style, in-text citations, called parenthetical citations, are used to document any external sources used within a document (unless the material cited is considered general knowledge).
Use of Authors' Names. Always mention the author's name—either in the text itself or in the parenthetical citation—unless no author is provided. If the author's name is mentioned in the text. If the author's name is used in the text introducing the source material, then cite the page number(s) in parentheses: MLA Parenthetical Documentation. In MLA style, in-text citations, called parenthetical citations, are used to document any external sources used within a document (unless the material cited is considered general knowledge).
4th ed. Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly, 2000. If you cite another paragraph from the same work, or if the author or authors are clearly indicated in your text, common sense dictates that you only need to add page number(s) for the citation. For example: 
MLA format follows the author-page method of in-text citation. This means that the author's last name and the page number(s) from which the quotation or paraphrase is taken must appear in the text, and a complete reference should appear on your Works Cited page. When a source has a corporate author, it is acceptable to use the name of the corporation followed by the page number for the in-text citation. You should also use abbreviations (e.g., nat'l for national) where appropriate, so as to avoid interrupting the flow of reading with overly long parenthetical citations.