The thymus gland. The thymus is a gland in the chest. It is at its largest in adolescence and then gradually shrinks away throughout adulthood, being replaced with fatty tissue. It is involved in the development of white blood cells called T lymphocytes. Cancer of the thymus can happen. But it is not all that common. Most tumours in the thymus are called thymomas. There is also a much rarer form of thymus gland cancer called thymic carcinoma. Most thymus tumours are in the front of the chest but more rarely, they develop in the neck.
The thymus is a specialized primary lymphoid organ of the immune system. Within the thymus, T cells or T lymphocytes mature. T cells are critical to the adaptive immune system, where the body adapts specifically to foreign invaders. The thymus is composed of two identical lobes and is located anatomically in the anterior superior mediastinum, in front of the heart and behind the sternum. As the thymus is the organ of T-cell development, any congenital defect in thymic genesis or a defect in thymocyte development can lead to a profound T cell deficiency in primary immunodeficiency disease.
Thymus. The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. Located in the upper chest region, the primary function of this gland is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T lymphocytes. The thymus gland acts to regulate the immune system through the development of immune cells responsible for cell mediated immunity. In addition to immune function, the thymus also produces hormones that promote growth and maturation.
Any condition affecting the thymus. The thymus is the infection fighting immune system gland which is larger in children than adults. It is located in the top part of the chest. Thymus disorders include thymoma (cancer of the thymus), congenital athyma (absence of thymus) and Digeorge syndrome. ...
Thymus Cancer. The thymus gland is an organ in your chest, underneath the breastbone. It is part of the lymphatic system, which is part of your body’s immune system. The thymus gland produces white blood cells called lymphocytes. Lymphocytes help your body fight infection
Your thymus gland is where generic lymphocytes mature into T cells with the help of a thymus secreting hormone. And from there they are disseminated via your bloodstream to your lymph nodes and other lymph tissue. Your thymus also secretes hormones that help develop the lymphoid system. And since your thymus contains different types of cells, other types of cancer can develop as well. When symptoms are present with thymoma or thymus cancer, then you may experience: 1  dysphagia. 2  chest pain. 3  hoarseness. 4  chronic cough. 5  breathing problems. 6  superior vena cava syndrome.
The thymus gland is largest around the time of birth. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. The thymus gland is a small gland in your upper chest that has importance for your health far out of proportion to its size. It starts functioning during fetal life, manufacturing millions of immune cells called T cells. 
Although myasthenia gravis has the most common association with thymoma and thymus cancer, they do occur in those experiencing certain immune system issues, autoimmune disorders, nonthymic cancers, bone disorders, collagen diseases, endocrine disorders, renal disease and skin diseases, like: 1  lupus. 2  alopecia. 3  myositis. And since your thymus contains different types of cells, other types of cancer can develop as well. When symptoms are present with thymoma or thymus cancer, then you may experience: 1  dysphagia. 2  chest pain. 3  hoarseness. 4  chronic cough. 5  breathing problems. 6  superior vena cava syndrome.
The thymus is a fairly large gland during childhood, that slowly shrinks after puberty. This atrophy is due to the increased circulation of sex hormones. When you were born your immune system was not completely developed. One of the immune shortcomings at birth is the lack of mature T cells, a type of lymphocyte. And since your thymus contains different types of cells, other types of cancer can develop as well. When symptoms are present with thymoma or thymus cancer, then you may experience: 1  dysphagia. 2  chest pain. 3  hoarseness. 4  chronic cough. 5  breathing problems. 6  superior vena cava syndrome.