Botox Cosmetic is an injected liquid used to treat frown lines, squint and smile lines, nasal crunch lines, and horizontal forehead wrinkles. By relaxing the underlying muscles, these lines become less deep. Botox has been used to treat thousands of patients medically and cosmetically over 20 years. I have included a Cost Sheet in the Guide to Cosmetic Treatments so that you can at least see what prices are like in Seattle, Washington. Relaxing frown lines in a woman would cost between $250-600. Men, who have larger muscles, will need more-possibly $350-700.
6 things to expect with BOTOX ® Cosmetic treatment. 1  Real, noticeable results—you may begin to notice results within 24 to 48 hours for treatment of moderate to severe frown lines. 2  Some patients report that being injected with BOTOX® Cosmetic feels like a pinch. 3  The actual injection time takes ≈ 10 minutes. Photos taken at maximum frown and/or full smile before and after treatment with BOTOX ® Cosmetic at day 7. In two clinical studies for moderate to severe crow’s feet, 26.1% and 20.3% of people had ≥ 2-grade improvement at day 30.
1 Real, noticeable results—you may begin to notice results within 24 to 48 hours for treatment of moderate to severe frown lines. 2  Results may vary. 3  Some patients report that being injected with BOTOX® Cosmetic feels like a pinch. 4  The actual injection time takes ≈ 10 minutes. Photos taken at maximum frown and/or full smile before and after treatment with BOTOX ® Cosmetic at day 7. In two clinical studies for moderate to severe crow’s feet, 26.1% and 20.3% of people had ≥ 2-grade improvement at day 30.
As a result, if you have small crow’s feet around the eyes but more severe forehead wrinkles, you may see results sooner in the relaxation of the crow’s feet. However, since individual results may vary, your doctor may not be able to guarantee which area of the face will react to the Botox injections first. If you have been considering getting Botox in order to look your best for a special event, you may be asking yourself; “How long does it take for Botox to work?
On average, it takes about 5-7 days before Botox kicks in. The amount of Botox required to get effective results varies for each person. Some people will get the results they want with just one treatment, whereas others may require multiple treatments to determine what the right dose is for them. If you have deeper wrinkles in the frown line area (glabellar region) you may require more than the average number of units to get the best results. This is why it’s important that you continue to follow up with your injector so that you can get your desired result
Most patients find that the effects of the injections last approximately 3-6 month. Most of my patients come 3-4 times the first year and then 2-3 times a year after that. After the muscles have been relaxed for awhile, it takes less to maintain that relaxation. I have included a Cost Sheet in the Guide to Cosmetic Treatments so that you can at least see what prices are like in Seattle, Washington. Relaxing frown lines in a woman would cost between $250-600. Men, who have larger muscles, will need more-possibly $350-700.
Botox can also be injected into the area around the nose and mouth by a cosmetic surgeon. This will prevent the further formation of lines that commonly form from the side of the nose to the corner of the mouth and may reduce the appearance of small “pursing” lines that appear from puckering the mouth. Botox injection s are a great way to reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles on the face. More than 2 million Botox cosmetic injections are given yearly but the effects don’t last forever.
The injected muscle can't contract. That makes the wrinkles relax and soften. Botox is most often used on forehead lines, crow's feet (lines around the eye), and frown lines. Wrinkles caused by sun damage and gravity will not respond to Botox. It can also be used for lip lines and for the chin and corner of the mouth and neck. Temporary bruising is the most common side effect of Botox. Headaches, which end in 24 to 48 hours, can happen, but this is rare. A small percentage of patients may develop eyelid drooping.
Some patients find that after several treatments, each Botox injection may last for 6 months or more. Another benefit of how long Botox lasts is that even after it actually wears off, the skin has regenerated some and the line appearances will be less deep. Botox injection s are a great way to reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles on the face. More than 2 million Botox cosmetic injections are given yearly but the effects don’t last forever.
Part 2 of 6: How much Botox costs and how long the results last |. Botox is one of the most popular facial treatments for anti-aging and wrinkles, but it can be a little overwhelming if you don't know anything about it. Part 2 of this section on Botox discusses how much Botox costs and how long Botox results last. Keep reading to find out if Botox will be worth your money! 1  Part 1: What Can Botox Do for You. 2  Part 2: How Much Botox Costs and How Long Results Last.