From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pertussis, also known as whooping cough or 100-day cough, is a highly contagious bacterial disease. Initially, symptoms are usually similar to those of the common cold with a runny nose, fever, and mild cough. This is then followed by weeks of severe coughing fits. The classic symptoms of pertussis are a paroxysmal cough, inspiratory whoop, and fainting, or vomiting after coughing. The cough from pertussis has been documented to cause subconjunctival hemorrhages, rib fractures, urinary incontinence, hernias, and vertebral artery dissection.
Why It Is Used. The Bordetella pertussis blood test is primarily used to test for Bordetella pertussis bacterium, an infection that causes whooping cough. The early symptoms of whooping cough are very similar to those of many other colds. One may experience a runny nose, light coughing, sneezing, or a low-grade fever. 
There are several tests that may be used when a pertussis infection is suspected: 1  Culture – this test has been the gold standard for identifying pertussis and is used to diagnose a pertussis infection. 2  The sample is put into nutrient media and the bacteria are grown and identified. 1 Culture – this test has been the gold standard for identifying pertussis and is used to diagnose a pertussis infection. 2  The sample is put into nutrient media and the bacteria are grown and identified.
Pertussis tests are used to detect and diagnose a Bordetella pertussis infection. Early diagnosis and treatment may lessen the severity of symptoms and help limit spread of the disease. 1 Culture – this test has been the gold standard for identifying pertussis and is used to diagnose a pertussis infection. 2  The sample is put into nutrient media and the bacteria are grown and identified.
Top of Page. Several types of laboratory tests are commonly used for the diagnosis of Bordetella pertussis. Culture is considered the gold standard because it is the only 100% specific method for identification. Other tests that can be performed include polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and serology. PCR is a rapid test and has excellent sensitivity. PCR tests vary in specificity, so obtaining culture confirmation of pertussis for at least one suspicious case is recommended any time there is suspicion of a pertussis outbreak.
Reference Range. Pertussis is a respiratory tract infection caused by the gram-negative coccobacillus Bordetella pertussis. Pertussis is transmitted by droplet transfer (usually from sneezing or coughing) from an infected person. Pertussis is also known as whooping cough. Description. Pertussis is a respiratory tract infection caused by the gram-negative coccobacillus B
Pertussis tests are ordered when a doctor suspects that a person has a Bordetella pertussis infection. A pertussis culture and PCR are performed when someone has symptoms suggestive of pertussis, and as early in the illness as possible (generally within the first 3 weeks). 1 Culture – this test has been the gold standard for identifying pertussis and is used to diagnose a pertussis infection. 2  The sample is put into nutrient media and the bacteria are grown and identified.
Pertussis testing is used to diagnose these infections and to help minimize their spread to others. Several different types of tests are available to detect pertussis infection. Some of these include: 1  Culture. 2  Detection of pertussis genetic material (Polymerase Chain Reaction, PCR). 3  Direct fluorescent antibody (DFA).