A finance degree is an academic degree awarded to students who have completed a finance-related degree program at a college, university, or business school.
An associate degree with a focus on finance can usually be earned in two years or less. A bachelor degree in finance can usually be earned in three to four years. A master's degree in finance can be earned in one to two years or less after completing a bachelor's program. Doctorate programs with a focus on finance take approximately four to six years to complete and require at least a bachelor's degree--though a master's degree is a more common requirement.
Potential jobs you can get: finance manager, controller or chief financial officer. Preferred qualifications: A bachelor’s degree in finance, accounting or a related field with several years of experience working in the field. Addition credentials such as the CFA or an MBA are also recommended.
A bachelor degree is required for most positions in the finance field. However, there are some cases in which an associate degree would be sufficient. For example, an individual with a finance degree can often get an entry-level position at many banks and accounting firms.
1. Use your accounting degree to apply for a Masters in Business Administration (MBA). If you aspire to manage a company or be the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of a company, then accounting experience is extremely valuable. Many corporate management schemes prefer or require an MBA.
Use your accounting degree to apply for a Masters in Business Administration (MBA). If you aspire to manage a company or be the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of a company, then accounting experience is extremely valuable. Many corporate management schemes prefer or require an MBA.
1 You can also use your accounting BS degree to get another master's degree. 2  For example, a good number of law students start out in accounting, and people who want to become teachers may choose to get a master's degree in education.
With a finance degree, you will be equipped with tools for understanding the function and applications of financial markets and the acquisition and allocation of funds for public and private sectors in domestic and international organizations.