Federalism is a system based upon democratic rules and institutions in which the power to govern is shared between national and provincial/state governments, creating what is often called a federation. The term federalist describes several political beliefs around the world. Also one more aspect of Indian federalism is system of President's Rule in which the central government (through its appointed Governor) takes control of state's administration for certain months when no party can form a government in the state or there is violent disturbance in the state.
The term federalism is also used to describe a system of government in which sovereignty is constitutionally divided between a central governing authority and constituent political units (such as states or provinces). Also one more aspect of Indian federalism is system of President's Rule in which the central government (through its appointed Governor) takes control of state's administration for certain months when no party can form a government in the state or there is violent disturbance in the state.
Federalism is a system of government in which a written constitution divides power between a central government and regional or sub-divisional governments. Both types of government act directly upon the people through their officials and laws. Both types of government are supreme within their proper sphere of authority. 
fed·er·al·ism. n. 1. a. A system of government in which power is divided between a central authority and constituent political units. b. Advocacy of such a system of government. 2. Federalism The doctrine of the Federalist Party. 
Primary tabs. Federalism is a system of government in which the same territory is controlled by two levels of government. Generally, an overarching national government governs issues that affect the entire country, and smaller subdivisions govern issues of local concern. Both the national government and the smaller political subdivisions have the power to make laws and both have a certain level of autonomy from each other.
Federalism is a political system in which power is divided and shared between the national/central government and the states (regional units) in order to limit the power of government. 
One of the most well-known examples of federalism is the United States. Learn what other countries use this type of government and how it works. slide 1 of 5. Federalism is a system of government that divides power between a political units and a central authority. Power is spread between a minimum of two units with powers divided between the part
1 Federation and Confederation. 2  Federalism refers to a political system with multiple levels of government, each of which has independent authority over some policy areas. 1 The Dynamics of American Federalism. 2  While some scholars believe the American government is a system of dual federalism, meaning that national and state governments each have control over unique spheres of policy, others describe it as cooperative federalism, wherein both levels work in nearly all areas of policy.
The Articles of Confederation represented an opposite form of government, a confederation, which has a weak central government and strong state governments. In a confederation, the state or local government is supreme. The national government only wields powers granted by the states. Most confederations have allowed the local government to nullify a federal law within its own borders. Federalism is a compromise meant to eliminate the disadvantages of both systems. In a federal system, power is shared by the national and state governments