Dystonia is a disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions that cause slow repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The movements may be painful, and some individuals with dystonia may have a tremor or other neurologic features. Cervical dystonia, also called spasmodic torticollis or torticollis, is the most common of the focal dystonias. In cervical dystonia, the muscles in the neck that control the position of the head are affected, causing the head to turn to one side or be pulled forward or backward. Sometimes the shoulder is pulled up.
Focal Dystonia (isolated region): Focal dystonia describes cases with involvement of isolated areas, such as the muscles of the neck in torticollis, the muscles around the eyes in blepharospasm, or the muscles of the hand in writer’s cramp. The best treatments depend on the type of dystonia. For many focal dystonias, injection of botulinum toxin as a muscle relaxer is the treatment of choice. Botulinum toxin can virtually eliminate the jerky posturing of the head in torticollis or the eye spasms in blepharospasm.
FOCAL DYSTONIA. Focal dystonia is a neurological condition affecting a muscle or group of muscles in a specific part of the body causing an undesirable muscular contraction or twisting. Many sufferers have continuous pain, cramping and relentless muscle spasms due to involuntary muscle movements
Definition. Focal dystonia is an irregular movement disorder specific to one part of the body. In dystonia, muscle contractions cause irregular movements, twitches, tics, and twisted or repetitive postures. These may be continuous or off and on. The most common types of focal dystonia are: 1  Blepharospasm—an eye twitch. 
Dystonia is a neurological movement disorder. It is caused by the brain sending incorrect information to the muscles and is characterised by involuntary, prolonged muscle contractions, which cause affected parts of the body to be twisted into abnormal postures. 
Dystonia is a neurological condition with a very broad range of manifestations. The basic underlying problem involves over-activity of the main muscles needed for a movement, extra activation of other muscles that are not needed for the movement, and simultaneous activation of muscles that work against each other. The best treatments depend on the type of dystonia. For many focal dystonias, injection of botulinum toxin as a muscle relaxer is the treatment of choice. Botulinum toxin can virtually eliminate the jerky posturing of the head in torticollis or the eye spasms in blepharospasm.
For example, in focal hand dystonia, the fingers either curl into the palm or extend outward without control. In musicians, the condition is referred to as Musician's Focal Dystonia, or simply musician's dystonia. In sports, it is commonly referred to as (the) yips.
In this article. Dystonia is a movement disorder in which a person's muscles contract uncontrollably. The contraction causes the affected body part to twist involuntarily, resulting in repetitive movements or abnormal postures. Dystonia can affect one muscle, a muscle group, or the entire body. 
Knowledge center. The yips refer to a very real physical condition called focal dystonia. Dystonia is a neurologic disorder characterized by involuntary movements or spasms of small muscles. In focal hand dystonia, the fingers either curl into the palm or extend outward without control.