1 Custom encapsulation costs $5 while re-holder or re-encapsulation of PSA graded card costs $5 to $10. 2  This will protect the card from damage it may incur from everyday handling. 1 Depending on the service selected, grading can range anywhere from the same day to as long as 45+ business days. 2  Extra costs may be incurred for additional services on top of the card grading service. 3  Custom encapsulation costs $5 while re-holder or re-encapsulation of PSA graded card costs $5 to $10.
(Autographed Cards: 10 business days) Any card with a declared value of $500-$1,999 must be submitted at this service level or higher. Autographed cards with a declared value of $100-$1,999 must be submitted under this service level. Cards may be submitted to Walk-Through service by mail or at PSA headquarters. Drop off service is by appointment only and cards must be received by 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time. Please call Customer Service at (800) 325-1121 to schedule Walk-Through service drop off.
RE: How much does PSA grading cost for baseball cards? I have a bundle of &#39;71 Topps and am thinking about getting them graded. Anyone know how much it would cost for a car? a dozen? a hundred? Im not sure how much it coast to get it done, but I do know that if you get a good grading on your card it can triple the value...sometimes more. My guess is that it's probably about 5 bucks a card cause otherwise everyone would send all there star player cards off to get graded.
Even when we buy a card that is professionally graded-we still grade the card ourselves. For example, if PSA graded a card ExMt and we feel that it should be Nr/Mt-we will pay the NrMt price. If we agree, with the grade-we may pay a few bucks more (seldom more the cost of the grading!). Quite often we will remove the under graded cards from the PSA case to allow us to sell them for more money.
(Autographed Cards: 5 business days) Any card with a declared value of $5,000 - $9,999 must be submitted at this service level or higher. This includes autographed cards. Walk-Through Service is PSA’s super priority service for those cards you need to have graded and returned right away. Cards may be submitted to Walk-Through service by mail or at PSA headquarters. Drop off service is by appointment only and cards must be received by 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time. Please call Customer Service at (800) 325-1121 to schedule Walk-Through service drop off.
Some people-who are looking to sell their collections-have been told that baseball cards are worth more when they are graded. The professional card grading companies such as PSA, SCG & Beckett love to make this claim, as it is a justification for charging $5 to $15 to grade a common card! The real cost to have a card graded is usually $14 to $17 per card when you consider the overpriced shipping and insurance charges. For example, if PSA graded a card ExMt and we feel that it should be Nr/Mt-we will pay the NrMt price. If we agree, with the grade-we may pay a few bucks more (seldom more the cost of the grading!). Quite often we will remove the under graded cards from the PSA case to allow us to sell them for more money.
1 Autographed card grading and authentication costs $25. 2  This applies for any autographed card with a declared value under $500. 3  Autographed cards with a declared value over $500 must be submitted under higher service levels. 4  A regular service costs $17 while a premium service for card grading costs $400. 1 Depending on the service selected, grading can range anywhere from the same day to as long as 45+ business days. 2  Extra costs may be incurred for additional services on top of the card grading service. 3  Custom encapsulation costs $5 while re-holder or re-encapsulation of PSA graded card costs $5 to $10.
1 Shop around for the rates of PSA card grading so that you will have an idea of how much money you need to prepare for the service beforehand. 2  It will take time for card grading to be accomplished. 3  Familiarize yourself with the duration or how many business days are given for PSA card grading. 1 Depending on the service selected, grading can range anywhere from the same day to as long as 45+ business days. 2  Extra costs may be incurred for additional services on top of the card grading service. 3  Custom encapsulation costs $5 while re-holder or re-encapsulation of PSA graded card costs $5 to $10.
Tips to know. 1  Shop around for the rates of PSA card grading so that you will have an idea of how much money you need to prepare for the service beforehand. 2  It will take time for card grading to be accomplished. 3  Familiarize yourself with the duration or how many business days are given for PSA card grading. 1 Depending on the service selected, grading can range anywhere from the same day to as long as 45+ business days. 2  Extra costs may be incurred for additional services on top of the card grading service. 3  Custom encapsulation costs $5 while re-holder or re-encapsulation of PSA graded card costs $5 to $10.