Related Links. Violin rosin is resin that comes from pines and other conifers, produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vapourise the volatile liquid terpene components. It is semi-transparent and varies in color from yellow to black. At room temperature it is brittle, but it melts at stove-top temperatures. 
It is also harmful to the sound of the violin. If you don't wipe the rosin off, you'll soon need to use a cleaner on the violin. It is also a good practice to wipe the rosin from the playing area of the strings, especially the undersides of the strings. The amount of rosin on a string greatly affects he playability and the tone produced by that string. Once rosined, the hair actually grips the string and pulls it. . . but since the bow keeps moving the string snaps back to its original position. . . where it is caught again by the rosin on the hair and the cycle is repeated. This happens very, very quickly. In the case of your A-string 440 times per second.
Rosin is an ingredient in printing inks, photocopying and laser printing paper, varnishes, adhesives (glues), soap, paper sizing, soda, soldering fluxes, and sealing wax. Rosin can be used as a glazing agent in medicines and chewing gum. It is denoted by E number E915. 1 Rosin is often applied to the bow before playing the instrument. 2  Lighter rosin is used for violins and violas. 3  There are darker rosins for cellos and specific, distinguishing types for basses—for more see Bow (music) .
Best Answer: Rosin, formerly called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporise the volatile liquid terpene. Components it is-semi transparent and varies in color from yellow to. black What do you teach!! Rosin, formerly called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporise the volatile liquid terpene. Components it ... is
Rosin, formerly called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporise the volatile liquid terpene. components What do you teach!! Rosin, formerly called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporise the volatile liquid terpene. Components it ... is
The names comes from the rosin used in the paper, the process of sizing it to add the rosin, and its use by builders. Alum-rosin size was invented by Moritz Friedrich Illig in Germany in 1807... and is known to have been used as a building paper by 1850. In building construction red rosin paper is used to reduce air and moisture flow through a wall or floor, create a slip sheet so different materials can slip by each other as they expand and contract, keep dust from working down through a floor, minimize squeaking, and sometimes as part of built-up roofs.
There is a difference between a rosin bag and one of those hand drier bags. I believe rosin is made from pine sap or pine tar or something of the like, and it produces a tacky effect on the skin, enhancing grip. Those hand drier bags are just kitty litter or the equivalent, and they absorb moisture. 
Rosin, formerly called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporise the volatile liquid terpene. Components it ... Is rosin is also known as colophony or colophonia resina from its. origin What do you teach!! Rosin, formerly called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporise the volatile liquid terpene. Components it ... is
A cake of rosin, made for use by violinists, used here for soldering. Rosin, also called colophony or Greek pitch (Pix graeca), græca is a solid form of resin obtained from pines and some other, plants mostly, conifers produced by heating fresh liquid resin to vaporize the volatile liquid terpene. components 1 Rosin is often applied to the bow before playing the instrument. 2  Lighter rosin is used for violins and violas. 3  There are darker rosins for cellos and specific, distinguishing types for basses—for more see Bow (music) .