It is located in the upper right corner of the heart superior to the right ventricle. Deoxygenated blood entering the heart through veins from the tissues of the body first enters the heart through the right atrium before being pumped into the right ventricle. The right atrium is one of the two atria of the heart, which function as receiving chambers for blood entering the heart.
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax.
1 Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium from the Superior vena cava and the Inferior vena cava. 2  Deoxygenated blood leaves the right ventricle by Pulmonary artery, which takes blood to the lungs via the right and left brances of the pulmonary artery. 3  Oxygenated blood enters the left atrium from the Pulmonary veins.
Right Atrium. The right atrium receives de-oxygenated blood from the body through the superior vena cava (head and upper body) and inferior vena cava (legs and lower torso). The sinoatrial node sends an impulse that causes the cardiac muscle tissue of the atrium to contract in a coordinated, wave-like manner.
· just now. Report Abuse. Oxygenated blood is pumped from left ventricle of the heart through the arteries to peripheral tissue at relatively high pressure and deoxygenated blood from all over the body returns to the right atrium of heart through veins at relatively low pressure.
Best Answer: Deoxygenated blood enter the right side of the heart. It enters through the venaceva and into the right atrium. The blood is then pumped into the right ventricle through a valve. The pulmonary artery then carries the blood to the lungs, where gas exchange takes place.
Systemic circulation carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle, through the arteries, to the capillaries in the tissues of the body. From the tissue capillaries, the deoxygenated blood returns through a system of veins to the right atrium of the heart.