Starting with plate movement that began around 26 million years ago, the Japanese Archipelago, including the Oki Islands, gradually began moving away from the Eurasian supercontinent. A large lake formed in the area between Japan and Eurasia, and what became Oki was at the bottom of this lake. As the separation from the mainland continued, the land split and let in sea water, and the lake metamorphosed into the ocean. This is the formation of the Sea of Japan. What tells us about this process are shark tooth fossils discovered in a strata that formed around 16 million years ago.
Archipelagos may be found isolated in bodies of water or neighboring a large land mass. For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland which constitute an archipelago. The largest archipelagic state in the world by area and population is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Swedish East Coast Archipelago, which contains the Stockholm Archipelago, which, in turn, connects to the world's second largest archipelago, the Archipelago Sea in Finland.
An archipelago is a group of islands, congregated in the same geographical area, that share a common origin. Archipelagos are common features in the oceans as well as in many lakes. Many well-known island chains are archipelagos, such as the Hawaiian Islands, the Aleutian Islands and the Philippines. 
Another way an archipelago is formed is through the evaporation or movement of water. The higher part of land that was under water is now above water. This can happen in groups which makes the groups of islands. Erosion can also create the group of islands that we call archipelagos. archipelagos of the world are many of the islands around Japan, Hawaii and the British Islands. Most people think this type of landform is what you see on movies but that is not necessarily so. Canada has many archipelagos that are barren because of the cold.
When volcanic activity began around 26 million years ago, the Oki Islands and the Japanese Archipelago slowly began to separate from the Eurasian supercontinent. As the separation from the mainland continued, the land split and let in sea water, and the lake metamorphosed into the ocean. This is the formation of the Sea of Japan. What tells us about this process are shark tooth fossils discovered in a strata that formed around 16 million years ago.
The Mariana Islands (also the Marianas) are a crescent-shaped archipelago comprising the summits of fifteen mostly dormant volcanic mountains in the western North Pacific Ocean, between the 12th and 21st parallels north and along the 145th meridian east. 
An Archipelago is a landform that is a group of many islands. Some of the most famous. archipelagos of the world are many of the islands around Japan, Hawaii and the British Islands. Most people think this type of landform is what you see on movies but that is not necessarily so. Canada has many archipelagos that are barren because of the cold.
An archipelago (/ɑrkɨˈpɛləɡoʊ/ ark-i-PEL-ə-goh), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster or collection of islands. The word archipelago is derived from the Greek ἄρχι- – arkhi- (chief) and πέλαγος – pelagos (pélagos) sea through The italian. arcipelago The largest archipelagic state in the world by area and population is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Swedish East Coast Archipelago, which contains the Stockholm Archipelago, which, in turn, connects to the world's second largest archipelago, the Archipelago Sea in Finland.
An archipelago in the Pacific, Japan is separated from the east coast of Asia by the Sea of Japan. It is approximately the size of Montana. Japan's four main islands are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and Shikoku. 
Located in the Pacific Ocean, it lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, the East China Sea, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south. As of 2012, Japan is the third largest national economy in the world, after the United States and China, in terms of nominal GDP, and the fourth largest national economy in the world, after the United States, China and India, in terms of purchasing power parity.