Proposed by General-in-Chief Winfield Scott, the plan emphasized the blockade of the Southern ports, and called for an advance down the Mississippi River to cut the South in two. 2. Divide the South by controlling the Mississippi River to cut the South off from the west. 3. Divide the South by capturing the Tennessee River Valley and marching through Georgia to the coast.
The Anaconda Plan was a strategy created by Union General Winfield Scott in 1861, early on in the Civil War. It called for strangling the Southern Confederacy, much like an Anaconda. While Winfield Scott's Anaconda Plan was never officially adopted, it did serve as a framework for what eventually occurred throughout the Civil War. Two main elements of the eventual Union victory were the blockade and seizure of the Mississippi River.
The Anaconda Plan was drawn up by General Winfield Scott to end the American Civil War in favor of the North. The plan was adopted in 1862, involving four main parts. 2. Divide the South by controlling the Mississippi River to cut the South off from the west. 3. Divide the South by capturing the Tennessee River Valley and marching through Georgia to the coast.
The Anaconda Plan is the name applied to an outline strategy for suppressing the Confederacy at the beginning of the American Civil War. Because the blockade would be rather passive, it was widely derided by the vociferous faction who wanted a more vigorous prosecution of the war, and who likened it to the coils of an anaconda suffocating its victim.
The Anaconda Plan was the popular name given to a strategy employed by the Union during the American Civil War. It consisted of a large-scale blockade of ports in the South, combined with a Federal attack along the Mississippi River, aimed at splitting the Confederacy. The plan was suggested by Winfield Scott, General-in-Chief of the U.S. Army. It received the name because of its relative passivity: the image conjured up was one of an anaconda slowly squeezing the life from its victim. Birth of the Anaconda Plan. Scott was the first man to draw up a military strategy to put down the uprising in the Southern states. As early as the beginning of April 1861, he had regular meetings with President Abraham Lincoln, in which he offered his thoughts on the current situation.
By Robert McNamara. The Anaconda Plan was the initial Civil War strategy devised by General Winfield Scott of the U.S. Army to put down the rebellion by the Confederacy in 1861. 
The Anaconda Plan is the name widely applied to an outline strategy for subduing the seceding states in the American Civil War. Proposed by General-in-Chief Winfield Scott, th … e plan emphasized the blockade of the Southern ports, and called for an advance down the Mississippi River to cut the South in two. The Anaconda Plan was drawn up by General Winfield Scott to end the American Civil War in favor of the North. The plan was adopted in 1862, involving four main parts.
Vacherie, Louisiana. Early in the war, Union General Winfield Scott envisioned a broad sweeping plan to crush the rebellion. His strategy, known as the Anaconda Plan, reflected the importance of the Mississippi River in the overall strategy of the war. Scott's plan called for blockading the southern coast and a drive down the Mississippi River to cut the Confederacy in two. 
Anaconda Plan. The Anaconda Plan was the Union’s strategic plan to defeat the Confederacy at the start of the American Civil War. The goal was to defeat the rebellion by blockading southern ports and controlling the Mississippi river. This would cut off and isolate the south from the outside world. The plan was developed by General Winfield Scott at the beginning of the Civil War following the Confederate attack on Fort Sumter on April 12th 1861.