The 'dark' side of the moon. The moon orbits the Earth once every 27.322 days. It also takes approximately 27 days for the moon to rotate once on its axis. As a result, the moon does not seem to be spinning but appears to observers from Earth to be keeping almost perfectly still. Scientists call this sychronous rotation. 
The Moon orbits Earth in the prograde direction and completes one revolution in approximately 27.322 days (a sidereal month). Earth and the Moon orbit about their barycentre (common center of mass), which lies about 4600 km from Earth's center (about three quarters of the radius of Earth). On average, the Moon is at a distance of about 385000 km from Earth's center, which corresponds to about 60 Earth radii. With a mean orbital velocity of 1.023 km/s, the Moon moves relative to the stars each hour by an amount roughly equal to its angular diameter, or by about 0.5°. The Moon differs from most satellites of other planets in that its orbit is close to the plane of the ecliptic, and not to Earth's equatorial plane. The plane of the lunar orbit is inclined to the ecliptic by about 5.1°, whereas the Moon's spin axis is inclined by only 1.5°.
How long does it take the Moon to orbit the Earth? The Moon takes about 27 days (27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds) to go all the way around the Earth and return to its starting position. The Moon and the tides. The moon causes many of the tides in the Earth's oceans. This is because of the gravity force between the Earth and Moon. During full and new moons the gravitational forces of the Sun and Moon combine to produce the highest tides called Spring Tides.
RSS Feeds. The Earth's Moon is the fifth largest in the whole solar system, and is bigger than the planet Pluto. The Moon has a nearly circular orbit (e=0.05) which is tilted about 5 to the plane of the Earth's orbit. Its average distance from the Earth is 384,400 km. In other words, it takes the Moon the same amount of time to rotate around once as it does for the Moon to go around the Earth once. Therefore, Earth-bound observers can never see the 'far-side' of the Moon. Tidal forces cause many of the moons of our solar system to have this type of orbit.
The Earth and Moon keep in orbit due to a balance between gravity (from the Sun or the Earth) and inertia (due to the Earth's velocity around the Sun or the Moon's velocity ar … ound the Earth). Therefore, the Earth does not smash into the Sun, nor does it fly out to outer space. No, as the earth is of a larger mass and has a stronger gravitational pull, the moon orbits the earth. The earth then orbits the sun. Kinda. In fact, the earth and moon each orbit a common point called the barycenter
This is the difference between the Moon's mean longitude of perigee and Earth's true longitude of perihelion. When the angle between the perigee and perihelion is 0°, the length of the lunation varies from a minimum of 29.273 days (-6.17 hours from mean) to a maximum of 29.820 days (+6.93 hours from mean). It illustrates the Moon's orbit around Earth and Earth's orbit around the Sun. The relative sizes and distances of the Sun, Moon, and Earth as well as the eccentricity of the Moon's orbit are all exaggerated for clarity. The major axis of the Moon's orbit marks the positions of perigee and apogee.
It takes the moon between 27 and 28 days to complete an orbit around Earth. The moon’s orbit is measured from one new moon to the next new moon. It starts in the west and moves toward the east. To complete one full orbit, the moon travels about 1,423,000 miles.The moon travels very fast. 
The Moon's Orbit and Rotation. It takes the Moon 27.322 days to go around the Earth once. Because of this motion, the Moon appears to move about 13 against the stars each day, or about one-half degree per hour. In other words, it takes the Moon the same amount of time to rotate around once as it does for the Moon to go around the Earth once. Therefore, Earth-bound observers can never see the 'far-side' of the Moon. Tidal forces cause many of the moons of our solar system to have this type of orbit.
4.1 Introduction. The Moon revolves around Earth in an elliptical orbit with a mean eccentricity of 0.0549. Thus, the Moon's center-to-center distance from Earth varies with mean values of 363,396 km at perigee to 405,504 km at apogee. It illustrates the Moon's orbit around Earth and Earth's orbit around the Sun. The relative sizes and distances of the Sun, Moon, and Earth as well as the eccentricity of the Moon's orbit are all exaggerated for clarity. The major axis of the Moon's orbit marks the positions of perigee and apogee.