A less severe form of this disorder is called variant PKU or non-PKU hyperphenylalaninemia (having too much phenylalanine Children with this form of the disorder may have only mild symptoms, but they will need to follow a special diet to prevent mental retardation.
The signs and symptoms of PKU vary from mild to severe. The most severe form of this disorder is known as classic PKU. Infants with classic PKU appear normal until they are a few months old. Without treatment, these children develop permanent intellectual disability.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare genetic disorder in which the body cannot break down an amino acid called phenylalanine (say fehn-uhl-AL-uh-neen), which is a part of protein.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare genetic condition in which the body cannot break down the essential amino acid phenylalanine. Amino acids are the building blocks of protein. Phenylalanine is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners.
Phenylketonuria (commonly known as PKU) is an inherited disorder that increases the levels of a substance called phenylalanine in the blood. Phenylalanine is a building block of proteins (an amino acid) that is obtained through the diet. It is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners.
1 Phenylketonuria: A metabolic disorder where there is a deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase which leads to a harmful buildup of the phenylalanine in the body.
The most severe form of this disorder is known as classic PKU. An infant with classic PKU may appear normal for the first few months of his or her life. If the child is not treated for PKU during this time, he or she will begin to develop symptoms such as: 1  intellectual disabilities or mental retardation.
Newborns with phenylketonuria initially don't have any symptoms. Without treatment, babies usually develop signs of PKU within a few months. PKU symptoms can be mild or severe and may include: 1  Intellectual disability (formerly called mental retardation). 2  Delayed development. 3  Behavioral, emotional and social problems.