The highly rarefied Bar-le-duc jelly, also known as Lorraine Jelly, is a spreadable preparation of white currant or red currant fruit preserves, hailing from this town. First referenced in the historical record in 1344, it is also colloquially referred to as Bar Caviar. It is limited towards the north-east by the Marne-Rhine Canal, on the south-west by a small arm of the Ornain, called the Canal des Usines, on the left bank of which the upper town (Ville Haute) is situated.
MAP & PLACES TO VISIT. Bar-le-Duc is located between Reims and Nancy in the Lorraine department of north-east France (200 km east of Paris). In a quiet location in a forested valley on the River Ornain, the town has several features and monuments to discover during a visit. Bar-le-Duc has also received the classification of a protected Historic Town in France as well as being one of the oficial French 'villes d'art et histoire' towns (see French Towns of Art and History).
To help you choose your destination as well as the place of the hotel here is: - pictures of Bar-le-Duc: photo Bar-le-Duc. - the map of Bar-le-Duc: map Bar-le-Duc. - the road map of Bar-le-Duc: road map Bar-le-Duc. Below here is the list the 50 closest hotels of Bar-le-Duc, sortable according your criteria. You will find the position of these 50 accommodations on the Bar-le-Duc hotels map. 
Dombes (la Dombes in French, and not a plural as often written) is a small area in the East of France, comprising Trevoux, Trévoux, Thoissey, Lent-Saint, Trivier-villars-Les, dombes limited to The west by The saone saône river And (the beaujolais see a small. 17th c map Of). the dombes In some areas (especially in Brittany), the title of prince was traditionally attached to a feudal land which had been considered allodial, i.e., without overlord. In France, almost all lands were feudal, that is, held from some superior, ultimately back to the king.
Bar-le-Duc was at one time the seat of the countship, later Duchy of Bar. It is limited towards the north-east by the Marne-Rhine Canal, on the south-west by a small arm of the Ornain, called the Canal des Usines, on the left bank of which the upper town (Ville Haute) is situated.
The sunshine of which the noble Mary spoke still brightens dining tables in France and elsewhere; it is the currant preserves (confiture de groseilles) of the village of Bar-le-Duc. The marvel is that the preserves are still produced today, in that village alone, by the same ancient method. They take along their little daughters-in some cases, granddaughters-who are meant to learn the craft, thereby insuring the continuation of the Bar-le-Duc tradition. The currant harvest begins in July, so that by August, when the rest of France is on vacation, the factory is a flurry of activity, preparing the fruit.
The lower, more modern and busier part of the town extends along a narrow valley, shut in by wooded or vine-clad hills, and is traversed throughout its length by the Ornain, which is crossed by several bridges. It is limited towards the north-east by the Marne-Rhine Canal, on the south-west by a small arm of the Ornain, called the Canal des Usines, on the left bank of which the upper town (Ville Haute) is situated.
The title of duke and peer (Fr: duc et pair) is one of the highest honors in the French nobility, ranking just after the princes of the blood, which are themselves the direct descendants of the royal blood and are considered peers by birth. From the 17th century the peerage was conferred only to dukes. In 1789, there were 43 peers of which 6 were princes of the blood. Peerage was normally hereditary in the male line, though the king could extend it to the female line and even to the collateral lines.
A list of French Princes and Principalities. The following is a list of fiefs or territories which were used with the title of prince, for a variety of reasons, in Old Regime (pre-1789) France. The abbreviation EdlF indicates those cited as principalities in the Etat de la France (1694 or 1718 ed.). In some areas (especially in Brittany), the title of prince was traditionally attached to a feudal land which had been considered allodial, i.e., without overlord. In France, almost all lands were feudal, that is, held from some superior, ultimately back to the king.