The Desert Environment The Sonoran Desert is one of the largest and hottest deserts in North America and it covers an area of 311,000 sq. kms (120,000 sq. miles). It is situated in south western USA in the states of Arizona and California, and in Mexico in the states of Sonora, Sinaloa and Baja California. 
The Sonoran Desert is located in the United States, specifically the southwestern portion of Arizona and southeastern portion of California, as well as, Mexico, covering most of Baja California and the western half of the state of Sonora, Mexico. 
Sonoran Desert Map. The Sonoran desert is one of the largest and hottest deserts in North America. It is about 120,000 square miles in size. Despite the harsh conditions the thriving city of Phoenix is located in this desert. Phoenix has a population of over 4 million and is one of the fastest growing cities in the US. The desert is actually losing ground to the urban sprawl around Phoenix.
north America The North American continent. The Sonoran Desert is located in the United States, specifically the southwestern portion of Arizona and southeastern portion of Ca … lifornia, as well as, Mexico, covering most of Baja California and the western half of the state of Sonora, Mexico. 10 people found this useful. Much of the Sonoran Desert lies in Mexico, partly in the state of Sonora, where the desert gets its name. The … rest of the Sonoran desert lies in the states of Baja California Norte and Baja California Sur in Mexico and Arizona and California in the U.S. 2.
The Sonoran Desert is located in two states, Arizona and California, and two countries, Mexico and United States. The rivers that flow through the desert are the Colorado River and the Gila River. The Salton Sea, the Gulf of California and the Pacific Ocean are bodies of water next to the Sonoran desert. The Sonoran Desert's location is at latitude 25° to 33° North and longitude 105° to 118° West. The key to the Sonoran Desert's climate is the amount of rainfall which falls. More rain falls on the Sonoran Desert than any other desert.
The Sonoran Desert is a North American desert which covers large parts of the Southwestern United States in Arizona and California, and of Northwestern Mexico in Sonora, Baja California and Baja California Sur. It is the hottest desert in Mexico, with an area of 260,000 square kilometers (100,000 sq mi). The western portion of the United States–Mexico border passes through the Sonoran Desert. In phytogeography, the Sonoran Desert is within the Sonoran Floristic Province of the Madrean Region in southwestern North America, part of the Holarctic Kingdom of the northern Western Hemisphere.
The Sonoran Desert is located in North America and covers the southwestern parts of the state of Arizona, southeastern parts of the state of California in the United States and the state of Sonora in Mexico. The Sonoran Desert's location is at latitude 25° to 33° North and longitude 105° to 118° West. The key to the Sonoran Desert's climate is the amount of rainfall which falls. More rain falls on the Sonoran Desert than any other desert.
1. The Sonoran Desert is a big place-over 100,000 square miles! Much of the Sonoran Desert lies in Mexico, partly in the state of Sonora, where the desert gets its name. The rest of the Sonoran desert lies in the states of Baja California Norte and Baja California Sur in Mexico and Arizona and California in the U.S. 2.
Location Map Location and Setting The Sonoran Desert ecoregion is situated in parts of Arizona, California, and a northern portion of Mexico, which is not included in the assessment. for more information. Location Map.