Singapore, also known as the Republic of Singapore, is located in Southeast Asia. It is an island state at the southern tip of the Malaysia Peninsula. It is one of the … few remaining city-states in the world and the smallest country in Southeast Asia. History Singapore was known as Temasek, which was then governed by Malaysia. Sir Stamford Raffles then got the governance of Singapore from the rightful Malaysian Sultan Hussein, and developed Singapore into an important port in the trade between China and India.
In 1819, Sir Stamford Raffles founded Singapore as a trading post of the East India Company; after the company collapsed, the islands were ceded to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and became part of its Straits Settlements in 1826. During World War II, Singapore was invaded and occupied by Japan. The nation's best known global brands include Singapore Airlines, Changi Airport and Port of Singapore, all three are amongst the most-awarded in their respective industry sectors. Singapore Airlines is ranked as Asia's most-admired company, and world's 19th most-admired in 2015, by Fortune 's industry surveys.
A virtual travel guide to Singapura; the Malay name for Lion City. Singapore is famous for shopping, activities, dining and entertainment. The city-state in Southeast Asia consists of the island of Singapore and about 54 smaller islands. The mai nisland is linked by a causeway to the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula. Singapore, officially the Republic of Singapore, is situated 137 km (85 mi) north of the equator, and just south of Peninsular Malaysia
Singapore consists of 63 islands, including the main island, widely known as Singapore Island or Pulau Ujong in Malay. There are two man-made connections to Johor, Malaysia: the Johor–Singapore Causeway in the north and the Tuas Second Link in the west. The nation's best known global brands include Singapore Airlines, Changi Airport and Port of Singapore, all three are amongst the most-awarded in their respective industry sectors. Singapore Airlines is ranked as Asia's most-admired company, and world's 19th most-admired in 2015, by Fortune 's industry surveys.
Singapore's best known global brands include Singapore Airlines and Changi Airport, both amongst the most-awarded in their industry; SIA is also rated by Fortune surveys as Asia's most admired company. The nation's best known global brands include Singapore Airlines, Changi Airport and Port of Singapore, all three are amongst the most-awarded in their respective industry sectors. Singapore Airlines is ranked as Asia's most-admired company, and world's 19th most-admired in 2015, by Fortune 's industry surveys.
Singapore (/ˈsɪŋəpɔr/ or /ˈsɪŋɡəpɔr/), officially the Republic of Singapore, and often referred to as the Lion City, the Garden City, and the Red Dot, is a leading global city-state and island country in Southeast Asia. The nation's best known global brands include Singapore Airlines, Changi Airport and Port of Singapore, all three are amongst the most-awarded in their respective industry sectors. Singapore Airlines is ranked as Asia's most-admired company, and world's 19th most-admired in 2015, by Fortune 's industry surveys.
Singapore, also known as the Republic of Singapore, is located in Southeast Asia. It is an island state at the southern tip of the Malaysia Peninsula. It has lots and lots of different types of food and festivities going on due to its multiculturalism and there are always lots of decorations and celebrations for every single one!. Singapore is also famous for Changi Airport and NeWater. Changi Airport is one of the best airports in the world.
Singapore is known for shopping and it's multiculturalism. Also for its banned chewing gum, its prices and wonderful tourist attractions! It has lots and lots of different types of food and festivities going on due to its multiculturalism and there are always lots of decorations and celebrations for every single one!. Singapore is also famous for Changi Airport and NeWater. Changi Airport is one of the best airports in the world. NeWater is treated water and is bought by other countries. It is also known for the caning of Michael Fay for grafitti on rocks Having a death penalty on non-violent crimes.