The membrane enclosing the vesicle is also a lamellar phase, similar to that of the plasma membrane, and vesicles can fuse with the plasma membrane to release their contents outside of the cell. Vesicles can also fuse with other organelles within the cell. Vesicles perform a variety of functions. Because it is separated from the cytosol, the inside of the vesicle can be made to be different from the cytosolic environment. For this reason, vesicles are a basic tool used by the cell for organizing cellular substances. Vesicles are involved in metabolism, transport, buoyancy control, and enzyme storage.
noun, plural: vesicles. (general) A small sac or cyst containing fluid or gas. (cell biology) A bubble-like membranous structure that stores and transports cellular products, and digests metabolic wastes within the cell; an intracellular membranous sac that is separated from the cytosol by at least one lipid bilayer. 
Lysosomes are cellular vesicles that contain digestive enzymes. Lysosomes are used by cells to break down food particles and to get rid of unneeded cellular materials. Transport vesicles move molecules within the cells. All cells make proteins and require them to function. Proteins are made in ribosomes. 
Definition of VESICLE. 1. a: a membranous and usually fluid-filled pouch (as a cyst, vacuole, or cell) in a plant or animal b: a small abnormal elevation of the outer layer of skin enclosing a watery liquid: blister c: a pocket of embryonic tissue that is the beginning of an organ. 2. Medical Definition of VESICLE. 1. a: a membranous and usually fluid-filled pouch (as a cyst, vacuole, or cell) in a plant or animal b: synaptic vesicle. 2. : a small abnormal elevation of the outer layer of skin enclosing a watery liquid: blister. 3.
Vesicle: In dermatology, a vesicle is a small blister, as on the skin. Vesicles also occur on the mucous membranes, such as the buccal mucosa (the lining of the mouth). Vesicles are less than 0.5 centimeters in diameter. In anatomy, a vesicle is any small pouch. For example, the seminal vesicles are a pair of pouch-like structures about five cm (2 inches) long located behind the bladder and above the prostate gland that contribute fluid to the ejaculate
vesicle. 1. a small bladder or sac containing liquid. 2. a small circumscribed elevation of the epidermis containing a serous fluid; a small blister. allantoic vesicle the internal hollow portion of the allantois. otic vesicle a detached ovoid sac formed by closure of the otic pit in embryonic development of the external ear. primary brain vesicles the three earliest subdivisions of the embryonic neural tube, including the prosencephalon, mesencephalon, and rhombencephalon.
In biology, a vesicle is a relatively small intracellular, membrane-enclosed sac that stores or transports substances. A Vesicle is relatively small, intercellular, membrane-enclosed sac that stores or transports substances within a cell. + 15 others found this useful. Matthew Sturm. Edit.