About IPT. Interpersonal Psychotherapy (IPT) is an empirically validated treatment for a variety of psychiatric disorders. The evidence for IPT supports its use for a variety of affective disorders, anxiety disorders, and eating disorders, and for a wide range of patients from children and adolescents to the elderly. The original IPT manual, Interpersonal Psychotherapy for Depression [7], was published in 1984 as a manual for this research project. Since that time, IPT has been tested for a variety of affective disorders with different populations of patients.
Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a brief, time limited treatment that was initially developed in the late 1960s for adult depression. IPT is based on the premise that depression occurs in the context of an individual's relationships regardless of its origins in biology or genetics. 
Interpersonal Therapy for Depression. Interpersonal therapy focuses on the behaviors and interactions a depressed patient has with family, friends, co-workers, and other important people encountered on a day-to-day basis. The primary goal of this therapy is to improve communication skills and increase self-esteem during a short period of time
IPT is a time-limited psychotherapy that focuses on interpersonal issues, which are understood to be a factor in the genesis and maintenance of psychological distress. The targets of IPT are symptom resolution, improved interpersonal functioning, and increased social support. The original IPT manual, Interpersonal Psychotherapy for Depression [7], was published in 1984 as a manual for this research project. Since that time, IPT has been tested for a variety of affective disorders with different populations of patients.
Interpersonal therapy (IPT) for depression is a form of psychotherapy that focuses on the relationships between a person and significant others. It is based on the idea that humans, as social beings, have their personal relationships at the center of psychological problems. Although a person’s depression may not be caused by any interpersonal event or relationship, it usually affects relationships and creates problems in interpersonal connections. The goal of IPT is to improve communication skills so that a person with depression is better able to communicate with others.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a time-limited treatment that encourages the patient to regain control of mood and functioning typically lasting 12–16 weeks. Interpersonal Psychotherapy of Depression was developed in the New Haven-Boston Collaborative Depression Research Project by Gerald Klerman, MD, Myrna Weissman, PhD, and their colleagues for the treatment of ambulatory depressed, nonpsychotic, nonbipolar patients.
Interpersonal therapy: A form of psychotherapy in which the focus is on a patient's relationships with peers and family members and the way they see themselves. Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is based on exploring issues in relationships with other people. 
(December 2012). Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a time-limited treatment that encourages the patient to regain control of mood and functioning typically lasting 12–16 weeks. Interpersonal Psychotherapy of Depression was developed in the New Haven-Boston Collaborative Depression Research Project by Gerald Klerman, MD, Myrna Weissman, PhD, and their colleagues for the treatment of ambulatory depressed, nonpsychotic, nonbipolar patients.
Interpersonal therapy focuses on social roles and relationships. The patient works with a therapist to evaluate specific problem areas in the patient’s life, such as conflicts with family or friends or significant life changes. While past experiences help inform the process, interpersonal therapy focuses on improving relationships in the present. Interpersonal therapy is unique in that it focuses on one or two specific problem areas and is designed to bring about a rapid reduction in symptoms. Other benefits include: 1  Improved relationships. 2  Skills for coping in healthier ways. 3  Enhanced problem-solving and communication skills.