Ann is also a short form of the German and French Annalise. Ann is also a short form of the name Annasophia. Ann is also a derivative (English) of the English, French, German, and Scandinavian Anne. Ann is also a short form of the English and Dutch Annie. Ann is a derivative of the English and Arabic Anissa. Ann is also a familiar form (English) of the English, French, German, Hebrew, and Yiddish Hannah and a derivative (English) of Anna. Ann is also a short form of the English, German, and Italian Annabella. Ann is also a short form of the name Annabeth.
The name Ann is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Ann is: Name of a king. Irish Meaning: The name Ann is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ann is: Priceless. English Meaning: The name Ann is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ann is: Merciful. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Ann is an Anglo-Saxo
Ann has 1 masculine form: Anson. Ann is a very popular first name for women (#48 out of 4276, Top 1%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#34904 out of 150436, Top 23%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Ann for girls
[ 1 syll. an (n), ann - ] The baby girl name Ann is pronounced as aeN †. Ann has its origins in the Arabic, Hebrew, Germanic, English, and Old Greek languages. It is used largely in the English and Greek languages. The name has been used by English speakers since the medieval period. Ann is a derivative of the English and Arabic Anissa. Ann is also a familiar form (English) of the English, French, German, Hebrew, and Yiddish Hannah and a derivative (English) of Anna. Ann is also a short form of the English, German, and Italian Annabella. Ann is also a short form of the name Annabeth.
Origin of the name Anne: Anne is a cognate of the Hebrew Hannah (gracious, full of grace), which is from hannāh, chaanach (grace, gracious, mercy). In medieval Christian tradition, Anne was the name assigned to the mother of the Virgin Mary, as Joachim was assigned to her father. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Ann /ann/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced an. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Ann is He (God) has favored me. The name refers to grace. Simplified form of Anne, the English form of Hannah. Kreatif forms: Annai, Annau, Auann. Ann is a very popular first name for women (#48 out of 4276, Top 1%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#34904 out of 150436, Top 23%).
Anne /anne/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced an. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Anne is He (God) has favored me. The English form of Hannah. A name favored by royalty and commoners for centuries. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Anne is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Anne is: Favour or grace. Prayer. God has favoured me. American Meaning: The name Anne is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Anne is: Favour or grace. Prayer. God has favoured me.
Ann. A name meaning Grace in Hebrew, the name of the blessed Mother of Mary who gave birth to Jesus, a common name amongst royalty and the sickest bitch who owns all the boys on the block.
Ann is also a familiar form of the English and Scottish Ansley. Ann is also a familiar form (English and Greek) of the English and German Anthea. Ann has 18 derivatives that are used in English and foreign languages. Derivatives of the name used in English include Ane, Anice, Annchen, Annze, Anouche, Louann, and Nannie. Ann is a derivative of the English and Arabic Anissa. Ann is also a familiar form (English) of the English, French, German, Hebrew, and Yiddish Hannah and a derivative (English) of Anna. Ann is also a short form of the English, German, and Italian Annabella. Ann is also a short form of the name Annabeth.