Medical Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places—see rough endoplasmic reticulum. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. See endoplasmic reticulum defined for kids.
Endoplasmic reticulum: A structure within cells that is an extension of the nuclear membrane and in which proteins slated to become part of the nuclear membrane are translated, folded and transported. 
Definition of the Smooth ER. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum, or smooth ER, is an organelle found in both animal cells and plant cells. An organelle is a sub-unit within a cell that has a specialized function. The main function of the smooth ER is to make cellular products like hormones and lipids
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is especially prominent in cells such as hepatocytes.
Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. See endoplasmic reticulum defined for kids.
Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM for Kids. : a system of cavities and tiny connecting canals that occupy much of the cytoplasm of the cell and functions especially in the movement of materials within the cell. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. See endoplasmic reticulum defined for kids.
Another organelle in the cell is the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). While the function of the nucleus is to act as the cell brain, the ER functions as a manufacturing and packaging system. It works closely with the Golgi apparatus, ribososmes, mRNA, and tRNA. 
Rough endoplasmic reticulum. Definition. noun. (cell biology). An endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a eukaryotic organelle made up of a system of membranous tubes and sacs, that is studded with ribosomes on its surface giving it a rough appearance under the microscope (hence its name). Supplement.
endoplasmic reticulum. a system of folded membranes, channels, and flattened sacs in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells, involved in the synthesis, storage, and transport of various substances necessary to cell function: as the point of attachment for ribosomes, it is especially associated with protein synthesis. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The endoplasmic reticulum is defined as a series of folded membranes in the cells which are associated with protein synthesis, storage and the movement of cellular materials.
The endoplasmic reticulum is composed of sac-like structures called cisternae that are folded and bound together by a cytoskeleton. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: smooth endoplasmic reticulum and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum gets its name from its smooth folded surface. 