Just delivered ~4,000 donated DVD's to Walter Reed in DC. If you have used or new DVD's you want to donate to active duty or injured/ill military personnel email us @ info@dvdstothetroops.org ... We will connect you with units overseas within 24 hrs. ‪#‎military‬ ‪#‎army‬ ‪#‎navy‬ ‪#‎marines‬ ‪#‎donate‬ ‪#‎dvds‬.
There are two ways you can help. One is by sending your DVDs directly to the VA facility nearest to you. You can use DVDs4Vets’s V. A. Facility Locator to find one of the over 1,500 Veterans’ hospitals or Vet centers in your area that DVDs4Vets works with. Alternatively, you can send your DVDs directly to DVDs4Vets. For, collections of 1,000 or more DVDs, DVDs4Vets will even offer to visit you and help pack and transport the donation. Since many V.A. hospitals no longer have VCRs, DVDs4Vets doesn’t accept VHS tapes.
You can send donations directly to the V.A. facility nearest to you. For donations received at our offices, we forward all DVDs to the facilities where the need is greatest-usually rural locations not receiving as much attention as large city V.A. hospitals.
You can either mail them to local centers OR drop them off. Local hospitals & centers you can donate DVDs to include: 1  Coatesville V.A. 2  Medical Center Coatesville, PA. 3  Philadelphia V.A. 4  Medical Center Philadelphia, PA. 5  Philadelphia Vet Center Philadelphia, PA. 6  Philadelphia Vet Center Philadelphia, PA. 7  Philadelphia Memorial Service Network
You have made the switch completely to DVD, and you have no use anymore for those old VHS movies you have collected over the years. The good news is that you can get rid of those old movies without sending them off to sit in a landfill. You can donate them to local businesses, retirement homes, and churches.
Where to donate Used DVDs: Kid Flicks donates movie libraries to children’s hospitals and pediatric departments nationwide. You do have to ship these to: Kid Flicks/Barta, 11755 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90025 #1450. Boys & Girls Club Philadelphia accept used DVDs to help local kids.