A tsunami can be caused by a coastal or underwater earthquake, an underwater or shoreline landslide, an undersea volcano, the explosion of a volcano near shore, or even by an asteroid or other large celestial body that might crash into the ocean. A tsunami (Japanese for harbor wave) can be caused when a  large volume of water in a sea or ocean is displaced. Tsunamis can  happen most anywhere that there is an ocean or … giant body of water.
Tsunami is a set of ocean waves caused by any large, abrupt disturbance of the sea-surface. If the disturbance is close to the coastline, local tsunamis can demolish coastal communities within minutes. A very large disturbance can cause local devastation AND export tsunami destruction thousands of miles away. 
Answer: A tsunami is a giant wave (or series of waves) created by an undersea earthquake, volcanic eruption or landslide. Tsunamis are often called tidal waves, but this is not an accurate description because tides have little effect on giant tsunami waves. 
A tsunami is a series of ocean waves generated by sudden displacements in the sea floor, landslides, or volcanic activity. In the deep ocean, the tsunami wave may only be a few inches high. 
Tsunami (pron: 'soo-nar-me') is a Japanese word; 'tsu' meaning harbour and 'nami' meaning wave. The phenomenon is usually associated with earthquakes, landslides or volcanic eruptions in, or adjacent to oceans, and results in sudden movement of the water column. 
Tsunamis may also be caused by underwater landslides or volcanic eruptions. They may even be launched, as they frequently were in Earth’s ancient past, by the impact of a large meteorite plunging into an ocean. Tsunamis race across the sea at up to 500 miles (805 kilometers) an hour—about as fast as a jet airplane. A tsunami is a series of ocean waves that sends surges of water, sometimes reaching heights of over 100 feet (30.5 meters), onto land. These walls of water can cause widespread destruction when they crash ashore.
A tsunami (plural: tsunamis or tsunami; from Japanese: 津波, lit. harbor wave; English pronunciation: /tsuːˈnɑːmi/) , also known as a seismic sea wave, is a series of waves in a water body caused by the displacement of a large volume of water, generally in an ocean or a large lake. The term tsunami, meaning harbor wave in literal translation, comes from the Japanese 津波, composed of the two kanji 津 (tsu) meaning  harbor  and 波 (nami), meaning  wave . (For the plural, one can either follow ordinary English practice and add an s, or use an invariable plural as in the Japanese.
A tsunami is a series of waves caused by earthquakes or undersea volcanic eruptions. On Nov. 18, 1929, a magnitude 7.4 Mw earthquake occurred. south of Newfoundland along the southern edge of the Grand Banks, Canada. This illustration, called a Tsunami Time Travel Map, shows the arrival times of tsunami waves. Tsunamis are giant waves caused by earthquakes or volcanic eruptions under the sea. Out in the depths of the ocean, tsunami waves do not dramatically increase in height. But as the waves travel inland, they build up to higher and higher heights as the depth of the ocean decreases.
A tsunami (pronounced tsoo-NAH-mee) is a series of waves, made in an ocean or other body of water by an earthquake, landslide, volcanic eruption, or meteorite impact. A tsunami wave in the open ocean can be more than 100 km across. That s roughly the length of 1000 American football fields! Tsunami waves are huge and can travel very quickly, at about 700 km/hr, but they are only about one meter high in the open ocean.