I don't think anyone could know what age the children's molars come in. All I know is that the molar teeth come in when they are ready to come in. 
A child's baby teeth (primary teeth) begin to loosen and fall out to make room for permanent teeth at about age 6. The first baby teeth to fall out are typically the two bottom front teeth (lower central incisors) and the two top front teeth (upper central incisors), followed by the lateral incisors, molars and canines. 
Answers. Best Answer: Children get their first permanent molars around the ages of 5-6... these teeth just come in, they do not replace primary teeth. The 2nd permanent molars come in around the ages of 9-12... and the 3rd molars, also known as wisdom teeth come in around 16-30 thats if they develop at all. Not everyone gets wisdom teeth. Children lose their baby molars around the ages of 8-11, these teeth are replaced by the adult bicuspids or premolars
Permanent Teeth. At age six or seven, the first adult (or permanent) teeth come in. They are known as the first molars, or the six-year molars.. They come in at the back of the mouth, behind the last baby (or primary) teeth. They do not replace any primary teeth. Also at around age six, children start to lose their primary t
After that, other teeth slowly begin to fill in, usually in pairs -- one each side of the upper or lower jaw -- until all 20 teeth (10 in the upper jaw and 10 in the lower jaw) have come in by the time the child is 2 ½ to 3 years old. 
Four years. Your child's jaw and facial bones grow, creating space between the primary teeth for the permanent, adult teeth to come in (AAP 2009) . Your child's first teeth usually start to fall out at around the age of six or seven, and begin to be replaced by their permanent teeth (Anderson 2004, Nield el al 2008) . 26 months (typical: 25 to 33 months). Your child's second molars on the top come in soon after those on the bottom. Two to three years. Your child has a full set of 20 primary teeth, also known as baby teeth (BDHF nd) .
Report Abuse. My kids were 6 and 7 when they got their 6 year molars but 6 is just an average age. Parents are familiar with when the 2 front teeth come in because that is what is so easily seen when a kid opens his mouth. Your kid may be as young as 10 when the 12 year molars come in. The wisdom teeth are suppose to come in as a young adult (between 18 and 25) but some people's wisdom teeth never come in because their mouth is too small for 32 teeth. Instead the wisdom teeth become impacted (stuck under the gum and in the jaw). 
They are baby teeth and will eventually fall out to be replaced by adult teeth. The first 'adult' molars come through at around 6years of age, the next lot at about 12yrs & the last lot (if they make it past the gum line) are the wisdom teeth which come between the ages of 17 - 21 generally. For a 3D model & a good stage by stage description please refer to the related link.
Preschooler. 25 to 33 months. The second molars on the top come in soon after those on the bottom. 3 years. Your child has a full set of 20 primary teeth, also known as baby teeth. 4 years. Jaw and facial bones grow, creating space between the primary teeth for your child's permanent, adult teeth to come in. 13 to 19 months. The first molars come in on the bottom and the top at about the same time. Fast fact: Baby teeth, or primary teeth, are brighter white and smaller than permanent teeth. 16 to 23 months. The sharp, pointed teeth called the canine or cuspid teeth emerge on the top and bottom