A maven project is a project that will analyze the pom.xml file in greater detail and produce a project that's geared towards the targets that are invoked. The maven project is smart enough to incorporate build targets like the javadoc or test targets and automatically setup the reports for those targets.
A Free-Style project is a project that can incorporate almost any type of build. While a maven project you can only build maven projects, the Free-Style project is the more generic form of a project. You can execute shell/dos scripts, invoke ant, and a lot more. Majority of the plugins are written to use the free-style project.
Maven is more like a replacement for Ant. It gives basic support for build and version control, JUnit tests, etc... you define what you want to do in a pom.xml file. Jenkins itself doen't support build / version control or JUnit, but rather it calls the pom.xml file you have defined in your project.
If we need to compare Maven and Jenkins or Hudson, following would be my list of differences between Maven and Hudson or Jenkins : 1) Main difference between Maven and Jenkins or Hudson is that Maven is a build tool which knows how to build project and Jenkins or Hudson provides trigger to build. You can control when to trigger build automatically using Jenkins or Hudson or any CI tool.
Jenkins is a continuous integration suite that checks your code out of a repository, builds and packages it, and dumps it out to a server so you can test it-all hands-off. It can use Maven or Ant as its build tool. In summary, Jenkins can use Maven as its build tool for continuous integration.
Also one more difference between ANT and Maven is that, Maven is more than just a build tool, it act as project management tool and can generate reports etc, Though I have yet to use this feature. Jenkins and Hudson are Continuous Integration tool, commonly known as CI frameworks.
In short, though Maven and ANT are build tool but main difference is that maven also provides dependency management, standard project layout and project management. On difference between Maven, ANT and Jenkins, later is a continuous integration tool which is much more than build tool. You can setup your CI environment using Jenkins or Hudson and automatically build, test and deploy your Java project.