The genus is claimed to have existed during the Maastrichtian age of the Cretaceous period (Mesozoic era), around 70-65 millions years ago in the area of modern Western Europe and North America. The name means Meuse lizard, as the first specimen was found near the Meuse River (Latin Mosa + Greek sauros lizard). 
Mosasaurus was a late mosasaur (a type of aquatic, finned, giant predatory lizard from the Cretaceous period). The type species, Mosasaurus hoffmanni, was found in the Netherlands in 1776. Description. The type species was estimated to be 33' (10m) long. Mosasaurus had four paddle-like limbs on a long, streamlined body and a long, powerful tail. The large head had huge jaws, up to 4 ft (1.2 m long) with many teeth. The jaws could open about 3 feet (1 m). The lower jaw is loosely hinged to the skull with a moveable joint on each side (behind the teeth)
Mosasaurs (from Latin 'Mosa' meaning the 'Meuse river' in the Netherlands, and Greek sauros meaning ' lizard ') are an extinct group of serpentine marine reptiles that thrived worldwide in the earth's oceans during the Cretaceous Period. Sea levels were high during the Cretaceous Period, causing marine transgressions in many parts of the world and a great inland seaway in what is now North America. Mosasaur fossils have been found in the Netherlands, in Sweden, in Africa, in Australia, in New Zealand, and on Vega Island, off the coast of Antarctica.
beaugei. Mosasaurus was a genus of mosasaur, carnivorous, aquatic lizards, somewhat resembling flippered crocodiles, with elongated heavy jaws. The genus existed during the Maastrichtian age of the Cretaceous period (Mesozoic era), around 70–66 million years ago in the area of modern Western Europe and North America. The name means Meuse lizard, as the first specimen was found near the Meuse River.
Tylosaurus Hunting. Tylosaurus (protuberance lizard) were also among the larger mosasaurs, reaching up to 50 feet (15 meters) or more and with a long time range from around 89 to 66 million years ago. The Latin name comes from the elongated snout filled with pointed, recurved teeth. Tylosaurus Skin. Mosasaur Genera. Clidastes (locked vertebrae) was the smallest common genus, averaging about 10 feet (~ 3 meters) in length, although the largest discovered was close to 20 feet (~ 6 meters). They lived from around 89 to around 72
The genus existed during the Maastrichtian age of the Cretaceous period (Mesozoic era), around 70–66 million years ago in the area of modern Western Europe and North America. The name means “Meuse lizard”, as the first specimen was found near the Meuse River. 
Mosasaurus (/ˌmoʊzəˈsɔrəs/ ; lizard of the Meuse River ) is a genus of mosasaur, extinct carnivorous aquatic lizards. It existed during the Maastrichtian age of the late Cretaceous period, between about 70 and 66 million years ago, in western Europe and North America. The name means Meuse lizard, as the first specimen was found near the Meuse River (Latin Mosa + Greek sauros lizard). Mosasaurus was among the last of the mosasaurids, and among the largest. As with most mosasaurids, the legs and feet of Mosasaurus were modified into flippers, and the front flippers were larger than the hind flippers.
Mosasaurs probably evolved from an extinct group of aquatic lizards known as aigialosaurs in the Early Cretaceous. During the last 20 million years of the Cretaceous period (Turonian-Maastrichtian ages), with the extinction of the ichthyosaurs and decline of plesiosaurs, mosasaurs became the dominant marine predators. Mosasaurs were so well adapted to this environment that they gave birth to live young, rather than returning to the shore to lay eggs as sea turtles do. The smallest-known mosasaur was Dallasaurus turneri, which was less than 1 metre (3.3 ft) long.