Portugal is located in the continent of Europe. Spain and the Alantic Ocean border Portugal. Europe. Portugal is right next to Spain (both of these nations are part of  what is known as the Iberian Peninsula) at the western end of  Europe.   Portugal is located in southwestern Europe. Portugal and Spain make  up the Iberian Peninsula. The latitude of the Iberian Peninsula is  40'00 North.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Portugal is part of the Iberian Peninsula of southwestern Europe. Russia, by the way, is not a continent, but a country. Russia is a major part of the northern Eurasian land mass, part of both Europe and Asia http://www.infoplease.com/atlas/europe.h... http://www.worldatlas.com/webimage/count..
Portugal is bordered by Spain on the east and north. The Atlantic  Ocean borders Portugal on the south and west.   Portugal is in southern Europe and it occupies most of the western  side coast of the Iberian Peninsular, which it shares with Spain. 1 It's a continent that many, especially in the western world, never visit in their lifet…. 2  Portugal's Geography A physical map of Portugal shows many geographical attributes. 3  These attributes include rivers, mountains, islands, and valleys unique to the country.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Portugal is a coastal nation in southwestern Europe, located at the western end of the Iberian Peninsula, bordering Spain (on its northern and eastern frontiers: a total of 1,214 kilometres (754 mi)). Portugal does not recognise the border between Caia and Ribeira de Cuncos River deltas, since the beginning of the 1801 occupation of Olivenza by Spain. This territory, though under de facto Spanish occupation, remains a de jure part of Portugal, consequently no border is henceforth recognised in this area.
Portugal is next to Spain, in the south of Europe. Is the most west  country in this continent. A good country for vacations with the  beautiful landscapes, beatches and hil … ls.    In Europe, Portugal is southwest of Spain.    Portugal is right next to Spain (both of these nations are part of  what is known as the Iberian Peninsula) at the western end of  Europe.   Portugal is located in southwestern Europe. Portugal and Spain make  up the Iberian Peninsula. The latitude of the Iberian Peninsula is  40'00 North.
Portugal is next to Spain, in the south of Europe. Is the most west  country in this continent. A good country for vacations with the  beautiful landscapes, beatches and hil … ls.    In Europe, Portugal is southwest of Spain. 1 It's a continent that many, especially in the western world, never visit in their lifet…. 2  Portugal's Geography A physical map of Portugal shows many geographical attributes. 3  These attributes include rivers, mountains, islands, and valleys unique to the country.
Portugal is bordered by Spain on the east and north. The Atlantic  Ocean borders Portugal on the south and west.   Portugal is in southern Europe and it occupies most of the western  side coast of the Iberian Peninsular, which it shares with Spain. Portugal is right next to Spain (both of these nations are part of  what is known as the Iberian Peninsula) at the western end of  Europe.   Portugal is located in southwestern Europe. Portugal and Spain make  up the Iberian Peninsula. The latitude of the Iberian Peninsula is  40'00 North.
Portugal shares the Iberian peninsula at the south-western tip of Europe with Spain. Geographically and culturally somewhat isolated from its neighbour, Portugal has a rich, unique culture, lively cities and beautiful countryside. 
Portugal is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Portugal include Spain, Gibraltar, Morocco and Andorra. Its biggest cities and towns include Lisbon, Porto, Amadora and Braga. 