1 A lunotriquetral ligament is one of several bands of connective tissue that link the lunate and triquetral bones, two of the seven carpal bones clustered in the base of the hand. Running between the lunate and triquetral bones on their superior surfaces, those nearest the wrist, is a third kind of lunotriquetral ligament. Known as the interosseous intercarpal ligament, it is flush with the uppermost facets of these bones, crossing the gap between the edges most adjacent to the wrist.
Located deep to the other tendons and ligaments in the area, the palmar is considered the weaker of the two. Running between the lunate and triquetral bones on their superior surfaces, those nearest the wrist, is a third kind of lunotriquetral ligament. Known as the interosseous intercarpal ligament, it is flush with the uppermost facets of these bones, crossing the gap between the edges most adjacent to the wrist.
The lunotriquetral (LT) ligament is an intrinsic ligament of the wrist, more particular an interosseous carpal ligament which provide stability to the proximal carpal row. This ligament has a thin, horseshoe-shaped structure and can be divided into three parts: a dorsal, a proximal and a volar one. Definition. Lunotriquetral dissociation (LTD) is the second most common ligamentous cause of carpal instability and is classified by Mayo ‘s well-known Classification of Carpal instabilities as an example of dissociative carpal instability (CID).
Lunotriquetral ligament. The lunotriquetral ligament attaches the lunate and triquetrum along the proximal joint surface. Similar to the scapholunate interosseous joint, this ligament is described as having 3 distinct structures: (1) a volar portion, (2) a dorsal portion, and (3) a proximal portion. Short radiolunate ligament. The short radiolunate ligament originates at the distal radius on the ulnar and volar edge of the lunate fossa and inserts into the volar aspect of the lunate. Its insertion is located proximal to the insertion of the uln
A sprain is an injury to a ligament. Ligaments are the connective tissues that connect and stabilize one bone to another bone; they could be thought of as very strong tape that holds the bones together at a joint (see Figure 1). The degree of ligament injury may vary over a wide range of severity. There are many ligaments which stabilize the wrist joint. One of the most common ligament injuries involves the scapho-lunate ligament, the ligament which links the scaphoid and lunate bones (Figure 2). Another wrist ligament injury that often occurs is the Lunato-triquetral ligament which connects two bones in the wrist called the lunate and the triquetrum
Clearwater, Tampa, St Petersburg, Florida. A lunotriquetral tear is a tear of a ligament in the wrist, on the opposite side of the more common scapholunate tear. The eight bones that comprise the wrist are held together by tough bands of ligaments that connect the wrist bones to each other, and to the forearm bones and finger bones. The lunotriquetral ligament is centrally located at the region of the ulna (the smaller forearm bone) and carpal (wrist) bones. A lunotriquetral tear is in the region of the triangular fibrocartilage complex and is often difficult to differentiate in wrist pain. An MRI image can assist in the clinical examination, and in differentiating the various diagnosis in chronic wrist pain
Treatment of chronic disruptions of the lunotriquetral (LT) ligament is not well-defined. Eleven patients treated by LT fusion with use of a compression screw are reported. The injury frequently resulted from hyperextension of the wrist. 
A similar ligament is found between the lunate and scaphoid bones as well. On the anterior side of these bones is the palmar intercarpal ligament, which connects the lunate and triquetral bones on the opposite side of the dorsal ligament, but which runs parallel to that lunotriquetral ligament. Running between the lunate and triquetral bones on their superior surfaces, those nearest the wrist, is a third kind of lunotriquetral ligament. Known as the interosseous intercarpal ligament, it is flush with the uppermost facets of these bones, crossing the gap between the edges most adjacent to the wrist.