Obesity shaves two to four years off the average lifespan, while being very obese can shorten your lifespan by 8 to 10 years, according to a new analysis of 57 studies including nearly 900,000 people. Men and women with BMIs between 22.5 and 25 were the least likely to die during the study's follow-up period.
To demonstrate the future effects of rising obesity levels, Olshansky and his co-authors first calculated how current rates of adult obesity are diminishing overall U.S. life expectancy.
Some researchers have calculated that obesity currently shortens life expectancy by four to nine months and that life expectancy could continue to decline by as much as five years if obesity trends continue.
(May 2005) A new study contends that rising childhood obesity rates will cut average U.S. life expectancy from birth by two to five years in the coming decades—a magnitude of decline last seen in the United States during the Great Depression.
Overall, moderate obesity (BMI 30-35 kg/m 2) was found to reduce life expectancy a by an average of three years, while morbid obesity (BMI 40-50 kg/ kg/m 2) reduces life expectancy by eight to ten years. This eight to ten year loss of life is equivalent to the effects of lifelong smoking.
Pro Does obesity decline life expectancy? By: Sierra Allen •Obesity can double the mortality rate and reduce life expectancy by at least ten years and up to 20 years. According to the trends in America, if they continue the average American’s life expectancy will decline by five years. •Obesity is linked to other health risks such as unhealthy blood fat levels which include cholesterol and heart disease.
Any time there's an increase in early-age mortality [deaths before age 50], it has an effect on overall life expectancy, says Olshansky. And when these children reach their 20s, 30s, 40s, and 50s, they'll face a higher risk of death.
Using studies that argue being obese reduces your life expectancy by nearly 13 years, the researchers estimated by how much overall rates of death would fall if every obese person in the United States lost enough weight to reach the optimal Body Mass Index (BMI) of 24.