Elephantiasis refers to a parasitic infection that causes extreme swelling in the arms and legs. The disease is caused by the filarial worm, which is transmitted form human to human via the female mosquito when it takes a blood meal. The parasite grows into an adult worm that lives in the lymphatic system of humans. Elephantiasis of leg due to filariasis. Luzon, Philippines. 
In areas where filariasis is endemic, the most common cause of elephantiasis is a parasitic disease known as lymphatic filariasis and, in the medical literature, the terms lymphatic filariasis and elephantiasis may be used interchangeably. Elephantiasis is caused by obstruction of the lymphatic system, which results in the accumulation of a fluid called lymph in the affected areas. Functioning as part of the immune system, the lymphatic system helps to protect the body against infection and disease.
Elephantiasis: Introduction. Elephantiasis: Lymphatic obstruction which causes severe swelling in the legs and groin area. It is usually caused by infection with a parasitic worm which is transmitted by mosquito bites. 
Elephantiasis Causes. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Elephantiasis is a syndrome caused by infection with a nematode parasite called the filarial worm. The parasite is transmitted form human to human via the female mosquito and grows into an adult worm that lives in the lymphatic system of a human. 1 Lymphatic filariasis is caused by the parasites Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi, and Brugia timori, which live in the lymphatic system. 2  Another group of filarial worms including Mansonella ozzardi and Mansonella perstans occupy the serous cavity of the abdomen (serous cavity filariasis).
True elephantiasis is the result of a parasitic infection caused by three specific kinds of round worms. The long, threadlike worms block the body's lymphatic system—a network of channels, lymph nodes, and organs that helps maintain proper fluid levels in the body by draining lymph from tissues into the bloodstream. 
Monsters Inside Me Parasite Causes Elephantiasis The filariasis parasite is a roundworm called W. bancrofti. It's commonly carried by mosquitoes in the tropics. If kept in your system untreated it can cause massive swelling of the legs and feet, even elephantiasis. Comments.
Parasite Causes Elephantiasis. The filariasis parasite is a roundworm called W. bancrofti. It's commonly carried by mosquitoes in the tropics. If kept in your system untreated it can cause massive swelling of the legs and feet, even elephantiasis. Comments.
Causes. Elephantiasis is caused by obstruction of the lymph vessels of the lymphatic system. As lymph moves through the lymphatic system, it is filtered by a network of small structures known as lymph nodes that help to remove microorganisms (e.g., viruses, bacteria, etc.) and other foreign bodies. Elephantiasis is caused by obstruction of the lymphatic system, which results in the accumulation of a fluid called lymph in the affected areas. Functioning as part of the immune system, the lymphatic system helps to protect the body against infection and disease.