In 1993, Pangasius was one of two extant genera (along with Helicophagus) in the family Pangasiidae. At this point, it was split into four subgenera. Pangasius (Pangasianodon) included P. gigas and P. hypophthalmus and was diagnosed by the absence of mandibular barbels, the absence of teeth in adults and the presence of a single-lobed swimbladder. Pangasius (Pangasius) was the final subgenus and had no diagnostic features, containing the remaining species. These subgeneric classifications were confirmed in 2000 except for Neopangasius, found to be polyphyletic and to be part of Pangasius (Pangasius), thus leaving three subgenera.
In 2002, the United States accused Vietnam of dumping catfish, namely Pangasius bocourti and Pangasius hypophthalmus, on the American market, arguing that the Vietnamese importers, who are subsidized by Vietnam's government, constituted unfair competition. In the rest of Europe, these fish are commonly marketed as pangasius or  panga . Other related shark catfish may occasionally be incorrectly labeled as basa fish, including P. hypophthalmus (iridescent shark) and P. pangasius (yellowtail catfish).
The basa fish (Pangasius bocourti) is a species of catfish in the family Pangasiidae. Basa are native to the Mekong and Chao Phraya basins in Indochina. These fish are important food fish with an international market. They are often labeled in North America and Australia as basa fish, swai, or bocourti. In the rest of Europe, these fish are commonly marketed as pangasius or  panga . Other related shark catfish may occasionally be incorrectly labeled as basa fish, including P. hypophthalmus (iridescent shark) and P. pangasius (yellowtail catfish).
Pangasius is a genus of medium-large to very large shark catfishes native to freshwater in South and Southeast Asia. The term pangasius is sometimes used to specifically refer to the commercially important basa fish, P. bocourti. Pangasius (Pangasius) was the final subgenus and had no diagnostic features, containing the remaining species. These subgeneric classifications were confirmed in 2000 except for Neopangasius, found to be polyphyletic and to be part of Pangasius (Pangasius), thus leaving three subgenera.
The iridescent shark (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) is a species of shark catfish (family Pangasiidae) native to the rivers of Southeast Asia. An iridescent shark requires a minimum tank size of 12 m (40 feet) to develop naturally. Schools require even larger tanks. If given enough room and fed adequately, individual fish can reach 1 m (3 feet) in length. In most home aquariums, the lack of space severely stunts its growth.
Dear Al: With the name basa, one might think it’s related to bass, a fish Canadians cast for in local rivers and lakes. Like bass, it is a freshwater fish, but it’s not related to that species. It is a type of catfish and its Latin name is Pangasius bocourti. We don’t fish for it in Canada. Basa, also called swai and a few other names, is native to Southeast Asia. It is farmed in large numbers in pens around the Mekong River system of Vietnam, as well as in China and Cambodia. 
Sustainable & responsible. Pangasius is not only a safe fish, it is a sustainable fish by nature. That is because of its low feed conversion ratio. Panga only needs 20% of the amount of feed needed to feed a pig and only 13% of the feed needed to feed a cow. Pangasius is a healthy choice for families and particularly for people who pay special attention to a healthy diet, or a carb free diet. Panga is not only a source of Omega 3, it is rich in protein, and contains no carbohydrates.
Striped Pangasius is a rather versatile fish, adaptable to any number of cooking methods. The very white fillets have a rather delicate texture and light taste, and easily take on flavors that are introduced during cooking. Frozen striped pangasius (also called Tra, swai, and sutchi) fillets should be stored at or below 0°F (-18°C) and then thawed properly when ready to cook. The frozen shelf life is 18 months. Links to proper seafood handling instructions: NOAA-Fish Watch: Handling Seafood and A Consumer Guide to Safe Seafood Handling.