Follow-up testing should be performed at 4 to 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after breastfeeding cessation if the initial tests are negative. 58,59 HIV antibody testing of an infant to assess for HIV exposure would not be helpful if the mother acquired HIV infection after giving birth. 
Prewarming the infant's heel (42 C for 3 to 5 minutes) is important to obtain capillary blood gas samples and warming also greatly increases the flow of blood for collection of other specimens. However, do not use too high a temperature warmer, because baby's skin is thin and susceptible to thermal injury. OVERVIEW OF HEEL STICKS BLOOD COLLECTION ON BABIES: The recommended location for blood collection on a newborn baby or infant is the heel.
The heel stick test is done within a few days of your baby’s birth. Ideally the test should be done during the first 48-96 hours of life. The test is generally done right before baby is discharged. Baby’s heel will be pricked and a few drops of blood will be taken. The nurse will collect nine or ten drops of blood and place it on a filter paper. The sample is called a “blood spot”.
The blood of a two week-old infant is collected for a Phenylketonuria, or PKU, screening. The neonatal heel prick or Guthrie test is a screening test done on newborns. It consists of making a pinprick puncture in one heel of the newborn and soaking the blood into pre-printed collection cards known as Guthrie cards
Newborn screening begins with a heel stick that is done within 24-48 hours of a baby's birth. A health-care professional collects blood from the baby's heel onto a filter-paper card, which is the blood-collection device. This card is sent to a newborn screening laboratory for testing. 1 can be used to confirm the results when a newborn tests positive for a disorder. 2  can be done, to confirm a positive result, on the same blood spot used for the initial test (allowing all screening results to be reported at the same time without worrying families about testing and retesting).
If a home birth is planned, the licensed midwife or doula may be qualified to complete the newborn screening blood test and hearing screen. If newborn screening cannot be completed in the home, parents should bring the infant to a hospital or clinic for the newborn screening blood test within a few days of birth. A hearing screen should also be scheduled with the baby’s health care provider at no later than one month of age. The other part is for important information for the lab performing the screen, such as the baby’s name, sex, weight, date/time of birth, date/time of heel stick collection, and date/time of first feeding.
Newborn blood spot (heel prick) test. The newborn blood spot test involves taking a small sample of your baby’s blood to screen it for nine rare but serious health conditions. When your baby is about five days old, a midwife will collect the blood sample by pricking your baby’s heel and squeezing out a few drops of blood on to a blood spot card. This is then sent off for testing. The heel prick may be uncomfortable and your baby may cry, but it's all over very quickly.
Heel stick: A simple procedure in which a newborn baby's heel is pricked and then a small amount of the blood is collected, usually with a narrow-gauge (capillary) glass tube or a filter paper. The heel stick is now the most common way to draw newborn's blood. It is used to do the newborn screening tests and usually done before the baby leaves the hospital. If the blood tests are performed earlier than 24 hours after the baby is born, a repeat test is recommended at 1 to 2 weeks of age. The most common newborn screening tests in the U.S. include hypothyroidism (underactivity of the thyroid gland) , PKU (phenylketonuria), galactosemia, and sickle cell disease.
During the blood test, which is sometimes called a heel stick, the baby’s heel will be pricked to collect a small sample of blood. Parents are welcome to be a part of this process by holding their baby while the heel stick is performed. The other part is for important information for the lab performing the screen, such as the baby’s name, sex, weight, date/time of birth, date/time of heel stick collection, and date/time of first feeding.