Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic. Azithromycin fights bacteria in the body. Azithromycin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria, such as respiratory infections, skin infections, ear infections, and sexually transmitted diseases. Azithromycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
Azithromycin is the generic name for a prescription drug available as Zithromax, Zmax, and Z-Pak. The drug is an antibiotic used to treat a variety of bacterial infections, such as cat-scratch disease, ear infections, infections of the skin or surrounding tissue, and throat or tonsil infections. Doctors sometimes prescribe azithromycin for shorter periods than they do for other antibiotics, such as in a one-day mega-dose, or for three or five days, using the Z-Pak, which starts at a higher dose than longer regimens.
Zithromax may also used to treat a number of other, more uncommon bacterial infections. It is not effective against any infection caused by a virus, such as the flu, stomach flu, or common cold. Zithromax ® (azithromycin) is a prescription antibiotic licensed to treat a number of infections in both children and adults. Some of these Zithromax uses include the treatment of: 1  Bacterial infections. 2  Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
For chronic or more serious infections, your healthcare provider may continue azithromycin treatment for an extended period of time. In children, the dosing can range (depending on body weight) from 5 mg to 20 mg per kilogram of body weight per day (mg/kg/day), once daily for three to five days. Dosage for Sexually Transmitted Diseases. The recommended dosage of azithromycin for the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) is 1 gram (1000 mg) to 2 grams (2000 mg) given one time only.
Dosage for Bacterial Infections. The recommended dosage for most types of common bacterial infections is 250 mg or 500 mg once daily for three to five days. Dosage for Sexually Transmitted Diseases. The recommended dosage of azithromycin for the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) is 1 gram (1000 mg) to 2 grams (2000 mg) given one time only.
For treating most types of common bacterial infections, the recommended dosage of azithromycin is 250 mg or 500 mg once daily for three to five days. Dosage for Sexually Transmitted Diseases. The recommended dosage of azithromycin for the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) is 1 gram (1000 mg) to 2 grams (2000 mg) given one time only.
Azithromycin is a prescription medication used to treat many bacterial infections such as those of the lungs and airways, eyes, ears, sinuses, skin, throat, and infections from sexually transmitted diseases. This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Children: The recommended azithromycin dose in this dosage form in children is based on weight and ranges from 5 mg to 20 mg per kilogram of body weight per day. Azithromycin is usually taken for 3 to 5 days.
Doses of Zithromax for Bacterial Infections. The recommended Zithromax dosage for most types of common bacterial infections is 250 mg or 500 mg once daily for three to five days. For chronic or more serious infections, your healthcare provider may continue treatment for an extended period. Zithromax Dosage for Sexually Transmitted Diseases. The recommended dose of Zithromax for the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) is 1 gram (1000 mg) to 2 grams (2000 mg) given one time only.
The suggested dose of Zithromax for treating most types of common bacterial infections is 250 mg or 500 mg for three to five days. Zithromax Dosage for Sexually Transmitted Diseases. The recommended dose of Zithromax for the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) is 1 gram (1000 mg) to 2 grams (2000 mg) given one time only.
Adults: Azithromycin in this form should be taken as a single 2 g dose. Children: For children 6 months and older, azithromycin in this form should be taken as a single dose of 60 mg/kg (equivalent to 27 mg/lb) body weight. Children weighing 75 lb (34 kg) or more should receive the adult dose of 2 grams. Children: The recommended azithromycin dose in this dosage form in children is based on weight and ranges from 5 mg to 20 mg per kilogram of body weight per day. Azithromycin is usually taken for 3 to 5 days.