Then your computer is infected. We do suggest you should remove KMSAUTO.EXE from your computer as soon as possible. KMSAUTO.EXE is Trojan/Backdoor. Kill the process KMSAUTO.EXE and remove KMSAUTO.EXE from the Windows startup.
KMSAuto Net.exe is part of KMSAuto Net and developed by MSfree Inc. according to the KMSAuto Net.exe version information. KMSAuto Net.exe's description is  KMSAuto Net . KMSAuto Net.exe is usually located in the 'C:\ProgramData\KMSAutoS\' folder. The memory could not be read/written. Click on OK to terminate the program. KMSAuto Net has stopped working. End Program-kmsauto net.exe. This program is not responding. kmsauto net.exe is not a valid Win32 application. kmsauto net.exe-Application Error. The application failed to initialize properly (0xXXXXXXXX). Click OK to terminate the application
Apart from activating Windows, the KMSAuto Lite also can be used to activate Microsoft Office including version 2010 and 2013. It is also easy to use the activator, as you just press a button and all done. To activate Microsoft Office, click on the Activate Office button. This KMS activator support all the Windows editions and languages (including Volume Licensing and different languages of Windows). It also supports both 32-bit and 64-bit of Windows and Office. Generally, KMS activation is a perfect and legitimate method for activating Microsoft
These are some of the error messages that can appear related to kmsauto net.exe: kmsauto net.exe has encountered a problem and needs to close. We are sorry for the inconvenience. kmsauto net.exe-Application Error. The instruction at 0xXXXXXXXX referenced memory at 0xXXXXXXXX. The memory could not be read/written. Click on OK to terminate the program. KMSAuto Net has stopped working. End Program-kmsauto net.exe. This program is not responding. kmsauto net.exe is not a valid Win32 application. kmsauto net.exe-Application Error. The application failed to initialize properly (0xXXXXXXXX). Click OK to terminate the application
Our database contains 18 different files for filename kmsauto helper.exe. You can also check most distributed file variants with name kmsauto helper.exe. This files most often belongs to product KMSAuto Helper. . This files most often have description KMSAuto Helper. This is executable file. You can find it running in Task Manager as the process kmsauto helper.exe. Latest new variant of the file with name kmsauto helper.exe was discovered 53 days ago. Our database contains 10 variants of the file kmsauto helper.exe with final rating Safe and zero variants with final rating Threat.
KMSAuto Pro.exe is known as KMSAuto Pro and it is developed by MSfree Inc. . We have seen about 3 different instances of KMSAuto Pro.exe in different location. So far we haven't seen any alert about this product. If you think there is a virus or malware with this product, please submit your feedback at the bottom. It's probably your file has been infected with a virus. Let try the program named PCSpeedUP to see if it helps. Let try to run a system scan with Speed Up My PC to see any error, then you can do some other troubleshooting steps.
KMSAuto Net 2014 v1.1.4 Portable EN, ES, RU, CN. Download: http://tiny.cc/w6etex. THIS PRODUCT IS MEANT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY. KMSAuto Net-the automatic KMS solution to activte the following operating systems. Windows Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2. also for Office 2010, 2013 VL editions. It is based on KMS Server from mikmik38 (MDL). Run KMSAuto Net.exe as administrator and use the interface. 
It’s created by two guys, Ratiborus and CoolZoid from Russia. The KMSAuto Lite is proven to be one of the most advanced and efficient universal activator not only because of the great features but also of it fast speed (just about 10 seconds and all set). It has similar features of all the other activators out there. This KMS activator support all the Windows editions and languages (including Volume Licensing and different languages of Windows). It also supports both 32-bit and 64-bit of Windows and Office. Generally, KMS activation is a perfect and legitimate method for activating Microsoft
KMSAuto Net.exe is known as KMSAuto Net and it is developed by MSfree Inc. , it is also developed by. We have seen about 33 different instances of KMSAuto Net.exe in different location. So far we haven't seen any alert about this product. 