Today Australia is home to the largest number of feral horses—between 128,000 and 205,000 brumbies. (We know there were never any truly wild horses in Australia because all native mammals are either egg-laying, marsupials, small rodents, or bats.
1 Iceland is home to populations of feral ponies. 2  Nine breeds of semi-wild ponies that live in the British Isles. 3  Among the best known are England's New Forest and Exmoor ponies. 4  The wild horses of Assateague, a barrier island off the mid-Atlantic United States.
Stories about wild horses appear often in various media sources. There are several horse populations that are labeled wild in North America. These include the Sable Island Ponies, the Mustangs of the mid-west and herds on Chincoteague Island and Shackleford Banks.
A feral horse is a free-roaming horse of domesticated ancestry. As such, a feral horse is not a wild animal in the sense of an animal without domesticated ancestors. However, some populations of feral horses are managed as wildlife, and these horses often are popularly called wild horses.
The question of whether mustangs in the West are feral versus wild is a controversial one; it’s got a knack for appearing in the comment section of many a mustang story.
1 Herds of dark-brown horses in Sweden's mixed tundra and forest are feral. 2  Iceland is home to populations of feral ponies. 3  Nine breeds of semi-wild ponies that live in the British Isles. 4  Among the best known are England's New Forest and Exmoor ponies.
This essay was published in May 2008 as part of The Last Wild Horse: The Return of Takhi to Mongolia Bio Feature. 1  It begins by stating that the takhi is the only true wild horse left in the world; the so-called wild horses that abound in Australia and North America are actually feral.
As such, a feral horse is not a wild animal in the sense of an animal without domesticated ancestors.
However, what many people do not realize is that these horses are not actually wild horses or ponies. They are feral. With a few exceptions almost all the horse populations that run free and untamed in most parts of the world are feral. They descend from domestic stock.