SAP ERP is enterprise resource planning software developed by the German company SAP SE. SAP ERP incorporates the key business functions of an organization. The latest version (SAP ERP 6.0) was made available in 2006. The most recent Enhancement Package (EHP7) for SAP ERP 6.0 was released in 2013. SAP ERP was built based on the former SAP R/3 software. SAP R/3 through version 4.6c consisted of various applications on top of SAP Basis, SAP's set of middleware programs and tools. When SAP R/3 Enterprise was launched in 2002, all applications were built on top of the SAP Web Application Server.
Sap is a fluid transported in xylem cells (vessel elements) or phloem sieve tube elements of a plant. These xylem cells transport water and nutrients throughout the plant. Sap is not to be confused with latex, resin or cell sap; it is a separate substance, separately produced, and with different components and functions. Xylem sap consists primarily of a watery solution of hormones, mineral elements and other nutrients. Transport of sap in xylem is characterized by movement from the roots toward the leaves.
System SAP ERP (previously SAP R/3) has a modular structure; that is, it contains a number of modules accessible via one login to the SAP ERP system (with the exception of SAP BW and SAP KW). SAP ERP modules are widely known by their abbreviations. Modules are organized hierarchically; that is, they have submodules (e.g., Fixed Assets FI-AA is a submodule of Finance FI).
I use SAP for my inventory management. It is a software. So that I can track the quantity and value of all the stocks in the warehouse. You can see the movements like receipts … , issues, and transfers. Inventory management is important for decision making purposes including the cash flow. Confidence votes 35. SAP, Systems Application Programing, is an Integrated Enterprise Resource Planner, which you can effectively manage your 4 M's (Money, Material, Manufacturing & Machines). SAP has many functions (Finance, Materials, Production, Quality, Maintenance & HR).
SAP, started in 1972 by five former IBM employees in Mannheim, Germany, states that it is the world's largest inter-enterprise software company and the world's fourth-largest independent software supplier, overall. Download Our SAP ERP Forecasting Guide. 
Written natively for the SAP HANA platform, SAP S/4HANA is the new generation of SAP Business Suite launched in 2015. It offers cloud, on-premises and hybrid deployment options to provide more choice to customers. Three years later, in 1979, SAP launched SAP R/2, expanding the capabilities of the system to other areas, such as material management and production planning. In 1981, SAP brought a re-designed product to market. However, SAP R/2 did not improve until the period between 1985 and 1990.
Plant sap, or just sap, is fluid transported in xylem tubes or phloem cells of a plant. Xylem cells transport water and inorganic nutrients through the plant; phloem cells transport sugarary fluids and other biological molecules. Latex or resin is not plant sap. 
In 1976, SAP GmbH was founded, and moved its headquarters the following year to Walldorf, Germany. Three years later, in 1979, SAP launched SAP R/2, expanding the capabilities of the system to other areas, such as material management and production planning. In 1981, SAP brought a re-designed product to market. However, SAP R/2 did not improve until the period between 1985 and 1990.