Full Definition of CALIPH. : a successor of Muhammad as temporal and spiritual head of Islam —used as a title. — ca·liph·al \-lə-fəl\ adjective. See caliph defined for English-language learners. Definition of CALIPH for Kids. : an important Muslim political and religious leader.
The Caliph Arabic: خليفة /khalīfah/ is the Head of state in a Caliphate, and the title for the leader of the Islamic Ummah, an Islamic community ruled by the Shari'ah. 
A caliphate (Arabic: خِلافة ‎ khilāfa) is a form of Islamic government led by a caliph (Arabic: خَليفة ‎ khalīfah pronunciation (help·info))—a person considered a political and religious successor to the prophet Muhammad and a leader of the entire Muslim community. After Hakeem Noor-ud-Din, the first caliph, the title of the Ahmadiyya caliph continued under Mirza Basheer-ud-Din Mahmood Ahmad, whose era lasted for over 50 years. Following him were Mirza Nasir Ahmad and then Mirza Tahir Ahmad who were third and fourth caliphs respectively.
In June the leader of Islamic State declared the creation of a caliphate stretching across parts of Syria and Iraq-Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi named himself the caliph or leader. 
The political authority of a Caliph as head of state of a Caliphate comes from the fact that he is seen as a successor to the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Abu Bakr, the first successor of Muhammad, nominated Umar as his successor on his deathbed, and there was consensus in the Muslim community to his choice. His successor, Uthman Ibn Affan, was elected by a council of electors (Majlis). But soon he was seen by some more as a king than as an elected leader.
By Kallie Szczepanski. Definition: Caliph: A religious leader in Islam, believed to be the successor to the Prophet Muhammad. The caliph is the head of the ummah, or the community of the faithful. Over time, the caliphate became a religio-political position, in which the caliph ruled over the Muslim empire. 
A caliphate is a an Islamic state — and then some. In theory, a caliphate is more than just a country that happens to be officially Muslim; it is supposed to encompass every Muslim on earth. The last time that sort of caliphate existed was many centuries ago. It was the largest caliphate and the most successful, making it the height of the Islamic state. Its capital was in Damascus, which is today the capital of Syria — this is part of why today's caliphate-nostalgists love the idea of a reborn caliphate based in Syria.
The word 'Caliph' means successor, and designates the political leader of the Islamic community, or ummah. By using the language of Caliph and Caliphate, ISIS is attempting to establish itself as the leader of a worldwide Muslim movement and mobilize a broad coalition of support by erasing national boundaries. | ASSOCIATED PRESS. The militant group Islamic State in Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS), also known as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), has declared that it is restoring the Islamic Caliphate, renaming itself as simply the Islamic State (IS) and naming leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi as Caliph.
One year ago, Islamic State announced the formation of its caliphate-a state governed in accordance with Islamic law, or Sharia, by God's deputy on Earth, or caliph. IS has been characterised by extreme violence, but thousands have still flocked to the territory it inhabits, and groups have pledged their allegiance. 