The main parts of the digestive system are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, liver, gull bladder, and pancreas. Food does not actually pass thro … ugh the liver, gull bladder and pancreas, but they do produce a green liquid called bile that helps digestion. + 8 others found this useful. Physical digestion is the physical breakdown of food, using your teeth, called mastication. Chemical digestion uses different fluids and chemicals in your body to break down the food further, such as pepsin and hydrochloric acid.
The main parts of the digestive system are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, liver, gull bladder, and pancreas. Food does not actually pass thro … ugh the liver, gull bladder and pancreas, but they do produce a green liquid called bile that helps digestion. + 8 others found this useful. It is then pushed to the rectum which is the last part of the large intestine, then out the anus and into your toilet. The digestive system refers to the system from the mouth to the  bowels. It is the system that the body used to draw nutrients from  food and to eliminate waste. The digestive system is the path that the food taht you eat follows so that your body can get all of the nutrients out of it
The nutrients from the food, after digestion are absorbed through the wall of the alimentary canal into the circulatory system for transport to the liver or other parts of the body. The waste remaining is eliminated from the body via the cloaca or vent. The liver produces bile and is associated with the metabolism of nutrients together with a number of other functions. The main function of the pancreas is the production of digestive enzymes and special compounds called hormones.
Image: The large intestine. The human digestive system consists of a long muscular tube and several accessory organs such as the salivary glands, pancreas and gall bladder. It is responsible for food ingestion and digestion, absorption of digestion products and the elimination of undigested materials. A structure at the bottom of the stomach known as the pyloric sphincter controls the entry of chyme into the first part of the small intestine, called the duodenum. Ducts from the gall bladder and pancreas feed fluids rich in bile salts and digestive enzymes into
The two main types of digestion is chemical and physical digestion. Physical digestion is the physical breakdown of food, using your teeth, called mastication. Chemical digestion uses different fluids and chemicals in your body to break down the food further, such as pepsin and hydrochloric acid. It is then pushed to the rectum which is the last part of the large intestine, then out the anus and into your toilet. The digestive system refers to the system from the mouth to the  bowels. It is the system that the body used to draw nutrients from  food and to eliminate waste. The digestive system is the path that the food taht you eat follows so that your body can get all of the nutrients out of it
The digestive system is responsible for the ingestion of food, it’s breakdown into its constituent nutrients and their absorption into the blood stream, and the elimination of wastes from that process. The liver produces bile and is associated with the metabolism of nutrients together with a number of other functions. The main function of the pancreas is the production of digestive enzymes and special compounds called hormones.
Parts of digestive system: Human digestive system consists of the two categories of parts. The first category consists of those organs that are directly involved in the process of digestion and absorption. Introduction to Digestive System: Digestive System. Digestive system is the food processing system of human body. The whole digestive system is in the form of a long, hollow, twisted and turned tube, called the alimentary canal, which starts from the oral cavity and ends at the anus.
It is then pushed to the rectum which is the last part of the large intestine, then out the anus and into your toilet. The digestive system refers to the system from the mouth to the  bowels. It is the system that the body used to draw nutrients from  food and to eliminate waste. The digestive system is the path that the food taht you eat follows so that your body can get all of the nutrients out of it. Physical digestion is the physical breakdown of food, using your teeth, called mastication. Chemical digestion uses different fluids and chemicals in your body to break down the food further, such as pepsin and hydrochloric acid.