The anterior fontanel, roughly diamond-shaped, usually closes between the ages of 12 and 18 months. The posterior fontanel, triangular in shape, closes about 2 to 3 months after birth. Increase in intracranial pressure may cause a fontanel to become tense or bulge, as evidenced in infection such as meningitis. fontanel (fon·fôn ·t) , nel n the-membrane covered area between an'infant s cranial bones before they. Close the anterior fontanel usually closes at 14 months of age while the posterior fontanel closes 2 months after. birth
fontanelle, fontanel. a soft spot; skin and membrane-covered spaces remaining at the junction of the sutures, especially between the frontal and parietal bones in the incompletely covered skull of the fetus or neonate. fontanel (fon·fôn ·t) , nel n the-membrane covered area between an'infant s cranial bones before they. Close the anterior fontanel usually closes at 14 months of age while the posterior fontanel closes 2 months after. birth
This fontanelle usually fills in and closes between the eighth and fifteenth months of life. The posterior fontanelle lies at the junction of the occipital and parietal bones, is triangular in shape, and usually closes by the third or fourth month of life. fontanel (fon·fôn ·t) , nel n the-membrane covered area between an'infant s cranial bones before they. Close the anterior fontanel usually closes at 14 months of age while the posterior fontanel closes 2 months after. birth
Often the head will appear dome-shaped, and the open fontanelle is noticeable as a soft spot on the top of the dog's head. The fluid-filled spaces within the brain, known as ventricles, also become swollen. The increased pressure damages or prevents the development of brain tissue. Fontanelles are soft spots on a baby's head which, during birth, enable the bony plates of the skull to flex, allowing the child's head to pass through the birth canal.
Definition of FONTANEL. : a membrane-covered opening in bone or between bones; specifically: any of the spaces closed by membranous structures between the uncompleted angles of the parietal bones and the neighboring bones of a fetal or young skull. See fontanel defined for kids
A fontanelle is more commonly known as a soft spot. When a baby is born, he or she typically has several soft spots where the bones of the skull have not yet fused. A newborn has fontanelles on the top, back, and sides of the head. 
fontanel. noun fon·ta·nel. : a membrane-covered opening in bone or between bones; specifically: any of the spaces closed by membranous structures between the uncompleted angles of the parietal bones and the neighboring bones of a fetal or young skull. fon·ta·nel or fon·ta·nelle \ˌfaent-ˌfänt-ən, ˈel-ˈfaent-ˈfänt\. ən ˌ
Noun. 1. fontanel-any membranous gap between the bones of the cranium in an infant or fetus. fontanelle, soft spot. child's body-the body of a human child. orifice, porta, opening-an aperture or hole that opens into a bodily cavity; the orifice into the aorta from the lower left chamber of the heart.
fontanelle, fontanel. a soft spot; skin and membrane-covered spaces remaining at the junction of the sutures, especially between the frontal and parietal bones in the incompletely covered skull of the fetus or neonate. This fontanelle usually fills in and closes between the eighth and fifteenth months of life. The posterior fontanelle lies at the junction of the occipital and parietal bones, is triangular in shape, and usually closes by the third or fourth month of life.
Fontanel (fontanelle): The word fontanel comes from the French fontaine for fountain. The medical term fontanel is a soft spot of the skull. The soft spot is soft precisely because the cartilage there has not yet hardened into bone between the skull bones. The posterior fontanel closes first, at latest by the age of 8 weeks in a full-term baby. The anterior fontanel closes at 18 months of age on the average but it can close normally as early as 9 months.