1 Counter X-there are three separate counters that can track your XP. 2  Click on each of the tabs to choose which counter to customise. 3  Enable counter-tick the box to show the XP Tracker interface on the game window This option provides the player the ability to set up between 1 and 3 counters. 1 Click on each of the tabs to choose which counter to customise. 2  Enable counter-tick the box to show the XP Tracker interface on the game window This option provides the player the ability to set up between 1 and 3 counters. 3  Skill-choose which skill that you want XP to be tracked in.
Please try again later. This video will show you how to change the xp counter settings, as well as customize where you want it to be on your screen. 
With the release of RuneScape 3, access to the XP counter and XP display options were removed from the area of the screen where they could be accessed and those symbols became inert. This RuneScape guide will cover how to change settings for the XP counter in RuneScape 3. Start by clicking the options menu. That is the one that resembles a yellow or brown cog of machinery. Click on it to open a menu box, don't bother with its drop down menu. Click on the interface tab, the second tab on top. From there, you are able to access the XP counters. In the menu, there are a lot of options; you can pick what to set each counter on, hide or display XP popups, even hide the entire counter. RuneScape 3: How to access the XP counter
XP Tracker HUD. The XP tracker interface has a HUD element that means you can move the interface around the screen, but it cannot be resized or otherwise manipulated. To do this, you need to access Edit Mode. Press 'Esc' on your keyboard, or press the on the ribbon, and press 'Edit Mode'. On this menu, check the tickbox next to 'Gamplay HUDs' and this will enable you to edit the HUD. When you're happy with its position, press 'Save and Exit'. If you're not happy with your changes, press 'Cancel' instead. 1 Click on each of the tabs to choose which counter to customise. 2  Enable counter-tick the box to show the XP Tracker interface on the game window This option provides the player the ability to set up between 1 and 3 counters. 3  Skill-choose which skill that you want XP to be tracked in.
1 On 13 April, 2010, a day after the main release, the XP Counter icon was changed slightly and the XP+ was simply changed to XP. 2  On 25 May 2010, Jagex changed the XP Counter reset button and made it so that a player had to right-click the XP Counter button and choose Reset XP Total. This article is about the experience counter. For the item used to count, see Ticker. The XP tracker (formerly known as the XP Counter or XP ticker) was originally released by Jagex to members along with the Bonus XP Weekend on 12 March, 2010. Exactly one month later, the XP Counter was released on 12 April, 2010 to all players
1 On 25 May 2010, Jagex changed the XP Counter reset button and made it so that a player had to right-click the XP Counter button and choose Reset XP Total. 2  This cleared up previous frustration, as players were able to unintentionally reset their counter by an accidental left click on the box. This article is about the experience counter. For the item used to count, see Ticker. The XP tracker (formerly known as the XP Counter or XP ticker) was originally released by Jagex to members along with the Bonus XP Weekend on 12 March, 2010. Exactly one month later, the XP Counter was released on 12 April, 2010 to all players
XP pop-ups Edit. A player using the XP Pop-up while training herblore. Also included in the update was an XP Pop-up option. Once the player begins to train a skill the pop-up will be displayed in the top-middle of the game screen. This article is about the experience counter. For the item used to count, see Ticker. The XP tracker (formerly known as the XP Counter or XP ticker) was originally released by Jagex to members along with the Bonus XP Weekend on 12 March, 2010. Exactly one month later, the XP Counter was released on 12 April, 2010 to all players
For example, if you reset your Defence to level 1 and have 200m XP in Fishing, you will be moved to the lowest hiscore position of players with 200m Fishing XP. Any unclaimed funds in your Miscellania coffers will be transferred to your money pouch on reset. 1 You have already performed your chosen reset for your account. 2  You have already performed the other reset for your account. 3  You have any items in your worn, backpack or beast-of-burden inventories. 4  You have dropped an item or dismissed a familiar in the last three minutes.