Note: The median of a data set is the number that is the middle value of the set. It's easy to find the median if you first put the numbers in order from least to greatest. In this tutorial, see how to find the median of a data set, and see what to do if there are two middle values!
Mean Median Mode Calculator. In statistics, mean is the average of all the data. Median is the middle value of the set of data and mode is the one that occurs most often in a set of data. The difference between the largest and smallest data is the range. This online calculator helps you to find the mean, median, range and mode of the values you entered. Additionally, the values you enter will be arranged in ascending order in this calculator.
Alcula now features a simple statistics calculator for calculating averages (mean, median and mode) and measures of dispersion (standard deviation, ranges etc.) from a set of numerical values that you provide. You can paste your data from a spreadsheet or a text file or enter the individual values manually. 
Median. In probability theory and statistics, the median is the middle data value of a set of values when the data have been arranged into order. If there is an even number of data, then there is no single middle value; the median is then usually defined to be the mean of the two middle values. About This Tool. The online Mean Median Mode Calculator is used to calculate the count, sum, mean, median, mode and range of a set of numbers.
The mode of a data set is the number that occurs most frequently in the set. To easily find the mode, put the numbers in order from least to greatest and count how many times each number occurs. The number that occurs the most is the mode! Follow along with this tutorial and see how to find the mode of a set of data. The median of a data set is the number that is the middle value of the set. It's easy to find the median if you first put the numbers in order from least to greatest. In this tutorial, see how to find the median of a data set, and see what to do if there are two middle values!
Calculator Use. Calculate the count, sum, mean, median and mode for a set of data. Enter values separated by commas such as 1, 2, 4, 7, 7, 10, 2, 4, 5. A data set of up to 2500 values can be evaluated with this calculator. If there is an odd number of data values then the median will be the value in the middle. If there is an even number of data values the median is the mean of the two data values in the middle. For the data set 1, 1, 2, 5, 6, 6, 9 the median is 5.