The Basics. What you'll do: Pediatric nurses provide preventative and acute care in all settings to children and adolescents. Pediatric Nurse Practitioners (PNPs) perform physical exams, diagnose illness and injury, and provide education and support to patients' families. Pediatric nurses and pediatric nurse practitioners work in a wide range of settings from doctor's offices and community-based settings to hospitals and critical care facilities. Primary care services may include:
Pediatric Nurse Education Requirements and Career Information. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a pediatric nurse. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. In order to work in pediatric nursing, students must become registered nurses (RN). An RN education may be achieved in a few different ways-through hospitals or educational institutions.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a pediatric nurse practitioner. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling, job duties and certification to find out if this is the career for you. Career Information. A pediatric nurse practitioner works closely with physicians and other health care professionals to care for patients under the age of 18. A PNP might be a patient's main medical caregiver who diagnoses and treats chronic diseases, injuries, illnesses and infections.
Pediatric Nurse Education Requirements. In terms of educational background, pediatric nurse requirements include either an Associate's or a Bachelor's degree in Nursing. An Associate's degree (ADN) typically takes two years to complete, while a Bachelor's degree (BSN) typically takes four years. ADN programs are usually offered by community colleges. Tweet. Pediatric nurses are registered nurses (RNs) who work specifically with children and adolescents. They work in hospitals, clinics, doctors' offices, non-profit medical services groups, schools, outpatient facilities or provide in-home services.
A pediatric nurse is a registered nurse who specializes in the care of infants, children and adolescents. These nurses must be licensed by the state after having completed a minimum of an associate's degree in nursing and passing a national licensing exam, the NCLEX-RN. In order to work in pediatric nursing, students must become registered nurses (RN). An RN education may be achieved in a few different ways-through hospitals or educational institutions.
Certification: Certification for pediatric nurses and pediatric nurse practitioners is available from the Pediatric Nursing Certification Board (PNCB) . Median annual salary: $65,470 for RNs; $89,960 for NPs*. Pediatric nurses and pediatric nurse practitioners work in a wide range of settings from doctor's offices and community-based settings to hospitals and critical care facilities. Primary care services may include:
Pediatric Oncology Nurse Salary Information. Pediatric oncology nursing is a relatively small, specific subset of RNs, making it difficult to pin down salary specifics. According to the BLS, the median annual salary for RNs in May, 2009 was $63,750, with the middle 50 percent earning between $52,520 and $77,970. To become a pediatric oncology nurse, you must first become a licensed RN, a process that requires you to earn one of the following credentials from an accredited nursing school: 1  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN).
The primary goal of a pediatric nurse practitioner (PNP) is to provide nursing care to children, adolescents and infants. A PNP is a registered nurse who has also completed a master's degree program in nursing with a pediatric nurse practitioner focus. Some employers require NP certification. Career Information. A pediatric nurse practitioner works closely with physicians and other health care professionals to care for patients under the age of 18. A PNP might be a patient's main medical caregiver who diagnoses and treats chronic diseases, injuries, illnesses and infections.