Lewisham (/ˈluː.ɪʃəm/) is an area in south-east London, England, in the London Borough of Lewisham, centred 5.9 miles (9.5 km) south-east of Charing Cross. 1 Lewisham Gateway is a redevelopment site bounded by the DLR station, Lewisham High Street, the Shopping Centre and the Railway to Blackheath. 2  The highway layout is being changed from a roundabout to two signalised junctions, while the River Ravensbourne and the Quaggy will be re-routed.
The Borough of Lewisham lies six miles to the south east of central London and enjoys good transportation links to and from the centre. Blackheath is Lewisham’s major centre and was once a fashionable suburb for wealthy city merchants between the 17th and 19th centuries. This wealth is still reflected in its attractive architecture, and large houses. Blackheath has fine restaurants, cosy pubs, stylish shops and an appealing village-like atmosphere.
Lewisham [1] is a largely residential borough of south inner London and includes some of the most run-down areas in the whole city. Alas, it contains the historic, more gentrified Blackheath, burial site of London's plague victims, now ideal for flying a kite. Catford is a major transport hub and shopping district. 
Lewisham is also the site of one of the worst disasters on British Railways in the 20th century. On 4 December 1957 a crowded steam-hauled passenger express headed for the Kent coast overran signals at danger in thick fog near St. John's station and crashed into a stationary electric train for the Hayes branch line. 1 Lewisham Gateway is a redevelopment site bounded by the DLR station, Lewisham High Street, the Shopping Centre and the Railway to Blackheath. 2  The highway layout is being changed from a roundabout to two signalised junctions, while the River Ravensbourne and the Quaggy will be re-routed.
The London Borough of Lewisham (/ˈluː.ɪʃəm/) is a London borough in south-east London, England and forms part of Inner London. The principal settlement of the borough is Lewisham. The local authority is Lewisham London Borough Council and it is based in Catford. The Prime Meridian passes through Lewisham. Blackheath, Goldsmiths, University of London and Millwall F.C. are located within the borough. Lewisham station, once known as Lewisham Junction, is located at the junction of the lines to Dartford and Hayes, and is also the terminus of the southern branch of the Docklands Light Railway. The East London Line (on the London Underground network) terminated at New Cross and New Cross Gate until December 2007.
Lewisham, with the parish of Lee, became part of the Metropolitan Borough of Lewisham. In 1965, after the London Government Act 1963 was passed through Parliament, the current 32 London boroughs where formed and today Lewisham is part of the London Borough of Lewisham. 1 Lewisham Gateway is a redevelopment site bounded by the DLR station, Lewisham High Street, the Shopping Centre and the Railway to Blackheath. 2  The highway layout is being changed from a roundabout to two signalised junctions, while the River Ravensbourne and the Quaggy will be re-routed.
As a major centre, Lewisham had a population of 96,224 in 2011 and may soon become a metropolitan centre. It is an important transport hub for South London, and is one of the borough's largest settlements. 1 Lewisham Gateway is a redevelopment site bounded by the DLR station, Lewisham High Street, the Shopping Centre and the Railway to Blackheath. 2  The highway layout is being changed from a roundabout to two signalised junctions, while the River Ravensbourne and the Quaggy will be re-routed.
Welcome to the Lewisham google satellite map! This place is situated in Lewisham, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 27' 0 North, 0° 10' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Lewisham. See Lewisham photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Lewisham in United Kingdom. Lewisham hotels map. The location of each Lewisham hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Lewisham hotel map is available where all hotels in Lewisham are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Lewisham guide. The London borough of Lewisham incorporates some 1,611 streets. Lewisham at its widest point is 8.3 miles by 7.8 miles in length. Blackheath is Lewisham's major centre and was once a fashionable suburb for wealthy city merchants between the 17th and 19th centuries. This wealth is still reflected in its attractive architecture, and large houses.