Shelties come in several colors and patterns. The two primary Sheltie colors are sable and black. All other colors in the breed are determined by other genes acting upon these primary colors. This page is just a basic look at Sheltie colors and patterns. Black factored sables carry the recessive black and can produce either tri colors or bi blacks depending on if the black factoring is for tri or sable. However, a black factored sable cannot be both tri and bi factored. Sable Merle. A sable merle is a sable dog with a single merling gene.
Sable Siberian Huskies. Sable dogs have a red, chocolate or orange undercoat (whereas wolf greys have a beige undercoat). Points (eye rims, nose and lips) are black. Individual guard hairs are banded (each strand has multiple colors)
Report Abuse. sable is a dark chocolate brown, almost black. My cat is a black or chocolate tabby... you can see her black areas and stripes only because of her base fur, sable. anyone would just think shes a black cat at first look. Being into colors, tones, etc; Sable Brown is so dark many mistake it for black. Source(s): Many years of color, painting photos, studies. grandjem1 · 9 years ago.
Sable Point, aaB_c(chl)_D_ee. Color is to be a rich sepia brown on the nose, ears, feet, legs, and tail. Marking color is to shade rapidly to a rich cream body color. The entire body is to be a creamy color, with white undercolor. Some slightly darker shading is permissible on the saddle, but highly undesirable. Siamese Sable, aaB_c(chl)_D_E_. The surface color is to be a rich sepia brown on the head, ears, back, legs and top of the tail. The surface color will fade to a lighter sepia on the sides, chest, belly, inside of legs, and underside
For other uses, see Sable (disambiguation) . In heraldry, sable (/ˈseɪbəl/) is the tincture black, and belongs to the class of dark tinctures, called colours. In engravings and line drawings, it is sometimes depicted as a region of crossed horizontal and vertical lines or else marked with sa. as an abbreviation
· just now. Report Abuse. Sable can be a variation of brown. It is a color commonly used to describe pedigreed dogs: http://mywebpages.comcast.net/ussa/About... But if you are looking for a paint color, sable is almost always a tan/sand color: http://www.vikinghome.com/Natuzzi-Furnit... Being into colors, tones, etc; Sable Brown is so dark many mistake it for black. Source(s): Many years of color, painting photos, studies. grandjem1 · 9 years ago.
The historical coat of arms of Samogitia. Sable is considered a colour in British and French heraldry, and contrasts with lighter metals, argent and Or. However, in the heraldry of Germany, Polish heraldry and other parts of central Europe, sable is not infrequently placed on colour fields. In heraldry, sable (/ˈseɪbəl/) is the tincture black, and belongs to the class of dark tinctures, called colours. In engravings and line drawings, it is sometimes depicted as a region of crossed horizontal and vertical lines or else marked with sa. as an abbreviation