Examples of how it can be spread are: Someone infected with the mumps virus is contagious for approximately 15 days (six days before the symptoms start to show, up to nine days after they start). The mumps virus is part of the paramyxovirus family, which is a widespread cause of infection, especially in children. Normally, mumps can be diagnosed by its symptoms alone, especially by examining the facial swelling. In addition to examining this area and taking a note of the symptoms, a doctor may: The main symptom of mumps is painful and swollen parotid (salivary) glands, which cause the person's cheeks to puff out. Other symptoms can include: A person suffers mumps when infected with the mumps virus.
For more information about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov. Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Mumps is a contagious disease caused by a virus. It typically starts with a few days of fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness, and loss of appetite, followed by swollen salivary glands. You can protect yourself and your family against mumps with vaccination. 
Measles. Measles is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus. Early symptoms include fever, cough, red eyes, and a runny nose. During the first few days, the characteristic measles rash appears, beginning with white spots in the mouth and spreading to a red rash that covers the entire body. Diphtheria. Diphtheria is a serious bacterial disease that affects the respiratory system or the skin. diphtheria causes a sore throat and fever, and sometimes swelling of the neck. In severe cases it can cause a membrane to form over the throat, which results in breathing problems.
In mild cases the swelling may only last for three days to four days, but it may go on even up to a week or more. Approximately one-third of infected people do not exhibit symptoms. There is no specific treatment for mumps. Analgesics and regular rinsing of the mouth are recommended to relieve symptoms. What are the symptoms of mumps? Symptoms of mumps usually appear 14 days to 18 days of infection. They usually include fever, headache, and swelling and tenderness of one or more of the salivary glands, usually the parotid gland (located just below the front of the ear at the angle of the jaw).
Mumps is one of the commonly acquired viral diseases of childhood and is the most common cause of aseptic meningitis. However, its incidence in developed countries has decline dramatically since the advent of vaccination. 1 Meningitis ;- Aseptic meningitis occurs in 10% of patients with mumps but as many as 50% show abnormalities in the CSF. 2  Mumps is the most frequent causative agent of aseptic meningitis, in many countries being responsible for 10 - 15% of all cases.
Mumps is a contagious viral disease that causes painful swelling of the salivary glands. As a result, people infected with mumps sometimes appear to have “chipmunk cheeks.” Other symptoms include fever, headache, sore muscles, and fatigue. Serious complications are rare, and may include encephalitis (swelling of the brain), inflammation of the sex organs, and deafness. Diphtheria. Diphtheria is a serious bacterial disease that affects the respiratory system or the skin. diphtheria causes a sore throat and fever, and sometimes swelling of the neck. In severe cases it can cause a membrane to form over the throat, which results in breathing problems.
Mumps. Mumps is a contagious disease that is caused by the mumps virus. Mumps typically starts with a few days of fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness, and loss of appetite, and is followed by swelling of salivary glands. Anyone who is not immune from either previous mumps infection of from vaccination can get mumps. 
Mumps is a virus that classically causes painful swelling of the parotid glands (saliva glands). Before the vaccine became available, it was an extremely common childhood infection. When adults or adolescents get mumps the infection is more serious, often with orchitis (inflammation of the testicles). Mumps has been a common disease for centuries. Hippocrates wrote about it almost 2500 years ago. It’s not all that serious an illness. It doesn’t even affect male fertility the way that most people think.
The disease is less contagious than other childhood diseases such as measles and varicella. According to a recent epidemiological survey in America, 10% of the population had mumps during each of the first 5 years of life, 74% had it by age 10, and 95% by 20 years of age. 1 Meningitis ;- Aseptic meningitis occurs in 10% of patients with mumps but as many as 50% show abnormalities in the CSF. 2  Mumps is the most frequent causative agent of aseptic meningitis, in many countries being responsible for 10 - 15% of all cases.