allele. An allele is a variant form of a gene. Some genes have a variety of different forms, which are located at the same position, or genetic locus, on a chromosome. Humans are called diploid organisms because they have two alleles at each genetic locus, with one allele inherited from each parent. Each pair of alleles represents the genotype of a specific gene. When an organism is heterozygous at a specific locus and carries one dominant and one recessive allele, the organism will express the dominant phenotype. Alleles can also refer to minor DNA sequence variations between alleles that do not necessarily influence the gene's
An allele (UK /ˈaeliːl/ ˈæliːl OR /us/), əˈliːl or, allel is one of a number of alternative forms of the same gene or same genetic. locus Diploid organisms have one copy of each gene (and, therefore, one allele) on each chromosome. If both alleles are the same, they and the organism are homozygous with respect to that gene. If the alleles are different, they and the organism are heterozygous with respect to that gene. The word allele is a short form of allelomorph (other form), which was used in the early days of genetics to describe variant forms of a gene detected as different phenotypes.
Some alleles are dominant or recessive. When an organism is heterozygous at a specific locus and carries one dominant and one recessive allele, the organism will express the dominant phenotype. Alleles can also refer to minor DNA sequence variations between alleles that do not necessarily influence the gene's phenotype.
Share. By Regina Bailey. Definition: An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. These DNA codings determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring through sexual reproduction. 
[əlēl′]. 1 one of two or more alternative forms of a gene that occupy corresponding loci on homologous chromosomes. Each allele encodes a phenotypic feature or a certain inherited characteristic. An individual normally has two alleles for each gene, one contributed by the mother and one by the father. allele. one of two or more alternative forms of a gene at the same site or locus in each of a pair of chromosomes, which determine alternative characters in inheritance. Called also allelomorph. blank allele. an allele which produces an antigen which cannot be detected. null allele. see silent allele (below).
Glossary. Allele: one of two or more alternative forms of a gene that arise by mutation and are found at the same place on a chromosome. Ancestry: the lineage through which an individual is descended. Aneuploidy: an abnormal deviation in the total chromosome number, typically due to the addition or loss of a chromosome. 
Any of the possible forms in which a gene for a specific trait can occur. In almost all animal cells, two alleles for each trait are inherited, one from each parent. Alleles on each of a pair of chromosomes are called homozygous if they are similar to each other and heterozygous if they are different. one of two or more alternative forms of a gene occupying the same position on matching chromosomes: an individual normally has two alleles for each trait, one from either parent. Allel, appar. as shortening of German equivalents of allelomorph or allelomorphic gene ]. al•lel•ic (əˈli lɪk, əˈlɛl ɪk) adj.
1. allele - (genetics) either of a pair (or series) of alternative forms of a gene that can occupy the same locus on a particular chromosome and that control the same character; some alleles are dominant over others. allelomorph. one of two or more alternative forms of a gene occupying the same position on matching chromosomes: an individual normally has two alleles for each trait, one from either parent. Allel, appar. as shortening of German equivalents of allelomorph or allelomorphic gene ]. al•lel•ic (əˈli lɪk, əˈlɛl ɪk) adj.
A gene is a stretch of DNA or RNA that determines a certain trait. Genes mutate and can take two or more alternative forms; an allele is one of these forms of a gene. For example, the gene for eye color has several variations (alleles) such as an allele for blue eye color or an allele for brown eyes. An allele is found at a fixed spot on a chromosome. Chromosomes occur in pairs so organisms have two alleles for each gene — one allele in each chromosome in the pair. These coded chains lead to “traits” in an individual, such as eye color and blood type. A gene is the basic unit of heredity. An allele is a variation of a gene. Genes come in many different forms, or alleles, that lead to the encoding of different RNA chains and, therefore, different traits.