During an echo test, ultrasound (high-frequency sound waves) from a hand-held wand placed on your chest provides pictures of the heart's valves and chambers and helps the sonographer evaluate the pumping action of the heart. The test is used to: 1  Assess the overall function of your heart. 2  Determine the presence of many types of heart disease, such as valve disease, myocardial disease, pericardial disease, infective endocarditis, cardiac masses and congenital heart disease. 3  Follow the progress of valve disease over time.
Best Answer: It depends on your hospital or doctor's office. Echocardiograms only take about 20-30 minutes for a Cardiologist to interpret. It will depend on the number of Echocardiograms that need to be interpreted by the Cardiologist. You should be able to get your results within one day. You can call the doctor's office and ask for the results. 
An echocardiogram, also known as an echo, is a test that uses sound waves to build up a moving picture of the heart. It is similar to the ultrasound scan used in pregnancy and is extremely safe. The additional use of Doppler (a special part of the ultrasound examination that looks at blood direction and velocity) may add an extra 10-20 minutes. However, it may take up to an hour when there are multiple heart problems and the echocardiogram is more complicated.
An echocardiogram uses sound waves to produce images of your heart. This commonly used test allows your doctor to see your heart beating and pumping blood. Your doctor can use the images from an echocardiogram to identify heart disease. 
Echocardiogram. Guide. An echocardiogram (also called an echo) is a type of ultrasound test that uses high-pitched sound waves that are sent through a device called a transducer. The device picks up echoes of the sound waves as they bounce off the different parts of your heart. Echo can be used as part of a stress test and with an electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) to help your doctor learn more about your heart. Why It Is Done. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE).
Echocardiography is used to look at the heart of a child or fetus. An echocardiogram is an ultrasound that helps doctors to see the structure and function of the heart and to evaluate blood flow within the heart and blood vessels. It is very informative, and one of the most common tests that we do. A standard echocardiogram or a fetal echocardiogram test usually takes about 30 to 60 minutes. A stress echocardiogram usually takes between 60 and 90 minutes.
1 Echocardiography (echo) is a painless test that uses sound waves to create pictures of your heart. 2  This test gives your doctor information about the size and shape of your heart and how well your heart's chambers and valves are working. An echocardiogram (echo=sound + card=heart + gram=drawing) is an ultrasound test that can evaluate the structures of the heart, as well as the direction of blood flow within it.
Echocardiogram and high blood pressure. An echocardiogram is a scan which gives a detailed view of the structures of your heart, and which can show how well your heart is working. The scan uses a probe that sends out sound waves, which are reflected back by the muscles and tissues in your heart.
An echocardiogram can take anywhere from 30-60 minutes depending on why you are having the test. It is a painless (non-invasive) procedure. You will lay in different positions while a technician moves a wand type sensor (transducer) over your skin that sends out sound waves which are sent back and displaced on the screen they are watching (in real time) while performing the echo.