Fingernails should be strong, shiny, and translucent pink in color. When the color of the nails changes from pink to yellow or yellowish-green, it's time to start paying more attention to your health. Discoloration of fingernails could be indicative of a nutritional deficiency or an underlying disorder. The color of the nails turns yellow or yellowish-green. The nails grow at a very slow rate. Sometimes, the nails could also separate from the nail bed. Sinusitis, pleural effusions, and lymphedema are some of the medical conditions that are associated with yellow nail syndrome.
Picture of Fungal Nail Infection Nails that are infected with a fungus may become discolored (yellowish-brown or opaque), thick and brittle, and may separate from...learn more ». Picture of Onychomycosis (Fungal Nail Infection) The most common fungus infection of the nails is onychomycosis. Nails may also appear lightened to a whitish-yellow color if there has been separation of the nail from the nail bed, termed onycholysis. The skin, mucous membranes, and nails may appear blue when there is inadequate oxygenation of blood (cyanosis), but this is not true discoloration of the nail itself.
to treat fungal infections of the fingernails and toenails (an infection that may cause nail discoloration, splitting and ... pox virus); fungal infections on your skin such as athlete's foot and ringworm (ring-shaped discolored patches of ... Use different tools for infected and healthy nails. ... Psoriasis can affect fingernails and toenails, causing pitting, abnormal nail growth and discoloration. Psoriatic nails may become loose and separate from the nail bed (onycholysis ... In addition to inflamed, scaly skin, psoriatic arthritis causes pitted, discolored nails and the swollen ...
Other, rare causes of discolored nails include the yellow nail syndrome, an inherited condition that results in slow-growing, yellowing, discolored nails and is associated with lymphedema (swelling of tissues due to the accumulation of fluid) and lung diseases. Nails may also appear lightened to a whitish-yellow color if there has been separation of the nail from the nail bed, termed onycholysis. The skin, mucous membranes, and nails may appear blue when there is inadequate oxygenation of blood (cyanosis), but this is not true discoloration of the nail itself.
Red discoloration under your fingernails can be caused by a number of conditions, some of which could be serious. Talk with your doctor or dermatologist about what may be causing the redness. Some conditions that can lead to a red or brown discoloration under your nails include the following: 1  A splinter hemorrhage. 2  This vertical red or brown line under the nail can be caused by an injury, fungal infection, or nail psoriasis, or can be a sign of a heart condition. 1 This vertical red or brown line under the nail can be caused by an injury, fungal infection, or nail psoriasis, or can be a sign of a heart condition. 2  Heart failure. 3  This can cause redness in the white half moon at the bottom of your nail. 4  Kidney disease.
Brown discoloration of the nails can occur due to external factors. There may be no internal abnormality that leads to the change in nail color and if the external factor is removed, the nails should return to a normal color with time. Some of these factors may include: 1  Tobacco smoking. 
Nail discoloration, in which the nails appear white, yellow, or green, can result from different infections and conditions of the skin. In about 50% of cases, discolored nails are a result of infections with common fungi that can be found in the air, dust, and soil. There are many species of fungi that can affect nails. Nails may also appear lightened to a whitish-yellow color if there has been separation of the nail from the nail bed, termed onycholysis. The skin, mucous membranes, and nails may appear blue when there is inadequate oxygenation of blood (cyanosis), but this is not true discoloration of the nail itself.
In case your nails are affected by a fingernail fungus called Tricophyton rubrum, they might emit an unpleasant odor. Discoloration and damage to the nail bed can also be caused by a bacterium called Pseudomonas. This bacterial infection causes the color of the fingernails to turn green. The color of the nails turns yellow or yellowish-green. The nails grow at a very slow rate. Sometimes, the nails could also separate from the nail bed. Sinusitis, pleural effusions, and lymphedema are some of the medical conditions that are associated with yellow nail syndrome.