The Rhine Falls (Rheinfall in German) is the largest plain waterfall in Europe. The falls are located on the High Rhine between the municipalities of Neuhausen am Rheinfall and Laufen-Uhwiesen, near the town of Schaffhausen in northern Switzerland, between the cantons of Schaffhausen and Zuerich. zürich
Marvel at Rhine Falls, Europe's biggest waterfall, on this half-day tour from Zurich. Travel along the German border, passing vineyards and the quaint farming village of Marthalen. Admire the 16th-century Munot Fortress in Schaffhausen before reaching majestic Rhine Falls.
The falls are located on the High Rhine between the municipalities of Neuhausen am Rheinfall and Laufen-Uhwiesen, near the town of Schaffhausen in northern Switzerland, between the cantons of Schaffhausen and Zuerich. Zürich they are 150 (m 450) ft wide and 23 (m 75) ft. high
5 Things to Do at Rhine Falls Switzerland Rhine falls is among the largest waterfalls in Europe. This 150m wide falls tumbles from the Jurassic Limestone dropping 20m with water surging at 700,000 liters per second.
Rhine Falls: Rhyfall Express Train Rhyfall the Express shuttle from the parking lot as Burgunwiese the Rhine Falls and experience views along the Rhine Falls basin, Europe’s largest waterfall. The journey takes about 10 – 15 minutes. New Since 01 June 2012 we bring you daily service from the Rhine Falls to Schaffhausen.
A boat ride to the Rhine Falls basin, the rocks in the middle of the Rhine and downstream to the national border or farther to the Rheinau power plant is also worthwhile. The Adventure Park at Rhine Falls is on the north bank – one of Europe's most spectacular rope parks.
A visit to the Rhine Falls. The 150 m wide and 23 m high waterfall is located near the village of Neuhausen in Northern Switzerland. The nearby city of Schaffhausen is commonly associated with the falls too.
The Rhine Falls were formed in the last ice age, approximately 14,000 to 17,000 years ago, by erosion-resistant rocks narrowing the riverbed.