The common toad was first given the name Rana bufo by the Swedish biologist Carl Linnaeus in the 10th edition of Systema Naturae in 1758. In this work, he placed all the frogs and toads in the single genus Rana. The common toad seems to be in decline in part of its range but overall is listed as being of  least concern  in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
That depends on the type of toad. Generally, the scientific name is Bufo. Toad is just the Genus of the name. The format is Bufo (species name.) (Example: An American toad is … Bufo americanus. Climbing toads are Bufo coniferous.). 1 person found this useful
Scientific Name: Order Anura. Description: Like frogs, toads are amphibians. They differ from most frogs in that they have dry skin, warts, crests behind the eyes, and parotoid glands. The parotoid glands produce a poisonous secretion that helps to defend the toad from predators. This substance, which is called bufotoxin, can cause death in small animals and allergic reactions in humans. Cane toads are the largest toads and grow up to nine inches in length. A massive cane toad caught in Australia has been described as the size of a small dog! Diet: Like frogs, most toads eat insects and other arthropods. However, some species eat reptiles, small mammals, and even other
Technically speaking, toads are frogs. Both are members of the order Anura, a group that experts usually refer to simply as frogs. Within this large group, the name toad is given to those with dry, warty skin and short hind legs for walking instead jumping. 
The call or croak of a frog is unique to its species. Frogs create this sound by passing air through the larynx in the throat. In most calling frogs, the sound is amplified by one or more vocal sacs, membranes of skin under the throat or on the corner of the mouth, that distend during the amplification of the call. The use of the term frog in common names usually refers to species that are aquatic or semi-aquatic and have smooth, moist skins; the term toad generally refers to species that are terrestrial with dry, warty skins.
Species Name: Bufo marinus Linnaeus, 1758. Common Name(s): Marine Toad, Giant Toad, Cane Toad. Synonymy: Bufo agua Clark, 1916 Bufo strumosus Court, 1858 Rana gigas Walburn, 1784 Rana marina Linnaeus, 1758. Species Description: The non-native marine toad, Bufo marinus, is the largest of Florida's frogs and toads.
The common toad, European toad or in Anglophone parts of Europe, simply the toad (Bufo bufo, from Latin bufo toad), is an amphibian found throughout most of Europe (with the exception of Ireland, Iceland, and some Mediterranean islands), in the western part of North Asia, and in a small portion of Northwest Africa. The common toad seems to be in decline in part of its range but overall is listed as being of  least concern  in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
Warty species of frog tend to be called toads but the distinction between frogs and toads is based on informal naming conventions concentrating on the warts rather than taxonomy or evolutionary history; some toads are more closely related to frogs than to other toads. The use of the term frog in common names usually refers to species that are aquatic or semi-aquatic and have smooth, moist skins; the term toad generally refers to species that are terrestrial with dry, warty skins.
If there are multiple listings for a frog or toad, each link leads to a page representing a different region. Click on a name link to see the photos. Click on sounds if present to go to a page where you can listen to the sounds of a species of frog or toad. See This List With Pictures. 