Although it is possible to inherit some types of chromosomal abnormalities, most chromosomal disorders (such as Down syndrome and Turner syndrome) are not passed from one generation to the next. Some chromosomal conditions are caused by changes in the number of chromosomes. 
Types of chromosome abnormalities. There are many different types of chromosome abnormalities that require clinical care by a physician or other healthcare professional. Listed in the directory below are some, for which we have provided a brief overview. Numerical Abnormalities: Overview of Trisomies and Monosomies.
Common Types of Chromosome Abnormality In Pregnancy. Common chromosomal abnormalities during pregnancy are as follows: Down Syndrome. Down syndrome is the most common genetic disorder that causes mild to moderate developmental and intellectual disabilities. It is also referred to as trisomy 21 because of the presence of a third copy of chromosome number 21. There are several types of chromosome abnormalities that may occur in pregnancy. Some studies also reveal that there is a relationship between chromosome abnormalities and the age of the mother when she becomes pregnant.
Sex Chromosome Abnormalities. The majority of known types of chromosomal abnormalities involve sex chromosomes. In frequency of occurrence, they are only slightly less common than autosomal abnormalities. 
Chromosomal Structure and Chromosomal Mutations. Objectives Define mutations and polymorphisms. Distinguish the three types of DNA mutations: genome, chromosomal, and gene. Diagram a human chromosome and label the centromere, q arm, p arm, and telomere. Illustrate the different types of structural mutations that occur in chromosomes. Show how karyotypes reveal chromosomal abnormalitie
The two major two chromosome mutations; insertion (1) and Translocation (2). A chromosome anomaly, abnormality, aberration, or mutation is a missing, extra, or irregular portion of chromosomal DNA. It can be from an atypical number of chromosomes or a structural abnormality in one or more chromosomes. Chromosome mutation was formerly used in a strict sense to mean a change in a chromosomal segment, involving more than one gene. Chromosome instability syndromes are a group of disorders characterized by chromosomal instability and breakage. They often lead to an increased tendency to develop certain types of malignancies.
Types of Chromosome Abnormalities. There are many different types of chromosome abnormalities that require clinical care by a physician or other healthcare professional. Listed in the directory below are some, for which we have provided a brief overview. Numerical Abnormalities: Overview of Trisomies and Monosomies.
Examples of chromosomal disorders. Some of the most common chromosomal abnormalities include: 1  Down's syndrome or trisomy 21. 2  Edward's syndrome or trisomy 18. 3  Patau syndrome or trisomy 13. 4  Cri du chat syndrome or 5p minus syndrome (partial deletion of short arm of chromosome 5). 