(concentric action) the 'true' form of contraction of a muscle in which it shortens against a load (which may be only that of gravity on the relevant body part), and so does positive work. Hence concentric exercise: that in which the principal agonists act concentrically. See also muscle contraction. concentric contraction, a common form of muscle contraction that occurs in rhythmic activities when the muscle fibers shorten as tension develops. Compare eccentric contraction. See also isotonic exercise
Part 1 of 2. Weight training, plyo training and cardio training, as effective as they are, only incorporate concentric and eccentric muscle contractions and therefore, if that is the extent of your speed training, you will be missing out on the third key ingredient in sports training, known as isometric contractions. And it is these three different types of muscular tensions that are used to define the three different types of muscular “contractions”. The three different types of muscular contractions, therefore, are: 1  Concentric contractions (shorten), 2  Eccentric contractions (lengthen). 3  Isometric contractions (remain the same).
Concentric ContractionsMuscle Actively Shortening. When a muscle is activated and required to lift a load which is less than the maximum tetanic tension it can generate, the muscle begins to shorten. Contractions that permit the muscle to shorten are referred to as concentric contractions. An example of a concentric contraction in the raising of a weight during a bicep curl. In concentric contractions, the force generated by the muscle is always less than the muscle's maximum (P o). As the load the muscle is required to lift decreases, contraction velocity increases. This occurs until the muscle finally reaches its maximum contraction velocity, V max. By performing a series of constant velocity shortening contractions, a force-velocity relationship can be determined. 
carpopedal contraction the condition resulting from chronic shortening of the muscles of the upper and lower limbs including the fingers and toes, seen in tetany. concentric contraction contraction resulting in shortening of a muscle, used to perform positive work or to accelerate a body part. It is metabolically more demanding than an eccentric contraction. Called also shortening contraction. eccentric contraction, a type of muscle contraction that occurs as the muscle fibers lengthen, such as when a weight is lowered through a range of motion. The contractile force generated by the muscle is weaker than an opposing force, which causes the muscle to stretch.
A man is doing a press with a barbell. Photo Credit Ibrakovic/iStock/Getty Images. The official definition of concentric exercise is a contraction that shortens a muscle, while eccentric exercise is a contraction that lengthens the muscle; that all makes it sound more complicated than it is. Most exercise is concentric focused. 
Concentric contractions: A concentric contraction is a type of muscle contraction where the length of the muscles shorten while undergoing tension. For example, when you pick up a curl bar and perform a biceps curl, the length of your biceps muscles shorten. Your hands start down by your sides, and ends with your hands up by your shoulders. And it is these three different types of muscular tensions that are used to define the three different types of muscular “contractions”. The three different types of muscular contractions, therefore, are: 1  Concentric contractions (shorten), 2  Eccentric contractions (lengthen). 3  Isometric contractions (remain the same).
It's also important to note there are two types of isotonic contractions. Concentric contraction occurs when the muscle shortens, while eccentric contraction occurs when the muscle lengthens. Let me explain. Let's re-examine our weight lifter. The muscle shortens when the arm flexes at the elbow in the act of curling-therefore, this is a concentric contraction. 
lengthening contraction eccentric contraction. postural contraction the state of muscular tension and contraction that just suffices to maintain the posture of the body. segmental c's muscular contractions of the small intestine that serve to mix and transport chyme. shortening contraction concentric contraction. eccentric contraction, a type of muscle contraction that occurs as the muscle fibers lengthen, such as when a weight is lowered through a range of motion. The contractile force generated by the muscle is weaker than an opposing force, which causes the muscle to stretch.