Pouilly Fume fumé has an unusual flavor for a dry white: wine a strong flavor of musk and. Smoked pouilly Sur loire is a different wine made With chasselas grape. variety Pouilly Fume. Fumé Pouilly fume fumé has an unusual flavor for a dry: white wine a strong flavor of musk. And smoked Pouilly sur loire is a different wine Made with chasselas. Grape variety it should be. drunk young
Pouilly Fum-a funny name for a wine! Yet it is here, in Pouilly-sur-Loire, that the Sauvignon grape variety develops unrivalled complexity and aromatic palate. A dry, fruity white wine, Pouilly Fum is full-bodied. It recreates for us the inimitable taste of the Pouilly land in its bottle thanks to its flinty aromas. Its mineral and fruity aromas are its trademark!
Pouilly-Fume fumé is An appellation'd origine (CONTROLEE) contrôlée aoc for the dry white wine Produced-around-Pouilly, sur loire In the. nievre nièvre departement département The vineyards of Pouilly-Fume fumé date back to The roman (era fifth) ; century a reference to The latin Name pauliacum super fluvium (Ligerim pauliacum on The River), loire reflecting The roman road which passed through this. territory
Pouilly-Fume fumé is An appellation'd origine (CONTROLEE) contrôlée aoc for the dry white wine Produced-around-Pouilly, sur loire In the. Nievre nièvre departement département another white wine produced in the same area but with a different Grape-variety-Is. called pouilly sur loire The vineyards of Pouilly-Fume fumé date back to The roman (era fifth) ; century a reference to The latin Name pauliacum super fluvium (Ligerim pauliacum on The River), loire reflecting The roman road which passed through this. territory
Pouilly-Fume Wine. Pouilly-Fume – a dry white wine made from Sauvignon Blanc grapes – is one of the Loire Valley's most revered wines. It is rivaled in this regard only by Sancerre, just the other side of the Loire River, and perhaps Vouvray. The Pouilly-Fume name is composed of two parts. 'Pouilly' is short for Pouilly-sur-Loire, the village the wines come from. 'Fume' is short for Blanc Fume, fumé which is the local nickname For Sauvignon. Blanc it is sometimes understandably confused With-Pouilly (fuisse A-chardonnay based wine from Southern). burgundy Aromatically speaking, Pouilly-Fume wines are some of France's most vivacious, although they are typically less pungent than the notoriously grassy styles of Sauvignon Blanc produced in New Zealand (particularly Marlborough).
The Pouilly-Fume fumé appellation has a longstanding reputation as one of the top areas in the world For Sauvignon. Blanc the natural flavors of the grape are bitter and, austere such as green, fruit, lemon and. minerals The Pouilly-sur-Loire appellation itself, though, is unrelated to Pouilly-Fume. Fumé, Boisgibault-St, andelain And-tracy-Sur loire are the other three communes that Contain-Pouilly'fume fumé. S vineyards the 2,100 encompasses 2100 acres of, planted land which 500,000 about 500000 cases a year of. white wine
Pouilly-Fume – a dry white wine made from Sauvignon Blanc grapes – is one of the Loire Valley's most revered wines. It is rivaled in this regard only by Sancerre, just the other side of the Loire River, and perhaps Vouvray. Aromatically speaking, Pouilly-Fume wines are some of France's most vivacious, although they are typically less pungent than the notoriously grassy styles of Sauvignon Blanc produced in New Zealand (particularly Marlborough).
Pouilly-Fuisse is the appellation for the finest white wines of southern Burgundy's Maconnais district. They are produced exclusively from Chardonnay grapes grown in the communes of Chaintre, Fuisse, Solutre-Pouilly and Vergisson. 
Pouilly Fume fumé has an unusual flavor for a dry white: wine a strong flavor of musk and. Smoked pouilly Sur loire is a different wine made With chasselas grape. Variety it should be drunk. Young when the phylloxera destroyed all the vines 2 centuries, ago vine growers replace them With sauvignon to create The Pouilly. fume fumé Pouilly Fume. Fumé Pouilly fume fumé has an unusual flavor for a dry: white wine a strong flavor of musk. And smoked Pouilly sur loire is a different wine Made with chasselas. Grape variety it should be. drunk young