1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. 1 You will not be able to start checking the status of your tax refund for 4 weeks if you mail a paper tax return. 2  Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 1 You will not be able to start checking the status of your tax refund for 4 weeks if you mail a paper tax return. 2  Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing you
Q19: What information is available on Where's My Refund? Information on Where's My Refund? is for the most recent tax year we have on file for you. You can check on the status of your refund 24 hours after you e-file. If you filed a paper return, please allow 4 weeks before checking on the status. Q2: What is the best and fastest way to get information about my refund? Use the IRS2Go mobile app or the Where’s My Refund? tool. You can start checking on the status of your tax return within 24 hours after we have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return.
You should wait until at least four weeks after you file your tax return before checking on the status of your refund. If you file your tax return after April 15, wait six weeks before you check. However, the length of time it takes the CRA to process your income tax return and refund depends on how and when you filed. NETFILE or EFILE returns tend to be processed faster than those on paper. 
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 1 You will not be able to start checking the status of your tax refund for 4 weeks if you mail a paper tax return. 2  Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing you
Processing Times for Tax Refunds. The length of time it takes the CRA to process your income tax return and refund depends on how and when you file your return. Processing Times for Paper Returns. Paper returns usually take four to six weeks to process. For paper tax returns filed before April 15, wait four weeks before you check on your refund. For paper tax returns filed after April 15, wait six weeks before you check. Processing Times for Electronic Returns. Electronic (NETFILE or EFILE) returns can take as little as eight business days to be processed
If you e-file and you have chosen direct deposit, most people will receive their refund within 5 business days. If you have chosen to receive a paper check you should add 2- … 4 business days for processing. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check.
The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an  e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated  e-filed returns may take around 21 days … for processing. 2 people found this useful. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check.
If you enter the wrong bank account number for direct deposit, it can take as long as six to seven weeks to get a check in the mail. If you use Where's My Refund? after the given amount of time -- and don't see a status update -- contact the IRS to start tracking your tax return. If you are filing an injured spouse Form 8379, your refund can be delayed. It could take up to four weeks before you receive a refund through direct deposit and six weeks if waiting for a check through the mail.
Direct Deposit. If you choose direct deposit when you e-file your tax return, you can expect a federal return to take two weeks, if you file before the April deadline. Some state returns may take as long as two weeks, but some can come as early as a week after submitting the return. If you are filing an injured spouse Form 8379, your refund can be delayed. It could take up to four weeks before you receive a refund through direct deposit and six weeks if waiting for a check through the mail.