The canine infectious tracheobronchitis is also known as the kennel cough and is a respiratory infection that affects the upper respiratory system. The infection is very common and is more frequently met in dogs that have been in kennels. 
Tracheobronchitis may develop as a result of an allergic reaction. Symptoms of tracheobronchitis may include sore throat. Individuals suffering from tracheobronchitis should drink plenty of fluids and get plenty of rest. Both cigarette smoking and exposure to secondhand smoke can cause bronchitis to develop. Top 10 facts about the world. Tracheobronchitis, also known as bronchitis, is a condition involving inflammation of the windpipe or bronchi, both of which carry air to the lungs. This is often the result of an infection, but can also be due to an irritant or
Acute bronchitis, also known as a chest cold, is short term inflammation of the bronchi of the lungs. The most common symptom is a cough. Other symptoms include coughing up mucus, wheezing, shortness of breath, fever, and chest discomfort. The infection may last from a few to ten days. The cough may persist for several weeks afterwards with the total duration of symptoms usually around three weeks. Tobacco smoking is the most common cause, with a number of other factors such as air pollution and genetics playing a smaller role. Treatments include quitting smoking, vaccinations, rehabilitation, and often inhaled bronchodilators and steroids.
Bordetella bronchiseptica is the most common bacteria isolated from dogs with tracheobronchitis. Clinical signs of infections occur 2-14 days after exposure, and if uncomplicated with other agents, symptoms will last around 10 days. 'Kennel Cough,' now more commonly referred to as 'infectious tracheobronchitis' is a widespread disease caused by several different viruses and bacteria. It is usually a self-limiting disease and most animals do not require treatment.
When inflammation occurs in these parts of the body, it is often referred to as tracheobronchitis. This is a relatively common condition that can be the result of a viral or bacterial infection. If a person swallows or inhales an irritant, inflammation can also occur. Bronchitis or tracheobronchitis usually refers to a group of symptoms rather than a specific condition, so it technically is not contagious. If, however, the symptoms are caused by a viral or bacterial infection, it this may be contagious. Top 10 facts about the world. Tracheobronchitis, also known as bronchitis, is a condition involving inflammation of the windpipe or bronchi, both of which carry air to the lungs. This is often the result of an infection, but can also be due to an irritant or allergic reaction.
Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) is a nonspecific term used to describe acute infections involving the nose, paranasal sinuses, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi. The prototype is the illness known as the common cold, which is discussed here, in addition to pharyngitis, sinusitis, and tracheobronchitis. Other less common causes of bacterial pharyngitis include group C beta-hemolytic streptococci, Corynebacterium diphtheriae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Arcanobacterium haemolyticum, Chlamydophila (formerly Chlamydia) pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and herpes simplex virus.
Kennel cough, the common name given to infectious canine tracheobronchitis, is a highly contagious respiratory disease among dogs. As the name suggests, it is typified by inflammation of the trachea and bronchi. Any of these organisms can cause the symptoms of this disease, alone or in combination. Infections with multiple organisms tend to cause the most severe symptoms. Dogs often develop clinical signs associated with kennel cough 3-4 days after exposure to a large number of other dogs (e.g., at a boarding facility or show).
There are many different agents that can cause of tracheobronchitis. The most common are parainfluenza virus, Bordetella bronchiseptica, and mycoplasma. Canine adenovirus type 2, reovirus, and canine herpes virus are thought to possibly contribute to the disease, as well. 'Kennel Cough,' now more commonly referred to as 'infectious tracheobronchitis' is a widespread disease caused by several different viruses and bacteria. It is usually a self-limiting disease and most animals do not require treatment.
CAUSES. Some of the most common microorganisms that contribute to infectious canine tracheobronchitis are Bordetella bronchiseptica bacteria, canine adenovirus, parainfluenza virus, and mycoplasma. Any of these organisms can cause the symptoms of this disease, alone or in combination. Infections with multiple organisms tend to cause the most severe symptoms. Dogs often develop clinical signs associated with kennel cough 3-4 days after exposure to a large number of other dogs (e.g., at a boarding facility or show).
Tracheobronchitis (symptom description): Tracheobronchitis is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Bronchitis. Tracheobronchitis (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Tracheobronchitis', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Bronchitis (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Tracheobronchitis' may be possible. 