Hematoma is generally defined as a collection of blood outside of blood vessels. Most commonly, hematomas are caused by an injury to the wall of a blood vessel, prompting blood to seep out of the blood vessel into the surrounding tissues. A hematoma can result from an injury to any type of blood vessel (artery, vein, or small capillary). Sometimes hematomas are named based on their location. Some examples include: 1  Subdural hematoma: a hematoma between the brain tissue and the inside lining of the brain. 2  Spinal epidural hematoma: a hematoma between spinal vertebrae and the outside lining of the spinal cord.
1 A hematoma is a collection of blood outside of a blood vessel. 2  Symptoms of hematomas depend upon their location and whether adjacent structures are affected by the inflammation and swelling associated with the bleeding. 3  Treatment of a hematoma depends upon which organ or body tissue is affected. 1 Symptoms of hematomas depend upon their location and whether adjacent structures are affected by the inflammation and swelling associated with the bleeding. 2  Treatment of a hematoma depends upon which organ or body tissue is affected.
Most hematomas resolve spontaneously over time as the blood debris is removed and the blood vessel wall is repaired by the body's repair mechanisms. Other times, surgically removing or evacuating the blood in a hematoma becomes necessary based on its symptoms or location. Sometimes hematomas are named based on their location. Some examples include: 1  Subdural hematoma: a hematoma between the brain tissue and the inside lining of the brain. 2  Spinal epidural hematoma: a hematoma between spinal vertebrae and the outside lining of the spinal cord.
A hematoma is a pocket of blood inside the body caused by bleeding. It forms when a blood vessel is ruptured or leaks blood into the surrounding tissue or body cavity. A bruise is a confined, mild type of hematoma. Hematomas can be caused by a wide variety of conditions. Any physical harm to your body can easily cause bruises of varying size, and head trauma can cause a hematoma in the skull.
A hematoma or haematoma is a localized collection of blood outside the blood vessels, usually in liquid form within the tissue. An ecchymosis, commonly (although erroneously) called a bruise, is a hematoma of the skin larger than 10mm. 
A hematoma is a collection of blood, usually clotted, outside of a blood vessel that may occur because of an injury to the wall of a blood vessel allowing blood to leak out into tissues where it does not belong. Hematomas of the skin may also be named based upon their size. Petechiae are tiny dots of blood usually less than 3 millimeters in diameter (0.12 inch) while purpura are less than 10 millimeters in diameter (0.40 inch) and ecchymosis is greater than 10 millimeters in diameter. Ecchymosis is commonly considered a bruise.
By definition, a hematoma is a collection of blood outside of a blood vessel. It occurs because the wall of a blood vessel wall, artery, vein or capillary, has been damaged and blood has leaked into tissues where it does not belong. The hematoma may be tiny, with just a dot of blood or it can be large and cause significant swelling. The blood vessels in the body are under constant repair. Minor injuries occur routinely and the body is usually able to repair the damaged vessel wall by activating the blood clotting cascade and forming fibrin patches.
A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood outside the brain. Subdural hematomas are usually caused by severe head injuries. The bleeding and increased pressure on the brain from a subdural hematoma can be life-threatening. The bleeding in a subdural hematoma is under the skull and outside the brain, not in the brain itself. As blood accumulates, however, pressure on the brain increases. The pressure on the brain causes a subdural hematoma's symptoms.
Hematoma facts. 1  A hematoma is a collection of blood outside of a blood vessel. 2  Symptoms of hematomas depend upon their location and whether adjacent structures are affected by the inflammation and swelling associated with the bleeding. 3  Treatment of a hematoma depends upon which organ or body tissue is affected. 1 Symptoms of hematomas depend upon their location and whether adjacent structures are affected by the inflammation and swelling associated with the bleeding. 2  Treatment of a hematoma depends upon which organ or body tissue is affected.