In a modern passenger car tire, as many as twenty different types of rubber may be used in different parts of the tire. One rubber compound may be used in the tread for good traction in cold weather; another compound is used to give increased rigidity in the tire sidewalls.
Rubber Standards. ASTM's rubber standards are instrumental in specifying, testing, and assessing the physical, mechanical, and chemical properties of a wide variety of materials and products that are made of rubber and its elastomeric derivatives.
One way to improve the performance characteristics of plastic products is to compound resins with additives and fillers. Additives help fight against factors such as heat, chemicals, or light. There are thousands of additives/fillers on the market today. Below are some of the most common ones used in manufacturing.
Elastomers are typically described by type or family based on the base polymer used in the formulation. These classifications are summarized per the ASTM D 1418 standard below and more detail is available for each of the families by clicking on the Chemical Description contained in the summary.
When a green tire is finished, the metal drum collapses, allowing the tire assembler to remove the tire. The green tire is then taken to a mold for curing. The first step in the tire manufacturing process is the mixing of raw materials—rubber, carbon black, sulfur, and other materials—to form the rubber compound. After the rubber is prepared, it is sent to a tire-building machine, where a worker builds up the rubber layers to form the tire.
1 1 The first step in the tire manufacturing process is the mixing of raw materials to form the rubber compound. 2  Railcars deliver large quantities of natural and synthetic rubber, carbon black, sulfur, and other chemicals and oils, all of which are stored until needed.
Let down ratio. This can vary with the type of pigment/additive strength required in the final product, and can be from below 1% for some types of UV. additives and colour tints, to above 50% as is the case with some types of flame retardants. In general for most coloured products, 1-3% is the norm.
Raw Materials. Polyester is a chemical term which can be broken into poly, meaning many, and ester, a basic organic chemical compound. The principle ingredient used in the manufacture of polyester is ethylene, which is derived from petroleum.