For other uses, see Philip (disambiguation) . Philip is a given name, derived from the Greek φίλιππος (Philippos, horse-loving or fond of horses), from a compound of φίλος (philos, phílos, dear, loved) loving and (ἵππος, hippos). horse Philip is a given name, derived from the Greek φίλιππος (Philippos, horse-loving or fond of horses), from a compound of φίλος (philos, phílos, dear, loved) loving and (ἵππος, hippos). Horse In Ancient, greece the ownership of horses was available only to those rich enough to afford. them
French Meaning: The name Philip is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Philip is: loves horses. American Meaning: The name Philip is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Philip is: loves horses. English Meaning: The name Philip is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Philip is: Fond of horses.
Origin of the name Philip: Derived from the Latin Philippus, which is from the Greek Philippos (lover of horses). The name is composed of the elements philos (loving) and hippos (horse). Var: Philipp, Phillip, Phillipp. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
The name Philip is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Philip is: Lover of horses. King Philip of Macedon was the father of Alexander the Great. In the Bible, Philip was the name of one of Christ's apostles. American Meaning: The name Philip is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Philip is: loves horses. English Meaning: The name Philip is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Philip is: Fond
More About Biblical Name: Philip. Philip is a personal name, derived from the Greek Philippos meaning lover of horses or friend of horses. The name was given by the Macedonian kings, who established a cavalry and so became friends of horses. Philip is a given name, derived from the Greek Philippos, meaning friend of horses. This name is obtained from the Latin Philippus, Which has been originated from Greek Philippos means Friend of Horses”. Philip is a given name, derived from the Greek Philippos meaning friend of horses. A common mistake is to translate the name as lover of horses. From (philos) lover and (hippos) horse. While the literal translation, in Ancient Greece, the ownership of horses was available only to those rich enough to afford them
Origin of the name Philip: Derived from the Latin Philippus, which is from the Greek Philippos (lover of horses). The name is composed of the elements philos (loving) and hippos (horse). Var: Philipp, Phillip, Phillipp. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
From the Greek name φιλιππος (Philippos) which means friend of horses, composed of the elements φιλος (philos) friend, lover and ‘ιππος (hippos) horse. This was the name of five kings of Macedon, including Philip II the father of Alexander the Great. 