Small DIY Roof Repairs. If the leak was caused by a few shingles that were curling at the corners, you can fix this yourself for the cost of a few nails and a bucket of roofing cement. A bucket of cement can run you anywhere from $30 to $100 depending on the brand and the size of bucket that you need. If you have missing or cracked shingles on your home, which is causing the leak, your leak repair cost won’t be too much more, either if you can take care of it yourself.
A typical roof repair job will cost you about $50 in parts / material costs, plus your time and the risk of falling off the roof. It will cost about $200-300 for you to hire a contractor for this job, and there are contractors that specialize in just roof repairs.
1 Repairing a 10x10-foot square of asphalt shingles, considered one square of roofing, runs $100-$350 using a roofing company. 2  Repairing a few missing or broken asphalt shingles through a handyman service runs $95-$127. 3  Reparing wooden shingles using a roofing company for a 10x10-foot square costs $210-$1,000.
1 When the vinyl or metal flashing that seals the edge of a skylight to the roofing material tears or is pulled away from the skylight, a leak will appear and costs $300-$500 to repair.
A small leak caused the roof sheathing and rafters of this home to rot. Mold grew in the insulation as well. If you have water stains that extend across ceilings or run down walls, the cause is probably a roof leak. Tracking down the leak is the hard part; the fixes are usually pretty easy.
You may need to replace gutters that are broken or sagging so that runoff can safely leave your roof. Small holes can be patched with a tube of roofing cement and a patch. The patch material must be the same material as the gutter to prevent corrosion that can occur between different metals. This costs $2 to $4.
Roof Repair Average Costs. The actual cost of roof repair may vary depending on your location, the type of roof, the nature of the repair, the individual contractor, and other factors. 1  Basic roofing repairs, such as replacing 1 square (10 feet x 10 feet) of asphalt or wood shingles, might cost $250 to $1,000.