With its smooth, unglazed surface and its polished finish, the Daltile 12 in. x 12 in. Thassos White Marble Floor and Wall Tile is a great way to incorporate a traditional touch into your home decor. This durable marble tile measures
THE ISLAND. Thassos Marble takes its name from the Greek island which has been quarried since ancient times. Thassos island is located seven miles south of the Greek mainland in the northernmost Aegean Sea and has an area of 369 square km (146 sq. miles). 
WELCOME TO THASSOS.COM. Dear Friends, Thassos.com is a direct importer and distributor of Thassos snowhite marble. Although based in Brooklyn, New York, with branches in West Palm Beach, Florida and Boston, Massachusetts, we operate on a national level and offer the market’s most competitive prices.
Tweet. White Thassos is a pure white marble with the brilliant crystalline color of refined sugar. Taking its name from the Greek Island where it has been quarried since ancient times, it is fresh and timeless. Suitable to traditional and contemporary design projects alike, this classic offers a bright and airy aesthetic
This crystallized glass tile combines the versatility of pure White Thassos with a composition that is hard as granite. What makes this particular tile so durable is the process that is taken to create the material. Simple White 3x6 Crystallized Glass Thassos Tile. This minimalist design would make a striking back splash for your kitchen or bring a modern touch to your fireplace or any other decorated spot in your home.
Greek Thassos White Marble-Stone Center Online. Thassos Marble is a pure white stone extracted from Greek quarries. It is also called Extra White Marble, Snow White Marble and Greek Crystal Marble. It is almost the whitest marble you can find in the world and suitable for extremely luxurious constructions because of its rare. 
Yes this floor is beautiful, great choice by the designers at Lewis Interiors here in Boston. The floor tile is a basket weave mosaic with carrara bianca bricks and white thassos dots. The border is cut white thassos from 12x 12 tiles. All tiles are from Akdo. 
This beautiful tile is a cross between marble and glass and has a thassos white color to help coordinate with many interior decors. 1  10 square feet, 10 pieces per case. 2  Case weight is 60 lb. 3  Grade 1, glass tile for floor, wall and countertop use. 4  12 in. 5  width x 12 in. 6  length x 3/8 in. 7  thick. Internet # 202515365. The MS International 12 in. x 12 in. Thassos Polished Marble Floor and Wall Tile is a great way to show off your style. Featuring a smooth, high-sheen finish, this marble tile is frost resistant for indoor and outdoor use and features a slight variation in tone to suit your needs.