The dangers of fructose (fruit sugar). Fructose is a simple sugar found in honey, fruit, table sugar (sucrose), and high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS). Worldwide fructose intake has quadrupled over the last century,(1) with the last 30 years witnessing the most rapid acceleration
Moreover, the American Diabetes Association doesn't recommend fructose as a substitute sweetener for glucose, he said. It does, however, recommend fruit intake as part of a healthy diet -- though the amount of fructose in fruits is hardly enough to contribute too significantly to obesity, he added. But unlike glucose, which requires insulin to move it into the body's muscle tissue where it's processed into energy, fructose is metabolized by the liver. There, it's converted into glycogen, a starch, and lipids, Rosenzweig explained.
Fructose is a type of sugar which, according to the Weston A. Price Foundation, has been recommended for diabetics as opposed to other types of sugar. Fructose is the type of sugar naturally found in fruits and honey, but it is also crystallized and used in the making of many candies and commercialized food products. The Price foundation says fructose does not raise blood sugar levels as quickly as other types of sugar, such as sucrose. One of the main reasons that fructose alone does not raise blood sugar levels quickly, and therefore, is often encouraged for diabetics is that it is often eaten in its natural form in fruits. Fruits also have fiber, which slows sugar absorption.
Because fructose does not raise blood glucose levels, it has a lower glycaemic index than other sugars and starches. For this reason, it is a recommended sweetener for diabetics-plus, of course, ‘five portions of fruit’, etc; and in a few studies, HbA1c was lowered in diabetics using fructose. Fructose is a simple sugar found in honey, fruit, table sugar (sucrose), and high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS). Worldwide fructose intake has quadrupled over the last century,(1) with the last 30 years witnessing the most rapid acceleration
Fructose, or fruit sugar, is a simple ketonic monosaccharide found in many plants, where it is often bonded to glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose. It is one of the three dietary monosaccharides, along with glucose and galactose, that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion. Fructose has a very low glycemic index of 19 ± 2, compared with 100 for glucose and 68 ± 5 for sucrose. Fructose is also 73% sweeter than sucrose at room temperature, so diabetics can use less of it.
Fructofin® Fructose. The sweetest sugar in nature, found in many fruits and vegetables, fructose has a low glycemic response and is suitable for diabetics. Fructose, also known as fruit sugar, is the sweetest sugar in nature and is a natural constituent of many fruits and vegetables. Fructose is used worldwide in many applications for its health, nutritional and functional characteristics. It has a low glycemic response and is suitable for diabetics. Our Fructofin® is a crystalline fructose with a purity of over 99%.
Fructose and Diabetes. The fructose found in fruit may actually increase the risk of diabetes. Photo Credit fruit image by cherie from Fotolia.com. Diabetes is a chronic disease in which a person’s body cannot produce insulin or cannot use insulin to move sugar from the bloodstream to the cells. One of the main reasons that fructose alone does not raise blood sugar levels quickly, and therefore, is often encouraged for diabetics is that it is often eaten in its natural form in fruits. Fruits also have fiber, which slows sugar absorption.