Our Community. Sundridge and surrounding area is the hub of the Almaguin Highlands Region. We are located 2 ½ hours north of Toronto and accessible by 4 lane Highway, Rail, Bus and Air. The clean and relaxed living atmosphere magnifies the friendly small town vibe found in Sundridge, which also has a great deal to offer any business or industry wishing to locate in our area.
From the U.S. side, the I-15 connects with Alberta Highway 4, which in turn leads to Lethbridge; follow Highway 3 west of Lethbridge to Highway 2 and then north to Calgary; Calgary is about 200 miles (320 km) north of the border. Inglewood: Inglewood is Calgary's oldest neighbourhood and the site of the city's original downtown. It is also one of Calgary's most culturally influenced and eclectic areas. Inglewood contains everything from stores targeted at bikers, to unique boutiques, antique stores, galleries, and restaurants.
Rundle is a stop on the Northeast Line (Route 202) of the CTrain light rail system in Calgary, Alberta. The station opened on April 27, 1985 as part of the original Northeast line. The station is located in the median of 36 Street NE, to the north of the intersection of 20 Avenue NE/Rundlehorn Drive, right in front of Sunridge Mall. The station is 8.4 km from the City Hall Interlocking
A Border Town with Pizzazz. Located a mere seven miles from Yuma, Arizona, Algodones is a must-see destination for vacationers and travelers in the Yuma area. Seven miles west of Yuma, Algodones can reached off Interstate 8. The actual border crossing, however, is at Andrade, California. The border crossing is open from 6 A.M. to 10 P.M. Many travelers park on the U.S. side in one of the lots and walk across to Algodones.
Centre Street Station is a C-Train stop in the City Centre along the 7th Avenue Free Fare Zone. It is also a transfer point for both Calgary LRT Routes 201 and 202. Calgary LRT Route 202: 10th Street SW Station. The 10th Street SW Station is the last stop on the Whitehorn (NE) to City Centre route (202). It is located along the 7th Avenue Free Fare Zone and serves as a transfer point for both Calgary LRT Routes 201 and 202. A major nearby attraction is the Southcentre Mall. Calgary LRT Route 201: 6th Street SW Station. The 6th Street SW Station is a C-Train stop in the City Centre along the 7th Avenue Free Fare Zone. It is also a transfer point for both Calgary LRT Routes 201 and 202.
The station serves the communities of Rundle and Pineridge, and the Sunridge Mall shopping centre. Peter Lougheed Centre, one of Calgary's major hospitals, is located north-west of the station and is only a short walk. 350 parking spaces are included at the station. The station opened on April 27, 1985 as part of the original Northeast line. The station is located in the median of 36 Street NE, to the north of the intersection of 20 Avenue NE/Rundlehorn Drive, right in front of Sunridge Mall. The station is 8.4 km from the City Hall Interlocking
Calgary LRT Route 202: 7th Street SW Station. The 7th Street SW Station is a C-Train stop in the City Centre along the 7th Avenue Free Fare Zone. It is also a transfer point for both Calgary LRT Routes 201 and 202. Calgary LRT Route 202: Zoo Station. Zoo Station is a C-Train stop on the northeast line. A major nearby attraction is the Southcentre Mall. Calgary LRT Route 201: 6th Street SW Station. The 6th Street SW Station is a C-Train stop in the City Centre along the 7th Avenue Free Fare Zone. It is also a transfer point for both Calgary LRT Routes 201 and 202.
Sundridge is a village in central Ontario, Canada, approximately 75 km south of North Bay, Ontario along Highway 11, on the shore of Lake Bernard. Sundridge is a tourist destination in both winter and summer, with boating and snowmobiling providing the main attraction. Algonquin Provincial Park is accessible nearby. Cities within a reasonable driving distance include Toronto (approximately 300 km south) and Ottawa (approximately 500 km east.) The village has long been known as The Pearl of the North to residents of central and northern Ontario. The village is located in the Almaguin Highlands region of Parry Sound District