One good example of this is TIF and TIFF. Well, to cut to the point, there is no difference between TIF and TIFF. They both are extensions used by the Tagged Image File Format (TIFF), which is used in storing images like photos. The appearance of TIF and TIFF is not actually related to the format itself but to limitations imposed by file systems. 
Tag image bitmap file (TIFF). TIF is an image format file for high-quality graphics. TIF files are also called .TIFF, which stands for “Tagged Image Format File.” TIF files were created in the 1986 as a file format for scanned images in an attempt to get all companies to use one standard file format instead of multiple.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: TIFF (Tag Image File Format) is a common format for exchanging raster graphics (bitmap) images between application programs, including those used for scanner images. A TIFF file can be identified as a file with a .tiff or .tif file name suffix. The TIFF format was developed in 1986 by an industry committee chaired by the Aldus Corporation (now part of Adobe Software). Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard were among the contributors to the format.
TIFF is a computer file format for storing raster graphics images, popular among graphic artists, the publishing industry, and both amateur and professional photographers in general. The format was originally created by the company Aldus for use in desktop publishing. When Adobe Systems acquired Aldus, they published Version 6 (1992) of the TIFF specification. The TIFF format is widely supported by image-manipulation applications, by publishing and page layout applications, and by scanning, faxing, word processing, optical character recognition and other applications. Adobe Systems, which acquired Aldus, now holds the copyright to the TIFF specification
1 TIF is lossless (including LZW compression option), which is considered the highest quality format for commercial work. 2  The TIF format is not necessarily any higher quality per se (the same RGB image pixels, they are what they are), and most formats other than JPG are lossless too. 
(.TIF file extension, pronounced Tif) TIFF is the format of choice for archiving important images. TIFF is THE leading commercial and professional image standard. TIFF is the most universal and most widely supported format across all platforms, Mac, Windows, Unix. Data up to 48 bits is supported. 
TIFF stands for Tagged Image File Format. Files with the .tiff extension contain graphics containers that store vector and raster images in both lossless and lossy compression formats. The TIFF file format supports any image resolution and black and white, gray-scale and color images.
Include archived documents. Tagged Image File Format (TIFF) is a variable-resolution bitmapped image format developed by Aldus (now part of Adobe) in 1986. TIFF is very common for transporting color or gray-scale images into page layout applications, but is less suited to delivering web content. ARCHIVED: What is the TIFF graphics file format? Tagged Image File Format (TIFF) is a variable-resolution bitmapped image format developed by Aldus (now part of Adobe) in 1986.