A microalbumin test checks urine for the presence of a protein called albumin. Albumin is normally found in the blood and filtered by the kidneys. When the kidneys are working properly, albumin is not present in the urine. But when the kidneys are damaged, small amounts of albumin leak into the urine. Results. A microalbumin test checks urine for the presence of a protein called albumin. Microalbuminuria is most often caused by kidney damage from diabetes. The normal values listed here—called a reference range—are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal
The urine albumin test or albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) is used to screen people with chronic conditions, such as diabetes and high blood pressure (hypertension) that put them at an increased risk of developing kidney disease. 
Reference Range. Microalbuminuria is defined as excretion of 30–300 mg of albumin per 24 hours (or 20–200 mcg/min or 30–300 mcg/mg creatinine) on 2 of 3 urine collections. The detection of low levels of albumin excretion (microalbuminuria) has been linked to the identification of incipient diabetic kidney disease. Background
The microalbuminuria test is a urine test that measures the amount of albumin in your urine. If kidney damage has occurred, albumin will leak into the bloodstream and will be present in the urine. The microalbuminuria test is also known as: 1  the ACR test. 2  the albumin-to-creatinine ratio test. 3  the urine albumin test. When kidney damage occurs, creatinine levels in the urine decrease while albumin levels may increase. Measuring the amount of albumin in the urine is important for detecting the presence of kidney damage. Kidney damage can lead to kidney failure, requiring the patient to undergo dialysis.
Microalbuminuria is a term to describe a moderate increase in the level of urine albumin. It occurs when the kidney leaks small amounts of albumin into the urine, in other words, when there is an abnormally high permeability for albumin in the glomerulus of the kidney. 
What It Is. A microalbumin-to-creatinine ratio urine test involves measuring the amount of a protein called albumin in the urine (pee). The amount of urine albumin is compared with the quantity of a waste product in the urine called creatinine. The consistent presence of small amounts of albumin in the urine is called microalbuminuria and is associated with early-stage kidney disease. Once there are larger amounts of albumin in the urine it is called macroalbuminuria and it could indicate more sever
Guide. An albumin test checks urine for a protein called albumin. Albumin is normally found in the blood and filtered by the kidneys. When the kidneys are working as they should, there may be a very small amount of albumin in the urine. But when the kidneys are damaged, abnormal amounts of albumin leak into the urine. This is called albuminuria. If the amount of albumin is very small, but still abnormal, it is called microalbuminuria.
The purpose of the microalbuminuria test is to measure the amount of albumin in the urine. The test is typically used in conjunction with a creatinine test to provide an albumin-to-creatinine ratio. Creatinine is a waste product in the blood that should be removed by the kidneys. When kidney damage occurs, creatinine levels in the urine decrease while albumin levels may increase. Measuring the amount of albumin in the urine is important for detecting the presence of kidney damage. Kidney damage can lead to kidney failure, requiring the patient to undergo dialysis.