Examples of muscle memory are found in many everyday activities that become automatic and improve with practice, such as riding a bicycle, typing on a keyboard, typing in a PIN, playing a musical instrument, or martial arts. The retention of motor skills, now referred to as muscle memory, also began to be of great interest in the early 1900s. Most motor skills are thought to be acquired through practice; however, mere observation of the skill has led to learning as well.
Most theories reckon that our muscles get accustomed to a particular process, when the activity is performed time and again because of the neural pathway that develops due to repetition. The neural pathway helps us store certain muscle movements within the memory. As such, muscle memory is an unconscious process over here because of the ability of our muscles to get accustomed to certain body movements. For instance, if you have been bedridden for several years, you will still know how to walk, the first you start walking after getting rid of the bedridden situa
If you'd like to contact him, Twitter is the most effective means of doing so. Muscle memory is not a memory stored in your muscles, of course, but memories stored in your brain that are much like a cache of frequently enacted tasks for your muscles. When you repeat mistakes again and again, you build a muscle memory with those mistakes. That makes those mistakes even harder to overcome later. This is one reason why the saying you can't teach an old dog new tricks is often true. The key to building good muscle memories is to focus on the quality of the quantity.
How Your Muscles Remember. Not surprisingly, the process of forging muscle memory originates in the brain. When you learn something new, whether it's how to do a split squat or how to snowboard, your brain fires up all the right motor units (nerves that signal muscle fibers to kick in) to help you perform the movements. 
When a movement is repeated over time, a long-term muscle memory is created for that task, eventually allowing it to be performed without conscious effort. This process decreases the need for attention and creates maximum efficiency within the motor and memory systems. The retention of motor skills, now referred to as muscle memory, also began to be of great interest in the early 1900s. Most motor skills are thought to be acquired through practice; however, mere observation of the skill has led to learning as well.
Muscle memory in this context is the training of a set or group of muscles to increase your proficiency of a eye hand coordination. Physiologically there is a nerve that innervates each muscle or many nerves that innervate a group of muscles. There is a physiological pathway to the brain. With the negative there is always the positive. The positive of how sports psychology can benefit the individual would be, aid in their self esteem, have reasonable healthy competition, better their physical condition,improve muscle memory, and good conduct towards others.
Muscle memory in this context refers to the observation that when a person begins lifting weights after a prolonged lay off, it is much easier to return to their previous levels of size and strength than it was to get there the first time around. 
This is because of our muscle memory. Our muscle memory registers certain muscle movements, and these movements can be performed flawlessly even after a decade long break. Walking, driving, swimming etc are few other common examples of muscle memory. The neural pathway helps us store certain muscle movements within the memory. As such, muscle memory is an unconscious process over here because of the ability of our muscles to get accustomed to certain body movements.
Muscle memory and the mind/body connection is realized when a person no longer has to think about what is being done, the body and mind go on a kind of automatic drive. The physical aspects are the easiest to understand. They are experienced on a daily basis. The muscle memory connected to psychological trauma can seem to some to be a bit more ethereal or even evasive when trying to comprehend the why’s and how’s of it all. The basic hypothesis for all of them is that the physical body retains a memory of what the mind experiences and the mind, or brain and nervous system, retain a memory of what the body experiences. Most people have heard that once you learn to ride a bicycle you never forget, even if you haven’t ridden one in years.