Nails are made from keratin, a protein that’s also found in your hair. Nails have multiple, tough layers that can peel, which can cause the nails to appear thin or become weakened causing them to split. The medical term for peeling or splitting fingernails is onychoschizia.
Splitting and peeling fingernails is a widespread problem, occurring in approximately 20 percent of people and more common in women. The most common cause of brittle nails, called onychoschizia, is aging, which weakens nails and causes them to crack and peel.
Nails peeling. Some people are born with healthy and strong fingernails, while others are born with soft, thin, brittle and/or peeling nails. In fact, research suggests that genetics determines the condition of someone’s nails. Peeling fingernails are normally not associated with a serious medical condition.
The causes of splitting and peeling fingernails exist in plenty; the most prominent ones among these are hazardous chemicals, fungal infection, aging, and protein deficiency.
If your fingernails are peeling but your toenails aren’t (or vice-versa), this signals an external cause. If both your fingernails and toenails are peeling, this signals an internal cause. Internal causes can vary but sometimes dry, peeling nails can indicate a vitamin deficiency, typically an iron deficiency.
Exposing your nails to certain conditions or failing to provide the proper nutrients for your body can cause peeling nails. Peeling nails can be the result of environmental or internal issues. Your nails and skin are a prime resource if you want to tell if your body is healthy. Of course, your nails are also heavily utilized in everyday activities which can also cause damage.
Most cases of splitting nails are caused by moisture, according to the American Osteopathic College of Dermatology. Repeatedly wetting and drying your hands, and, by extension, your fingernails, can cause the nails to dry out. Too much moisture can also weaken the nails, softening them and causing them to peel.