Felting is a simple process of separating, tangling, and relocking animal fibers found in items such as yarn or wool. Felting begins through the agitation of the animal fibers; these fibers are lined with tiny scales which interlock and keep the fibers’ shape.
Wool can be transformed into felt using the techniques of needle felting and wet felting. Here are over 20 ways to turn an old sweater into unique keepsakes, gifts, and toys. Transform shapeless wool fibers into colorful felt balls that really bounce.
Felting is a processing technique for wool which yields a non-woven fabric of unusual sturdiness, water resistance, and wind resistance. The resulting textile is known as felt or boiled wool, depending on regional terminology.
Wet felting is what this tutorial will focus on. With wet felting, you can create a soft, dense cloth using wool. The process uses heat, agitation, and moisture to shrink and bond the fibers of the wool together. Don't let this description scare you away from trying wet felting, all you need is some yarn and a washing machine really!
The technique of felting, or the process of shrinking and bonding wool fibers together, through heat, agitation and moisture, causing the microscopic scales on wool fibers to interlock and tighten together, forms dense cloth with a soft texture.
Needle felting is the process of turning a pile of wool into different shapes and artistic designs, by using a special barbed needle. As the needle is poked back & forth into the pile of wool, the special barbed end catches the fibers & binds them together.
Felting is actually an ancient craft that has become increasingly popular lately. Felting is the process of transforming wool into a dense cloth by bonding and shrinking the fibers together. Technically, there are three types of felting: wet felting, needle felting, and commercial felting. Commercial felting is the process used to create sheets of felt sold at craft and fabric stores.
FELTING is an age-old craft. Perhaps developed in the Middle East, perhaps the Far East, it is a process that has evolved with local traditions wherever it was used. And it is still used today, by kids in kindergarten to nomads on the great plains of Asia living in felt yurts.