Most of our cats have not made it quite that long. Answering your question, how long do cats live, I'll take an average of all the indoor cats we owned and cared for. The average age of our personal house cats lifespan has been 17 years of happy and healthy living. The following is from my own experience from owning cats for over 35 years. Generally speaking, we had one cat live to the ripe old age of 20. She holds the household record to this day.
Several large domestic cats have been known to live for well over 30 years. Those kept in zoo's often live much longer than their wild outside relatives. The following is from my own experience from owning cats for over 35 years. Generally speaking, we had one cat live to the ripe old age of 20. She holds the household record to this day.
Statistics indicate that the life span of an indoor cat is much longer than an outdoor cat. On average, an indoor cat lives 9 - 15 years but some cats can live for as many as twenty years. In comparison, an outdoor cat’s life expectancy is less than five years. Increasing longevity: There are many factors that play a part in determining how long a cat will live. Genetics play a role of course. 
Average life expectancy for cats depends on whether your cat is an indoor or an outdoor cat. Domestic cats live from 12-18 years, depending on whether they are Siamese, Himalayan, Persian or Bengal cats. In general, cats can have long, healthy lives if given proper nutrition and veterinary attention. On average, they age from 12-20 years. A study found that to increase life expectancy, spaying and neutering can be considered. The study showed that neutered male cats live twice as long as intact males, while female ones which were spayed live 62% longer than intact male
Average life span for indoor cats – 15 years. Average life span for outdoor cats – 3 to 5 years. Once she is between 8 and 10 years old (and this number is debated – both lower and a bit higher), she should be treated as a senior cat. 
Indoor pets tend to live a few years longer than outdoor. Cats that are spayed/neutered have an expetancy of 2-5 years longer. Diet can effect the lifespan as well. Generally DSH cats don't usually have any regular health conditions, and they can live up to 30 years or so. Anywhere from 8-20 years. If the cat is indoor only, probably the longer life. If it's outside, I think the average is 2-5 years (cuz there's so many things that can happen to them outside). But many people have long-lived outdoor cats.
Domestic cats typically live 14 to 20 years, though the oldest known cat lived to age 36. The oldest cat lived from 1903 to 1939. The average lifespan of a cat is ar … ound 15 - 17 years. Cats have been known to live to 20 years or more, but it really depends on the health of the cat and how well it is taken care of. 10 people found this useful.
Life expectancy depends on many things, including one important factor-whether your cat is an indoor-only cat or an outdoor cat. Indoor cats generally live from 12-18 years of age. Many may live to be in their early 20s. The oldest reported cat lived to be an amazing 28 years old. Outdoor cats generally live shorter lives due to being more likely to be involved in traumas such as motor vehicle accidents or dog attacks.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The average life span of a cat is 12-15 years. Some cats make it to 19, and others can make it up to thirty. It really all depends on if they are altered, live indoors as opposed to outdoors, the food they are fed, overall health, etc. 