Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ammonium sulfide is a dangerous yellow liquid that is very smelly and irritant. If it gets on your skin, you should wash thoroughly. If it gets on your eyes, you should flush eyes thoroughly with water for 15 minutes and then see a physician. The formula unit, which is the usual meaning of mol for an ionic compound such as ammonium nitride, is (NH4)2S. This shows that there are 2 X 4 or 8 hydrogen atoms in each f … ormula unit.
Ammonium sulfide, also known as diammonium sulfide, is an unstable salt with the formula (NH 4) 2 S. Aqueous solutions purporting to contain this salt are commercially available. With a p K a exceeding 15, the hydrosulfide ion cannot be deprotonated to an appreciable amount by ammonia. Thus, such solutions mainly consist of a mixture of ammonia and (NH4)SH. Ammonium sulfide solutions are used occasionally in photographic developing, to apply patina to bronze, and in textile manufacturing. Also, due to its offensive smell, it is the active ingredient in a variety of foul pranks including the common stink bomb
: a sulfide of ammonium: such as a: the unstable colorless to yellow crystalline normal sulfide (NH4)2S b: the white crystalline hydrosulfide NH4HS used in aqueous solution chiefly in the textile industry. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Ammonium sulfide is a very useful reagent in mineral analysis. It's easy to prepare in the modestly-equipped laboratory, though there's the significant hazard of hydrogen sulfide during its production. The ammonium sulfide solution, prepared as outlined above, can be used to precipitate certain metal cations as sulfides (some, such as iron, precipitate as hydroxides if the pH is adjusted toward alkalinity). For detailed information on sulfide precipitations, see Orsino Smith's procedures P-8 and P-14 (1946).
Adding sulfur will cause the ammonium sulfide solution to turn yellow-orange as ammonium polysulfide [(NH 4) 2 S x ] is formed. The polysulfide is also used in mineral analyses, though not as often as the regular sulfide. Sometimes ammonium sulfide solution will turn yellow-orange even when no sulfur has been added. The ammonium sulfide solution, prepared as outlined above, can be used to precipitate certain metal cations as sulfides (some, such as iron, precipitate as hydroxides if the pH is adjusted toward alkalinity). For detailed information on sulfide precipitations, see Orsino Smith's procedures P-8 and P-14 (1946).
General Description. Ammonium sulfide aqueous solution is a colorless to yellow liquid, with an odor of rotten eggs or ammonia. Material in aqueous from the hydrosulfide which with acid forms H2S. Ammonium sulfide may be irritating to skin, eyes and mucous membranes and may cause illness from skin absorption. Ammonium sulfide is slowly decomposed by moisture giving off hydrogen sulfide, a flammable gas. Heat is generated when the pure compound is first dissolved in water. Reactivity Profile. AMMONIUM SULFIDE SOLUTION is a strongly alkaline aqueous solution. Reacts with acids to generate toxic gaseous hydrogen sulfide. Reacts with bases to release gaseous ammonia. May react vigorously with oxidizing agents, including inorganic oxoacids, organic peroxides and epoxides
Ammonium sulfide aqueous solution is a colorless to yellow liquid, with an odor of rotten eggs or ammonia. Material in aqueous from the hydrosulfide which with acid forms H2S. It may be irritating to skin, eyes and mucous membranes and may cause illness from skin absorption. Readily oxidized to be pyrophoric in air [Bretherick 1979 p. 120]. Ammonium sulfide is slowly decomposed by moisture giving off hydrogen sulfide, a flammable gas. Heat is generated when the pure compound is first dissolved in water.