Australians can be very proud of the Australian Working Kelpie. It is one of Australia’s truly national dogs. However its origins lie in Scotland, where a number of collie-types (collie is Scottish for sheepdog) contributed to the development of the breed we know today. Working kelpies are slightly smaller than the bench type, which stands up to 51cm at the wither (like the Cattle Dog). The double coat is short and dense with a thick undercoat covered by a hard, rain-resistant outer coat. The Working Kelpie’s coat is more coarse than the bench type.
Personality back to top. The Australian Kelpie is a working dog that demands a great deal of exercise, preferably with some kind of job to do. Their energy levels are extremely high!! They are workaholics and will run until they drop!! They need to be taken on long daily walks and make an excellent jogging companion. The Australian Kelpie is a compact, robust, enthusiastic, and tireless working dog. The kelpie is a tough, independent, highly intelligent dog that is extremely loyal.
The Australian Kelpie is good with children and other pets when raised with them from puppyhood. It is not an aggressive dog, but will defend its family and territory when necessary, even at the cost of its life. It is loyal and devoted to its family. It has a tendency to herd other dogs, pets, and animals in the house. The Australian Kelpie has an independent streak. This is not a dog to keep cooped up in the house all day; it will grow bored and destructive if unexercised or ignored.
The Australian Kelpie is not currently recognized by the American Kennel Club because it is more of a working dog then a show dog. It is a fairly popular herding breed, particularly in its native Australia. The Australian Kelpie has a shoulder height of 17-20 in (43-51 cm) and weighs 25-45 lbs (11-20 kg). It has a long, narrow head, with pricked ears for show dogs. Australian Kelpies have a compact body with small feet and low-set tail. Show Australian Kelpies are shorter and heavier than working Australian Kelpies. It is loyal and devoted to its family. It has a tendency to herd other dogs, pets, and animals in the house. The Australian Kelpie has an independent streak. This is not a dog to keep cooped up in the house all day; it will grow bored and destructive if unexercised or ignored.
This wonderful breed came from two black and tan, short-coated and pointed-eared Collies imported in the 1860s. The Australian Kelpie has been exported to Russia, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, the UK, the USA, South America, South Africa, New Zealand, Germany and the Netherlands. These dogs have been successfully used to manage a variety of stock, including reindeer, goats, and cattle. 
Information and Pictures. Maya Dobie the Australian Kelpie at 9 years old— Dobie is a 9 year old Kelpie that came from LedgeRock, Kelpies bred by Linda and Bill Lehman. She is pure bred out of Capree Boston and LedgeRock Morgan she is my second Kelpie and probably the only breed I'll ever own again. Excellent at herding, the Australian Kelpie is the most popular and successful working dog. Kelpies are devoted one-man dogs but far too work-oriented and energetic for a couch dog or apartment existence. Their easy trainability and keenness on the job make them a fundamental component of the Australian workforce.
The Australian Kelpie is a working dog that demands a great deal of exercise, preferably with some kind of job to do. Their energy levels are extremely high!! They are workaholics and will run until they drop!! They need to be taken on long daily walks. Makes an excellent jogging companion. Excellent at herding, the Australian Kelpie is the most popular and successful working dog. Kelpies are devoted one-man dogs but far too work-oriented and energetic for a couch dog or apartment existence. Their easy trainability and keenness on the job make them a fundamental component of the Australian workforce.
Posted October 14, 2015 | By VICDOGS4. Ben is a sweet natured young Kelpie 18 months +, who is a pleasure to have around for his foster family. He is learning the ropes of dog life in the suburbs as he was not suited to working cattle. 
Cost. A starter dog, which is aged around six months and starting to show its potential will cost between $800 – $2000, depending on ability. A top dog, fully trained with proven exceptional talent may cost anything up to $10,000. Working kelpies are slightly smaller than the bench type, which stands up to 51cm at the wither (like the Cattle Dog). The double coat is short and dense with a thick undercoat covered by a hard, rain-resistant outer coat. The Working Kelpie’s coat is more coarse than the bench type.