Expand for References. Today I found out the actress who played TV’s “Blossom” has a PhD in Neuroscience. After starring in the TV show Blossom, Mayim Bialik decided to go to college rather than continue her acting career full time at that point. She was accepted to both Harvard and Yale, but decided to stay closer to home and go to UCLA where she received a Bachelor’s in neuroscience in 2000. Bonus Facts: 1  Bialik’s first name, “Mayim”, means “water, water of the feet, urine of danger, or refreshment” in Hebrew. 2  When she wasn’t doing all the things listed above, Bialik studied dance and learned to play the piano, trumpet, and bass guitar.
Blossom is an American sitcom broadcast on NBC from July 5, 1990 to May 22, 1995. Don Reo created the series which starred Mayim Bialik as Blossom Russo, a teenager living with her father and two brothers. 1 Blossom Ruby Russo (played by Mayim Bialik) – The youngest child and only daughter of Nick and Maddy Russo. 2  She was best friend of Six and longtime on-again off-again girlfriend of Vinnie.
Mayim Bialik. Actress | Soundtrack | Producer. Mayim Bialik grew up in San Diego and got her first acting job (Pumpkinhead (1988)) when she was just 12 years old. A number of TV roles followed until in 1990 she was cast in Blossom (1990), the role which made her famous
Mayim Chaya Bialik (/ˈmaɪəm biˈɑːlɨk/ , MY-im bee-AH-lik; born December 12, 1975) is an American actress and neuroscientist. From 1991 to 1995, she played the title character of NBC 's Blossom. Prior to her joining the cast, in the episode  The Bat Jar Conjecture , Raj suggests recruiting the real-life Bialik to their Physics Bowl team, saying You know who's apparently very smart is the girl who played TV's Blossom. She got a Ph.D. in Neuroscience or something..
NBC/Getty Images. Then: Mayim Bialik played the title character, Blossom, the youngest daughter of her divorced father. Blossom had two brothers and a best friend named Six, and together they all learned valuable life lessons about the tougher elements of life. NBC/FX. Then: The role of Blossom's eldest brother, Tony, was played by Michael Stoyanov. Tony was a recovering alcoholic and drug addict, who eventually met and fell in love with a woman named Rhonda when he relapsed and got drunk in Vegas.
More than two years before her first appearance as Amy on the show, Mayim herself was mentioned (though not by name) in the episode  The Bat Jar Conjecture  when Raj suggest they recruit the actress who played TV's Blossom to join their Physics Bowl team. 
Bialik played a young version of Bette Midler's character in the 1988 film Beaches, and went on to star in her own television show, Blossom, from 1990 to 1995. Bialik then pursued a Ph.D. in neuroscience from UCLA and returned to acting, coincidentally landing the role of a neuroscientist in The Big Bang Theory in 2009. American actress Mayim Bialik is best known for her roles in the film Beaches and on the hit television shows Blossom and The Big Bang Theory.
Blossom is back! Actress Jenna Von Oy, who played Blossom's best friend Six, tweeted this picture of the exciting cast reunion writing, Check us out on @HubTVNetwork on July 7th! Older, but still together!!. Since Blossom went off the air in 1995, its cast has gone on to pursue many other avenues on different television comedies.