1 Alpha cells (A cells) secrete the hormone glucagon. 2  Beta cells (B cells) produce insulin and are the most abundant of the islet cells. 3  Delta cells (D cells) secrete the hormone somatostatin, which is also produced by a number of other endocrine cells in the body. The image to the right shows three islets in the pancreas of a horse. Pancreatic islets house three major cell types, each of which produces a different endocrine product: 1 
This pancreatic hormone helps to elevate your blood sugar levels. When levels of sugar in your blood declines, your pancreas produces glucagon, which stimulates the liver to produce more glucose. As a result, your blood glucose levels return to normal. Insulin. Insulin helps to lower sugar levels in your blood.
The pancreas is a large gland that lies alongside the stomach and the small bowel. It is about six inches (approximately 15 cm) long and is divided into the head, body and tail. What does the pancreas do? The pancreas carries out two important roles: It makes digestive juices, which consist of powerful enzymes. It makes hormones that control blood glucose levels. The pancreas produces hormones in its ‘endocrine’ cells. These cells are gathered in clusters known as islets of Langerhans and monitor what is happening in the blood. They then can release hormones directly into the blood when necessary
The most important hormone that the pancreas produces is insulin. Insulin is released by the ‘beta cells’ in the islets of Langerhans in response to food. Its role is to lower glucose levels in the bloodstream and promote the storage of glucose in fat, muscle, liver and other body tissues. It makes hormones that control blood glucose levels. The pancreas produces hormones in its ‘endocrine’ cells. These cells are gathered in clusters known as islets of Langerhans and monitor what is happening in the blood. They then can release hormones directly into the blood when necessary
As part of your endocrine system, your pancreas produces important hormones that help maintain normal levels of glucose (sugar) in your blood. Hormones produced by the pancreas include glucagon, insulin, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide. Funtions of Pancreatic Hormones. Glucagon. When levels of sugar in your blood declines, your pancreas produces glucagon, which stimulates the liver to produce more glucose. As a result, your blood glucose levels return to normal. Insulin. Insulin helps to lower sugar levels
The islets of Langerhans are the endocrine (endo= within) cells of the pancreas that produce and secrete hormones such as insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 
The pancreas has 2 important jobs in the body. The first is to produce the pancreatic digestive juices. The second is to produce insulin and other hormones to do with digestion. The part of the pancreas which produces the digestive juices is called the exocrine pancreas. 
first is to produce the pancreatic digestive juices. The second is to produce insulin and other hormones to do with digestion The pancreas has two important jobs in the body. The first is to produce the pancreatic digestive juices. The second is to produce insulin and other hormones to do with digestion. The part of the pancreas which produces the digestive juices is called the exocrine pancreas. The part of the pancreas which produces hormones, including insulin, is called the endocrine pancreas. Insulin The pancreas also makes insulin. Insulin is very important in the body because it helps to keep the level of sugar in the blood at a stable level. This means that the body cells get enough food, but not too much. If you do not make enough insulin, you have diabetes.
This important hormone aids in the transport of glucose into your different cells. Your pancreas in response to increasing blood glucose levels produces insulin. In addition, insulin helps in converting glucose into glycogen, which is stored in your liver for future use. When levels of sugar in your blood declines, your pancreas produces glucagon, which stimulates the liver to produce more glucose. As a result, your blood glucose levels return to normal. Insulin. Insulin helps to lower sugar levels in your blood.