Medical Definition of THIGH. 1. : the proximal segment of the vertebrate hind or lower limb extending from the hip to the knee and supported by a single large bone—compare femur 1. 2. : the segment of the leg immediately distal to the thigh in a bird or in a quadruped in which the true thigh is obscured. a: the proximal segment of the vertebrate hind or lower limb extending from the hip to the knee b: the segment of the leg immediately distal to the thigh in a bird or in a quadruped in which the true thigh is obscured c: the femur of an insect.
Also known as thighplasty. A thigh lift is a procedure that involves the removal of excess skin and fat from either the inner or outer thighs. This is often desirable after substantial or bariatric weight loss or in individuals for whom dieting and exercise have failed to reduce excess tissue in their upper thighs
A thigh gap is a space between your inner thighs when you stand with your feet together. Although many women consider an inner-thigh gap an attractive and coveted feature, serious health problems can arise if you try to achieve a thigh gap by not eating or by over-exercising. 
In humans, the thigh is the area between the pelvis and the knee. Anatomically, it is part of the lower limb. The single bone in the thigh is called the femur. This bone is very thick and strong (due to the high proportion of cortical bone), and forms a ball and socket joint at the hip, and a condylar joint at the knee. In cross-section, the thigh is divided up into three separate compartments, divided by fascia, each containing muscles. These compartments use the femur as an axis, and are separated by tough connective tissue membranes (or septa).
thigh. n. 1. a. The portion of the human leg between the hip and the knee. b. The corresponding part of the hind leg of a quadruped or other vertebrate animal. 2. The second segment of a bird's leg, containing the tibia and fibula. thigh. 1. the part of the lower limb in humans between the hip and the knee. 2. the corresponding part of the hind limb of other animals; the femoral region. [before 900; Middle English thi, thigh(e) , the(h) , Old English thēh, thīoh, thēoh, c. Old Frisian thiāch, Old High German dioh, Old Norse thjō ].
Find Your Surgeon. Thigh lift surgery reshapes the thighs by reducing excess skin, and in some cases fat, resulting in smoother skin and better-proportioned contours of the thighs and lower body. 
A thigh gap is a space between the inner thighs of women when standing upright with knees touching. A thigh gap has become an aspect of physical attractiveness that has been associated with fragility and femininity. In the United States, it has been reported that among teenage girls, a gap has become a beauty ideal. 
thigh. 1  ham, hamstring-Originally, the part of the leg behind the knee was called the ham, and then the tendon near the ham was the hamstring; by extension, the ham became the thigh and buttock together. 2  haunch-The buttock and thigh together. 3  hockshin, gambrel-The underside of the thigh is the hockshin or gambrel. thigh. 1. the part of the lower limb in humans between the hip and the knee. 2. the corresponding part of the hind limb of other animals; the femoral region. [before 900; Middle English thi, thigh(e) , the(h) , Old English thēh, thīoh, thēoh, c. Old Frisian thiāch, Old High German dioh, Old Norse thjō ].
Full Definition of THIGH. 1. a: the proximal segment of the vertebrate hind or lower limb extending from the hip to the knee b: the segment of the leg immediately distal to the thigh in a bird or in a quadruped in which the true thigh is obscured c: the femur of an insect. 2. : something resembling or covering a thigh